-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ghost Squad
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/ghostsquad/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Goofy, self-referential sense of humor.
 Branching paths and character upgrades encourage multiple play-throughs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Even with multiple play-throughs, Ghost Squad is incredibly short.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.1, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 522 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Polygon Magic
Genre: Light Gun Shooter
Date: Nov 20, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A deliberate '90s-arcade-game charm and some ridiculous non sequiturs give this incredibly brief 
 light gun shooter an odd appeal. 

  Ghost Squad is an arcade light-gun game that will not apologize for being an arcade light gun game. 
 Developed by AM2, a Sega studio with a long history of arcade hits, Ghost Squad is cut from the 
 same cloth as arcade light gun games like Virtua Cop and House of the Dead, but with a touch of 
 postmodern self-awareness. Ghost Squad seems to realize that it's a ridiculous anachronism, and 
 it just runs with it, delivering clichd, terrorist-fighting, president-saving arcade action with 
 enthusiasm, but without taking itself too seriously. Its self-effacing charm does a lot to brighten 
 up the very traditional light gun gameplay in Ghost Squad, but it's also a phenomenally fleeting 
 experience.  

           Moments like this bring a little variety to the mostly traditional light-gun action.  
     

  Ghost Squad consists of three interconnected missions, all of which cast you as a member of the 
 titular Ghost Squad, the kind of top-secret SWAT team prevalent in action movies. The first mission 
 has you infiltrating an international summit being held in a mountain villa where a terrorist organization 
 known as the Indigo Wolves are holding world leaders hostage. Mission two puts you aboard Air Force 
 One, where those same terrorists are looking to kidnap the president. The final mission is straight 
 out of  Rambo: First Blood Part II  and has you infiltrating the Indigo Wolves' jungle base to 
 rescue either Dr. Steve McCoy or Mr. Steve McCoy, depending on whom you ask, and then make a daring 
 river escape. There are characters with incredible names like Dingo and Alex Havoc, and there's 
 some terrifically awkward dialogue delivered by a cast of English-as-a-second-language voice actors, 
 and the whole thing is just clich and corny enough to be funny. The game looks almost as much 
 like a mid-'90s arcade game as it sounds, with lots of blocky characters, weirdly inexpressive 
 faces, and flat textures.  

  The gameplay is, for the most part, what you might expect from a Sega-produced light gun game. 
 Using the Wii Remote to aim, you move automatically through the environments, shooting at enemies 
 as they pop out from behind various objects, and reloading by pointing your remote offscreen. There 
 are a few simple action sequences where you have to recover hostages, defuse time bombs, engage 
 in hand-to-hand combat, or disarm land mines, and each mission culminates in a boss fight, though 
 they can be kind of anticlimactic. It never goes too far beyond the light gun formula, but for 
 what it is, it's pretty solid. The thing is, you can play through the three missions in Ghost Squad 
 in well under 20 minutes, but that doesn't mean you'll have seen everything. Within each mission 
 there are a number of points where you'll have to choose among multiple paths, and even though 
 they all take you to the same conclusion, there are some pretty cool sequences that you simply 
 won't see on a single play-through.  

           This is just a glimpse of why paradise mode is worth unlocking.      

  The game dangles 
 a few other carrots to keep you coming back. The arcade mode keeps track of your performance, rewarding 
 you with costumes that range from simple color variations on your basic SWAT outfit to an awesome 
 panda suit, as well as a cache of different weapons that can have a significant effect on how the 
 game handles. The game itself changes, too, and as you gain levels, you'll gain access to more 
 difficult versions of the missions. Eventually you'll unlock ridiculous options like ninja mode 
 and paradise mode, which are really the best reasons to play Ghost Squad. In ninja mode, you're 
 armed with an infinite supply of throwing stars, and the generic terrorist thugs are replaced with 
 ninjas. In paradise mode, you're armed with dolphin-shaped squirt guns, and the generic terrorist 
 thugs are replaced with girls in bikinis. There's a hilariously half-assed charm to the way these 
 modes just slap some random stuff into the game without justification or explanation, and they're 
 probably the best reasons to play Ghost Squad.  

  As a tongue-in-cheek homage to mid-'90s arcade light gun games, Ghost Squad is pretty successful, 
 and players with some fondness for the source material, as well as those who appreciate random 
 weirdness, should find it at least briefly enjoyable. The whole so-bad-it's-good thing only goes 
 so far, though, and even with its promise of unlockables, Ghost Squad is ultimately too short for 
 its own good.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (38 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 11:26 am PT
Review:  I'm actually not sure I should be mini-reviewing it or not. You see, the light-shooter game, Ghost 
 Squad is actually one of those games you beat but not yet complete - kind of like a fighting game. 
 I like to beat a game to pretty much near completion before giving a review, and I feel that even 
 with about 5 plays it isn't sufficient. Ghost Squad unlocks difficulties, multiple paths and game 
 modes as you complete it. Unlockable weapons also change how the game plays too. Beating the game 
 is pretty easy to start with and is also incredibly short - difficulty sets in though as you take 
 higher level alternative paths and racking up points to be placed on the online leaderboard. Options 
 like turning off the aiming reticule and aim calibration makes Ghost Squad a good recreation of 
 the arcade experience (minus the huge gun you hold) . The game itself has nice variety in terms 
 of bosses, multiple paths, bomb-defusal and hostage situations but none of which would blow your 
 mind - the co-op mode is always a nice addition though. The story hardly needs a mention since 
 it's so forgettable and clich. What you really should be concentrating on is if you want an arcade 
 experience at home for cheap. Providing you're enjoying beating the game several times with these 
 incentives, the game is good value. If not, this would be a rental at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nypd66
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I got this from my Uncle Beck for Christmas, and he got it from a Toy store bargain bin that was 
 running out of business. It's better than Time Crisis, but worse than The House of Dead. Theres 
 some cheesy cutscenes, and it's just kinda corny. There's a training mode, so you'd better brush 
 up on your skills before heading to the campaign. That said, let's look over the campaign. Ghost 
 Squad is a covert ops group, sent in to take out terrorist organizations. In each level, you will 
 fight almost 100+ enemies. There are three levels, and a few different difficulties. Depending 
 on your performance, you can fail or complete the mission. But there are some "Unrealistic" parts 
 to it, including the enemies popping up in places you JUST cleared out, and in one of the levels, 
 your squad is hit hard by a grenade that blows up POINT BLANK, but they somehow shrug it off with 
 minimal injuries. There are only three levels, but a multitude of paths to take in each level. 
 Each path has its own rewards and snap (Split-second) decisions that you must make, and fail if 
 you do not complete them. As you complete a campaign run (A good 30-45 minutes each) , you will 
 be awarded a score, and new weapons in your inventory. You can only take ONE weapon with you, so 
 choose wisely. There are a few bosses you can fight, and they're ALWAYS in some sort of vehicle, 
 such as a Helicopter, Armored Yachts, etc. A pain to kill, but you get a special weapon to use 
 on them, like the Grenade Launcher, Radio-guided Missile Launcher, etc. This game can be played 
 with 1 other person, but I never tried multiplayer. It really sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediStryker01
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad game, but surprisingly short. The levels are fun and I like the ability to choose different 
 paths and the un-lockable content is cool but by the time they are useful the game is SO over played 
 it's hardly worth the time to earn them. Three levels was just not enough for a console game, Sega 
 really should have added some additional "Wii edition" levels to enhance the arcade experience. 
 The bonus levels, particularly 'Ninja Mode' really help to save the whole game. Lastly the targeting 
 reticule for the sniping levels is WAY too small to be useful. Most times you smash through the 
 levels only to miss the boss because you have to use a pinprick size point to hit a specific target 
 on a moving enemy.
  Overall a fun experience, but leaves you wanting more. I would be interested in seeing a sequel 
 if some of the game play features could be enhanced and definitely adding some additional levels. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  The times, they are a-changing. 15 years ago, consoles could only hope to capture the essence of 
 high-octane arcade games, not the look. Technology for the biggest releases of the era far out-stripped 
 what the home systems could achieve.
  
  Then the shift occurred; Namco's Time Crisis squeezed onto Sony's original PlayStation with only 
 a few jagged edges marking the transfer. We soon entered into a world where videogaming at home 
 matched and even outstripped what was occurring in amusement arcades around the country. By the 
 time Sega's Ghost Squad burst onto the scene in 2004, it found most of its comrades dead or dying. 
 But sometimes what goes around, comes around. Retooled and reloaded, Ghost Squad redeploys to the 
 Wii via legendary Sega studio AM2 (also responsible for Outrun and Virtua Fighter) . 
  
  
  Advertisement: That said, what amounted to an excellent ten-minute adrenaline shot in the arcades 
 doesn't necessarily translate as prime home console material. 
  
  However, Sega has realised in the last few years that gamers want more. Crazy Taxi on the GameCube 
 stuck in another city on top of the arcade port, while both Outrun and Virtua Fighter added extensive 
 single player quest and mini-game modes. And so it is with Ghost Squad. 
  
  The developer has created what is in essence a director's cut of the original, applying new modes, 
 paths and customisation options that wouldn't be possible in arcades before. Ghost Squad has found 
 a proper home at last.
  The game is divided into three parts, Story, Training and Party. The Story is lifted directly from 
 the arcade version and is split into three scenarios. The first is a hostage situation as you storm 
 a mountainside villa, the second a rescue mission as Air Force One is captured by terrorists, and 
 the third a rescue and extraction mission through a jungle. Each ends in a grandiose boss fight. 
 
  
  Phantom Menace
  It's good fun, but an entire run through will weigh in at just half an hour. However, a post-mission 
 statistical screen flags up an in-game map. It's here that you notice a number of branching points 
 in each operation, along with several route markers adorned with a question mark. At points during 
 each scenario you're given a choice of three routes but, more interestingly, every time you successfully 
 complete a mission, new routes and encounters unlock.
  
  Headshots and quick fire take downs contribute to an accumulating score counter. The higher the 
 score, the more items, from costumes to weapons, are made available for the next run through. Armour 
 protects you from more shots, while higher-class weapons are more efficient at taking down foes. 
 It all enrols Ghost Squad into that rarest of classes; the 'massively replayable' school. 
  
  
  
  The Party mode allows three other players to join in the fun, while the training mode 
 creates three different scenarios (see above) to master and outscore your friends. Oh, and you 
 can upload your scores onto online Leaderboards thanks to the Wi-Fi connection.
  
  So it's got the look, it's got the feel (the Wii Zapper does a fine job) , but most importantly, 
 it's loaded with essential extras. It makes this one of the longest-lasting arcade experiences 
 we've come across. It's like having the arcade at home. If you want, cut a hole in a cereal box 
 and slip a quid every time you need to continue to complete the experience. All in all, it's better 
 than the real thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acetrouble
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  Ghost Squad feels quite reminiscent of the Virtua Cop series, which has also been developed by 
 SEGA-AM2 and released for the Saturn in the mid 90s. If you remember yourself spending some fun 
 time with those titles, Ghost Squad might be worth a closer look.
  The original arcade Ghost Squad was released in 2004 for the Chihiro board.
  
  There's not 
 too much depth story-wise (well, it's an arcade game after all) . You are a member of the Ghost 
 Squad, which is a special forces unit fighting terrorism and crime, and typically all you have 
 to do in a light-gun shooter is to pull the trigger whenever a foe is stupid enough to jump right 
 in front of your barrel, since movement is completely automatized.
  Whether you play with the Wii Zapper or just your standard remote, the controls are spot-on and 
 make for a convincing arcade feel.
  To keep things from getting too monotonous, the game occasionally offers multiple paths to choose 
 from and incorporates some simple quick time events such as dismantling bombs/mines or defeating 
 armed enemies in close combat.
  
  The huge downside of Ghost Squad is its shortness. You can blast through the three levels in 20-25 
 mins. I guess that SEGA wanted to stay true to the arcade original, but for a console port that 
 wants to offer more than just short-term satisfaction they should have included at least two more 
 stages.
  At least new paths, weapons and costumes get unlocked for every successful runthrough; you can 
 also put on the Virtua Cop outfit for that nostalgic vibe.
  
  In comparison to its arcade pendant (which wasn't graphically stunning either) the Wii version 
 looks a little worse. The visuals are carried by nice vibrant colors, but the character models 
 and facial expressions are pretty cheap, nothing a Dreamcast could not have been capable of.
  The voice acting comes off charmingly cheesy, sound fx are decent and the music consists of electronic 
 beats that you won't care about.
  
  In conclusion Ghost Squad is the Wii's best light-gun shooter to date and a really fun experience 
 while it lasts. Lifespan is slightly extended by unlockables (costumes, weapons, the hilarious 
 Paradise and Ninja modes) and the inclusion of a 4-player mode is a cool thing. Virtua Cop and 
 arcade enthusiasts should definitely check it out, especially since it retails for about 20 dollars 
 now.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  Sound: 6.5/10
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Lifespan: 6/10
  
  Overall: 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: singe2241
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Ghost squad is bad game. It is fun at first but when you do the same level 20 time it gets a bit 
 boring.
  
  Ghost squad consists of 3 LEVELS (come on i know that this game is a port but seriously they could 
 have added 10 more levels) which after being played numerous times can be altered i. e turn left 
 or turn off the light.
  
  Each level has a boss at the end who can be hard at level 15. Everything can be played cooperative 
 with up to 4 players. The only thing added from the arcade was a training mode which is shoot the 
 guys (boring) . 
  
  You can customize your character which is cool but it has limitations.
  
  Graphics: mediocre
 
  
  Gameplay: very repetitive and boring
  
  Storyline: 
  level one kill bad guys who want to take over world
  7-10 mins
  
  level two rescue president 
 in a plane 5-8mins
  
  Level three resue a scientist in a jungle 10-13 mins
  
  wow its so exciting after you play these missions 20 times in a row
  
  overall buy this game 
 for $5 and below. only play it in coop you might have fun like that. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikerPunk
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  i magine Time Crisis, but for the Wii, with worse graphics. It has similar game play as House of 
 the Dead as another comparison. I did like the adjustmetns in your gun..... single/burst/full auto 
 tho so when things got hairy i could unload 100+ shots or keep it under control with bursts. The 
 sniper dot leaves much to be desired as the dot is super tiny and sometimes hard to find on the 
 screen!!!
  
  i was honestly disappointed even for $5. i didnt expect much and i still feel ripped off. If i 
 wanted this sort of lack-luster shooting game, i would have pulled out my Dreamcast.
  
  I would refrain from purchasing this game. in my situation it was cheaper to buy it then rent it, 
 so it worked out for me. But i wouldnt pay more then $5 for it. 
  
  it does give you about 2hrs of fun tho, until it sets in how oldschool it really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatleos
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a deep, innovative game with a compelling story and epic feel, turn 180 degrees 
 where you stand and run screaming in the other direction. NOW. On the other hand, if you're looking 
 for some quick, goofy light-gun style arcade action, you've come to the right place! Standing alongside 
 other recent titles of similar nature, such as Target: Terror and House of the Dead 2 & 3 Return, 
 Ghost Squad is both a faithful port of the original arcade light-gun shooter and a mindless multiplayer 
 party game that is quite fun with buddies. You play as the titular Ghost Squad and perform generic 
 missions like saving the president and rescuing a hostage from terrorists in their jungle fortress.
 
  
  The missions are linked together with cutscenes and orders from your superior officer, an annoying 
 guy who kind of talks like he just had a stroke. There are only three missions in the whole game, 
 but there are different routes you can take through each one, which keeps things fairly fresh. 
 As you complete the levels, you'll unlock more of these routes. Additionally, every time you play 
 through the game the missions' difficulty is slowly ramped up. There are 16 difficulties, so it'll 
 last you for a while. In addition to these things, you'll unlock extra guns like a shotgun, a sniper 
 rifle (at close range??) , and some other pretty crazy ones. My favorite part is the weird costumes 
 you can unlock for your squad. Care to storm the terrorist hideout as a cowboy and a man in a panda 
 suit? The unlockables are pretty cool and rewarding, but the guns and especially the costumes take 
 a while to unlock. You can go through several play-throughs and not unlock any costumes. Or maybe 
 I just suck, who knows...
  
  Single player gets a bit monotonous after a while, but in multiplayer things get interesting. You 
 can play in co-op mode like a standard red-gun blue-gun arcade machine in the main mode, or play 
 competitively with up to 4 people in party mode. One of my favorite features in party mode are 
 the special modes where the whole game is changed to fit a different theme. For instance, ninja 
 mode replaces the players and enemies with ninjas and gives them shuriken! Or you can play as disgruntled 
 tourists with squirtguns in paradise mode... yeah.
  
  While it's no masterpiece, Ghost Squad delivers what it should: a quick fix for arcade-style light 
 gun action. And it sweetens the deal with some pretty solid multiplayer. It's a bit monotonous 
 and can get old without friends around, but with them it's a pretty decent game that's well worth 
 the bargain price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jovis14
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  Ghost Squad is obviously a really big classic in the arcades but with the Wii it might be one of 
 those games that go to the back of the pile and be forgotten about. The game itself has a fairly 
 good story line of you working for a secret intelligence group trying to stop terrorists (like 
 most arcade shooting games) . The gun upgrades are good except for the fact that you have to replay 
 the same 3 levels over and over and over again. The graphics aren't the worst I've seen but they 
 aren't going to win any awards for either. Also another feature is the training which allows you 
 to brush up on your shooting skills with moving target practice and speed and accuracy drills. 
 The multiplayer mode also allows fun with a friend to compare scores at the end of each mission. 
 If you connect to the internet you can also upload your high scores for bragging rights. Together 
 as a game and an arcade classic it does quite well plays better like an arcade game with the Wii 
 Blaster adapter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbetybob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok if you read my HoTD 2 + 3 Returny SEGA Portage thingy, game review, then you'll know I like 
 this more. In my eyes it's the best Lightgun game for Wii (I had RE: UC, which is fun but this is 
 much more arcade-like, and thus better) .
  
  Let's dive straight in; 
  
  THE GOOD = )
  
  -Great fun, really satisfying to shoot people. I dunno what it is with games like this, house 
 of the dead, Killswitch, Time Crisis, but any kind of arcade shooter has amazing hit animations. 
 They make shooters replayable to me. If it's satisfying to shoot the bad guys I can do it for hours 
 without getting bored. So yeah if you share my crazy animation fetish you'll love shooting people 
 in this.
  
  -Destructible environments. HoTD doesn't have these, it's a small touch but it's fun, especially 
 when using a bigger clip weapon like the machine gun, just shooting crates and bottles, gives you 
 something to do while you wait to slaughter the next group of enemies.
  
  -Good difficulty curve. You can play this with no experience and complete it. Chances are you'll 
 fail every mission but you'll complete it. That I find fun. The removal of the whole credit system 
 makes the game a lot more enjoyable. Just died? Then continue, it does no harm. It's a great way 
 to have the game. I also means you'll have to play it about 5 times to master it, to complete every 
 mission (yes complete, that's without the other things in the game)
  
  -Branching paths. Another thing that breaths life into the game. Each missions has branching paths, 
 you get to choose as well, do you disarm a bomb yourself, and let your team save the hostages or 
 vice-versa. There are loads of these per mission and they bump up the replay value a lot, I've 
 completed the game 5 times so far and still not done half of the paths.
  
  -Level up system. ANOTHER addition to the replay value, the higher your level the more gun/outfits 
 you unlock, want to dress like a panda? Go for it. Want to obliterate everything on screen including 
 the hostages? Pick the shotgun.
  
  THE BAD = (
  
  -Short. You can complete the game in 30 minutes, but like I've said you'll want to replay it a 
 lot.
  
  -Dodgy graphics and voice acting. Nowhere near as bad as HoTD2, but it's still got bad voice acting, 
 the graphics are pretty early PS2 like but they don't bother me at all.
  
  Overall it's a really really fun game, something you can pick up when a friend comes round (it 
 has multiplayer too which is a plus, I haven't played this but it's meant to be really good) , and 
 have an hour or so of fun. Then play it again a few weeks later. It's one of those arcade games 
 that you never really get bored of it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftGI
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This game has a great start and the next 4 levels are not bad ,but then after that it gets old 
 and fast. The levels change a little every new level and you get a new gun ever time you grow three 
 levels or so but there isn't enough difference between levels. You have to play the game about 
 50 times to get to level 30 and you may have only 7 guns buy now. Do not buy this game rent it 
 for a week and you'll have saved about 20 dollars and buy a good used game or don't even play it 
 and spend your time on some other game. Try a game like Medal of Honor or something more realistic 
 than running around in a panda suit killing terrorists with freaking a revolver. It's beyond stupid 
 you'd have a better time eating the disc than actually playing this garbage. those who own it do 
 what I did sell it with wii sports and get 30 dollars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princepersia0
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  This game is a really good game and I don't see why people think it's either a crap game or it's 
 way to short. They are just saying that because they cant pass it because it's a hard game witch 
 it is at times, like the single shot moments and how in the boss on mission 2 you have to hit the 
 head and if you hit anywere else you have FAILD. On this game you can unlock knew guns, and suits 
 for youre player. There are 3 missions to choose from but if you think you have passed this game 
 beacause you have passed all three missions think again how many suits and guns have you unlocked 
 and there are levels to the three missions and every knew level you unlock there is a knew activities 
 like a knew negative mode or anything like that. You can also choose what colour you aiming point 
 is or if you even have an aiming point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXcArLBXx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  playing a shooter game on a WII is something on a different level it makes you feel like your actually 
 in the game experiencing the thrill yourself ghost squad is one of these games, although they could 
 improve by making 1 easy alteration just by making a gun as a controller this is not a new idea 
 and has been used on most consoles, But would improve the experience allot. It is also fun to compete 
 against friends by having up to 4 people all playing and scoring points for accurate and fast shots. 
 some parts off the game can be quite intense like at the end of the second mission you have 1 accurate 
 shot to hit a boss while he has got a human shield miss the shot all the hard work goes ot waste 
 hit and your onto the next level so your under quite allot off pressure. 
  
  There are also some bad point off the game like the graphics are not great but what can you expect, 
 and the storymode is quite short but i also cant blame them for that as this game is an arcade 
 game that is played in arcades as i noticed.
  
  If you have a WII And enjoy first person shooters i would get this game as is it is fun to play 
 with friends.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marioman42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Yes, story mode is extremely short. Yes you'll find yourself doing the same missions over again. 
 But still..... with soooooooo many unlockables and a fun multi player mode, this light shooter 
 is a good game. Probably the only good Sega game for the Wii. With addictive game play this will 
 keep you up all night; upping the difficulty, beating scores and unlocking costumes, modes and 
 guns. With a relatively low price tag for games these days, it's a good buy. Don't judge the game 
 by it's price. EVER. Any fans of first person shooters (James Bond 007 Goldeneye for N64, anyone?) 
 will definitly want to pick this up for their Wii. Also, the controls on this for the Wii zapper 
 are great, not finicky 
  like some others like Medal of Honor Heroes 2. (Still a good game) Anyway, it's a good pickup with 
 those who love shooters, and have a lot of time to waste on the addicting game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyauau
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 4:55 am PT
Review:  If Time Crisis is famous, you'll see it in game consoles but at the same time it would be impossible 
 to execute it. Long history short, they had some success on the PS1,2 and 3 and it went downhill 
 from there. Only now the Nintendo Wii is able to pull off shooting games with its motion controls 
 which should make up for its loss on the Gamecube.
  
  From a Nintendo perspective, shooting used to be famous with James Bond with its auto aim during 
 the 64 era. Now, like Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles, you now shoot with your manual aim. It's 
 surprisingly easy that you can play straight out of the arcade games with no trouble at all. With 
 this game the arcade itself is great but from a gameplay standpoint, the only trouble I have is 
 the training games has no crosshair making it harder to shoot targets and enemies. It would be 
 easier with a crosshair but that is left to be desired.
  
  This probably the first game that uses perfect arcade qualities that stands out in terms of graphics. 
 Compare to N64 flaws in Cruisn' USA, this game has its high points as they look almost like a japanese 
 anime game. Add interlace/progressive scan and it looks like this game has a face lift. Likewise 
 it's also typical that it also sounds japanese except that it's done with an american voice over. 
 It would've been a bonus to put it in Dolby Pro Logic 2 to give it a surround sound feeling.
  
  I hate to say it but the value isn't great if you just play it through once. You need a good 
 memory to go through multiple paths to get to see the different sides up to the main conclusion. 
 Like I said in the training, the gameplay without the crosshair can be hard without a guide but 
 try your skill in figuring out where you're suppose to shoot.
  
  The best thing I could say is the way they handle arcade games and brings it to a new level. I 
 forgot to mention that only in the Wii, you get to do additional missions that doesn't involve 
 shooting like defusing bombs so watch out for that moment. This shooting game should you give a 
 break from all the other games that is too serious. Although I wish they could add girls to the 
 mix, you can unlock it in arcade mode. Anyway, enjoy this arcade, time crisis style game. A quote 
 on Seinfeld by Ping in "The Visa": Asta la vista, baby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expert-Assassin
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 28, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Squad is an attempt to bring the popular arcade game into our living rooms the problem is 
 that it lasts for about half an hour if you can mould it into an hour youve made it worth about 
 $10 if you enjoyed the expirence. Only get this game if you love arcade games not because the game 
 is so bad its because the only way to make this worth a full priced is by repeatedly going back 
 to it and replay the minor three missions and getting upgraded guns and weapons, causauls will 
 play the game through a few times to see everything due to the optional tactics.
  
  Gameplay is of course classic. But a little repeatative because of the constant shooting and certain 
 features such as heatvision and disarming a bomb are only used on one occasion in the game because 
 of it's terrible length. To the games credit there are a lot of guns and outfits to unlock which 
 if you love the game and can never get tired of it you may want to try and unlock these. All moving 
 is done for you so shooting is the only control you have.
  
  The story is disjointed and not even present a group of random missions grouped together. All you 
 know is that you are part of the ghost squad, but this is simlar to the time crisis series with 
 no story that really makes sense there is no doubt that you will pay little attention to the story, 
 action is the forte of this game and it plays it safe.
  
  The only way is to possibly lose this game is to fail the boss battles, each level consits of clearing 
 your way through an area follow a few tactics, clear some more, a sniping mission and then boss 
 battle but the games so short that you hardly notice. Getting your mileage out of this this game 
 will be harder than the game itself, a definet rent and only buy if you love the arcade game. BTW 
 the game comes with a package with the wii zapper I reccomend you take this deal as it is compatible 
 with other wii games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefMrBam
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 21, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Arguably the two greatest problems facing any lightgun shooter on a console are control, and length. 
 Even with a light gun, console adaptations often can't match the precision of their arcade counterparts. 
 
  
  Ghost Squad manages to get controls right. Their is a decent calibration system and it generally 
 feels like your shots are landing where you are aiming. The game even lets you choose the type 
 of crosshairs you desire or opt to use none.
  
  The problem Ghost Squad can't escape is length. The game can be blown through in around an hour 
 or so. Despite branching paths and unlockable weapons and skins, the average player likely won't 
 have much incentive to play the levels repeatedly. Playing with a friend does give the game a little 
 more life, and the levels do feature some branching paths, but the game is still easily blown through 
 in a single sitting.
  
  Ghost squad is entertaining while it lasts but for most will be best suited as a rental rather 
 than a purchase thanks to its short length.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tancred8120
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Squad is a light gun shooter developed by AM2, a Sega studio that has had many arcade hits 
 in the past. The game takes on a serious plot, but manages not to take itself to seriously, and 
 sticks to the basic light gun formula.
  
  You play as a member of the Ghost Squad, a top secret government organization with one mission: 
 to kick terrorist butt. You'll play through 3 interconnected missions, each with a different environment: 
 One a government restricted area, the next Air force 1, and the last a Jungle. There are different 
 paths to take as the mission progresses. For example, you may have a choice of heading to the first 
 floor to save hostages or clearing out the enemies on the second floor. Each path leads up to the 
 same conclusion, which is a boss battle, but it is good to see some variety in the missions. You 
 can either fail or complete an objective, but that doesn't matter all too much; the only thing 
 it will really effect is your overall score in points.
  
  The Wii Zapper works pretty well in the game, and helps bring the arcade feel to your home. You 
 really only need to know 2 things when you boot the game up: use the Wii Remote to point, and the 
 B button to shoot. The game moves you around by itself while countless baddies attack you, sometimes, 
 seemingly out of nowhere. The shooting gameplay is broken up occasionally by short action sequences 
 such as defusing a bomb, securing hostages, engaging in hand-to-hand combat, or disarming land 
 mines. These do a good job of bringing variety, but doesn't change the traditional light gun gameplay 
 much, which is solid.
  
  The graphics are decent, nothing special. Character models are boring and seemingly emotionless. 
 The textures for the most part are pretty flat, but the jungle level actually look quite good in 
 comparison. It basically looks like the arcade it ported from.
  
  Depending on who you are, the sound could be hilarious, or you could be absolutely disgusted. The 
 voice acting is very corny especially combined with the awkward dialogue. The lip synching is laughable 
 as well. Characters' mouths move very inaccurately, they look more like they're drunk. What a character 
 is saying is completely different than how his mouth is moving. Combine all this, you have something 
 that is just cheesy enough to be funny.
  
  The game is very incredibly short. Each of the three missions will last you 6-10 minutes, depending 
 on what paths. So you can complete the bare bones game in 30 minutes or less. However, there are 
 some pretty good reasons to go back. The game offers new paths to take, harder difficulties, new 
 weapons, and new costumes. Also, there are two fantastic modes under party play (the basic game, 
 but with up to 3 other players) . Paradise mode is probably the best part of Ghost Squad. The usual 
 terrorist thugs are replaced with girls in bikinis, and your new gun is a dolphin shaped squirt 
 gun. In ninja mode, you and your enemies are dressed up as ninjas and you are armed with an infinite 
 amount of throwing stars. There is hilarious charm to be found in these modes that are put into 
 the game with no specific reasons or explanations. Eve with the great replay value, Ghost Squad 
 is just too short for its own good.
  
  Ghost Squad is a fun and enjoyable shooter. The game itself is very short, but replay value is 
 great, and the humor in the game is terrific. if you've got $30 and nothing else to buy, you may 
 want to put ghost squad in your sights.
  
  Breakdown:
  Gameplay ~ 8
  Graphics ~ 7
  Sound ~ 7
  Value ~ 6
  Tilt ~ 8
  
  Overall ~ 7.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: couggod
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  This is an arcade Light gun game. It makes no pretensions to be anything else but a light gun game 
 from the dimly lit 90's Arcades of old. And like an arcade light gun game, your stuck on a rail 
 shooting at the various enemies that conveniently roll out in front of your boomstick. Their are 
 only 3 levels, but they can be replayed over and over again until you get sick of them for higher 
 difficulty. And each time you beat the 3 levels you can receive different weapons and pointless 
 costumes. But gunning down engrish speaking euro-terrorists from the 90s with a six round pistol 
 is not particularly enjoyable. That reminds me of the horrible dialog, its over stating obvious 
 logical truths in a completely hammy way. But I suppose that could be do to the fact that this 
 is clearly a cheap Wii port designed to cash in on the popularity of the console. I did not play 
 the multiplayer because there was no point in doing so, this is a rental game for when you are 
 alone for the weekend and you feel the need to go shoot something. For the actual shooting (when 
 the game stops trying to force feed you a ridiculous story) is responsive and fun. Of course there 
 is annoying bystanders in the way in 2 of the 3 levels, but they don't ruin the shooting too much. 
 So if you do rent Ghost Squad, enjoy it for the 90s indulgence that it is. I would not buy it until 
 it got really cheap, like $20 or below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiifan267
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  This game is one of those rent it first games. It has some good parts and some bad one. People 
 who would like this would be the kind that love the arcade style shooting w/o losing all your money. 
 It is really easy too. There are some hard parts but it is easy once you get it. In my view rent 
 it first and see it you like it. It is only 3 missions but they are short and keep repeating. It 
 took me about 30 mins. to beat it . One good thing about this is if you die you just press the 
 plus and get out of it and keep on shooting. It can get kinda of weird when you are lying down 
 shooting and a guy slides right in your face. Then you get suprised and mess up. You can not drive 
 in this at all. There is one mission where you are on a boat but you do not drive. The costumes 
 are soo funny too. I had one were I was a cow boy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johno1995
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 27, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Squad - an arcade game made for Wii. When you think of that, you think "oh it must be crap!" 
 or "how can a brief arcade shooter be made as a $50 game?" 
  
  1) Ghost Squad is only $30 
  2) It's nowhere near crap
  
  Ghost Squad emerges from the crowd 
 of shooters with its bland, ugly visuals with some fun gameplay. Ghost Squad's unappealing menus 
 and ugly graphics are made up for by the games $29.99 price.
  
  PRESENTATION: 6.5/10
  
  Ghost Squad is an ugly game - period. The only exceptions are the bikini-clad goons in Paradise 
 Mode. :)
  
  GRAPHICS: 5.5/10
  
  Ghost Squad offers some okay music, and bad voice acting. But it's hilariously bad, so I'll cut 
 this category some slack.
  
  SOUND: 7/10
  
  Ghost Squad's bigest highlight is it's fun gameplay. Even though it's an unintuitive and very unoriginal 
 game, you can't doubt that it's fun. Ghost Squad offers both single- and multi-player modes. Playing 
 with a few buddies can be highly addicting, but it's menacingly short.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 7/10
  
  Ghost Squad is not a long game. It's no where near the length of Metroid Prime, or Mario Galaxy, 
 or Red Steel. And you have to admit - Red Steel was a pretty short game. But it makes up for it 
 with its replayability and different branching paths to pick in-game. It's modes (especially Paradise 
 and Ninja) offer very fun games. But as said before, the game is too short for it's own good. Online 
 ranking is a waste. 
  
  LASTING APPEAL: 7/10
  
  Ghost Squad is a difficult game to rank. It is very fun, but also very short. If I could, I'd reward 
 it a 6.8 out of 10 here. I'll just round it up to 7. Beware, though, the game is short but still 
 offers great fun with its extra modes. 
  
  OVERALL: 6.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leon41235
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I read reviews about it being short but come on. Three levels. I beat those three levels within 
 an hour of bringing it home! Yeah its fun, but playing those three levels can get boring.
  
  The good-The three levels have many paths. You can decide how to enter a room, what path to 
 take, which each will usually lead to a different challenge and until you beat all those challenges (which 
 can consist of sniping soldiers or disarming bombs, or on I guess boss fights, Shooting down a 
 chopper, getting a head shot, or taking down an armored boat) you will not have 100% on that level. 
 So basically thats what you do. The shooting can be pretty fun sometimes. It's basically an above 
 average arcade shooter. It can be pretty fun.
  
  The bad-Even though they tried to expand the gameplay its still short. Yeah theres weapons and 
 costume to unlock. Big deal. Still doesn't take that long. The sound is... okay. The dialogue really 
 sucks. Bad. Party mode which is basically co-op also tries to spice things up but nothing big. 
 Just a co-op mode if you ever want to play through it with your friend.
  
  Overall Ghost Squad is your average Arcade shooter you stick quarters in to play but you can take 
 it home. If that sounds like a good deal to you go buy it. If not, then don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 24, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Feels just like an arcade game, lots of unlockables
  
  The Bad: Feels more like a demo than a full game, not enough "Wiiness" sub-par graphics and audio, 
 no online play
  
  I heard about Ghost Squad a long time ago and I knew it was going to be a failure and I was right. 
 The biggest disappointment with this game is there's only three levels. That's right! THREE whole 
 levels! While the first two are easy the third is almost impossible to beat. The game plays light 
 arcade light guns games of old and the Zapper works really well here. While everything feels just 
 like an arcade game it's more like a sample than a whole game. I honestly felt like I was playing 
 a demo more than anything. The only good thing about this game is the multiplayer. There really 
 isn't much to say about this game really. The graphics aren't very good, the sound is pretty lame, 
 and there's not much "Wiiness" (as I like to say) to the game. I wish this had online play but 
 nope... not there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braqoon
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Ghost Squad as a arcade always was my guilty pleasure and when it came out on Wii, for me that 
 was a must. I'm not a hardcore shooter on rail fan but somehow this type of game always give me 
 pure fun. Ghost Squad for Wii is not a exception here. First thing first game is short but only 
 when you are constantly pressing continue when you get shot. It's no fun at all and if you that 
 kind of player then reconsider buying that game. 
  Now many peoples complain about pointing to a sensor bar not TV which make a difference especially 
 when you sensor bar is not directly below or above your TV. I found that putting sensor bar on 
 top of TV makes it very close to light gun experience.
  From presentation point of view game holds up, graphic is not brilliant but is also not ugly. Many 
 object can be destroyed, character animation is good and frame rate don't drop at all. Those who 
 liked arcade version graphic will see pretty much this same on Wii which for me is not bad but 
 you would like to see some enhancements since game has been on arcade since 2004.
  In overall i see that game as a small break between some other games like Zelda and you can't expect 
 much more of it. It's a brilliant game to play with friends. As they say "Easy to play, hard to 
 master", so let's turn off cross hairs and see who has a better aim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: severndigital
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  We had a great time with this game. Although game completion and unlock ables are a bit of mystery. 
 But I just chalk that up to "you can't have everything". What this game lacks in storyline logistics 
 it more than makes up for in excellent game play.
  
  We tried this game without the light gun and a lot of success. It also includes other things that 
 just shooting. Such as bomb disarming, Sniping Mode, Mine disengaging, hand to hand, and knife 
 combat.
  
  Honestly if you like arcade shooters .. at the very least rent this game. I doubt you will be disappointed. 
 And as always these types of games are much more fun with a second player.
  
  And just remember for the coolest arcade shooter move ever .. in the jungle level search the center 
 cabin. I only wish John Matrix pulled that maneuver in commando. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scottins
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Although this on-rail shooter is super short it packs a punch. I remember the days of having a 
 pocket full of quarters and going to the arcade. It brings you back and you almost start ducking 
 to dodge the enemies! With loads of extra's it keeps you going and you have that drive to unlock 
 the next gun, costume, of rank! The Wii Zapper denfinatly helps but is not needed. If you don't 
 have the Zapper don't just ignore this game. Multiplayer also brings excitment to the game. For 
 me I will mostly play with my brother. Having 2+ players takes away from the difficulty of some 
 of the missions. Including sniping, hand to-to hand combat, and an overwelming amount of enemies 
 (only hapens in the higher difficulty setting on a level) .
  This is a must buy for any arcade shooter fan. Anyone with 30bucks and a love for the arcade should 
 check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraZySeahorSe
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Ghost Squad feels identical to the typical awesome arcade shooter. You and a friend jack in quarter 
 after quarter in order to complete the usually hard, intense campaign mode. The typical gaming 
 is involved: big guns, terrorists, constant cut-scenes and big, bad bosses. Ghost Squad is no different, 
 fantastic for cooperative play. It's literally like bringing an arcade game home... i'm not kidding 
 folks. The Zapper works great with the game too, but the fact that the nunchuk isn't needed might 
 make some think the Zapper is a bit unneeded. I understand... but it's still more fun. 
  Graphics
  Not much to expect from the graphics... i mean, we're in the arcade here people. However, 
 i was surprised at the textures of the people, however the backgrounds are pretty awful and not 
 worked in. Basically, good character models, everything else is very dull and not worked. 
  Sound
  The information coming from the commander is usually interesting, pretty detailed too. 
 Good VO models.
  Value
  Well here's the biggest downfall: it's soooo short. Hard not to expect this from an arcade shooter 
 thrown onto a system, but other then 3 levels, a multiplayer of those same EXACT levels, and posting 
 scores on the internet, you've got nothing. There are certain modes to unlock from the same levels... 
 for example ninja mode, which just does the same levels at night. It's very short... lets just 
 leave it at that because overall the game is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario_46
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Addictive gameplay  Really fun  Multiple paths to choose from  Lots of unlockables 
  You can upload your scores and watch leaderboards via Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection
  ________________
  
  The Bad: Too Short 
  ________________
  
  
  Ghost Squad is one of 
 those games you don't expect to be good. I mean let's face it: What's so good about a three year 
 old port of an arcade game, specially considering how bad these wiimakes released this year have 
 been. But Ghost Squad manages to do what most wii ports don't do and that's being actually fun.
 
  
  In the game you'll play as a member of a U. N. squadron called GHOST (Global Humanitarian Operation 
 and Special Tactics) who's after a terrorist group called The Indigo Wolves. These terrorist plan 
 to kidnap the president. The story is clich, but it brings you several fun moments and funny characters 
 and it's just fun because it doesn't take itself too seriously.
  
  Ghost Squad is an On Rails shooter, and a very good one. You aim with the wiimote as you move and 
 shoot with the B button, that's the way the game goes. It's a very traditional arcade shooter, 
 but it also brings some new tweaks to the formula like: Hand to hand and knife combat, one by moving 
 the targeting reticle to the place where you want to punch and press the assigned button. And also 
 you'll be defusing bombs and land mines. It may not be innovative but the gameplay is just plain 
 fun, and you'll keep coming back for better scores. 
  
  The game only consist of three missions, yes three, which can be done in about 45 minutes. The 
 first mission takes place in a hotel, where you'll have to rescue the president. Second mission 
 takes place in the Air Force One, where you'll also have to rescue the president. And the last 
 one takes place in the Indigo Wolves'jungle base. Luckily each mission has different paths to choose 
 from, each can make your has it's different set of objectives and will give you certain amount 
 of points. This increases the replay value of each. There's also a mode to play without the targeting 
 reticle to get more points, it sounds hard, but it really isn't.
  
  Ghost Squad also has tons of unlockables, like different weapons and costumes, they dont have any 
 effect is the story but it's just fun to see your character dressed like a panda bear. 
  
  The main arcade mode is up to 2 players, but the real multiplayer fun comes after unlocking the 
 party mode, which includes two sub modes up to 4 players. The first one is Ninja Mode, where you'll 
 have a set of ninja stars and your enemies have been replaced with ninjas (and some are female) . 
 The other mode, which is the funniest one by far is paradise mode where your enemies are replaced 
 with bikini girls shooting with water guns, this mode is really worth unlocking because it's really 
 fun in multiplayer. You can also upload your scores via Nintendo Wi-Fi connection and you can see 
 the local, regional and worldwide leaderboards. 
  
  Graphically it looks like a 2004 arcade game with flat character models and blocky things everywhere, 
 its part of the arcade charm the game has so it doesn't take any points from it. The game sounds 
 just as it looks, which means the arcade beats are really good and the voice acting sounds like 
 it comes from the Cartoon Network show Johnny Bravo. 
  
  It can also be played with the Wii Zapper, but it doesn't really add anything to the experience 
 and can be played just fine without it. 
  
  In the end Ghost Squad is a really fun and addictive game, but it's just too short. It's fun enough 
 for a rental, but i wouldn't recommend buying it as the experience wears off really quickly. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklynx13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Squad was first released in the arcade in 2004 and has now recently been released on the 
 Wii, with tons of extras not found in the arcade version. When I first played this game in the 
 arcade, i realized I just had to buy it for the Wii. For a 3 year old arcade rail shooter, it still 
 holds up really well. 3 missions. Thats pretty much all there is. I know what your thinking "only 
 3?" well, each level has multiple choices that will effect how long you play and many points you 
 get. Trying to complete all of them is a challenge. I discover something new every time I play, 
 and i always get new weapons and costumes that add to the fun. Different weapons can increase or 
 decrease the challenge for you, but it's fun experimenting with all the weapons, and really fun 
 trying to get high scores and posting them online. You may be wondering what makes the wii version 
 so different than the arcade version, well I'll tell you
  
  Wii Exclusives:
  
  1. New weapons (I'd say more than 15)
  
  2. New costumes (panda suit will keep you laughing 
 from start to finish)
  
  3. Party Mode (allows you to play with 4 people)
  
  4. Ninja Mode (everyone plays as Ninjas and uses shurikens)
  
  5. Paradise Mode (everyone uses 
 squirt guns and in swim suits)
  
  6. Training Mode
  
  7. Worldwide score posting
  
  with all those extras its worth buying. And it's even more fun if you have a Wii Zapper, but it's 
 not needed, you don't even need a nunchuck to play it. And it's only $30, so why wouldn't buy. 
 It's a nice, fun, game with loads of replay value and a classic rail shooter you will remember. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pavel1104
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Just got a Wii Zapper and need a game to play (besides LCT) ? This game is a perfect buy. Its fun 
 and worth the money. It integrates nicely with the wii zapper as well as a normal wiimote. There 
 are only 2 Light Gun Shooters out there at the moment (as I know of) , Umbrella Chronicles and Ghost 
 Squad. Both are worth it to buy and a must if you own a Wii Zapper.
  
  My First Impression of this game when seeing it on shelves at my closest EB/Gamestop was: Hmm.. this 
 seems pretty good. Upon starting up the game, the first thing that came to mind was the memory 
 of playing all the virtua cop, fighter, etc, back in my pirated, Chinese Saturn days. It was pretty 
 easy to get used to, with the tutorials at every little 'side action' (Sniping, bomb diffusing, 
 etc.) . The unlockables are also a nice addition with stronger guns and costumes (such as a panda 
 costume as shown on the back of the box) .
  
  Its only flaw is the lack of other levels. Even though the levels are bigger and expand, they still 
 do not satisfy as much as, if to say they added another level or two as well as an online Co-op 
 mode, which would have made this game a lot better.
  
  All in all, this game is worth it to buy if you are looking for a light gun shooter which is relatively 
 diverse, and fun to play solo or with up to 4 friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Yeah 29 bucks for this not worth it. Been a Great pack in Game with the Wii Zapper. Over all the 
 Boss fights not very good . the Talking in the Game comes off Corny. The Wii Zapper works good 
 with the Game . Ghost Squad has a lot of Unlockable s diffrent paths you can take has a ranking 
 system for online see if you can be in the tops scores around the world. but does a person want 
 to spend that much time with Ghost Squad to find out if you can be in the top 10. i cant see spending 
 hours and hours on Ghost Squad . Not enough there to the Game starts getting that old feeling. 
 My view give the Game a rent are wait for a price drop. its worth playing for a rent are say 14 
 bucks are online dowmload but not 29 bucls just my views thanks Mars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltraCell
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Ghost Squad is your Arcade gun shooters. That being said.. that is what the game is, no more, no 
 less. It's short but it brings fun with it. It's the type of game you can put on for about 20 minutes 
 and have a good decent time with if your short on play time. It does have replay value in that 
 you can unlock guns and costumes the more you play it, also there is a Ninja and Paradise mode 
 to it.. in which both are silly. (Fun silly) Overall its a good time... and you will have fun with 
 it.. The game does work well with the zapper haven't try it yet without the zapper. But, in this 
 type of game there is not much need for much button layout... give it a rent if ya like... your 
 definitely going to have a good time. The only complaint I had were the so-call boss at the end 
 of the stage barely provided a challenge. Definitely worth taking a look if you got some time to 
 kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdoreen6969
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited to get this game, I was a huge time crisis fan. I bought this game and right 
 off the bat I did enjoy it. really it is fun, but like other people pointed out it is very short 
 and you feel like your playing the same game over and over and over again, at times in the level 
 you just get to choose what way you want to go, and each time you complete or not complete all 
 3 missions then it saves, but its cool how after you compete the missions you level up and get 
 more guns, although the one they give you at the begining is fine. This game surprsed me at some 
 of the mini games is has. like defusing bombs, and clicking on the screen when a guy is kicking 
 you (to defend yourself) and the cutscene after that was great, no blood though, would of been 
 nice,, Ahtough it is fun for a bit and might be a good game to have just to show people you got 
 a Wii zapper and a game. Hardcore timecrisis fans will be disapointed, athough I still enjoyed 
 it and passed some hours.
  
  Jason Doreen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manofcause
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  This port is too close to the arcade version for any lasting power. I rented the game and beat 
 it three times in less than two hours. While there are the "Ninja" and "Paradise" modes that keep 
 things fresh for an hour or two, there are only three stages in the game, each lasting maybe 10 
 minutes or less (I wasn't closely keeping track) . Gameplay is very fun (and humorous if you like 
 over-the-top acting and silly costumes) , but I can't stress enough how short the game is. Sega 
 should have expanded the amount of gameplay included with the package, either by adding new stages 
 or packaging it with a second shooter (House of the Dead 1, maybe) - I know the two games have 
 nothing to do with each other, but still, this game needed to offer more content. What the game 
 has done, it's done well and would be worth the rental, but this package seems like only half of 
 a game, so I'm giving it half of a rating. Oh, and having infinite continues makes the game incredibly 
 easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good port from its arcade predecessor. The game has the hilarious voice acting and 
 a retro feel to it. One of the worst things about this game is the length. All of the missions 
 can be beaten in about 30 minutes. The wii works great although i would rather have it where you 
 shoot on the outside of the screen to reload. The nunchuck and zapper is really useless although 
 if you already have a zapper I could see how it would add to the realism. The game has no online 
 play, but there is 4 player capability and the scores can be placed online so it does bring some 
 competitiveness. This is a descent game for those of us with an itch for an arcade shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignoman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  Ghost Squad for Wii is a remake of the light-gun arcade game of the same name. In the arcade version, 
 you equip yourself with a massive light-gun battle rifle, and after choosing a costume and weapon, 
 battle through three missions against generic terrorists and soldier types. It's a lot of fun, 
 and one of the best games of its type, and the Wii port is more or less faithful.
  
  The game has three modes of play. First comes Arcade, which is basically an arcade-perfect port 
 of the original game. Instead of the special battle rifle light gun, up to two players can play 
 co-op using the Wiimote's pointer function. It works well enough, and although the Wii pointer 
 is never 100% flawless, you are able to execute shots without worry. The game begins by you selecting 
 a costume (which has no real function besides cosmetics during cutscenes) and a weapon, which vary 
 from battle rifles to magnums to shotguns. You can play the missions in any order, though they 
 are numbered roughly in order of difficulty.
  
  The core gameplay is straightforward. It's an on-rails light gun game. Your character moves around 
 the battlefield automatically in first person perspective, and using your trusty Wiimote, you gun 
 down tons of thugs that pop out in every which way. For the most part, bad guys don't put up much 
 of a fight, but you'll likely have to continue a few times in the beginning, as some of game's 
 suprises throw you for a loop. The action is as frantic as you'd expect. Punctuating each battle 
 are simple tasks that you must complete, from surviving knife battles to disarming bombs to freeing 
 hostages. These are completed with the Action Button, which used to be a second button on the rifle, 
 but is delegated to a Wiimote button instead.
  
  The game only has three stages, which is short even for an arcade. Even after continuing a few 
 times, you can expect to complete the game in about 30 minutes or so. Of course, playing it once, 
 you would miss a lot of the game. At several points in a given mission, you are given choices to 
 branch off on one of several paths. Taking a different road each time can lead to a significantly 
 different experience. In addition, each time you successfully complete a given mission, it will 
 "level up", which adds subtle changes, increases the difficulty, and gives you even more choices 
 on your path. Plus, it's an arcade game, so half the fun comes from competing with your friends 
 (and in this case, the world) for the top spots on the high score chart. At the end of the game, 
 your character will be given experience points, which you gain from completing tasks, scoring points 
 and collecting levels. Earn enough, and you'll rise in rank, giving you new costumes and guns to 
 play with. There's a lot of variety here, and those who are fans of the arcade game might have 
 missed out on it before if their game center's machine wasn't equipped with the software to do 
 it.
  
  You also get the party mode, which lets up to four players play at once and introduces some interesting 
 twists into the game's missions. There's also a practice mode, but it's kindof throwaway... time 
 you spend playing it will make you wish you were just blazing through arcade mode again and earning 
 more experience.
  
  The graphics of the game look more or less like the arcade did... about PS2 quality. Sometimes 
 the textures can seem a little bland and dark, but it never distracts from the fun. The sound is 
 servicable, and you even get a little click from the Wiimote speaker when you reload. The voice 
 acting is as terribly cheesy as you'd expect, but at least it's clear. Music is the generic techno 
 variety, thumping and bumping with the sort of arcade-action feel that you want in a game like 
 Ghost Squad. Another nice touch is that most of the indoor environments have a lot of stuff to 
 shoot and break, with papers and furniture and fruit flying everywhere when the shootouts get exciting.
 
  
  To speak on Wii hardware for a minute: I was never 100% pleased with the Wii's pointer technology... 
 it's very tough (if not always possible) to get it calibrated properly. Thankfully, Ghost Squad 
 is one of the few games that actually lets you do it in the options mode. The game suggests you 
 maintain a 10-foot distance from the TV, but the Wii's weak Sensor Bar somewhat prohibits that. 
 Also, this game is probably the best one to play with the new Wii Zapper, since it allows you to 
 reassign the buttons to get it close to the arcade feel. Assigning shoot to Z and action to B is 
 a godsend.
  
  The Verdict:
  
  For fans of arcade games, or fans of games like Rayman or Wii Play looking for a more meaty light 
 gun game to cut their teeth on, Ghost Squad is just what the doctor ordered. It's fast, fun, great 
 with a buddy and good for competitive gamers. The game has no real story, characters or variety, 
 so if those are the sorts of things that compel you, it's probably best that you avoid games like 
 these.
  
  However, if you're looking to go gunslinging with your Wii, and have been disappointed with the 
 partial offerings that have come so far, I can whole-heartedly recommend Ghost Squad. It's an arcade 
 favorite for good reason, it's satisfying, goofy, and lots of fun.
  
  The game is also bargain-priced, which makes it even easier to pick up. It's also the only game 
 I'd recommend using a Wii Zapper with.
  
  +Perfect port of one of the greatest arcade games
  +Decent replay value for a 30-minute game
 
  +Online scorekeeping built-in
  +Tons of stuff to unlock
  +Makes better use of the Wii Zapper than any other game to date
  +It's only $30
  -Somewhat 
 dated graphics and sound
  -It's really short if you don't like multiple playthroughs
  -Extra modes don't really add much
  -It's slightly easier than I'd like 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidBeoulve
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  PROS: =======================================
  For $30, this game delivers. Three to four people shooting bad guys on the screen doesn't get old. 
 
  
  Even casual gamers can point a Wiimote at the screen and shoot something - just like a real gun. 
 
  
  The game offers multiple avenues so it will take 3 play-throughs of every mission to "see it all". 
 
  
  Sequences can be failed and you'll continue without restarting. 
  
  You can unlock more outfits (which only show up for 1st & 2nd players) .
  
  CONS: =======================================
 
  Shallow gameplay. 
  
  Enemies disappear after being shot and striking the "you hit me!" pose. 
  
  Graphics are okay, 
 but dated. Nothing has been done to spruce it up for the Wii that I can tell, recalling the arcade 
 version.
  
  If you live alone or don't have friends over regularly, buying this game makes you stupid.
  
 
  ============================================
  
  The arcade version of Ghost Squad allows for two players, but the developers went crazy and added 
 four player support for the Wii, even though you'll only see two protagonists during the cut scenes. 
 It's amazingly fun.
  
  Everyone loves to point and shoot at something, and unlike Time Crisis on the PSX (or any other 
 gun game on a console) you don't have to dig out special peripherals to play it - you just grab 
 your Wiimotes and have a blast.
  
  That said, the whole allure is the ridiculously easy gameplay. (Sure, completing the game and accomplishing 
 all of the objectives takes skill, but my 10yo, 8yo and 5yo daughters managed to finish the game 
 almost by themselves; I helped on two boss fights.)
  
  This is a game that makes other people understand why you own a Wii. You throw it in, you pass 
 out the Wiimotes (no nunchucks required) and have a good time.
  
  It is also the kind of game that makes loner hard core gamers hate the Wii's very existence.
 
  
  There is a limited leveling system built-into the game wherein you gain experience for good shots 
 and the difficulty ramps up; there are also sequences where you use sniper rifles or battle people 
 with knives - most just help break up the action and aren't compelling in and of themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chergesheimer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun, like a Time-Crisis game, but with way more achievements. Let me talk about the 
 good parts of the game. It offers calibration with the Wii Remote for more percise aiming. There 
 are tons of unlockables, like costumes, guns, and more areas and enemies in the levels. The gameplay 
 is fun with path choices and interactive moments like defusing time-bombs, capturing hostages, 
 and fending for yourself in knife and fist fights. The shooting is cool with nice sound effects 
 and there is a huge aresenal of weapontry to chose from. The game offers your character to gain 
 in level through expierience points. You gain expierience through quickshots and headshots on your 
 enemy, completing interactive tasks, and completing levels. Once you complete a level, depending 
 on how well you did, the level will increase a level in difficulty, and will give you more paths. 
 Its really cool. This game has a lot to offer for 30.00 dollars. It also offers up to four player 
 co-op. 
  
  The bad side of the game is that the graphics are mediocre even for the Wii, the game is very short, 
 most of the guns you obtain are worthless, The boss fights are very simple, but each have a different 
 weapon, and they did not include enough of those interactive fights. Most of its just shootin enemies, 
 which is what you should expect out of a 30.00 dollar game, but they could of made it a fantastic 
 game with more of those fights. You will find the interactive fights to be more interesting. It 
 is a very cruddy game without the WIi Zapper so dont bother if youre not willing to buy the Zapper 
 with it.
  
  Overall this game is sweet with tons of unlockables and fast-paced gameplay, a must have for Wii 
 Zapper owners. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
