-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Godzilla Unleashed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/godzillaunleashed/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Godzilla is in this game!.
 Looks like a Godzilla game should look.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Terrible targeting system.
 Short, pointless campaign.
 The AI is weirdly inconsistent.
 Generally awful production.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 12, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 4.5, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 284 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Pipeworks Software
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Dec 5, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unleashed is the worst thing to happen to Godzilla since getting killed by Mothra's babies. 

 
  Common thoughts when watching a Godzilla movie: "If you told girls you were the guy in the rubber 
 suit, would they believe you?", and "If Godzilla spit at King Kong, wouldn't all his hair catch 
 on fire? How is that even a contest?" A less common thought, on the other scaly claw, is: "Man, 
 Godzilla is pretty cool, but someone should let that guy off his leash!" Don't tell this to Atari, 
 though, because the company seems to be under the impression that it has finally liberated everyone's 
 favorite fire-spitting lizard in its recent city-crushing romp, Godzilla: Unleashed.  

  Ironically, Godzilla and company have never been as leashed as they are in this monster fighting 
 game. Bound by wonky Wii controls, a terrible targeting scheme, a lame campaign, and generally 
 terrible artificial intelligence, this game might be better served with a title like Godzilla: 
 Hits Like A Wuss, Godzilla: Doesn't Want You To See Him Like This, or maybe just Godzilla: Leashed. 
 However, at the very least you can still knock down Mothra with flame breath and then hit her with 
 a small building while she's down. That counts for something, as does the fact that the game is 
 mostly playable. In fact, at some points it even plays itself.  

           Even Godzilla is impressed by Mecha Godzilla's robo-hops.      

  But first, the god-awful 
 plot. Giant, powerful crystals land on earth and drive most of its monsters insane. As Godzilla 
 or one of a handful of good monsters, you have to travel to various locations, subdue rampaging 
 titans, destroy crystals, and stop a crazy army guy from killing you. The whole campaign takes 
 about three hours to beat, at which point you gain a certain number of store points you can use 
 to unlock more monsters, even though they all play roughly the same. The idea is that you'll actually 
 grind through story mode over and over to unlock the likes of Space Godzilla (which would take 
 at least 10 hours) . But really, after about two plays, you will have wrung every ounce of blood 
 from this inert space rock.  

  Your average level goes something like this: Several monsters duke it out in a bad approximation 
 of a major city, and from the perspective of a camera that is completely out of your control. One 
 of the monsters is you, and another might be juiced up as a result of scattered crystals. You can 
 proceed by destroying the crystals (which can be difficult to hit if your monster thinks you're 
 aiming for something else) , by defeating the bad monsters, or by dying. However, only one of these 
 options requires you to actually play. If you do nothing, there is a chance the bad monster will 
 be defeated by the other CPU-controlled monsters, or that they'll come burn you down. Either way, 
 the level is considered complete, and you move on -- even if you die. Because, as you know, Godzilla 
 never dies.  

  If you decide to fight the other monsters (there are usually several) , you can take one of two 
 approaches to guaranteed victory. You can run circles around your foes until they inevitably turn 
 on each other, and then pelt them with breath attacks until only one badly wounded monster remains. 
 Or, you can just wade in like an idiot and die.  

  If you elect to use the breath-attack strategy, you'll run into several interesting issues. For 
 instance, every level is bustling with small, durable aircraft. Couple this with the fact that 
 your monster automatically aims its blasts at the closest targets, and you'll end up firing straight 
 up into the air when you meant to shoot straight into Megalon's face. You can attempt to steer 
 your ray toward your opponent with the Nunchuk's analog stick, but this doesn't work all that often. 
 But fret not; two factors make this situation bearable: You can always recharge more breath, and 
 when you do make contact with a monster foe, you can potentially pelt it with your fiery wrath 
 for about 30 whole seconds.  

  The resulting breathfests are fun to look at but incredibly tedious to play. Charging your projectile 
 attack to its fullest takes nearly a minute, and after all that, you can easily waste all four 
 charges (each worth a good five seconds of firepower) on UFOs and warplanes, without actually hitting 
 anything monstrous. Cue outraged Godzilla roar.  

  Things go a little differently if you're fighting a monster one-on-one. The CPU AI tends to be 
 very aggressive, as well as incredibly effective at countering any melee strikes you throw its 
 way. However, this is okay because you can charge your breath attack while blocking. Normally, 
 if you simply stood there and blocked, the CPU monster would run up and throw you. But if you charge 
 your breath at the same time, it will usually just stand in place until you have a lungful ready 
 to spit in its face.  

           Another day in the life of Anguirus; stomped and lasered at the same time.      

  
 When you do finally fire, one of two things will happen. You will either blast the creature for 
 an extended period of time and damage, during which it will try in vain to walk toward you (rather 
 than taking cover) , or it will fire back with a beam of its own. When this happens, the beam attacks 
 meet and initiate a minigame wherein a pulse travels ever faster back and forth between the monsters. 
 To keep from eating the pulse and getting blasted, you have to swipe the remote as if you were 
 hitting a tennis ball. It's Pong in one dimension, and it's also Godzilla: Unleashed's most engaging 
 play mechanic. That's how bad this game is.  

  At least it looks pretty. When you're far from other monsters and the camera pulls out to keep 
 everyone on the screen, it really looks like you're watching a monster battle in a realistic cityscape 
 from a bird's-eye view. The breath attacks cut through the air in bright oranges and yellow, wavy 
 lines, and warplanes and UFOs shoot rockets and rays at all and sundry. Unfortunately, the sound 
 bytes aren't great. Most (though not all) of the monster noises are here, but the music is bad, 
 the voice acting is horrendous, and the effects are generic.  

  We aren't sure why you'd try to inflict this disaster on multiple players, though that's an option. 
 Really, though, you shouldn't even inflict this on one player: namely, yourself. Although Godzilla: 
 Unleashed looks good, it's an incredibly boring game to play, with busted mechanics and short-bus 
 AI. The short and wimpy single-player campaign doesn't help matters, nor does the fact that the 
 game seems to expect you to play through it a dozen times to unlock some of the cooler monsters. 
 All in all, you should let this sleeping dragon lie.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (28 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GodzillaRules
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to bluntly say out loud that I'm a Godzilla fan. I watched all of his movies, and played 
 both of the previous installments in this Godzilla video game series. Ever since the day I heard 
 of the development of this game, it's been in my head for a long time. When I saw the game get 
 bashed by nearly every reviewer possible (Gamespot included) , I got kind of sad. I bought the game 
 anyways to show my appreciation for Godzilla. I expected a terrible game, and I felt as if I had 
 wasted my money. As it turns out, it didn't. Godzilla Unleashed actually turned out to be the best 
 Godzilla game yet, and one of the best Wii games I have every played in my life, and not just on 
 a Godzilla fan's point of view. 
  
  PRESENTATION: The presentation for this game is a mixed bag, though it leans on the more positive 
 side. To start on a positive note, THE ROSTER IS HUGE!!! With a whopping 26 monsters to play as 
 (an 8 monster increase from the previous game, Godzilla: Save the Earth) , you'll be able to recreate 
 a lot of Godzilla battles over Godzilla's really really long filmography. The monsters are separated 
 into 4 factions: Earth Defenders, Global Defense Force, Aliens, and Mutants; all which have different 
 goals and standards. There are also plenty of landmarks in the game's arenas, like the Chrysler 
 Building in New York City, or the Tokyo Tower in Tokyo. Sure, some cities may have more iconic 
 places than others, but you can find at least one iconic location in every city besides the Alien 
 Mothership and Monster Island. There are various modes you can play as, like Versus (1 on 1 battle 
 to the death) , Classic Melee (2-4 monsters duke it out for points) , Classic Destruction (2-4 monsters 
 compete to destroy as much property as possible) , and Last Man Standing (2-4 monsters duke it out 
 to be the last monster standing) . Many of these features were featured in previous Godzilla games, 
 and were rather fun too. However, what makes this game stick out a lot in modes is the Custom Mode. 
 Quite possibly one of the greatest features ever created, Custom Mode allows you to tweak the game 
 in many ways, from military settings, to even monster size changes, allowing YOU to create the 
 scenario of your dreams. However, another aspect of the presentation isn't as great. The box art 
 for this game is disappointing. The box art is by far the WORST thing of the entire game. It has 
 got to be one of the most BORING box arts I ever saw. Why can't the developers put more monsters 
 than just TWO. I see Biollante and I see Godzilla 2000. Oh sure, some people might say that you 
 see King Ghidorah and Mothra in the background, but they practically blend in with the background, 
 so they don't count. One thing that really makes me mad is when the Japanese get the cooler box 
 art. Just to prove my point, when Godzilla: Destroy All Monsters Melee came out, this is what we 
 got: http://tohokingdom. com/vg/gdamm/us_box. htm, and this is what the Japanese got: http://tohokingdom. com/vg/gdamm/japan_box. htm. 
 Why can't WE get that cool box art too? And Godzilla: Destroy All Monsters Melee is actually the 
 first game, so how is Godzilla: Unleashed going to turn out for Japan? I bet the Japanese are going 
 to get something even BETTER! The box art portion of the game is pretty bad, with barely any action 
 to say "buy this game!". The main focus on this section is the Story Mode, which is a mixed bag. 
 The story for this game is just like a typical Godzilla movie: It has a rather serious tone, but 
 the dialogue makes it feel very corny. The story, as you can see, isn't anything special. The story 
 is told through GDF computer screens that fill you in on what's happening, as well as comic book 
 cut scenes that are actually quite well drawn, but still nothing to brag about. So, is the Story 
 Mode bad? No, far from it. The reason is that, while the story itself and the way the story is 
 told aren't that great, but the gameplay in Story Mode is a lot of fun. In Story Mode, you decide 
 who you ally yourself with (or break alliances with) , and those actions will further affect your 
 outcome later in the game, so you can play through this several times and get something different 
 each time. The only problem with this is that the endings (besides a secret ending that's accessible 
 by Aliens, Earth Defenders, and the GDF) are always going to be your faction endings no matter 
 whom you ally yourself with. But, even then, Story Mode is entertaining as hell, and defiantly 
 worth several playthroughs. So, the end this long section, despite the presentation being pretty 
 good, this part is easily the weakest part of the game. 
  
  Score: 8/10 
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics for this game can't hold up to an Xbox 360 or PS3 (though, this shouldn't 
 be news to you) . However, this game isn't on the Xbox 360 or PS3, it's on the Wii. And for a Wii 
 game, the graphics for this game is unbelievable. The detail for the monsters are incredible, the 
 cities are well created, and the water resolution is on par with that of the Xbox 360 and PS3. 
 For the most part, I was speechless the first time I saw Godzilla Unleashed. There's probably 2 
 Wii games out there that's got this game beat in graphics, and that's Super Mario Galaxy and Metroid 
 Prime 3: Corruption. Bottom line, the graphics, while aren't that good compared to the Xbox 360 
 or PS3 visuals, are defiantly one of the best on the Wii. The only thing that's keeping the full 
 10 at bay is some slowdowns here and there. 
  
  Score: 9.5/10 
  
  AUDIO: The audio is pretty good. To start off on a rather negative approach, the voice acting is 
 pretty bad. While they are bearable, they aren't what I would call Oscar quality (far from it) . 
 A redeeming factor is Miku's voice acting, which is quite good considering the fact that the one 
 who voiced her is also the one who voiced Cortana in the Halo series (wow...) . Aside from the voice 
 acting, the other voice aspect of this game (the announcer) is actually pretty good. Aside from 
 saying the Mechagodzilla names (in which he sounds bored and tired) , the other times that he talks, 
 it makes the monster names feel epic. The announcer's good, but I miss the one from the previous 
 games, which shouted the monsters names in an "I'm ready to kick your ass" kind of voice. Bottom 
 line, the voice aspect of this game isn't all that great, but luckily, the other parts make of 
 for it. The explosions and building crumbling sounds aren't anything to brag about, but they do 
 add to the mood that you're a giant monster rampaging through Tokyo (or Sydney, or Osaka, or wherever 
 you are) . The monster roars are awesome. I was really taken aback by the fact that they included 
 Godzilla 1954's original roar from the first Godzilla movie. That was a really nice tribute. And 
 also, Godzilla 90's iconic roar is also here, paying tribute the second (Heisei) series of Godzilla 
 films. The only disappointment is Mechagodzilla's roar, which is missing from the intro and victory 
 roars. Why they did that, I will never know. Curiously, Mechagodzilla's roar was incorporated into 
 Kiryu's victory roar. Finally, we get to the music. I'm first going to break some disappointing 
 news that the classic Godzilla March Theme isn't here, so don't get your hopes up. Before you bash 
 this game, however, I want to let you know that the music for this game (made by Heavy Melody Music) 
 really KICKS ASS! It was so awesome that Toho Kingdom released the soundtrack for the game on their 
 website. Go check it out. So, to end this section, I'm going to say that, while the voice aspect 
 of this game isn't great, the roars are (almost) all spot on, and the music is just plain awesome. 
 
  
  Score: 8.5/10 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Now, what is the main reason why everyone loves the Wii? Is it cutting edge visuals? 
 No. Is it crisp and clean sound? Not exactly. Then what is it? It's gameplay. The Wii's gameplay 
 is awesome, and that's why everyone loves it in the first place. Godzilla Unleashed is no different. 
 This part is easily the best part of the game. The controls for this game, contrary to what most 
 critics believe, isn't that bad. The Wii's motion controls are mainly unexplored territory, and 
 Godzilla Unleashed is paving the way for other Wii game controls. Being that the controls are BRAND 
 NEW, it's not that easy to pick up and play. However, if you are having problems, there's a nice 
 little feature called Training Mode. It functions like the Practice Mode in the Mortal Kombat games, 
 but you learn how to move and you have to defeat your opponent (except for Megaguirus, who has 
 a glitch in Training Mode where she can't complete it, turning the mode into a test out every possible 
 thing Megaguirus can do, and also changing it to be closer to the Practice Mode in Mortal Kombat) . 
 After you get used to the controls, this is where all the fun REALLY gets started. One difference 
 this game has from other fighting games is its health and energy system. Most fighting games have 
 one bar, and all previous Godzilla games have a self-regenerating energy bar for long-range beam 
 attacks. In this game, it's different. Monsters have 2 bars of Health, one that is made up of a 
 bunch of Health "Cells", and the other below it is a standard bar, which regenerates over time 
 as your monster avoids damage. Any attack will whittle away at the bottom bar, but you can't get 
 the top bar to go away unless you perform a heavy attack that knocks the monster down. Energy, 
 unlike previous games, is manually charged instead of self-regenerating, and if you do charge, 
 you can't regenerate your health. The health and energy system here allows for the need of actual 
 skill. Yes, ACTUAL SKILL. If you just mash the A button over and over again, you'll get beaten 
 up badly even on Easy difficulty. The energy thing creates a small dilemma in which players need 
 to decide whether they want energy or health, which is brilliant in its own way. The reason why 
 I love this game in the first place is because of the need for skill. While some monsters will 
 do fine just swinging the Wiimote round randomly (like Destroyah) , most monsters require strategy 
 and precision to use well, which is nice, because it adds a lot of variety to the monsters, something 
 that is clearly lacking in other fighting games. There are various little gameplay features in 
 this game. For instance, if two monsters fire at each other, it turns into a little mini game where 
 you lock beams and try to get the "energy ball" to your opponent. It then becomes like a game of 
 pong, where you try to hit the energy ball away from you. The faster the ball travels, the more 
 health you lose if you lose the little minigame. Another gameplay element is Critical Mass. There 
 are crystals lying all around the place, and if you destroy them, you absorb their energy. Absorb 
 enough, and you start glowing in power and become stronger as well (at the cost of needing the 
 stay in battle as well as a lowered defense) . Critical Mass can be either the key to a great comeback, 
 or the reason for your downfall. There are many other gameplay elements, but I have a review to 
 finish, so don't expect me to list every one of them. Because of the variety between monsters, 
 various gameplay elements, and an innovative health and energy system, this game has become the 
 very first fighting game to ever leave me completely satisfied by myself. Most fighting games are 
 really fun when I'm with my friends. While this game is no exception, as playing with friend's 
 is always better than playing by yourself, I had a lot of fun playing by myself too, which is a 
 huge achievement for any fighting game, at least, for me. The gameplay isn't perfect, and there's 
 plenty of room for improvement, but Godzilla Unleashed's gameplay is, by far, one of the best I've 
 ever laid my hands on, and I believe that this is worth the price of admission alone. 
  
  Score: 9.7/10 
  
  GLITCHES: Yes, this game has glitches. What? Super Smash Bros. Brawl was 
 delayed like hell and that still came with a lot of glitches, and the recent Mortal Kombat game, 
 Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe was also riddled with glitches. It's just the nature of fighting 
 games. They almost all have some type of glitch inside, especially if you're trying to cram all 
 these features in a period of about one year. Some glitches are funny, but others can be serious 
 too, and I need to address them. The most glaring glitch of all is Megaguirus's inability to complete 
 Training Mode. It doesn't pertain to much considering the fact that you can still practice, just 
 with no guidance, and the monster doesn't fight back. Sure, not being able to complete a mode is 
 pretty lame, but it really isn't that bad. Another glitch is Mothra Larvae's tail, which sticks 
 up like a cat's tail after Mothra Larvae gets knocked down. It's just hilarious to look at, and 
 doesn't really do much. One gameplay affecting glitch is Mechagodzilla's inability to use Power 
 Surges. This glitch can be pretty serious, but personally, I'm glad it's here. For one thing, Mechagodzilla's 
 got a shield that deflects all long range attacks (aside from buildings, which can be parried) , 
 a laser beam that can eliminate Health Cells unlike most beams, and really tough armor. Already, 
 he's practically invincible at long range. Power Surges would just make him practically invincible 
 at close range too, making him sorely unbalanced. So, this glitch can be a bad thing or good thing, 
 depending on how you look at it. The most serious glitch, and the worst, is the fact that if you 
 play as Red, and your opponent is Blue, you won't get any points if you win. The seriousness of 
 this glitch depends on your progress through the game. If you're trying to unlock something, this 
 is a very serious glitch. If you beat the game, then you could care less. This is a rather serious 
 glitch, but it just depends on your progress through the game. There are good glitches, however, 
 and this one almost completely makes up for the previous glitch. This glitch allows you to go through 
 the force field barriers and explore the places outside of the arena (like the volcano in Seattle) ; 
 it's an awesome glitch that allows you to go to different places to fight (however, the only monsters 
 that can go past the barrier is Godzilla 2000, Gigan, Krystalak, and King Ghidorah (barely) ) . To 
 go through, head to where two edges of the force field meet and start double flying kicking it. 
 Eventually, if you do it right, you'll jump right past the force field. So far (as of this reviews 
 publication) , there are two cities that you can escape from: Seattle and Osaka. This glitch allows 
 you to explore places that you wanted to go, but couldn't, and that makes this glitch one AWESOME 
 glitch. The following rating is not how bad the glitches are, but how good the game does with them. 
 
  
  Score: 8.5/10 
  
  LASTING APPEAL: And now, we come to the final part of the review. Well, for starters, there is 
 a lot of stuff you can unlock, from concept art to trailers to animation tests. Not only that, 
 you can unlock various different monsters and arenas, all which will take you quite a while. And 
 even after you unlock all the characters, the Story Mode has many different endings that you can 
 watch, and Custom Mode allows you to create a near infinite amount of scenarios for your monsters. 
 Already, just playing by yourself allows for an enriching amount of replay value. Now, if you have 
 friend's nearby whom also like this game, then you are all set. The only thing missing from this 
 game that would've boosted the lasting appeal up a lot is online play. However, I can see the reason 
 why they didn't put it inside in the first place (I hope you don't mind a little history lesson) . 
 When Godzilla Save the Earth came out, it had online play. Because online play took an insanely 
 long amount of time to make, all we got was an updated copy of Godzilla Destroy All Monsters Melee 
 (which isn't a bad thing, it's just that they could've done a little bit more with that) . Sadly 
 though, not a lot of people went online to play this game, and so Pipeworks essentially wasted 
 time. Also, the Wii's online capabilities kind of suck. When Dragonball: Budokai Tenkaichi 3 came 
 out, the online lagged like hell. Even the mega game Super Smash Bros. Brawl had a lot of lag, 
 so I'm guessing that Atari and Pipeworks (the people who made this game) decided to just scrap 
 online play and focus on the gameplay, instead. So, while online play is a nice feature to boost 
 replay value, the sacrifices you have to make (like monsters, gameplay, and other things) aren't 
 exactly worth it. So, despite no online play, this game is very fun by yourself and can last quite 
 some time, and if you have friends, then this game will last all the way until Godzilla 4 comes 
 out. I'm still playing it, so that's got to be something (considering that it's been out for a 
 year already) . 
  
  Score: 9.5/10 
  
  In conclusion, from my personal experience, this game is one of the best Wii games I have ever 
 played in my life. I whole heartily recommend you buy this game if you have a Wii. This isn't the 
 ultimate Godzilla game (there are still many ways you can improve this) but this game is entertaining 
 as hell, and if you want an awesome fighting game, and you own a Wii, you need to LET YOUR INNER 
 MONSTER OUT!
  
  OVERALL SCORE: 9/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Obsidius-
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  This game feels original. While it may initially appear similar to previous games, once played, 
 it is obvious this is entirely new. There has never been anything quite like GU. This works both 
 for and against it. The Wii's control options are still unexplored territory, and it's games like 
 Unleashed that are paving the way for Wii games still to come.
  
  It is the controls that are going to be the deciding factor in how much enjoyment you'll get out 
 of this game. This is not a pick-up-and-play game. It takes a good hour or more to fully understand 
 the controls, and to really get a feel for them. Once mastered, the controls are very responsive, 
 and the gameplay feels very natural. "Smooth" comes to mind as well when talking about the controls.
 
  
  Once the controls are comprehended, the fun really starts to ramp up. Figuring out which moves 
 are most effective, watching all the monsters, with their individual nuances and animations, interacting 
 with each other and the environment is highly entertaining. The game is one huge (enjoyable) learning 
 experience of a very unique take on the Godzilla universe.
  
  The Good:
  The entire fighting system is in a word, fresh. It is liberating to be able to perform moves at 
 almost given moment. There is so much you can do in the game; finding out what you can't do is 
 at times almost as fun. There is a great feeling of exploration when you get your hands on the 
 next monster. Getting to see what they're capable of, and just how different each monster is, is 
 rewarding.
  
  The gameplay is well-thought out. Just about everything is the way it is for a reason. Most monsters 
 cannot KO an opponent with their beam. This is a good thing. The developers knew that good gameplay 
 takes precedence over movie-accuracy. The gameplay has become more movie-accurate in other respects 
 - there is no more rolling around on the ground, and cowering behind buildings is no longer an 
 effective way of avoiding beams.
  
  The factions are an interesting addition to the Godzilla formula. The idea itself is amusing. In 
 practice it generally succeeds. The factions force you to make decisions in the game, which would 
 otherwise be superfluous. When an ally shows up or turns on you, it feels like a cohesive world, 
 and that your actions really do dictate how other monsters, and humans view you. A little more 
 in-game clarification to how the system works would have been helpful though.
  
  The controls work. It takes a bit of effort to figure them out, but that's part of any game. This 
 is not a traditional fighting game, it helps knowing that going in. Patience and persistence is 
 rewarded in this game. The controls are especially useful during melee matches with 3 or 4 players. 
 Previous games became very chaotic and the controls showed their limitations when because of the 
 camera angle, it became impossible to figure out which way was "forwards" or "away". That problem 
 is non-existent in this new iteration. Again, patience and persistence is rewarded in this game.
 
  
  The monsters look awesome. While stylized, these are the most accurate video game representations 
 of their movie counterparts to date. Pipeworks has this even down to Science to these creatures, 
 and should be commended for it. Everyone has the same reaction when they see King Ghidorah or Biollante, 
 "Whoa", or any other striking monster.
  
  The graphics would be nothing without animation, and this game is all about well-animated, lively 
 monsters (with the exception of some slightly stiff looking thrown monsters) . Every monster has 
 little quirks, or gestures that oozes personality. Gone are the spaz-out animations of the previous 
 games. Godzilla's idle and walking stances are even improved to be more movie-like. Mothra's wings 
 billow in the wind while rushing, and Fire Rodan soars around with nary a wing flap. These details 
 do not go unnoticed and go a long way to making the game feel authentic. And as per the previous 
 games, the throw animations are appropriately over-the-top.
  
  The music is feels cinematic and epic. There are themes for each of the individual monsters and 
 that's no small task. To say the least, it fits the mood of the game.
  
  The options customization is a marked upgrade from Save the Earth. This was most welcome.
  
 
  As for the roster, there are 26 monsters. Twenty. Six. Considering that the original number given 
 was 16, and the previous game had 18, it's hard to complain. I don't care how you spin it, that's 
 a lot of monsters. That's a ton for any fighting game. No actual Clones are in the game, and for 
 specification, MGII's animations are more fluid then the more robotical MG, and MKG has a electronic 
 shield and drowsing tasers than KG's regular parry and hurricane wind, respectively.
  
  The Bad:
  There are glitches in this game, some less obvious than others. The obvious ones however 
 (Kiryu's special, SpaceGodzilla's special, Mechagodzilla 1's inability to use power surges) mar 
 an otherwise decent presentation. All games have bugs to be fair, but these are problems that should 
 have been spotted and fixed before the game went gold. To hardcore gamers, these malfunctions give 
 a very sloppy and unpolished image.
  
  The story is a mix. Plain and simple, the cut-scenes, and voice-overs are somewhat poorly executed. 
 There is nearly incentive to watch them a second time, or watch them at all. The scenes don't tie 
 almost anything together and the story isn't truely worth listening to. The graphic novel art is 
 wholly self-made, but unremarkable. Skipping through them becomes part of the game. If you want 
 to see graphic novel style cut scenes done well, play the Twisted Metal series. The story should 
 have focused on the monsters. This could be accomplished by including individual art for each monster 
 to build-up suspense for the next battle. With a loading screen that details not just the location, 
 but which monsters fighting which. Either do them well, or don't do them at all. But, this IS a 
 fighting game...
  
  The story mode is almost successful. Choosing when and where to go is alright, but the descriptions 
 of each encounter are oftentimes vague and text-heavy (which is generally not a good thing if you 
 want to keep the story flowing, and it's action-oriented) . The boss encounters are also a bore. 
 In particular, the crystal tower one which reminded me of some of the challenges from the last 
 game. The simple fact that you return to cities you've just destroyed the day before ruins the 
 illusion of progression. Not to mention you'll also often fight the same monster you just defeated 
 a few days ago.
  
  The controls are worsened further because there is no move list. This game is at its very core, 
 a fighting game. Fighting games require you to learn moves to succeed. This should be integrated 
 fully into the either the game itself, or the manual. It does neither. There is a training mode, 
 but it's more of a half-hearted tutorial. It teaches you the rudimentary mechanics, but does nothing 
 to teach you how to actually play the game. It even confoundedly has invisible walls. At least 
 you get to explore the animations freely.
  
  I unlocked every monster and city in the game. This takes a long time. It took me more than 27 
 hours. That's too long. Sure you earn points for playing any mode (even the Training mode) , but 
 the unlocking system is arbitrarily extended by unnecessarily expensive monsters. You get 2000 
 points for winning a 1 on 1 Versus match on hard. Why not 4000 points? 100,000 points for SpaceGodzilla 
 is worth about 3-5 story mode completions, then another 100 grand to unlock Godzilla 1954. To unlock 
 those two alone takes about 4 hours plus. I understand this encourages multiple play-throughs of 
 the branching storyline and discovering other monsters, but 27 hours is a lot to ask of anyone.
 
  
  The idea of original monsters is cool. Every fan wants to make their own monsters to fit into the 
 expansive and legendary Godzilla/Toho universe. The problem is Krystalak and Obsidius do no fit 
 in that universe. Designing a monster, much less a Godzilla monster is something that must be taken 
 with utmost care and responsibility. While I'm sure Pipeworks understood this, any fan can see 
 that neither of those monsters would have ever appeared in a Godzilla film. These two odd-balls 
 would fit into a "Rampage" game (which coincidentally is exactly what Pipeworks worked on before 
 Unleashed, Metaphorically Speaking) . Here however, they simply don't look out of place.
  
  The sound is still not all it could be. While better than the last game, there are still several 
 inaccurate roars, and overall repetition of sound effects. Any Godzilla fan can point out what's 
 wrong with some of the roars, or which could use more variety. There is a fan on the forums, who 
 has done a better job of sound design on the monsters in just seconds long clips, than Pipeworks 
 has done in the entire game. Hire him. He knows what he's doing...
  
  The 9 environments, while varied simply aren't enough. Furthermore, the building destruction is 
 improved, but the uniformity of how the buildings collapse still leaves something to be desired.
 
  
  The game will always be looked at by some as, "It would have been so much better with online play." 
 But gladly that's possibly just it- despite the minor polish.
  
  Conclusion:
  I am so glad this game turned out as well as it did. When it was announced on the Wii, I was ecstatic. 
 When it was also announced to be an entirely new game, I'll admit I was a bit worried. There was 
 a lot at stake with this game.
  
  Thankfully, the game is quite good. It requires patience, and it helps to go in without preconceived 
 notions of past games before playing it. Despite some bugs and gameplay glitches, it's still better 
 than it could be. So you hardcore gamers out there take care, as about more than 27 hours of unlocking 
 monsters, cities, and a just a few of the many gallery pics, is the above average time of an RPG. 
 And of course, it's still fun doing it.
  
  I sincerely hope this game does well and garners a sequel, so that it can be truly the ultimate 
 Godzilla game (with more polish and online play) . And since this is new, there's always room for 
 improvement. The bottom line is: Godzilla Unleashed is fun, unique, and more than worth your money. 
 Go buy it for yourself and buy another for a friend - Especially if he's a Godzilla Fan.
  
  --Obsidius- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejackal465
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 16, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  GODZILLA: UNLEASHED
  
  "Men in rubber suits never looked this choppy"
  
  Okay, here's the deal -- I am a HUGE Godzilla fan. I am so upset that I am reviewing this to begin 
 with -- mostly because I know what the game deserves.
  
  I will start by pointing out all the game's flaws: its slow, the controls are laggey, the graphics 
 are last generation, and the game suffers from the same problem as Super Smash Bros -- no matter 
 how good you are, somebody who presses buttons wildly has just as much chance at winning as a seasoned 
 player who knows all the moves.
  
  The characters move slow and the controls are a bit laggey. This is less of a problem to me because 
 I understand that they are giant monsters and they are meant to look slow -- in the japanese films, 
 the action was shot with faster film to make the monsters seem like they move slower to give an 
 impression of their bulk. However, grading this as a videogame rather than a Godzilla game, it 
 is bad.
  
  The graphics suck -- on par with a gamecube title. They are much better graphics than the past few 
 Godzilla titles, so, while it is a huge step in the positive direction, they are weak. Once again, 
 grading this game as a videogame rather than a Godzilla game, it is bad.
  
  The controls are easy just like Smash -- as such, it suffers from the exact same problem -- that even 
 in the highest levels of play, a player with no knowledge of the game is capable of squaring off 
 against the best with semi-satisfactory results at least (anyone who disagrees needs to seriously 
 look at themselves and take a second look at Smash) . Given the success of Smash, this is no problem 
 for Godzilla Unleashed.
  
  Okay, I will admit -- it is a terrible game. However, G-Fans listen -- it is a GREAT Godzilla game. 
 As a G-Fan myself, there is nothing better than being able to pit Biollante against Jet Jaguar 
 in a battle to the death. There are many characters and each is balanced and well-portrayed. If 
 you like Godzilla, you will love this game -- if not, you will hate it outright. 
  
  TheJackal's Rating: I gave this game 3/10 -- it is a terrible game for any average gamer -- however, 
 rating it as a Godzilla game, a special rating of 8.5/10 is necessary -- it is a must have for G-Fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesserama
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Why the best lets see.27 playable monsters, improved story, a tutorial for starters (even though 
 the controls are easy to figure out) and mind-blowing graphics. Don, t trust game spot ratings. This 
 is really the best fighting game ever about as good as dragon ball z burst limit. If you don, t have 
 a wii but you have a ps2 before its too late i am telling you right now the ps2 GU literally SUCKS!!!!!. NOW 
 I agree with game spot ratings for this ps2 waste of money. Lets not get carried away from the wii 
 version review. here are my scores for this game.
  
  graphics:100
  
  game play:100
  
  quality:100
  
  story:100
  
  don, t listen to game spot reviews unless you don, t like 
 Godzilla. If you have a ps2 save your money and get a Wii for the best Godzilla fighting game of 
 the three. But Godzilla destroy all monsters and Godzilla save the earth are still pretty fun games 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WereRalph
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Godzilla Unleashed is an amazing game! I don't know why many sites rate this game so bad... If 
 I can tell you a tip, NEVER trust ratings. Go by YOUR rating, not others' ratings. To start my 
 review, I would like to say Godzilla Unleashed rocks to the max and I'm really amazed by this. 
 Just when I was listening to the first trailer, I knew it was going to kick-@$$! Trust me; I have 
 a sixth sense. Those sites don't know to differ GREAT things and BAD things. Okay, this should 
 make my introduction, so let's move on.
  
  ============================
  Graphics
  ============================
  Could there be better graphics? Indeed, the response is 'Yes', 
 but comparing the other Godzilla games' graphics to GU's graphics... I would say GU has the bests.
 
  10/10
  
  ============================
  Gameplay
  ============================
  I never played on Wii, but just by reading the controls, they look awsome. I only have the game 
 on Playstation 2 but I want a Wii since it came out and Godzilla Unleashed since it came out, too.
 
  10/10
  ============================
  Story
  ============================
  The idea of crystals "attacking" the Earth was an awsome idea. This gives style to the game, not 
 like in the other Godzilla games, because everything was "normal"*... a bit TOO normal!
  *By saying "normal", I mean the cities, not the world, don't forget there is giant monsters in 
 these cities!
  10/10 again
  ============================
  Overview
  ============================
  Don't trust the ratings. People who make this are missing great 
 things...
  This game is so awsome!
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikotuck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Godzilla
  
  Some like him
  
  Some don't
  
  Some don't like his newest game (gamespot)
  
  Some do (me)
  
  Now I usually agree with 
 the guys and gals at gamespot. com, but uh, I must say, they were terribly off with their review. 
 I mean come on! This games owns, no this game pwns! I can think of maybe two problems with this 
 game. If I recall correctly gamespot whined a lot about the controls. Is it that hard to swing 
 a remote up and press A at the same time to do a mega punch i ask you? I'll answer that, no! the 
 controls are fine! Quite honestly, i feel maybe they could of enhanced the story clips a little, 
 its just the same pictures used over and over again with a narration, but who cares? Me? No! Gamespot? 
 Probably! I feel happy with the amount of characters in this game! But would someone please tell 
 me why SPACE Godzilla is classified as a mutant, one more time, Space, as in outer space, Godzilla 
 is a mutant? In my book he should be an alien, what with his name and all. Its just, Space Godzilla 
 just kinda, I don't know reminds me of space. That's all.
  
  Godzilla
  
  Some like him
  
  Some shoot a barbed harpoon into his second brain located in his right thigh (refer 
 to Godzilla vs. Mechagodzilla)
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: giganx2
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Godzilla Unleashed is not an amazing game, it is not an awful game either and it is DEFINITELY 
 not bad enough to be given a score of 3.5. 
  
  The two past games: Godzilla: Destroy all Monsters and Godzilla: Save the Earth were somewhat disappointing 
 it would have to be said, this was mainly due to a poor lock on controls and a useless storyline. 
 
  Luckily Godzilla Unleashed doesn't seem to have this problem.
  
  Story: The Story is a pretty good one and finally resembles one of a Godzilla film properly. It 
 involves Alien invasion, a wide range of monsters and the actual involvement of Human characters. 
 The game even has more than two cut scenes! (The other games didn't have very many) That is always 
 an added Bonus.
  
  The game still has the same feeling of the last games however, of not being a completed game. The 
 Game just seems like the third stage of one Godzilla game still in production. 
  
  Overall I would give the game a score of 7, it is not a bad game but it is by no means better than 
 that. My bias towards Godzilla may have increased the score slightly. If you are not a fan of Godzilla 
 you may want to take away a .5 from my score.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunCrusher303
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  In the past few months my son and myself have become more and more interested in Godzilla in general. 
 From ordering rare Godzilla figures from Japan to watching the classic movies, Godzilla has been 
 a hot commodity. Due to the real bad review for Godzilla Unleashed I held off from checking it 
 out and only to my demise. This game simply RULES! If you like Godzilla games or just like Godzilla 
 and you have a Wii, you need to check out this game. With all the classic characters and addictive 
 gameplay with the wii-mote and nun-chuck and a cool rock soundtrack and cool real world destructible 
 environments like Sydney Australia AND beautifully rendered graphics, I highly suggest this game 
 ;) . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GiratinaKing
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game for a big family of G-fans. You can play as over 20 different monsters 
 on over 8 different stages. Everything in the environment is fully destructible. The controls might 
 take some getting used to, and mildly complicated. The story missions aren't that great, and for 
 beginning gamers (around ages 8 and below) , the easy difficulty would feel like "normal", all the 
 way up to hard+ would be "intense"! The graphics are all right for a 2007 Wii game, and the sound 
 effects are awesome. The only problem I have with this game is that there are several glitches, 
 including when larva mothra transformers, the game restarts. Usually, no data is lost in this process, 
 but it CAN get very annoying after several times in a row. Other than that, this is, in my opinion, 
 one of the BEST Godzilla games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stabby
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  I'm guessing you're reading user reviews because you're turned off by those of critics but still 
 have a thought in the back of your mind that disagrees. Well luckily for you I'm reviewing this 
 game rationally. I'm not a Godzilla or Wii fanboy, ignorant, trying to mislead or playing something 
 else. No, I'm going to tell you that this game isn't as broken as many reviewers tell you, sure 
 its far from perfect but by no means is it unplayable.
  
  STORY
  Well my best guess is that little positive thought about the game in the back of your head is there 
 because you are in fact a Godzilla fan, why else would one look into this game in the first place, 
 right? Because of that you'll know what to expect and, thank God, won't be disappointed. The plot 
 is brief and thin, paper thin, but due to the nature of Godzilla and the game's genre it doesn't 
 really matter. In between fights throughout Story Mode, a bunch of forgettable characters in drawn 
 comic-esc slideshows with subtitles, dubbed with voice acting right out from the bottom of the 
 barrel auditions that explain what you already know; there are crystals and the Vortaak are back 
 again. Its better than the last two Godzilla games but unlike Unleashed they weren't criticised 
 as much for it, contradictory eh? The plot is unimportant back to be simple I wouldn't care if 
 it had a good one because all I want to do it duke it out with a massive cast of kaiju (that's 
 monsters, and get used to the term for I shall use it a lot in the rest of this review) .
  
  SOUND
  I know what you're thinking, "Does it have the classic soundtrack?" Well sadly no, instead 
 we get a fast paced riff of metal. It sounds all right but why didn't they play the original? Well 
 its simple With much of the game besides sounds, its clear that the game focuses more of the Millennium 
 series, even if it is host to some obviously older kaiju. In doing so, Unleashed centres on the 
 2000 edition of Godzilla and as we all know his roar doesn't hold a candle to his predecessors. 
 But have no fear because you can (eventually) unlock the 1954 and 90s versions that delivers the 
 classic monster noise the world over recognises. With that so do many others; Gigan, King Ghidorah, 
 Anguirus and many more, included unfamiliar but still old roars. It terms of in gameplay, sounds 
 are limited. No matter where you trudge, be it soil, grass, ice or even water, its still pretty 
 much the same echoed thump with each foot step. That much of an issue but vary it a little will 
 ya? Anyway, buildings still collapse with the typical crash and bang explosions and the splashes 
 of water will make you want to pee. But then again you would of hoped for somewhat more notable 
 editions like weather, different degrees of explosion and even sounds of bodily harm like bone 
 breaking or flesh ripping but then again it is Godzilla after all and its not like they had all 
 that in the movies.
  
  GRAPHICS
  GameSpot oddly enough liked them and I do to. Firstly lets shake off the obvious: IT'S A WII GAME 
 SO DON'T EXPECT 360 MATERIAL! The graphics as they are, are fine and by no means horrendous like 
 some reviews bluntly put. The strange thing however is that they improve and fall short of previous 
 Godzilla brawls in differing areas. For example the character models, water and effects are better, 
 yet the levels themselves are emptier and very bland in texture and colour, more so than the last. 
 Its disappointing due to the Wii's upgrades over the last generation but the fact the character 
 models look good enough to relive some classic Godzilla moments and with enough going on the fill 
 in the blanks. Many complained that Super Smash Bros. Brawl looked a lot like Melee so its not 
 that much of an issue. Graphically Unleash is acceptable, it's just no Galaxy.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The most emphasis on Wii games in reviews is directed at its controls and as you probably 
 know, Unleashed's controls were slammed big time. Bad controls = bad unplayable game and because 
 of this prime issue, controls will have their own section of this so for now I'm going to continue 
 with the game as a fighter that plays fine alright? Again, as you probably know the line up of 
 kaiju is a step forward over the previous Godzilla games. It includes all the monsters from those 
 (while one or two look somewhat different) and some new additions including two completely new 
 Godzilla creatures entirely. The fact you can play as Biollante for example is a great bonus, along 
 with tree types of Godzilla so you won't be disappointed if one version isn't to your liking in 
 comparison to another. Each are categorised in four factions (Earth Defenders, Global Defence Force, 
 Aliens and Mutants) to make AI more unique and believe me it is noticeable. Mutants constantly 
 go for the crystals while Earth Defenders loathe players who use them. The military will also attack 
 those who appear to be leaning towards total destruction of cities. While they don't really sway 
 victory one way or the other it adds to the mood of giant monsters fighter at the edge of doomsday 
 although that description is abit of a stretch. There is no shortage of modes so if you enjoy the 
 basics you'll get your money's worth, more so if you play with others, not to mention the non-linear 
 aspect of the main story mode. However since like many games of its kind, most of the content has 
 to be unlocked, which to be honest is a slog due to the massive amount of credits each requires 
 to be bought and that's AFTER you've unlocked them for the shop itself. It does add longevity but 
 most of your way through when you've got about 1 or 2 kaiju left to unlocked, you might as well 
 type in the cheat code. I did anyway due to the fact that I was close to unlocking Space Godzilla 
 and my Wii turned itself off. Ok I thought, glitch there so I'll restart happened again at the 
 same time. Ok, I'll play a few more until then. Didn't stop until I went back to the same part. 
 So maybe that's why the cheats are there, because it appears you can't unlock Space Godzilla but 
 never had that issue on my Wii before, let alone when playing the rest of the game. Shame on you 
 developers (among other things I've covered and will cover) .
  
  CONTROLS
  Well this is where it really stinks in terms of bad press. Now I should mention I'm playing the 
 PAL version and so it was released long after the North American debut. Either the developers tweaked 
 it or many critics played follow the leader from the first bad review, I don't know. But what I 
 do know is while the controls are dodgy and disappointing given the game was supposedly built for 
 the Wii from day one (the PS2 version is the port, not the other way around maybe that could explain 
 the bad press?) there not completely broken, better yet they actually just requiring a more steep 
 learning curve. Move with the nun-chuck analogue, mash buttons for attack etc etc. The real motion 
 aspect of this game is the grappling and jump moves. You see jump is an upward movement of the 
 Wiimote whereas grapple move is a forward movement of both the nun-chuck and Wiimote. The main 
 problem here is that forward and up can be the same thing given how most people hold the controls 
 and sit down. Since jumping is mostly pointless due to it lack any decent attacks or range of movement 
 you mostly use grab, thus will accidentally jump. In my experience this happened 1 or 2 out of 
 10 tries. No I don't know about the negative mainstream press but does that really render them 
 broken to the point it ruins the game? BUT I can't leave it there as there are also ranged attacks 
 and while most use guides rockets and blasts of such and such, some IE Godzilla use a long ranged 
 radioactive breath and well you should only use it when next to you're opponent, thus defeating 
 the its "ranged' purpose. Big shame as its Godzilla who is the most frustrating to play as because 
 of this where as the mecha kaiju just lock on and fire away. So all in all the controls are broken 
 to an extent. If I had to provoke an image then I would call the controls a sheet of glass cracked 
 in one quarter of its total surface area, holds together still but we'd rather do without the notable 
 cracks. The beauty part is you can play enough to notice these minor problems in advance which 
 can mean using a little strategy, which God forbid Wii players use once in awhile in the sea of 
 dressed up button-mashers
  
  So in short Godzilla Unleashed is a disappointment in the sense a few more months of polishing 
 and it could have been one of the best fighters for the system. But it's far from unplayable and 
 a lot of fun if you give it a chance. Of course this is for Godzilla fans mostly and due to the 
 massive amount of content and possible play time (better with friends of course) I can't understand 
 the overall bitterness this game had received. Needs polish but its still not a sh*t stain. Rent 
 first basically if you're confused...
  
  Pros:
  - Massive Kaiju selection
  - Variety in single and multiplayer modes
  - Nicely structured story mode
  - Decent enough 
 graphics
  - Plenty to unlock
  
  Cons:
  - Some control issues
  - 100% unlocked a bit of a slog
  - Why no classic soundtrack?
  - WHY NO CLASSIC SOUNDTRACK!!!??? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bopie64
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game, it had a great first impression. The graphics for the characters were 
 good, but it was a little laggy when changing certain things with crystals. The overall plot is 
 atrociously boring. The story is pointless because all you end up doing is the same thing you would 
 do in multiplayer mode except for sometimes exploding crystals to end a level. Factions dont add 
 any depth to this either. But I spent most of my time just standing back and having the computers 
 kill each other, which was pretty fun for a while. Then I switched to multiplayer, which is OK 
 when you have like three or four people, because you get a lot of money for KO's and can buy monsters 
 at the end. Going through the story mode like ninety times to unlock all the characters is extremely 
 tedious, and most of your money is gained simply by going to new york city and destroying many 
 buildings in single player mode, while the computers kill each other, and wait until you have gotten 
 a lot of money and then finish the level. After playing multiplayer for a while, I realized that 
 some characters are just really overpowered and there is no real way to have real competition in 
 this game. I don't recommend this overall, because the monsters just wreak havoc and it is pretty 
 pointless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisgopher
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  I've wanted to play this game for a long time because I'm a Godzilla fan. I've
  played the previous 2 fighters, finding a good amount of entertainment value in them. Now that 
 I have my hands on the newest one, it's time to break it up, piece by piece. No stone on Earth 
 or Planet X will remain unturned. 
  
  
  
  The Good:
  
  - The monsters. Almost every monster in the Godzilla universe you can imagine is here. Even Godzilla 
 1954 is unlockable, but through grueling measures. The selection of playable characters available 
 is on par to that of most DBZ games. Gamespot has said that all the monsters play alike. Well, yeah, 
 don't all characters in most fighting games play alike? Not all monsters are the same as far as 
 special abilities and attacks.
  
  - The sounds. Toho has done a pretty good job of accurately depicting the
  monster sounds from 
 their original movies. Titanosaurus sounds the same as he did in "Terror of Mechagodzilla," and 
 the unforgettable cello still resonates in Godzilla's trademark roar. The sounds add that atmospheric 
 environment to the game that is true to the roots. Also, the music is pretty good too. It's not 
 exceptional, but it provides adequate background noise.
  
  - This is one good looking Wii game. The monster models look great and the cities and environments 
 deserve the same praise. Major cities have their corresponding national landmarks. The building 
 models are excellent. Structures break apart and shatter debris at the spot where you punch or 
 kick them.
  
  - The game interface: Recently I have gained a little pet peeve about game
  menus. Take the SSX game for the Wii, it had a horrible main menu which you couldn't even access 
 until you were actually playing the game. The menu looks great, it is easily understandable, it 
 has some good sound effects, and it also uses both joystick and tight Wii-mote pointing. The only 
 thing I would make better is the custom multiplayer design, which doesn't even let you save them 
 under custom names.
  
  - It's fun for Godzilla fans. Here is the main impression I get from most
  reviews about this 
 game, and other Godzilla games: the people who write said reviews are not Godzilla people. I really 
 can't blame them, the popularity of the giant monster movie is not exactly well distributed today. 
 It seems to me that many bad opinions are biased against that fact that this is a Godzilla game 
 and they don't find amazement in it. If you don't like Godzilla, then don't play it and mock it. 
 This is a game for fans and those familiar with Godzilla.
  
  - Positive minor game aspects that make it different from the rest: Monster special abilities, 
 the fact that you can charge energy for thermo-nuclear death-breath and other beam attacks, critical 
 mass, some neat unlockables such as videos and images, and so on and so on.
  
  
  
  The Bad:
  
  - The motion aspect is the biggest control flaw. In order to use different physical 
 attacks, you need to swing the remote in a certain direction while holding A, B, or both. The trouble 
 is, the direction you may swing the remote may not register properly with the game, and you'll 
 end up performing a different attack. In the end I just found that flailing the remote in any direction 
 was good enough. I know that they didn't have much to work with considering the Wii's control setup, 
 but I wish they tried something else. The button configuration on the other hand, works just fine.
 
  
  - Aiming beam and breath attacks is as cumbersome as shooting a shotgun while wearing two arm casts. 
 This is something else that the developers really couldn't do anything about, because besides the 
 control stick, which is used to walk around, what other control mechanism is available to aim a 
 beam attack? It's best to get within range of your enemy, and if you have the 2-monster side view, 
 it really isn't that bad. You basically point the Wii-mote at the screen as if you were firing 
 the beam from your hand itself, and point to aim. It's not the best way to pull this off, but I 
 suppose it was all they could really do. I play as Anguirus a lot, so I never have to worry about 
 aiming. 
  
  - The story line in single player mode is lazily thrown together. While the cut scenes with an 
 interesting comic-style to them do their best to narrate the story, there isn't enough guidance 
 to progress the events that are happening. The ending scene last about 10 seconds followed by immediate 
 credits.
  
  - Even though the stages are put together nicely, I would have liked to have seen more. Nine levels 
 is not enough in my opinion. 
  
  - The computer AI is not very good. Either your opponent will engage you in combat and run away 
 from all your attacks, attack with hesitation, or try to destroy you. Normal mode is too easy, 
 you need to put the game on hard to make it reasonably challenging.
  
  - You'll never figure out how to unlock every monster unless you look it up in a player's guide 
 or online. Throw us a friggin' bone here.
  
  
  
  What have we learned here? The point I am trying to make is to play what you like. Gamespot attempted 
 to review this game but did nothing except write a 1,112 word hate monologue. Rather than elaborate 
 on the game's positive features, they decided to draw on the flaws and poke as much fun as humanly 
 possible. The game isn't perfect, I'll agree that it should have had a lot more work done it to 
 fix the quirks it had. However I enjoy Godzilla Unleashed, and no bad review from anyone else will 
 tell me otherwise. Heed my words of wisdom: With a hefty single-player story mode, plenty of multiplayer 
 options, and more monsters than giant lizard victory dances; this is a unique fighting game with 
 Godzilla and company that is a pleasure for fans, and may even be enjoyable for those who don't 
 know who King Ghidorah is. Those who will enjoy this game the most will be fans playing versus 
 mode, arguing about who can beat up who. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiwillstand
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I've been a longtime Godzilla fan. I was first introduced to the big radioactive monster at a very 
 young age, and I've been a fan ever since. The first Godzilla game (Destroy All Monsters Melee) 
 waso ne of my most enjoyable games, because I was finally able to play as the big G in a video 
 game. The game was great. Following it was godzilla Save the Earth, I don't own the game, but from 
 what I've played, it made a huge leap from what DAMM gave us. Now comes Godzilla Unleashed, the 
 next installment in the Godzilla Video Game series. Built from the ground up, it has a lot of new 
 stuff, but can be lacking.
  
  First off, the graphics are decent. For a fighting game for Wii, I'd say the graphics are very 
 flashy, fairly detailed, and nice to look at. Unlike previous games, the monsters seem to have 
 actual shape to them this time around. With more work, they could have been better, but all in 
 all, they turned out great.
  
  The story mode for this game is a bit of a disappointment, however it ism uch better than the previous 
 games. Once again, the evil alien race, The Vortaak, have begun an invasion of Earth. Meanwhile, 
 crystals have sprung up in the major cities of the planet, and have caused tremendous damage, such 
 as volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, etc. These crystals also seem to have an effect on the monsters, 
 giving them superior abilities they hadn't had before. From here, you choose which side you will 
 lead, Earth Defenders, Global Defense Force, The Aliens, or the Mutants. Your choice will have 
 a huge effect on the story, and you will have to work to keep your allies and make others.
  
  The story would have been much better had they stuck to classic cinematics, but instead we 
 get graphic novel cutscenes, and plenty of them. However, the option of being able to watch it 
 in Japanese with English subtitles will make a lot of G-Fans happy.
  
  The environments have a lot of variety, each city with it's own natural disaster. You can choose 
 to play in a frozen Sydney, or a lava coated Seattle. Whatever you choose, there will be a lot 
 of fun.
  
  With the choice between 26 monsters to play as, gamers will have a lot of fun pitting monster favorites 
 against each other, and re-enacting memorable Godzilla battles. Though there aren't much more than 
 the last game, there's still plenty to have fun.
  
  Multiplayer is a lot of fun. Though you aren't able to play online, offline battles can sometimes 
 get competitive. You can play with up to four players, and you can customize your battles in anyway 
 you see fit (i. e. increase military agression, fighting speed, etc.) .
  
  A big disappointment by fans of the games is the exclusion of a custom soundtrack. I never got 
 a chance to try out that feature in Save the Earth, but it would have been a lot of fun to have 
 it in Unleashed.
  
  The biggest part of this game is probably the control scheme. Having to flick your Wiimote and 
 Nunchuk to make powerful smashes makes this game very enjoyable. Want to throw someone, or something? 
 Simple, just flick both remotes forward, flick the rmeote again, and see what happens! Your beam 
 isn't aimed precisely? Well, just use the Wiimote to put in more precision. Not matter what, you 
 won't be able to play this gameu nless your hands are moving.
  
  All in all, Godzilla Unleashed was a great way to restart the series. Giving it a whole new concept, 
 and intuitive controls, fans of the previous games, and of Godzilla and Japanese Kaiju in general, 
 will definitly enjoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vista8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  There is some good stuff in this game, and some bad stuff.
  
  The Good: I was suprised by the graphics, their better than I thought they would be. Great selection 
 of monsters to play as. Critical Mass is cool. Power Surges are cool. Muliplayer. Custom maches. 
 The two brand-new-never-before-seen monsters. Health recharges. I finaly know what the first Mechagodzilla 
 looks like. Good price, $40.
  
  The Bad: I like the Godzilla Save the Earth Beam-Fighting better. Some camera problems. Music. 
 Godzilla 1954 and Godzilla 1990's not available in Story Mode. You have to buy monsters, so you 
 have to replay and replay to get enough money to buy your favorite monster. You have to buy battle 
 locations, which means more replaying. Some sound problems, (example: I was playing as Spacegodzilla 
 and I started to hover away from the other monster, when I stopped hovering, the hovering sound 
 still played.) Shooting lasers can sometimes be a real pain, (but sometimes it's easy if you pretend 
 your turning a doornob.) the cutsceans are drawings and the same ones are used over and over again. 
 The dialogue sucks. None of the cheats from Godzilla Destroy All Monster Melee are back. It takes 
 too long to land from a jump. No online play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pikazilla
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Godzilla Unleashed is a fighting game that focuses on both speed and power. The monster's regeneration 
 makes matches go for as long as you want. However, you can change the regeneration along with other 
 things (Military units, size of military army, type of crystals, ect) . Krystalak and Obsidius are 
 brand new kaiju made just for this game. Although Obsidius isn't very popular, Krystalak has his 
 own Toho Logo, meaning he could make it in the films.
  
  This is the monster tier (no order) .
  
  Anguirus
  
  Very useful, can jump while rushing, 
 beam attack doesn't do beam fights (good and bad) , beam can hurt crystals, high defense, spiky 
 back can hurt enemies.
  
  Baragon
  
  Unique but not perfect, can dig while rushing, beam attack is weak, energy regenerates slowly but 
 automatically, small, good close combat.
  
  Fire Rodan
  
  Hit and run master, can fly, very fast, weak stats.
  
  Godzilla 1954
  
  Same as Godzilla 
 2000 but with slightly different stats.
  
  Godzilla 90's
  
  Same as Godzilla 2000 but with slightly different stats.
  
  Godzilla 2000
  
  Even balanced.
 
  
  King Caesar
  
  Weakling, slow energy regeneration, weak attacks, beam attack is weak.
  
  Mothra Larva
  
 
  Joke character, beam attack is weak, energy regenerates slowly but automatically, small, can dig, 
 can't grab.
  
  Mothra Imago
  
  High tier, fast and deadly, special attacks are very effective, can fly, weak but useful close 
 combat attacks.
  
  Varan
  
  Weak but effective, weak but useful close combat attacks, tricky gliding ability, weak long ranged 
 attacks.
  
  Jet Jaguar
  
  Joke character, can change size (not very useful) , weak attacks, strong attacks are slow, weak 
 beam.
  
  Kiryu 
  
  Even balanced, can shoot a lot of missiles, can fly, certain attacks are very useful, special attack 
 (Absolute Zero Cannon) is tricky to use but freezes the enemy (only use in 1 one 1 matches) .
  
  Mechagodzilla 2
  
  High tier, very powerful, beam attack knocks down enemies, can shoot 
 missiles, can fly.
  
  Mecha-King Ghidorah
  
  Similar to King Ghidorah but has energy shield and paralyzing missiles. 
  
  Moguera
  
  
 High tier, hit and run master, special attacks might be the best in the game, bad close combat 
 skills, can shut down for 5 sec to completely restore energy bar, very fast.
  
  Gigan
  
  Slightly weak but effective, good speed, can teleport across the field.
  
  King Ghidorah
 
  
  Powerful but pathetic, very slow, can fly.
  
  Mechagodzilla
  
  High tier, similar to Mechagodzilla 2, has a shield that reflects special attacks for 20 sec.
 
  
  Megalon
  
  High tier, good offense, napalm bombs can easily deplete health bar, can dig. 
  
  Orga
  
 
  Powerful, good offense but is slow.
  
  Biollante
  
  High tier, slowest character, powerful close combat, vines can reach far away (increasing the length 
 of close combat attacks) , biggest character, weak defense, can teleport (technically by digging) .
 
  
  Destoroyah 
  
  High tier, special attack (Oxygen Destroyer) locks onto an enemy and goes off-screen until it reappears, 
 special attack depletes one health bar, close combat (with laser horn) is possibly the best in 
 the game, powerhouse.
  
  Krystalak
  
  Very useful, fast and aggressive, special attack (Crystal Overload) power depends on amount of 
 energy bars, special attack can be very powerful.
  
  Megaguirus
  
  Fastest character, grab 'steals' foe's beam attack with her grab attack, beam attack can last forever 
 unless it uses last energy cell, one time ability (Hyper mode) doubles the speed of all attacks, 
 can't aim beam attack with remote, can't regenerate energy, can steal energy from foes with tail 
 attacks.
  
  Obsidius
  
  Similar to Orga, immune to lava (Seattle stage) .
  
  SpaceGodzilla 
  
  Weakling, can float around the stage, can create 2 crystals, crystals can 
 perform two different attacks, regenerates energy slowly, energy regeneration improves when near 
 Spacegodzilla crystals (energy regeneration is still slow) .
  
  Titanosaurus
  
  Weakling, can create tornadoes (don't do much) .
  
  
  My thoughts-Megalon, Destroyah, Moguera 
 or Biollante should be one of your main fighters.
  
  Note: Game didn't have Hedorah or Zilla, subtitles are slow in story mode.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragoneye278
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  This game is a one in a million! It is one of the few games that gets rid of a game mode then replace 
 it with something better. Story mode maybe like a short extra but, is still fun. Godzilla makes 
 a come back with new friends and enemies like Kystalak and Obsidius. Jet jaguar is still lame as 
 usual, at least he always was. If your tired of crushing power surge crystals, you can be bad with 
 this new thing called fractions. Another thing is that Gigan got his look from the millennium series 
 of Godzilla. It's not all fighting you know. You can have a good dirty violent building crushing 
 contest. If you like destruction, get this game. (also try Biollante, she maybe slow but, she's 
 super huge man!) If you can't find a game mode you like just make your own speacial mode from customizing 
 the army to monsters abilties and crystal powers. So if you want something good, get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godzillafan1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was great, I don't see why so many people think it sucks, I do have to admit 
 it has some obvious glitches but every game has glitches so stop wining everybody. And all this 
 stuff about, Oh it was poor, it was lame, not needed story, then don't buy the game. I happen to 
 think it was good. The story was well thought of. The only problem I had with story mode was how 
 they had monsters that did not suit the part you were at, but other then that it was good. The 
 fact that you have to earn people certain ways makes the game just that much more challenging, 
 and the whole hype about how the controls were supposedly extremely terrible was all just baloney. 
 The controls were good and I don't think any body should say other wise. The health and energy 
 thing for the game i thought was well designed and how you got Critical Mass up I thought was rather 
 unoriginal, but the Power Surges made up for that. Over all I don't think anybody should complain, 
 and If they do, just don't try and ruin it for other people and say, not worth buying, but I say 
 that if your not a big Godzilla fan and just want to see what the massive hype was about, I say 
 go and rent it and if you like it then buy it. Thats all I'm going to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bzilla56
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Really this is a GREAT GAME much better than stupid Mario Galaxy. as much as a fun game this is 
 sadly it has some bad points like I was wanting to see Kamacuras make it into the game and a few 
 other guys but thats just a small Problem. I really like the way they remade the cites but it would 
 have been better if they added Chicago and Dallas. My Favorite Monster in this Game is Megalon, 
 He has Powerful attacks and can easily kill your enemies but I would avoid Jet Jaguar in all modes 
 because He just Plain sucks, and Destroyah is Horrible in Story mode and King Caesar Shouldn't 
 have been in the game in the first place but as I said all those are small Problems. Thank for 
 reading this Review, Bzilla56 
  nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn eeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee dddddddddddd 
  800 cccccc hhhhhhhhhh aaaaa rrrrrrrr 
 aaaaaaaa ccccccc ttttttttt eeeeeeeee rrrrrrr ssssssssssssssss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  Ok, so maybe Godzilla hasn't had the best outings in video games. Neither has many other icons 
 such as Batman, Superman, Star Wars, they've all had their ups and down. The Wii has also had a 
 trend of mediocre titles of recent, this one is about par for the course.
  
  Godzilla Unleashed is pretty much the same as the prior Godzilla fighting games. You and 3 other 
 monsters beat each other to a pulp until there is only one standing. You claw, bit, kick, throw, 
 and crush your way to victory right. Well some times. The formula seems a little dated seeing that 
 there are tons of monster games out there already. I mean they re-made rampage how many times? 
 All your favorites are here. As you play through the slim 4 modes in the game you will gain points 
 to open you fellow monsters and past versions of themselves. You have to play a lot because these 
 extras don't come cheap, and with what you are about to read you may not want to play it that much. 
 They pretty much all play the same when it comes down to it. It's just more a personal preference 
 as to what monster you like. 
  
  There is a story mode in which crystles are poping up all over the earth making monsters go nuts. 
 Depending on your monster, the ending will be different. There are 4 sects, Earth Defenders, Aliens, 
 Global defense force, and Mutants. As you battle your way through 19 days of combat you eventally 
 have an all out brawl with a new monster created for the Wii version only. The story is lacking, 
 and after the first cut scene I started just ignoring it. There is the standard brawl mode in which 
 you and up to 4 other monsters can square off and beat each other up with in that there are ways 
 to tweak the controls. You can also play with up to 4 friends. There is no online capabilites with 
 this game. You can also practice (which you may need a lot of) .
  
  The graphics are pretty much the same as the first two Godzilla Brawlers. The monsters look cool, 
 the arenas don't. The music is nothing to write home about, it sound big and mean, but its' not 
 like they remixed the Godzilla themes of yore. The sounds are the best. They do sound exactly like 
 the monsters from the movies. Everyone of them are here too. So Godzilla isn't horrible to look 
 at and not overly bad to listen to. 
  
  Here is where the game falls short. The controls. The controls were specifically designed for the 
 Wii. You have a basic punch, kick, and block button. Now how you wave the Wiimote around dictacts 
 how your monster will strike. Sounds easy enough right? Wrong. The game isn't sensative enough 
 to pick up how you wiggle your Wii mote. So most fights just turn into a combination of wiggling 
 and buttons mashing all at once. Once the coolness of the monsters has worn off (assuming you haven't 
 played the prior games) all you have left is how easy and fun a game is to play. Well this one 
 isn't easy at all. Tell your monster to do something and he won't do it. It's too bad they didn't 
 allow the classic controller to be used on this game. It would be a whole lot easier to control. 
 
  
  Once you are done with the story mode and a couple of rounds of combat the game just isn't interesting 
 any more. That being said, Godzilla may be good as a rental at best. Not even the biggest Godzilla 
 fan (an I am one so I can say this) will really want to keep this game in their collection forever. 
 Buyer beware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krautkiller1945
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  This review is short and simple. First of all, I'm a true blue Godzilla fan. Seeing that 3.5/10 
 score ticks me off!!! There is a lot to the game then some people might think. I've seen almost 
 every Godzilla movie out there and seeing all the monsters in there warms my heart. Godzilla, Gigan, 
 Destroyah, and 20 other monsters is a great thing! Personally the game is fun and entertaining. 
 Sure it has a bad plot, but don't let it distract you. I'm not sure what else to say but overall 
 it is good game to get!! Must have for Godzilla fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godzilla_2000
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  This game looks fantastic, and is easily one of the best looking games on the Wii. The monsters 
 and environments look fantastic, and the added "disaster" looks to the cities help the overall 
 look, which is very pleasing to the eye. My only complaint is that some of the bigger collapsed 
 buildings leave very little rubble on the ground. Other than that, the details are amazing, and 
 even the smallest ones help to pull off an overall awesome presentation.
  
  Controls:
  The controls for GU are hard to get a hold of. This has been said before, many times, and it bares 
 repeating: this is NOT a pick-up-and-play game. You will literally be playing for days until you 
 truly "get" the controls. But, that aside, this game is great with motion controls. Executing layered 
 attacks feels great, and the aiming, while a bit odd, works well. All of this control over your 
 monster may seem overwhelming at first, but once you master the controls, it becomes second nature.
 
  
  Story mode:
  Ok, first off, yes, the actual story is pretty meh, and the voice acting isn't top-notch. However, 
 the story mode itself is very fun. Each stage gives you a few options to choose from, such as defeating 
 your enemies, destroying power crystals, etc. Normally, you'd think "boy this is lame." But, every 
 action you make has a reaction, which can vary greatly. For example, if you're an Earth defender 
 and suddenly choose to backstab your allies by gaining power surges and going Critical Mass, they 
 won't have any problems about teaming up and taking out the traitor, YOU. Another would be if you're 
 and Alien and choose to take down the Mothership. The Aliens and their monsters will come at you 
 with an unrivaled fury. Depending on you're actions, you'll team up with varying monsters, as well 
 as change the outcome of the story. Whatever you decide to do, you can do it. Just be wary of the 
 consequences.
  
  Audio:
  The audio in GU is really something. The music, created by Heavy Melody, really does the game justice, 
 and furthers it's darker feel. Each monster has it's own theme to go with it, and HM did a nice 
 job at creating themes that really fit the monsters. Each faction even has it's own style of music. 
 For example, the GDF mechs each have a varied guitar theme, for that "heavy metal" feel. The ED's 
 have more mystical, but epic themes. And, as far as monster roars go, Atari/pipeworks did a great 
 job. The monsters (for the most part) have their signiture roars, and varying versions of them 
 for whatever mood their in. My only complaints are 1) that the sound effects for attacks are mostly 
 recycled from STE, and can get a bit old. And, 2) some monsters are missing their signiture roars/rarely 
 use them. Mechagodzilla and Destoroyah being the prime examples. MG is missing his screech roar, 
 and yet Kiryu uses it in his victory stance. Des, on the other hand, never uses the roar he used 
 in GvsD, and instead, is stuck with one, constantly repeating, roar.
  
  Computor AI: 
  The AI in this game is a real disappointment. I'm not kidding. If you've mastered the controls, 
 you're essentially unbeatable, even on Hard mode. The AI is a step-down from STE; instead of coming 
 at you with a mind to kill, they merely just circle around you while Bracing. They only seem to 
 attack when they get behind you, and they will ALWAYS simply rush into you. They don't even seem 
 to know about the power-ups. They never try going CM either, and if they do, its on accident. One 
 time, I was fighting Gigan in Brawl mode. After nearly 50 seconds of circling me, he just lost 
 interest and starting attacking a building. WTF? Oh, and thats not all. Why is it whenever I do 
 a swing attack (wiimote swing + button) , they ALWAYS dodge by jumping backwards? That gets annoying 
 FAST. But, this situation is rare. They AI will usually fight you if you fight them, but this little 
 quirk is annoying.
  
  Overall:
  Godzilla: Unleashed is a good game, simply put. The controls are great once you get them down, 
 the graphics are above and beyond the previous games, the story mode is very fun, the audio is 
 great (especially the music) , and it all adds up to one very enjoyable game. But, I'm not going 
 to lie, they're quite a few bugs, glitches, and faults in this game. The bugs/glitches, while not 
 effecting gameplay much, are still present and should have been fixed. Many of these are minimal, 
 but honestly, they shouldn't be in there at all. Probably the biggest glitches are Kiryu's Absolute 
 Zero Cannon (the aiming is directed at the ground) , Mechagodzilla 1 being unable to use Power surges 
 in story mode (this is just inexcusable) , the aiming of Megalon's beam (say what you want, but 
 this thing will NOT hit the target unless you're fighting Biollante. The aiming won't work manually 
 for him either) and, of course, when the game locks up and restarts; this usually involves certain 
 events (the Tyrant mission) and monsters (Mothra and Megaguirus) . Although, in my 40 hours of gameplay, 
 this has only happened twice. Still, these should have been caught and fixed, and there is no reason 
 to have missed them. They bring down the overall experiance, in a nutshell.
  
  The biggest issue is probably one that we're all too familiar with: the lack of online play. Ok, 
 don't get me wrong, this is a very fun game. But, without online play, the game's replayability 
 is crippled. It's much more fun playing with friends online then it is playing with the computor, 
 honestly. Voice chat, in my opinion, is nothing more than added luxuray for online games. An extra 
 bonus, if you will. We don't NEED voice chat. Besides, they're only so many times you can play 
 story mode until you say "Ok, this is getting old."
  
  
  
  
  So, in conclusion, this is a great game, and easily the best Godzilla game yet. I just feel that 
 it didn't reach it's potential. It's good, but it could've been better. So, again, my overall score 
 is 8/10.
  
  Thanks for reading.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  The giant monster that is Godzilla gets another game, and Unleashed more or less follows the same 
 formula as Destroy All Monsters, and Save the Earth. If you arent a Godzilla fan then there wont 
 be any reason to get this game, but compared to previous entires Unleashed is noticably better. 
 There are over 25 monters to pick from this time around, along with more citites. 
  
  Gameplay 8- The story mode isnt the best, its all motionless pictures and the subtitles are way 
 behind the spoken dialogue, so they are best kept off. For the most part the battles in the story 
 are the same, defeat an invading monster, take out crystals or other enemies, and the like. However 
 multiplayer is always a blast. but needless to say, the gameplay is good. The biggest obstacle 
 is learning the motion controls, once you get past that, everything else falls into place.
  Graphics 8- Not a giant upgrade from previous games, but as expected the monsters are well detailed, 
 and the cities resemble their real life counterparts.
  Sounds 7- Same old monster cries and roars. Explosions and breaking glass accompany destruction 
 of buildings.
  Replay Value - 7 Moderate- The only reason you will likely to redo the story repeatedly is to get 
 points to unlock items in the game, of which there are many.
  Fun Factor- 8 High- If you like stomping things and destroying, this game might be right up your 
 alley. Unleashed is best enjoyed with friends though.
  
  My Final Score- 7.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigas_Yuu
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Stay away from this Godzilla game. Playing Godzilla with motion was going to be fun, that's until 
 I realized it didn't make any sense. Unless it's Dragonball Z or I'm playing Ultraman why would 
 I be commanding my favorite and most powerful Kaiju with a remote control and a nunchuk?
  
  Ontop of Gamespot's accurate score this is my second dealing with another one of Pipework's terrible 
 creations. Atari as a publisher should be ashamed. Pipeworks will never take Godzilla seriously 
 and insists on giving a cake to Godzilla fans who are so fanatic they eat it up without realizing 
 the clear pool of spit Pipeworks has put on it.
  
  However after playing every Godzilla game known to man, including the Dreamcast imports I must 
 say this is the second worst Godzilla game ever made. (SNES) Super Godzilla trumps this in every 
 way but graphics. The soundtrack of Unleashed is terrible and I still can't wait for a G game that 
 actually utilizes the soundtracks from the movie.
  
  It's time for Ubisoft to take a swing at a Godzilla game. Because Pipeworks obviously should stick 
 to it's specialty: shovelware.
  
  Final: 2.5 Piss Poor
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ridleydx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  The game is amazing. Lots of original monsters crush the ps2 version to death. The use of the wii 
 remote is a little good, yet the beam aren't so good. The story mode is longer then fighting games 
 now a days, and is pretty great. But, there is no other ending for mutants, but that could be fixed 
 with updates. The multiplayer now has custom modes which you can make modes like UFO destruction 
 or military smashing. The cut scenes don't match with the words. The factions and gameplay is great 
 and cool, yet the less important stuff aren't the best. The game has a little slow time glitch. 
 But, the story mode and monsters give this game a 8, then the faction system give it a extra .5 
 points. The missing .5 points is because of the cut scenes, glicths, mutant story limit, and the 
 huge requirments to get monsters. I recommand you to throw away or trade the ps2 and ds versions 
 of godzilla unleashed for this version. It's more then worth it. The game has some glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamezilla10
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This is the best godzilla game in the series. If you like destruction, good storys and rampaging 
 monsters this is deffinitly the game for you.
  THE GOOD:
  This game allows you to command 26 of the universes most powerful monsters. Each monster has their 
 own speacal atributes beams ect.
  You can rampage in 9 citys of the world with their own conditions.
  This game has great graphics 
 and great sound.
  The game features a well thought out story with cut scenes.
  In the game there are many ways to get power such as criticle mass.
  Criticle mass is when a 
 monster gets corrupted in crystle energy and gets a boost in strength and grows but defence gose 
 down.
  Power surges are speacal crystle powers that give your monster a boost in several ways and turns 
 your monster a color dependig on the surge.
  The controls are veary good it lets you feel like a monster and experence a game like never befor.
 
  THE BAD: There are a few glitches in the game but they are not to serious.
  Most of the things in the store cost allot but if you play it often youy dont have to worry.
 
  The camera may vary with how you are playing in the game but it dosent really bother your gameplay.
 
  Some times your monster wont punch the way you want but it all depends on the way you swing the 
 remote. Also no online play.
  CONCLUSION:
  A good game for you and 3 others to wreck and destroy.
  So like I said befor its graphics, music, monsters 
 and story is well picked and well thought out.
  Hope you injoyed my reveiw.
  My final score 8.5 to 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blonderambo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  "This game will suck" "The graphics are God-awful!" Hell no it does not, and no they aren't. So 
 first of all those comments I just quoted are the comments I've seen at game trailers and they 
 are all wrong! This game is great. The graphics most certainley are not sub-par, I think they're 
 great; although I don't judge games on graphics. Well now getitng into the gameplay, the controls 
 are pretty responsive most of the time but the controls will definitely take getting used to. It 
 took me about 30-45 minutes to get the controls rght but its worth it. The game is much faster-paced 
 than its predeccesors and has better environments, story, graphics, and a much more interesting 
 power-up and unlocking system. However, the unlocking system is sometimes difficult. If you plan 
 on unlocking a mosnter it will tell you if you could in story mode but it is very unclear as to 
 what you have to do so it may get a tad bit frustrating. The health system is my major gripe with 
 this game (but that's mainly it) , it takes so long to defeat an enemy because every mosnter has 
 6 (or less) health cells which takes awhile to deplete because in order to do that you need to 
 deplete their energy bar before the health cells disappear. That and a few minor instances where 
 the game will glitch is basically all the problems with this game. 
  compare this game to that Dragonballz game for the Wii,  
 (or however you spell it, wow who thinks of those titles.) I have nevr played it but if you likethat 
 then I suppose this game will be great also. Even if you aren't a Godzilla fan i still reccomend 
 it, anyway, it can't be as bad as the PS2 version (go check their reviews) . So don't listen to 
 those Gametrailers people and give the game a shot. It is a lot of fun, and I think it's worth 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paveric
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I'll be the first to admit that Godzilla Unleashed has a couple problems. Most of these have to 
 do with the story. I have yet to manage to truly betray my faction because your character automatically 
 targets those who are supposed to be your enemies. Also, the voices during the videos aren't synchronized 
 with the subtitles so what you're reading is not what you're hearing at the time. That aside, they 
 added a ton of new monsters this time around, and the graphics are greatly improved. The fighting 
 system takes some getting used to, but overall I'd say the change is a good one. If you enjoyed 
 the previous installments, grab a copy of this game ASAP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powerplasma
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Godzilla Unleashed is a Godzilla game gone to the extreme. The various Brawl modes and the trademark 
 Story Mode make this game very good.
  
  The game has 23 monsters, and 3 secrets, making a total of 26 monsters. I won't spoil the secrets, 
 but I'll tell the others.
  
  The Earth Defenders are the monsters that want to get rid of the crystal threat (More on that later) . 
 You can get on the ED's good side by destroying normal Crystals, which are the small, green ones, 
 but becareful, because destroying them can make you go Critical Mass (More on that later) and you 
 will lose ED points. You also lose ED points by gaining power surges. The monsters in the ED are: 
 Godzilla 2000, Angurius, Fire Rodan, King Ceaser, Mothra, and Varan. 2 of the secrets are also 
 in this faction ;)
  
  The Aliens want nothing more than to take over Earth. They see the Crystals as a source of power 
 for their taking, so destroying normal crystals loses points with them, as well as destroying Alien 
 millitary. You also gain Alien points by gaining Power Surges. The different monsters of the Aliens 
 are: Gigan (Final Wars Version) , Megalon, King Ghidorah, MechaGodzilla I, and Orga.
  
  The Global Defence Force, or GDF, are the mechs, that defend humans and human cities. You lose 
 points with them by Destroying cities and human military, but you can gain points by finishing 
 a battle with as little city damage as possible, and by destroying Alien millitary. The monsters 
 of the GDF are: Kiryu (MechaGodzilla III) , Mecha King Ghidorah, Moguera, and Jet Jaguar. The last 
 secret is also here.
  
  The last faction is the Mutants. The Mutants are crazy. If they fight you, they will gang up on 
 you, but if there are no enemies, only Mutants, then Mutants will fight other Mutants. Mutants 
 love destruction, so destroying cities will gain poins with them. You lose points by not destroying 
 things. Another thing that gaons Mutant points is going Critical Mass. The monsters of the Mutants 
 are: Biollante, Krystalak, Obsidius, SpaceGodzilla, Titanosaurus, Destoroyah, and Megagurius, making 
 the Mutants the deadliest faction out of the 4.
  
  The story mode gos along through graphic cutscenes, like a comic book. However, the voices of the 
 characters don't line up with the subtitles, however, thats no biggie, and yyou can turn subtitles 
 off. The story is about a Crystal Meteor that crashed into Earth, making Crystals pop up everywhere, 
 and cause the cities to each have a disasterous theme. Seattle is full of Lava, Tokyo is flooded, 
 London has been lifted high into the atmosphere, Sydney has been covered in a snowstorm, San Fransisco 
 is full of EarthQuakes, and Osaka is full of Toxic gas, preventing millitary from working there. 
 The last 2 areas, Monster Island and the Aline Mothership, don't have the themes, the Mothership, 
 however is crashed in San Fran bay.
  
  Critical Mass and Power Surges are the new 'Rage' system from the past games. In the past games, 
 collecting a Rage Powerup made your monster faster and stringer, and allowed yo to do a powerful 
 attack specific to the monster. Rage has been split into the Power Surges and Critical Mass. Critical 
 Mass accumulates from destroying crystals, and gaining crystal energy. When you gain Critical Mass, 
 your monster gains size, and bursts at the seams with red energy. Power Surges comes from 2 sources: 
 Desfeating a monster that has a Power Surge (Story Mode) or destroying a power Surge crystal (Brawl 
 Mode) . Each Power Surge has a different ability, like the Fire surge gives you more attack power, 
 the Darkness Surge absorbs projectiles, and the Chrome Surge gives you a shield. After each surge, 
 wit the acception of the Fire Surge, you can do a shockwave burst. The Fire Surge, however, allows 
 you to breathe a Hyper Spiral Ray, which is a powerful beam of energy.
  
  The many bugs and gliches in the game can get annoying. The battle with the Atoragon in New York 
 gets annoying, as the Atoragon can face upward when doint the Crystal Cannon and the Ramming Speed 
 attacks. I rememebr once that Megalon got stuck on top of a building, and Kiryu special ability, 
 the Absolute Zero Cannon which freezes your enemy, aims downward instead of foward. However, building 
 a game from the ground up instead of using past monster and city models, would make overlooked 
 gliches.
  
  Overall, I give the game an 8. Without the bugs and gliches, it would be a 9, and with Online Play 
 and no gliches, it would be a 10. However, bugs and all, it is a fun game to play, especially with 
 a friend. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
