-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: GT Pro Series
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/driving/gtproseries/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The included steering wheel could be useful for other racing games.
 Dozens of licensed cars.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Ugly graphics.
 Poor sound effects and awful music.
 The few generic tracks in the game get old quickly.
 Controls feel loose and unresponsive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 3.8, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 291 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: MTO
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It doesn't take long to get over the novelty of the included steering wheel, and beyond that this 
 is a very unremarkable racing game that isn't much fun. 

  It slices, it shoots, it... drives a car? That's right, the Wii Remote can add serving as a steering 
 wheel to its list of uses thanks in part to Ubisoft's racing game GT Pro Series. The concept of 
 using the remote to steer a vehicle is used in other games -- and will no doubt be used by many others 
 many more times to come -- but what makes GT Pro Series unique is that it takes the concept a step 
 further and turns the Wii Remote  into  a wheel. Specifically, the game comes packaged with a small 
 plastic steering wheel that has a slot that you can fit the Wii Remote into and then use as you 
 would any other steering wheel to control your onscreen vehicle. It's a novel idea that's fun for 
 a few minutes, but the enjoyment quickly fades, and you're left with an ugly, unexciting racing 
 game.  

          The steering mechanic is fun for a few minutes, but after an hour or so you'll be wishing 
 for another way to race.     

  GT Pro Series is a road racing game featuring real-world vehicles from Japanese manufacturers such 
 as Honda, Subaru, Toyota, and Nissan. It's a very straightforward game of racing on some very generic 
 tracks with broad corners to encourage drifting. It's all very bare-bones stuff that has appeared 
 in countless other racing games. The only interesting element of GT Pro Series is the way you control 
 the car. You hold the Wii Remote so the buttons are facing you, and then you tilt it left and right 
 to steer your car. The included steering wheel casing for the Wii Remote makes it so that you have 
 an actual wheel that you can turn, rather than just tilting the remote. The way the remote is positioned 
 in the wheel, it's easy to reach the 1 and 2 buttons to use your brake and gas, respectively.  
 

  The wheel makes it easier to manipulate the remote, but the control isn't very responsive. You 
 have to turn the wheel a full 90 degrees on most corners, and since the game relies a lot on drifting, 
 you usually need to quickly turn the wheel in the opposite direction to right yourself when you're 
 coming out of a turn. This results in a lot of exaggerated back-and-forth turning movements that 
 just aren't much fun after the first lap of a race. It also doesn't help that there's no resistance 
 or feedback, and the whole setup is fairly lightweight. So even though it's fairly easy to control 
 your car, it doesn't ever feel like there's a strong connection between the wheel and the car. 
 There's also a bit of lag in the controls, which is a good thing, because if the remote picked 
 up every little twitch, your car would probably be all over the place. At the same time, this means 
 that the game won't read quick reactions, so if you're trying to avoid an opponent or correct yourself 
 before smashing into a wall, you'll have to start steering much further in advance than you're 
 probably used to.  

  GT Pro Series compensates for the somewhat loose controls by emphasizing drift cornering typical 
 of arcade-style racing games, rather than the precise, technical style of racing you'd find in 
 a simulation. It's easy to simply tap the brake going into a corner, then turn the wheel and hit 
 the gas to initiate a powerslide that will take you through a turn without diminishing your speed. 
 It can be a bit tricky to control a drift and to know when to steer out of it, but the game is 
 forgiving enough that you should be able to get the hang of it in just a few minutes. Even so, 
 the turn-gas-slide routine gets old quickly, and there isn't much challenge to whipping your car 
 around turns. In fact, aside from when you need to initiate a drift, you can get away without ever 
 touching your brakes in most races.  

  That isn't to say the races don't get challenging. At first, the computer-controlled opponents 
 are easy to beat, and you probably won't have a hard time taking the gold cup in your first dozen 
 or so race events. Eventually the artificial intelligence does put up more of a fight, but it still 
 feels mechanical. You'll never see opponents leave their lines unless you bump them off course, 
 and as you progress in the game, your opponents will start driving faster, until eventually you 
 have to run a perfect race if you hope to take first place. It also doesn't help that you always 
 start out dead last no matter how you did in the previous race, which means that you'll spend the 
 first half of a lap wading through a mob of 11 other racers until you get in position to make a 
 move on the leader.  

          There's a good selection of real-world cars in the game, but they all look pretty bad. 
     

  GT Pro Series includes the standard race modes like versus, time trial, quick race, and career 
 mode. The career mode includes four circuits, although each one is locked until you complete the 
 previous one. There are several race events in each circuit, with a total of 36 different events 
 in the game. Each event is a series of three races and usually has specific requirements on what 
 type of car you can race. There are events focused on a specific model or type of car, as well 
 as general championship events that let you enter with any vehicle. For each race in an event, 
 you have to place third or better to move on to the next race. Depending on how you place in each 
 race, you're awarded a certain number of points, and the driver with the most points at the end 
 of the three-race event is the winner. By completing events, you'll unlock new cars and tuning 
 options.  

  There are more than 80 different real-world cars in the game, including familiar models like the 
 Subaru Impreza, Nissan Skyline, Honda Civic, and Toyota Supra. All of the cars have a cel-shaded 
 look, so they aren't as shiny, detailed, or authentic as the vehicle models you'll find in most 
 other contemporary racing games. There's also no damage modeling, so you can smash into walls all 
 day long, but you'd never know it just by looking at your car. Each car handles differently, but 
 none of them handle very realistically. Even the most underpowered or ordinary cars in the game 
 easily drift around corners as if they were high-performance racing machines. You can tune the 
 cars, but your options are limited. As you complete racing events, you'll unlock tuning options 
 like new brakes, exhaust systems, and engines. There are also upgrades in somewhat unusual categories, 
 such as seats, horn, and headlights. There are only a few options in each category, and tweaking 
 them won't make much of a difference, if any, in how your car handles.  

  In addition to the championship race mode, there's "drift combo" mode. In this mode you have to 
 try to rack up as many consecutive drifts as possible. There are three special tracks that are 
 designed so that you can feasibly hold a drift the entire time, just sliding back and forth from 
 one turn to another. It could have been an interesting mode if the driving were fun, but as it 
 is, the drift combo mode gets stale quickly. Other than championship mode and drift combo mode, 
 you can race against up to three of your friends in split-screen races in versus mode. However, 
 bear in mind that there's only one wheel included with the package, so your friends will have to 
 supply their own or simply go without.  

  There are 10 regular courses in the game, but you can race each one in reverse as well. The courses 
 are as generic as they come, with names like "green field," "urban circle," "downtown street," 
 and "heights mountain." The courses have no more character than their names, and after you've been 
 racing for a while, all the tracks seem to blend together. None of them look impressive at all 
 and exhibit bland backgrounds, minimal detail, and downright ugly roadside visual touches like 
 flat, lime-green grass, blurry, jagged barriers, and blocky, undefined structures. It all looks 
 ugly, and the day and night settings and laughable weather effects do nothing to enhance the atmosphere. 

          The tracks are so generic that it can be difficult to tell them apart.     

  The visual presentation in GT Pro Series looks like something from the Nintendo 64 era, and the 
 sound isn't any better. There's some cheesy electronica music that loops in the background and 
 sounds really bad, not only because of the quality of the music, but also because of the poor quality 
 of the recording. The sound effects are equally distorted and lacking. The cars all whine pathetically 
 and don't sound anything like they should, and the sound effects, such as the muted crunch that 
 you'll hear when you hit something and the digitized screech of tires on asphalt, are awful as 
 well.  

  GT Pro Series makes sense in concept, but in practice it feels like an incredibly generic, cheaply 
 made, stripped-down racing game that has been saddled with a gimmicky control scheme. Once the 
 initial novelty of using the steering wheel subsides, there's nothing much left here to keep you 
 playing. You can play through most of the game's events in six hours or so, and beyond that, all 
 that's left is split-screen multiplayer, which is difficult to get excited about in light of all 
 the issues with the game. So if you're looking for a racing game for the Wii, there are other launch 
 titles that use the same control mechanic with better results. The steering wheel included with 
 this game may be nice, but it's difficult to justify paying full price just to get that piece of 
 plastic.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (22 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tekken220
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 11, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  It's strange that me, a racing game addict wold be so harsh to this game. Have you seen it's graphics? Even 
 PSX games have better graphics! Car customization? USELESS!!! If you want a game with good customization, go 
 buy NFS Carbon instead. Cars? ALL TERRIBLE! (except for some cars of course.) Why did Ubisoft put a 
 Daihatsu truck in this game? Even the dumptruck that's hard to unlock in Carbon is better! Music? Who 
 cares about the music of this game? EA was smart to put good music in NFS Carbon and Pro street, such 
 as Almost Easy by Avenged Sevenfold. Overall, do not get this game, even though it has a free accessory 
 for the Wii mote. If you want to get a good racing game for your Wii, get a NFS game instead (except 
 Pro street, that game is the worst NFS game ever.) Oh yeah, I know I mentioned Carbon so many times. Get 
 that game for your Wii instead of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDawg333
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok, when i first got GT Pro Series, i thought it was actually pretty fun to play. But then i had 
 to get used to the driving. Well i kept doing a couple of races, and it got SOOOO frustrating! 
 I got mad because i was just taking a little bitty turn and BOOM! I go all the way around in a 
 circle. Pretty much i was doing a donut for a couple of seconds.... Makes u pretty mad.
  
  The graphics and the music actually arent as high tech u think it would be. Escpecially for the 
 Wii. The only good graphical stuff are the cars... They look pretty smooth. But the sound and the 
 graphics arent a good show-off.
  
  Another thing i hate is the fact that u start out with crappy cars! And u can even buy parts until 
 u unlock them! And if ur no good at the game, like me, its gonna take a while to get some parts!!! 
 GRRRRRRR! I hate that!
  
  The game isnt really all that great, which for the most part, makes u mad at everything! It makes 
 u wanna throw the wheel down! Oh ya, and i hate the steering wheel cuz its just waaaaaay too sensitive. 
 And it scratches up the front of ur Wii-mote. They could have made this game way better than this. 
 This is a bad game for the Wii. Dont get it..... trust me. I give it 5 crappy cars out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 19, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for about 30 minutes and then was done with it. The cartoony graphics I thought 
 would make it more of a fun game to play but instead it was a big letdown.
  
  It is fun to try and drift and slide around the tracks, but the gameplay is very boring and unresponsive 
 to your touch. There are plenty of better games out there for the Wii that involve the turning 
 motion of the wiimote as a steering wheel that are a lot more fun to play.
  
  I picked this game up because I liked that it has all the cars I used to own in the past (300zx, 
 eclipse, MR2, 350Z) and it was fun to be able to see them on the track in racing format, as it 
 appears every other game seems to leave out a few of the cars that I like. There were great car 
 choices for this game and that was a definate plus.
  
  I would recomment a better game like NFS Carbon for the wii as it would have better graphics, control, 
 and gameplay. This GT Racing game was a big letdown. If anyone was to get the game, don't pay over 
 $10 for it, a bargain bin game to say the least, not worth anything more than that with the many 
 other choices out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John-08
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Graphics - 2/10
  'think gran turismo one for ps1'
  
  Well certainly not up to wiis potential. I have to be harsh on this one it is so terrible it will 
 make you want to scream. I litteraly played it for 5 minutes at the most before slamming down my 
 remote. it just looks shabby its games like this that ruin the wiis reputation. Dont let it fool 
 you you will not be impressed.
  
  Gameplay - 2.5/10
  'I dont even know'
  
  I didnt even take long enough to esablish the controls it makes you wanna say **** this im playing 
 somthing better. I guees the contols are like exite truck (wiimote sideways use it to turn) but 
 that dosent make it any more fun or an excuse for this terrible game.
  
  Sound - 2.5/10
  'Hear them scrreeeechh'
  
  annoying noises when you turn. Cheesy music. A basic bang when you 
 crash + you do the maths +
  
  Overall - 2.5/10
  'Dont make my mistake'
  
  AH well at least it comes at budget price, and with a free sterring wheel , you mighy say but once 
 youve played you wont care about anything except how bad this is. and why did you even by it in 
 the first place, urgh ,discraceful, just discraceful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeAmNiNjA
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I think the title says it all, because let me tell you, this game is HORRIBLE. I cant stress enough 
 how bad this game is, i think gamespot definatlly gave it too good of a score, because this is 
 no woth anything about a 3. And if your asking yourself, why the hell are you even reveiwing it 
 if its that bad, well its because i havent been active on GS in a while and im board out of my 
 mind, so anyway enjoy my review.
  
  Gameplay 2/10
  When i first saw this i though it was copying the controls of ExciteTruck, and when i played it 
 i wished it copied the controls of ExciteTruck because they suck really really bad. From really 
 delayed turning to just barlly moveing the controller and your car spins out, the gameplay isnt 
 anything to die for. Another thing is that really pisses me off is the cars stats, because they 
 dont really mean anything, i mean one time i had a eclipce that was fully suped out and a got beat 
 by a minivan, a **** minivan, but the gameplay isnt the end of the crap they like to call a game.
 
  Graphics 3/10
  The reason i decided to rent this is beacuse of the graphics, which sounds stupid, i know, but 
 theres something about cel shaded that i think rocks. But when i was expecting cool artcy graphic 
 like windwaker, or a really bad TF2 (which i cant wait for) , but instead i got a bunch of minivans 
 with light effects that look like someone pissed on all of the cars. And the thing that cought 
 my attention the most was when you skid on the grass, your tires make schred marks on the grass, 
 but if one of your tires is on the grass and the other is on the road, it makes schred marks on 
 both the grass and the road, which hit me as hilarious and i laughed for a minute, that was a the 
 only time i had enjoyment in this game.
  Sound 1/10
  Damn these review, restrictions because i would have definatlly gave it less that this. First of 
 all, the songs are all of the extremely repetitive arcade type, which sounds like **** and the 
 rest of the sounds are worse. Half of the cars sound like someone humming but worse, cause i can 
 make better car sounds then this **** Man i dont even want to talk about it anymore because they 
 are really so bad, i think the government should start useing these sounds as a punishment for 
 murderers or something, cause they are so bad.
  Replayabilty 1/10
  My fingers are tired of typing so im just going to let you guess why replayablitity is like this.
 
  /
  Good-
  -cel shaded
  -Wii Remote Use
  Bad-
  -cel Shaded
  -Wii Remote Use
  -everything else
  Rent or Buy- BURN and thats about it im going to go to bed now kthx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cakedaddys
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure if you can consider this game a racing sim or what. GT Pro Series follows in the vein 
 of Gran Turismo or Forza Motorsports but fails to deliver the same sense of quality.
  
  As far as presentation it falls a bit short. The menus are nothing special but functional. The 
 on screen display doesn't get in way, but it shouldn't anyway. The main problem is that the game 
 is ugly, plain and simple. For a racer of this style should have a more realistic look, not the 
 cartoony cel-shading. The backgrounds, though not spectacular, are descent enough to look at.
 
  
  As far as how the game sounds, not really impressive. All the cars sound pretty much the same and 
 the music can be irritating at times. If GT Pro Series was an arcade racer, I would have more respect 
 for it. The wii mote controls are, however, responsive enough to become a good driver at this game, 
 once you learn how to drive.
  
  This was the first game I got for the wii and I was disappointed. I have GT Advance for the GBA, 
 and would say that I enjoy that game a lot more. But once you past how this game looks and sounds, 
 it actually a solid racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romayo83
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 1, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Well first off the Graphics blew my mind... I remember playing Gran Turismo for PSone and it was 
 looking better than this... holy smokes I can't Beleive this game was made by Ubisoft!!! Everything 
 about this game just doesnt add up. Gotta love the free steering wheel though. handling your car 
 is a trainwreck... the controls are just horrendous... I thought OK maybe this game has good drifting 
 or it was the car i chose to drive... NOPE all cars handle horribly even with the sensitivity all 
 the way down. Trying to Drift is weak, even a slow speeds too.
  
  When you get farther into the game and unlock faster cars the hardest part of the race is trying 
 to get your car togo straight without doing a 360 donut!
  
  Sounds are just fugly! cars sound like sewing machines and annoying most of all.
  
  Dont rent 
 or waste you time with this title, its completely outdated and taxing to deal with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jduck1979
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 31, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I thought when I spotted the case in the local branch of WOOLWORTHS that Nintendo had perhaps been 
 listening to my ramblings on various messageboards, but having read other reviews it seems if the 
 Wii name hadn't put me off buying the console seeing the reviews for this game have certainly put 
 things on ice a Wii / Wee bit longer.
  
  Let's face it...... one of the things that made SONY's first 2 Playstations a success was the cool 
 factor of having GRAN TURISMO , and listing what you had in your Gran Turismo Garage . While Project 
 Gotham is certainly one of the best known XBOX game franchises. What did NINTENDO have to offer 
 for an exclusive racing game while all this was going on? MARIO KART..... itself, not a 100% bad 
 game (certainly got higher ratings than this GT Pro Series thingummy) , but probably not to the 
 tastes of serious Race Simulation fans wanting to have a go at thrashing the nuts off their favourite 
 cars they'd only otherwise be able to read about in car magazines. And it appears this isn't either. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evertonlad5
Rating: 3.9
Date: Mar 20, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Cause thats what it seems like. GT Pro Series is a shocking game by any standards. The graphics 
 are hideous, well below the Wii, miles below. The Wii is capable of much better, look at NFS. It 
 still isnt perfect but way better than whats on offer here.
  
  And gameplay wise it doesnt make up for it either. All you do is race in championships and thats 
 it., No story or anything (online play wouldnt have even madr up for it) . The controls are terrible 
 and unresponsive and you have to violently turn the steering wheel to do a small turn. And then 
 theres the wheel spin.....
  
  The only good thing about the game is well... the steering wheel that comes with it. It would be 
 great for NFS.
  
  And basically thats about it. GT Pro Series is a horrible game that Ubisoft shouldnt have let hit 
 the shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camzo
Rating: 1.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Ok, all I can say is this is pathetic. People say the Wii has bad graphics, and compared to the 
 X360 and PS3 it does, but thats no reason for this particular game to be so bad. The games graphics, 
 for a new game on a nex-gen console will make you want to throw up. The ONLY reason anyone should 
 buy this game is if they want a free steering wheel for the Wii remote, and even then the wheel 
 leaves a horrible rubbery sticky residue on the ends of the remote, plus it's just as easy to hold 
 the remote in your hands. The cars are all unrealistic and rubbish, and there isn't enough of a 
 selection of cars and tracks. When you crash your car you will laugh at how it comes away without 
 a scratch, as there is no damage in this game.
  
  Not my kind of game anyway, but stay away, I warned you once, I won't warn you again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Panda
Rating: 1.4
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game, honestly, is horrible. It has a horrible selection of cars... who wants to drive a nissan? 
 and its so bad, that my grammar is like e. e cumming s cause i feel like im a retard wasting time 
 writing a review for such a horrible game. First there are cars. then there are cups. you beat 
 one cup. You unlock paint, engine, lights etc. You put them on your car. You go to next cup. Probably 
 have to change car because not all cars are allowed. you have to redo the new car you selected. 
 You beat the game. You try to go on medium. But your to lazy to completed the horrifically long 
 liscense system.
  this is when your getting ready to but the wheel and game in its case to go sell to gamestop becasue 
 its such a bad game, you dont care hwo much you get for it. The wheel is plastic, and breaks. The 
 guy says they downt take it, And then, it turns out you forgot to put the cd in the case. this 
 is exactly what happend to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMANPOWER
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  I got this copy as a gift for Christmas and I must say that this game isn't that bad. I only wanted 
 the steering wheel, but I ended up getting this. I decided to play it and give it a chance like 
 always. I thought this game was okay, I think sometimes it didn't do go with the steering wheel 
 and better off playing without it. Some of the stuff in this game really caught my eye like the 
 cell shaded graphics almost reminded me of Windwaker. It's okay to play if you have some friends 
 over, but not single player. I only played this game for like 4 hrs and never played it again, 
 so if your a racing fan and love to drive, then this is the game because I feel that this is probably 
 the good driving game out here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GumbieuK
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  Graphics aren't everything and this game proves it, i for one go for fun and casual gameplay over 
 top notch graphics anyday and that's one of the main reasons why i bought a WII.
  
  The game it's self is great, very casual and doesn't demand huge amounts of time, it's also very 
 simple and easy to play. Making it great fun for the entire family. There's a vast selection of 
 cars and the tuneups are simple and easily understandable for anyone who plays the game.
  
  If your looking for a racing sim look else where, but if you want some casual family fun this is 
 a game for you!
  
  Pure Genius. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CLeRKSfan4life
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 30, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  GT Pro Series has been getting a lot of negative reviews since it came out, and I really don't 
 know why!
  
  GAMEPLAY: Definately the high point of the game. There's lots of things to keep you occupied including 
 a decent sized Chamionship mode Single race, Time attack, Drift challenges and up to 4 player splitscreen.
 
  
  There's Tons of licensed cars to choose from and you can customise them quite a bit.
  
  The races are pretty straightforward but are very fun. There's a great sense of speed, especially 
 when you're in 1st person mode.
  
  The addition of Motion Sensing is a great feature and has been implemented well in to the game. 
 It takes a bit of getting used to but once you get the hang of it you won't want to go back to 
 analog control. There's a few different control settings, (2 of which have you steering with the 
 D-pad)
  But I find the default setting works best.
  
  GRAPHICS: The side of the game that's taken the most beating in reviews. First of all, yes, it's 
 Cel-Shaded and second, it's definately NOT as bad as people say. The Cars look great and have a 
 nice amount of detail on them, The tracks and surrounding areas also look great. Of course, it's 
 all personal preference and opinion, which is why I don't mind saying that while GT Pro Series 
 could look better, it's still a good looking game.
  
  SOUND: Not the game's best part but it's ok. The music is good but get's kinda repetitive after 
 a few races. It's like a mix between dance and rock which works well but there doesn't seem to 
 be enough variation.
  
  The sound effects are pretty good but could have been beefed up a bit as they do sound somewhat 
 weak.
  
  OVERALL: GT Pro Series is a great game to some and a horrible game to most. It'll take you a while 
 to complete 100% but will be a fun experience especially because of the controls. If you haven't 
 completely made your mind up then rent it first before spending &pound;35-&pound;40 on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuzumeCake
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 24, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Japanese racer. The game boosts Japanese culture right at the start. the game's in a cell-shaded/anime 
 style. Especially Initial D is a show which the game's reminded of. Cultural influences shows a 
 great deal when you read reviews of a game like this, if you live outside Japan there's a chance 
 that you've no interest in this game. You might not know what Initial D is or might not appreciate 
 the common cartoon culture japan has.
  
  GT Pro Series is played in similar ways as Gran Turismo, there are tons of cars &amp; upgrades. 
 You play in championship &amp; undergo license tests. You unlock cars &amp; upgrades during the 
 course of the game. The game also offer other modes, such as VS, Quick Race &amp; Drift Combo. 
 GT Pro Series has a great load of influence from Initial D making drifting a important aspect of 
 the game, you need to learn how to drift to be able to gain success in this game. There's no brake 
 before the corner and go trough it slowly, in this game we drift through corner and try to stay 
 away from the brake.
  
  Because this is such an important aspect of the game it adds a learning curve, this game can be 
 problematic at start, and there are 90 graded corners continuously after each other. The game's 
 played with the wiimote/steering wheel, there's several different control schemes to be used.
 
  
  The game boost an electronic melody soundtrack, the melodies are quite easy to remember but they 
 aren't anything spectacular.
  
  The cars dont sound really sound like real cars, but this game isn't about being real anyway. 
 The cars have a realistic approach but are all cell-shaded giving them a serious anime-kindish 
 look.
  
  GT Pro Series isn't a game for everyone, it will mostly only to appeal a certain audience, the 
 kind of audience who likes Japanese culture, cell-shading &amp; Initial D.
  
  The game features the Trueno from initial D, there's also a downhill mountain track which seems 
 to copy the first downhill race track in Initial D. It's things like this which makes GT Pro Series 
 such a cool game.
  
  Another thing worth mentioning is that the game comes with a steering wheel, but some of us don't 
 want to play with the steering wheel, therefore we get to pay extra. It would have been much better 
 if the steering wheel was sold separately.
  
  The cars in the game looks good, they are all nicely done cell shaded, giving you the feeling that 
 you're playing an anime movie. All the cars in the game are by Japanese manufacturers, and there 
 are lots of them. There are several upgrades for the cars which you gain by winning championships, 
 each upgrade (horn, headlight, engine, brakes etc) have an effect on your car and usually it has 
 a physical effect as well. There's nice effects on-screen when your car is drifting making it look 
 cool &amp; movie-like.
  
  The tracks are where it gets ugly, I wish they would have kept the cool cell-shaded aspect for 
 the environment as well. Flat tress &amp; bushes shouldn't be allowed in today's age. Especially 
 tracks which features much grass, trees &amp; bushes looks awful. Tracks inside the city however 
 look more pleasing. Another problem is that hardly any of the tracks have any remarks; they are 
 all just plain simple in design. Theres no Ridge Racer stuff here, no fancy waterfalls or certain 
 objects which makes you remember the stage. There are 10 tracks in the game; you get to play them 
 reversed as well. I wish there were more tracks and that more detail had went into the making of 
 them. The tracks are in 4 directories, 3 tracks are in course track directory. The course tracks 
 are similar as to these Formula 1 tracks, in a stadium with lots of green grass. Another 3 tracks 
 are in a city tracks , these tracks are great. Especially one track is memorable because it had 
 the huge Tokyo tower in it. Another 2 tracks are in the mountain tracks , this is mostly downhill 
 racing with lots of curves. In these tracks you get to see some awful ugly trees / bushes. And 
 the last 2 tracks are in the small city tracks , the environment reminds me of eastern USA, with 
 palms and low building near the beach. I wish they had made 10 different kinds of tracks instead, 
 and not kept them in these directories making 3 tracks looks similar etc.
  
  The tracks in the game can be a nightmare, even after several hours spent on them they might still 
 be a problem, you need to learn to drift to be able to make a perfect run. This takes a while to 
 do, at the start of the championship mode it doesn't really matter how you drive, because you'll 
 most probably win. But later on you need to learn how to drift. But when you do master the drifting 
 technique, the game start to feel too easy.
  
  There are only 10 music tracks in the game, and only 4 of them are played during racing. They will 
 get into your head, not because they are pleasant, but because it gets repetitive, it's the same 
 tracks played over &amp; over again.
  
  Rumble is used, motion sensing is used... but the speaker is not used, what a shame. Why didn't 
 they use the speaker on the wiimote?
  
  There's times when I'm away from this game, thinking about it... thinking about selling the game. 
 Those awful trees &amp; bushes, that annoying music in that stage... but when I pick up the game 
 &amp; play it, I just feel it, I can take any car &amp; be a drifting king on any track. This game 
 might not look like it, but it's quite entertaining to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saint-boy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  GT pro series has had a lot of critisism in the past but i just wish to point out that I dissagree 
 with the poor reviews it has been given. GT pro series is a great arcade like racer and I like 
 to see the control system as somthing that requires skill to master. The cars do seem stif to drive 
 at first but then you will be racing firmly after 5 minuets a learning how to try and turn the 
 harder corners properly, if this requires braking at the right moment or or skidding around it 
 with either style or luck. The added steering wheel is great fun and helps you get to grips with 
 the new method of control. Overall GT pro series can be a fun and enjoyable game with 20 tracks, 
 82 cars each with 11 tunable components and quite a few upgrades, this game can be enjoyed by everyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: menes40
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I honestly do not understand why it got such a bad score... sure the graphics are abysmal but u 
 can tell what the car is... statistics are pretty accurate for the cars, good tune ups, except 
 for stuff like seats, horns, and headlights. the only reason no one likes this is because its cell-shaded 
 for graphics. the game play is terrific, you get a decent choice of cars from the start... but 
 here is one thing you NEED to know... DO NOT get this game if you expect American cars. This game 
 is strictly Imports which is why its a good racing game. But overall, barring the Graphics, this 
 game offers great game-play, great multi-player, and great challenges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inteligencia
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 22, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  Gt pro series is the title that Nintendo was missing: a real driving game. Unlike Mario kart you&acute; ll 
 have more than 80 cars but only 10 courses plus reverse courses. This game has 4 classes each one 
 bigger and harder than the previous that makes a total of over 40 championships each one with 3 
 courses. This game could become boring if it didn&acute; t have the Wii control scheme. its pretty 
 simple: 1 to use the brakes, 2 to accelarate, the D-pad for the hand brake and to control the car 
 you just need to tilt the remote. The graphics are very simplistic but the cars design are really 
 solid. There are 4 course themes: bay side, mountain, race track and the metropolis.
  I really like the sound it feels like I&acute; m playing a SNES game... I think that it could be 
 a little cheaper like 39.99$ and after you finish the game you&acute; ll have almost no reasons 
 to play it again.
  GT pro series is a solid racing game but it could have been better.
  If you have any doubt send me a message. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioFanatic
Rating: 1.8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  do not buy this game, dont even rent it! -- ill be honest with you, i probably played about 45 minutes 
 of this game, but i think that if i had played any more, i would be sent to an insane asylum.
 
  
  you do get a $20 steering wheel if you make the worst decision and buy this game... although you 
 could just buy the wheel separately (i dont really know why you would even want the damn wheel 
 when it basically adds nothing to gameplay other than an easier grip) . anyway, this game technically 
 costs $30 (i rented it from blockbuster thank you lord jesus and god in heaven) , but for $30, you 
 could buy an unused classic game like RE4 or somethin and still have $10 left over.
  
  im not even gonna touch the graphics portion of this game, because you already know that this game 
 isnt exactly what i would call a 'graphical showcase' for the wii. the sounds are very very VERY 
 generic, the drifts are practically forced when you trigger them, and the overall game is just 
 a snoozefest. seriously, try going through a couple of championship cups. this game just doesnt 
 have the wow factor that need for speed car bon has. speeking of which, if you want a solid racer, 
 i would highly recommend NFSC, hell, even excite truck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 1.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This is the ugliest game I ever played. Gamecube had better racers than this crap. The controls 
 are dreadful and well everything about this game makes me want to commit suicide. Its that bad. 
 Ok so you can steer with a wiimote........... This actually makes the game worse. Looks like the 
 Wii better get plenty of Zelda games because it doesnt look like the roster of games is doing to 
 well. And this one doesnt help.
  
  Graphics - 2
  Pixels from hell and horrid display of colors. Sound - 2
  The worst sound effects in a racing 
 title. Everything is bad.
  
  Value - 1
  You wont even be able to finish one lap its that bad. This wouldnt even sell at Burger King for 
 $3.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakobjoergensen
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 10, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I read ONLY bad things about GT Pro Series by UBIsoft before buying it, but something 
 told me... this is a racing game that does something different.
  
  Have tried Lotus (PS2) , NFS Underground 2 (PS2) , Juiced (PS2) , Rally Pro (GC) , Driven (GC) and 
 more ... but they did not catch on. The game play was either to difficult or the game was more 
 'pimp up my car - 50 cent-ish' than racing. Both something I don't really relate to great racing.
 
  
  I still find NFS3 for my PC from time to time - or dream of the Amiga's Lotus Turbo Challenge. 
 That was racing where the race is in the center of action - and that is what this new racing game 
 GT Pro Series does as well.
  
  People wrote, that the graphics was low scale, no styling up the cars, music bad bad bad e. c. t.. 
 And yes, they are so right, cause if this is what they were after, GT Pro Series is properly not 
 the right game to play.
  
  Here is what I feel GT Pro Series gives:
  
  Game play is fantastic. The way the game is build up with small tournaments to participate in. 
 One does not get outed of a race after failing once or twice. You have 6 retries before you have 
 to redo the tournament. Nothing is hampered by long loading times. Actually sometimes one feels 
 GT loads just a bit too fast. -
  Graphics are cell-shaded, like the graphics in Zelda the Wind walker (GC) and it works so very 
 well. It gives smooth graphics without too much 'static' and still leaves some to your imagination. 
 The menu system is brilliant. Both setup, garage and tournaments.
  -
  Sound is OK too. Fits the game play, graphics and more perfectly. Some is to be wished for the 
 music, though. Just 10 tracks to choose from with 3 or 4 acceptable for me.
  -
  The value of the game is in the beholder. What is it you want? Entertainment or a larger ego? GT 
 Pro Series only does entertainment, but it does it well and if thats what you want, you can spend 
 countless hours racing these tournaments and later joining in with up to 4 of your friends.
  
  Jakob 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsalltheway712
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 2, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Yes, yes. You may be thinking that you want a street racing game, and want a cool steering wheel 
 to come with it. But thats about all that makes it more noticeable than the rest. If you are thinking 
 about buying this game, slap yourself. HARD!! HARDER!!! Get those stupid thoughts out of your mind. 
 This game is 99% covered in stuff where it should belong: trash. Why?? Play it to see, but if youre 
 somewhat smart youll know to read before you buy.
  
  Good aspects of it (0.01%) : It has a plastic steering wheel. It has street racing.
  
  Bad (99.99) : 
 The first time you start playing, you are greeted with an absolutely generic screen, and terrible 
 music. When you are picking your car, you are greeted with absolutely terrible graphics. The cars 
 look like they have been picked out of a PS1 game (which they probably have) and the controls are 
 horrible to get used to, even with the steering wheel. The novelty of the controls wears off fast, 
 and the novelty of the steering wheel even faster. The sound makes you want to scream. And the 
 tracks all seem the same after a while. If you have a friend (or relative/parent/ half-brother/ 
 homeless guy on the corner/ teacher/ some guy you bumped into on the street and never even heard 
 of a name like Yzgareg) to buy it off you for any amount of money, get it off your hands and get 
 another racing game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
