-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guilty Gear XX Accent Core
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/guiltygearxxcore/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New gameplay features should appeal to Guilty Gear veterans.
 New background stages and voice-over.
 Weird cast of characters may freak you out.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Weird cast of characters may freak you out.
 Make sure you have a classic or GameCube controller, because the Wii Remote won't cut it.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 22, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.6, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 205 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aksys Games
Developer: Arc System Works
Genre: 2D Fighting
Date: Oct 15, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're looking for a 2D fighting game that's totally nuts, Guilty Gear XX Accent Core will give 
 you what you want. 

  2D fighting games may not be as popular as they used to be, but Arc System Works' Guilty Gear series 
 has continued to chug along over the years. The newest edition in the series is Guilty Gear XX 
 Accent Core, and just in case the title didn't make it obvious, this is the latest edition in a 
 long-running series with a lot of different features that have evolved over time. Even so, casual 
 fighting-game fans should be able to get into the game rather easily. It isn't hard to get started 
 dishing out big, long combination attacks by hammering away on various buttons. But hardcore Guilty 
 Gear fans will get the most out of the new game because it has a few new features that make higher-level 
 play a bit more interesting. Just make sure you have either a Classic or GameCube controller handy, 
 because even though the game supports the Wii Remote with Nunchuk attachment, it's best played 
 on a more traditional controller.  

           Accent Core is a colorful and fast-paced 2D fighting game that works just fine on the 
 Wii, as long as you have the right controller.      

  Like with many other games of this sort, this 2D fighting game offers one-on-one matchups between 
 characters inspired by Japanese anime cartoon designs who heroically shout out the names of their 
 mighty fighting techniques in battle. In the Guilty Gear series, you can attack your opponent with 
 a combination of punches, kicks, and two different types of "slashing" attacks (most characters 
 carry a weapon or some equivalent) by stringing together punches, kicks, and slashes with other 
 types of attacks on the ground, and also in the air as part of extended "juggle" attacks. But the 
 game's character designs are clearly intended to be as bizarre as possible. Among the roster, you'll 
 find a masked man who wields a pool cue as a weapon; a young girl whose weapon is a gigantic talking 
 key that's bigger than she is; and a hunched-over zombie who won't stop talking to himself. Technically, 
 none of the game's default characters is all-new, but several characters have been updated and 
 fine-tuned slightly for balance purposes. Pretty much all of the game's characters seem strong 
 enough to compete against each other.  

  As any fighting game sequel should, Accent Core tweaks some of the characters' moves and the overall 
 game balance. It also adds some higher-level features that advanced players will probably appreciate 
 most. The game now includes "force break" attacks, which are powered-up versions of most characters' 
 special techniques that can be used to enhance your offense and your combination attacks. It also 
 adds new defensive options, such as the ability to escape from standard throw grapples. You can 
 also use a new type of defense, the "slash back," which, when properly timed, will let your character 
 come out of his or her defending animation much more quickly and give you more of an opportunity 
 to counterattack. For the most part, the series has always been pretty fast-paced and has emphasized 
 offense over defense. This is still the case in Accent Core, which offers numerous ways to squash 
 cowardly opponents who sit and hide in the corner. The game also includes a running penalty system 
 that actually makes cowering players less powerful over the course of a fighting round. The way 
 to victory in Guilty Gear is still usually through relentlessly aggressive play, but Accent Core's 
 new gameplay additions seem to add a bit more give-and-take to matches, assuming your fingers are 
 fast enough to make use of them. Either way, you'll probably have trouble making a go of it using 
 the Wii Remote controller. Guilty Gear's speed and pacing more or less require you to quickly use 
 a gamepad and press four different buttons at any given time, sometimes in different combinations. 
 This is very challenging, to say the least, on a Wii Remote controller. The experience is much 
 better with a classic or GameCube controller because the gamepad and four face buttons make the 
 game much more manageable.  

  Otherwise, the game has a handful of other extras that Guilty Gear fans will appreciate, such as 
 the ability to unlock original versions of the game's characters (with their original abilities 
 and attacks) from the previous Guilty Gear and Guilty Gear XX games. It also includes an art gallery, 
 a single-player arcade mode, a training mode, and two different single-player survival modes, standard 
 and "Medal of Millionaire," the latter of which occasionally rewards successful attacks with bonus 
 items and health-replenishing pickups. Medal of Millionaire is perhaps a bit easier to go through 
 because of the pickups, but all this stuff is pretty straightforward single-player content you'd 
 expect from a modern console fighting game. As with pretty much any fighting game, Accent Core 
 is at its best when played competitively against real people.  

           You can expect to see weird characters and plenty of over-the-top battles.      

  
 Accent Core also offers a new coat of paint with new backgrounds to fight on and new voice-overs 
 for its characters. The backgrounds themselves look just fine; they're colorful and interesting, 
 but they aren't so cluttered or busy that they distract you from the action. The new sound samples 
 and backgrounds add some welcome new window dressing, though Accent Core, like the other games 
 in the series, is still all about keeping an eye on your character and your opponent during the 
 fight. Accent Core reuses the same 2D sprites for its characters, as well as many of the special 
 effects, that have appeared in other games. The characters are still very colorful and still very 
 distinctively weird, and though some are better-animated than others, Accent Core looks pretty 
 good.  

  These days, you really don't have many choices when it comes to new 2D fighting games for your 
 home consoles, but Guilty Gear XX Accent Core should offer enough action and variety for most fans 
 of this sort of game. If you're new to the series, you may be taken aback by just how strange its 
 characters are, as well as by the twitchy, fast-paced gameplay dominated by long strings of combination 
 attacks. Nevertheless, you'll get used to it quickly enough. If you're a Guilty Gear veteran, you'll 
 probably find enough to like about Accent Core to make it worth your while, too.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: irongutvi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  This is game is a great 2d fighting game. It's crazy fun and it has cool, crazy characters. I like 
 the style of art and gameplay. It has awesome music and some Japanese you won't understand unless 
 you know it. There are some extras out in for you to get. A decent amount of modes to play. The 
 controls for Wiimote and nunchuk might be uncomfortable though and no online play is disappointing.
 
  
  9/10 Gameplay
  It's very fun to play as all the characters. It's fast paced but not so fast. The moves are not 
 so difficult but doing extreme combos will ge hard. There are some different move sets that have 
 advantages and disadvantages. 
  
  9/10 Graphics
  It's 2d, what's not to like? Character designs are very original and some look crazy. The animation 
 for moves and characters are great.
  
  9/10 Audio
  I love the music. It fits well into the gameplay and makes you want to turn it all the way up. 
 Japanese dub is ok, I can't understand anything they say. The sound effects are good.
  
  8/10 Controls
  The controls for Wiimote and nunchuk is not so good. If you have either a GC controller 
 or a classic one, use those. I've been playing with the Wiimote and nunchuk and GC controller but 
 the GC is better to use. The Wiimote and nunchuk didn't suit me so well.
  
  8/10 Extras
  There are some artworks you can unlock. It is satisfying to get it all through hard work. there's 
 also the EX, gold, and black versions of characters you can unlock. 
  
  Overall: 8/10
  It is an ideal 2d fighting game for Wii. Some extras here and there for you to get. You will either 
 need a GC or classic controller for the game. There's just no online which is disappointing. If 
 you like 2d fighting games, this is for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: srbbnd
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  I had never heard of Guilty Gear, but when I saw it in the used section in a mangled box at Game 
 Stop I thought I would pick it up. I turned it on and from the moment I saw hot anime girls I was 
 like, "Sweet, hot anime girls and it's on the Wii."
  
  So other then having hot anime girls the array of characters is quite creative. Each character 
 has its own strengths along with some creepy attributes. Combos are easy to get down, but at the 
 same time difficult to remember making this a good game to pwn some fresh noobs. 
  
  The Wii controls are smooth and make it easy to pull off power moves, but I found myself frustrated 
 at the end of the game when I couldn't beat I-No then I had to switch to a Game Cube controller 
 to pull off the combos that I needed. 
  
  This is one of the few games that my girlfriend was able to enjoy, mostly due to the use of the 
 the Wii controller and creative artwork. This game is best played against a "rival" friend. The 
 use of breaks and counter attacks adds a nice defensive strategy to the game, but overall this 
 a fast paced button smasher. If you like Dragon Ball Z you will find similar attributes and a good 
 multiplayer game that you can continuously turn to for some good fast paced action. 
  
  This is a kick @$$ game for the Wii and one of the few games where you will not forget the uniqueness 
 of the characters. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyDagger
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Guilty Gear XX Accent Core is the first game in the Guilty Gear series that I've played, and I'm 
 glad to say that I liked it. Accent Core is full of fast-paced fighting and a collection of cool 
 and entertaining characters. In the game there are a bunch of new stages along with some old ones, 
 a good amount of characters, and a crazy art style which for me, adds to the fun. There are some 
 good voice-overs with great music that I find goes along very well with each character and stage. 
 In the control department lies the problem that stopped this game from being so much better, using 
 the wii-mote to play this game isn't exactly the best of ideas. Your better off using either a 
 Gamecube or classic controller to play this game. A few of the characters have been updated which 
 should definitely appeal to the hardcore Guilty Gear fans. The game includes a bunch of unlockables 
 like original versions of some of the characters with their original abilities and attacks which 
 should make any fan of the series happy. The game also has an art gallery, single-player arcade 
 mode, two different single-player survival modes, and a training mode among other things.
  
  No matter how you look at it I enjoyed the game, and I'm pretty sure any fans of the game or 
 of 2D fighters will enjoy Guilty Gear XX Accent Core. Just remember, don't use the wii-mote to 
 play this game. I'm really looking forward to the next Guilty Gear game and to see where Arc System 
 Works go with the series, and hopefully they will improve on the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tensh1n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  Unexpected, fun-packed, and very fluent. guilty gear XX accent core is something that can be pick-up 
 easily without any trouble. from beginners to experts, my friend played for about 30mins for the 
 first time and whooped by butt just like that... well i annihilated him alot, but still. it is 
 not stressful and well packaged from wii to us.
  
  from new style moves to destoying opponents to pretty designs and new features, there is something 
 that can say that this game is well fitted for the Wii. even the add new characters give more spice 
 and flavor to the table as you play through 20 deadly rivals. 
  
  want to work out? try taking a swing, do a 1 2 1 2 punch, you will burn some calories for the day. 
 trust me some arm muscles will develop. From party games or challenge or feel like beating up opponents, 
 take this game for a ride and release ur inner martial artist in you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: str1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Within the first year of the Wii's lifespan, the console has already seen a decent number of fighting 
 games, but it's unfortunate that the majority of those games to this point have been less than 
 decent. Mediocre offerings like Mortal Kombat: Armageddon and Dragon Ball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2 
 have been the genre's strong points, although some decent if old VC titles like Street Fighter 
 II have helped balance out the total dreck like Legend of the Dragon. Thankfully, Guilty Gear XX 
 Accent Core is here and ready to rock.
  
  For those not familiar with the meaning behind the strange title, Guilty Gear XX is the third entry 
 in the Guilty Gear series of 2D fighting games, following the original and Guilty Gear X. Although 
 the original incarnation of Guilty Gear XX was released years ago, Accent Core is the most recent 
 revision of the title, with new features and refined play mechanics for the most balanced entry 
 in the series to date. The result is a lively, fantastically designed fighting game that plays 
 just as well as it looks.
  
  Of course, looks can be deceptive, and at first glance, most newcomers will probably think Accent 
 Core is completely insane. A spiky-haired tough guy named Sol Badguy leads a cast of eccentrically 
 designed fighters that range from Axl, a relatively normal-looking man in a Union Jack shirt, to 
 May, a young teen girl in a bright orange pirate uniform wielding an anchor, to Faust, a skinny, 
 nine-foot-tall lunatic wearing a paper bag on his head and wielding a giant scalpel.
  
  Ryu and Ken they ain't, but that's part of Guilty Gear's charm. The game has a unique look and 
 feel that is unlike any other fighting game series before it, and while most fighting games that 
 focus on flash and flare tend to fail horribly from the gameplay standpoint, Accent Core is the 
 best of both worlds, with inventive character designs and a deep fighting system that puts an emphasis 
 on aggressive play. In Accent Core, the best offense involves piling on more offense, and the game 
 actually penalizes turtling by draining from the player's tension gauge.
  
  If there's one particular flaw in the game's design, it's that it doesn't include the well-constructed 
 story mode found in Guilty Gear X2 (the original U. S. title of XX) . It's disappointing because 
 amidst all of the gameplay's frantic, well-constructed chaos, there's an interesting story that 
 links the characters together and providing emotional resonance to what might otherwise look like 
 a fever dream.
  
  Rounding out the game's modes of play are the standard arcade and two-player vs. modes, a vs. CPU 
 mode, survival, training, and Medal of Millionaire, which is a scoring mode based on collecting 
 medals dropped by your opponents. There's also a gallery to view unlocked artwork and movies, and 
 a sound menu with easy access to the game's rock and metal-based soundtrack.
  
  On the Wii, Accent Core supports the Classic Controller, GameCube controller and a motion-based 
 Wii Remote/Nunchuck combo. This reviewer recommends the Classic Controller, as it provides the 
 best control and best fighting game button layout of the three.
  
  Fans of 2D fighting games should have a blast with Accent Core. If you're a Wii owner intent on 
 looking for a great fighter, you can't go wrong with this game. Although the lack of a proper story 
 mode may disappoint some fans, the presentation is still a blast and the gameplay is at its best. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxx369
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Guilty Gear XX Accent Core for the Wii, is nothing really new, I am new to the series, but the 
 game has the same modes of the others Guilty Gear games, it is a fighting game, know for its insane 
 battles, where everything is very fast. After the intro movie you'll see the title screen there, 
 there you can choose to play one of the game modes that includes including Arcade, vs. CPU, M. O. M. 
 ( Medal of Millionarie) , Training and Player vs. Player. You'll probably play the Arcade mode first, 
 there, I saw how the game can be hard. My Favorite character is Ky Kiske, I played through various 
 easy battles, until I got to Sol-Badguy, there, he kicked my butt a thousand times before I could 
 defeat him, and then I had to fight the last battle, damn hard too, and some characters are way 
 more powerful than the others, for example, Potemkin. And there are lots of things to unlock. 
 
  
  Now lets talk about the graphics of the game, there are many characters to play with, and everyone 
 has awesome animation sprites, everyone looks very good, to tell the truth, I think that along 
 with Odin Sphere this game has the best 2D graphics, and the backgrounds look awesome, too. In 
 this game, everything you'll listen is rockin-roll and believe me, its very good. One thing that 
 I really loved in this game are the battles, I loved them because they al seem so epic, imagine 
 this: your opponent jump and you jump at the same time, then - still in the air - he dashes at 
 you and you dash at him, and then the swords clash in the same time and nobody gets any damage, 
 that happens in 3 seconds, and it is awesome, it really seems that your watching a cartoon on the 
 TV. 
  
  But not everything is good, the main issue of this game are the controls, if you dont have a GC 
 controller or a Classic controller, you'll have to use the Wii-Mote, but the controls are just 
 broken. With the motions, tou shake the controller to perform a slash attack and to do a heavy 
 slash, you shake your controller hardly, it is just impossible to perform combos like that, but 
 you can use to Wii-Mote D-pad to attack, but it doesnt work, it is very uncomfortable to do this. 
 One more thing is that to perform special attacks you just hold C or Z and shake your controller, 
 that is way too easy, but special attacks should take a lot of practice to do these special attacks. 
 
  
  After all, Guilty Gear XX Accent Core is a excellent game, but to really enjoy it, you need the 
 right Controller, but it doesn't come with the Wii...
  
   8.5
   
 8.0
  Replay 
  Gameplay with 
  Gameplay with Classic Controller...... 8.0
 
  
  Total w/ Wii  6.0
  Total w/ Classic Controller................... 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruth7
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Intro: I've been a Guilty Gear fan for a while now. So when i picked this up, I had high expectations. 
 Yes i know you can get it for $10 less for the PS2 but i needed a Wii fighter and I was curious 
 in how it would work with the Wiimote controls. Graphics: If you played other Guilty Gear games 
 you would know by now that the character designs, though the same as the last, are still great 
 and the stage backgrounds are well designed. Fighting is also nice and shiny... (Overall 9/10)
 
  
  Sound: Nice Japanese voice acting (no English) but the soundtrack ROCKS... literally. (Overall 9/10)
 
  
  Gameplay: If you have a Classic Controller then you would have no problems here. If you don't playing 
 the Wiimote/Nunchuck can be hard and would need A LOT of practice. (Overall 6.5/10)
  
  How long will it last? There are alot of unlockables from Ex characters to completing an art gallery. 
 Modes include Arcade mode, Survival Mode, and M. O. M. Mode. There is also VS CPU and VS 2P Modes. 
 (Overall 8/10)
  
  Overall the game is pretty much what you would expect. If you are new to the series I don't suggest 
 you start here. Why? Mostly because there is no Story Mode and Mission Mode. Overall I give this 
 game an 8/10. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
