-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guitar Hero World Tour
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/guitarheroiv/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great setlist with more than 80 songs.
 You can now sing and play bass, guitar, drums.
 Lets you create, share, and download original music.
 Mii Freestyle mode is kind of fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some new additions don't enhance experience.
 Doesn't do much that other, similar games haven't done.
 Requires four instruments and four Wii Remotes for a full band.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.6, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 1,199 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Blizzard
Developer: Vicarious Visions
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Oct 26, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
That's one giant leap for a franchise; one small step for a genre. 

  As soon as Rock Band let you play guitar, bass, drums, and sing to your favorite music, it was 
 clear the bar had been raised in the music-game genre. It wasn't long before Activision announced 
 that the Guitar Hero series would follow suit. The result is a very entertaining game that doesn't 
 break a whole lot of new ground. Guitar Hero World Tour's in-game music creation feature isn't 
 as revolutionary as it could have been due to its convoluted interface, but thanks to a huge setlist 
 of recognizable hits and cant-miss gameplay, World Tour is a great game and certainly a huge step 
 forward for the franchise.  

            You're totally a rock star... except for the groupies, money, and fame.      

  The 
 most obvious difference between World Tour and previous Guitar Hero games is that you can now sing 
 and play drums in addition to performing the traditional guitar and bass parts. You can play one 
 instrument alone, perform as a band with a few friends, or even hop online and rock head-to-head 
 or as some sort of Internet supergroup. The long-awaited ability to play as a "real" band in a 
 Guitar Hero game improves what was previously an experience shared by one or two people on guitar 
 and bass. Bickering over setlists; swapping instruments midset; getting sweaty and stinky from 
 jumping around in a small room while your friend with the terrible voice gives it his or her all 
 in "Livin' on a Prayer" as your neighbors bang on the wall... that's when Guitar Hero World Tour 
 is at its best.  

  GH World Tour is available as an instrument bundle or as a standalone disc. If you don't buy the 
 bundle, you can use guitars from previous Guitar Hero games. Wii owners get the short end of the 
 stick when it comes to the cost of hardware -- it costs just as much as the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 
 3 versions, but you have to own four Wii Remotes if you're to play as a full band (remotes are 
 placed into the instruments) . Not only is the hardware expensive, its reliability is questionable 
 given the less-than-stellar performance of the World Tour hardware over a week-and-a-half of play. 
 The drums have several issues: Cymbals are either too sensitive or not sensitive enough, and the 
 bass pedal is inconsistent as well. That's nothing compared to the problems that we've had with 
 the guitars. The fret buttons began to stick after a day, and it wasn't long before the strum bar 
 failed to accurately recognize input. The frets held up better on our second guitar, but the strum 
 bar quickly failed on it as well. One nice thing about that guitar is that you can activate star 
 power either by tilting your instrument or by simply pressing a new button below the strum bar 
 with the palm of your hand. Just be careful not to press the poorly placed pause button while you're 
 at it.  

  The big new feature in Guitar Hero World Tour is the music studio. It lets you create and share 
 your own tunes, as well as download songs from others. Should you watch all of the tutorials and 
 put in the time to learn the complicated yet robust program, you'll be able to produce some amazing 
 results. The bad news is that you have to put in  a lot  of time and effort because it's incredibly 
 difficult to make music creation a user-friendly experience on a console, but it's near impossible 
 if you force people to use a fake guitar. To make matters worse, there's no way to add vocals or 
 lyrics to your creations, so it's quite possible your song will sound just like the hundreds of 
 thousands of bad MIDI songs that permeate the Web. That said, if you're unable to channel your 
 inner John Lennon, you can still enjoy the fruits of the music studio via other people's work. 
 Just a week after the game's release, there are already a number of impressive user-created efforts 
 available for download.  

           You'll need Mr. Miyagi levels of patience to use the powerful but complicated music studio. 

  World Tour has a Career mode, but it involves little more than playing sets of songs to earn money 
 and unlock more songs. You have some control over what order you tackle the setlists and can personalize 
 your rocker. You can even build custom instruments, but your career is linear and not all that 
 interesting. However, it is pretty neat to see Jimi Hendrix stroll out on stage for "Purple Haze" 
 (even if he does look a bit zombielike) , and now that they don't feature any weird string-breaking 
 gimmicks, the boss battles are actually enjoyable. The game includes more than 80 songs, all of 
 which are master tracks from the original artists.  The setlist  covers a variety of styles and 
 features a huge number of big-name artists. These include The Eagles, Metallica, Michael Jackson, 
 Van Halen, Lenny Kravitz, Sting, Oasis, No Doubt, Nirvana, Coldplay, The Doors, Foo Fighters, Jimi 
 Hendrix, and many more. It's an impressive collection of artists, and you're not often stuck playing 
 some unknown song by these acts, either. You'll get to play "Beat It" rather than "Man in the Mirror." 
 You also won't get stuck with some terrible Gary Sharone-era Van Halen; you'll get David Lee Roth 
 and "Hot for Teacher." For the first time on the Wii, World Tour includes a store where you can 
 purchase new individual songs. You can save the tunes to your Wii and then transfer them to an 
 SD card, so space isn't an issue (if you already own a card, that is) . What is an issue; however, 
 is that you can't download track packs, nor are there any albums available for download. That means 
 Wii owners will miss out on some of the for-pay content available to PS3 and Xbox 360 owners.  
 

  For the most part, World Tour looks and plays exactly as you'd expect, but there are a few things 
 it does differently; some good, some bad. Musicians' animations have been improved, particularly 
 with regards to vocalist's lips being in-synch with the lyrics. The ability to customize your rocker's 
 pre-and-post song animation is also cool -- especially when you've got him or her doing the robot 
 after a good performance and smashing his or her guitar after a failed song. The vocals constantly 
 track your pitch, leaving a trail behind that shows how your pitch has changed. This is extremely 
 helpful when you're trying to sing the right notes and intervals at the start of a verse in a song 
 with which you're unfamiliar. Bass players get a new challenge to deal with in the form of an open 
 note, which is represented by a large bar that covers the entire width of the note highway. You 
 might not think hitting the strum bar without pressing a fret would be noteworthy, but as any bass 
 player will tell you, it makes the experience even more realistic. Last, but not least, the game 
 gives you a quick countdown when returning from the pause menu, which gives you a fighting chance 
 at hitting your first notes. The Wii version of the game includes an exclusive mode, called Mii 
 Freestyle. You're able to play random notes and chords in a few different styles by strumming and 
 hitting different patterns on the frets. Young children who don't yet have the skills for the normal 
 game or folks who enjoy Wii Music might have a good time with the mode, but it's nothing special. 

  Those are the new mechanics that work well, but there are a few that aren't as useful. When playing 
 drums, you must activate star power by hitting both cymbals at the same time. While hitting the 
 cymbals isn't hard in and of itself, hitting them in rhythm so that you don't lose your consecutive 
 note streak is extremely challenging. Unless you're a skilled percussionist, you're probably better 
 off waiting until your streak ends on its own rather than trying to activate star power. Guitarists 
 will have to deal with the most unique and not-so-useful mechanic. Anytime you see notes attached 
 with a purple rope, you're able to move up to the touch-sensitive area above the normal fret buttons 
 and play the notes by sliding across or tapping the pad. This lets you play the "wah-wah" part 
 from "The Joker" with ease, you can play slap bass, and it's fun to act as if you're playing a 
 keyboard in "Rebel Yell," but those are the exceptions. Generally, you'll find that using the touch-area 
 results in missed notes because either it's not sensing your input properly or you're struggling 
 to go from the fret buttons, up to the pad, and back. It's a neat idea, but it's executed poorly. 

           Using your Mii to jam is incredibly simple, but kind of fun.      

  Guitar Hero World Tour is a huge leap forward for the Guitar Hero franchise. It's a blast to play 
 with friends, the setlist is top-notch, and the music studio is a nice -- albeit extremely complicated -- addition. 
 Although it's a great game, as well as a vast improvement over previous series entries, it doesn't 
 do a whole lot that Rock Band and its sequel haven't already done (and in some cases, done better) . 
 With that in mind, if you really like Guitar Hero's setlist and you're interested (and patient 
 enough) in creating your own music, pack your bags to head out on tour.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (59 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: J-man45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 1:42 pm PT
Review:  The critically acclaimed music game series, Guitar Hero, has come a long way since the original. 
 Improvements every year, such as better graphics, song list, and added game play mechanics have 
 graced the series over the years. The latest installment, World Tour, has added drums and microphone 
 into the mix, along with other changes. Now let's jump into the review.
  
  Because of the added instruments, plenty of new modes have been added as well. There is band world 
 tour, where you and 3 other friends at the most can team up and earn some cash, unlock venues and 
 songs. You can also do the single player career on any instrument of your choice.
  
  As for the songs in general, the entire set list is master tracks. No covers here. The traditional 
 note playing is the same as ever, but with a few added twists. Now you can play another note while 
 still holding a long one, opening the door for some fun new game play.
  
  The new drum notes are good. The base pedal is a long purple line you must hit at the right time. 
 The high hat notes are yellow, red for snare, orange for crash, and blue and green for toms. The 
 order that they are on the note highway is different than guitar though. Try not to get confused.
 
  
  The songs are awesome. Van Halen, Ozzy Osbourne, Hendrix, they are all there. The DLC support is 
 strong as well. And all you need is a 2 gig SD and you can get A LOT of songs.
  
  The character customization in WT is incredibly deep. You can change the pants, shirts, shoes, 
 hats, hair, and even the tattoos of your character. You can also customize your instrument, which 
 is also amazing with a lot of customization options.
  
  Sound quality is great, but the graphics probably could have been better. The words on the singing 
 are fuzzy without HD wide screen.
  
  WI-FI is improved from GH3. It is much easier to find a match, and the added instruments means 
 more modes.
  
  All in all Guitar Hero World Tour is great, and is without a doubt best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red045
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2009 4:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is all around great. There is a good sized career mode, not to mention you can do guitar, 
 bass, drums, or mike. In quickplay you can now put in 3 high scores per song and you get money 
 for playing instead of only 1 high score and no cash in Guitar Hero 3: Legends Of Rock. There are 
 plenty of songs so no matter what type of songs you like you're sure to find one that you'll want 
 to rock out to constantly! There's also the awesome ability to customize your rockstar and his/her 
 instruments so all you have to do is make one that looks like you and then, Bam... you're a rock 
 star. There's also a really cool cheat (I think the cheat section for this game has it) that lets 
 you change the color scheme of the notes. The only parts I didn't like was the recording studio 
 and the mii freestyle, but that's just my opinion, who knows, maybe you'll love it or maybe you'll 
 hate it. Well that's my take on this game talk to you next time. 
  
  P. S. If you you liked this review I have also reviewed Transformers: the Game, Smackdown vs Raw 
 2008, and Smackdown vs. Raw 2009 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiiwillrocku360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 8:52 pm PT
Review:  The Rock Band franchise came in and started taking over the Guitar Hero franchise. Then Guitar 
 Hero came back with its own version of a four-person band experience, they released Guitar Hero 
 World Tour. This is the review of the Wii version. The Wii version is slightly different from the 
 other versions. For one, the graphics are super bad. Not to be rude, but I've seen better Nintendo 
 64 graphics! If graphics don't matter to you, however, this might just be the best version of Guitar 
 Hero World Tour. It has an exclusive option called, "Mii Freestyle", which allows you to play as 
 your Mii and hit any note on drums or guitar you want. This game calls with all the other stuff 
 the PS3 and 360 versions have. One major disadvantage though, is if you want a full band, you're 
 going to need four Wii remotes. Hate to burst your bubble, but its true. You can't use any of your 
 Rock Band instruments in the game like the other versions too. But all I can say is, this game 
 is the same as all the others no matter what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 10:06 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  -A full 84-Track song list with loads of awesome bands and a great variety
  -You can now create your own songs, characters, and instruments
  -Drums, Microphone, and Bass 
 now included, each with their own career mode
  -Graphics are very good, and some cool cutscenes
  -Great for parties
  -Loads of famous Unlockable 
 characters such as Ozzy Osbourne, Sting, Jimi Hendrix, Billy Corgan, and Ted Nugent
  
  The Bad:
  -Takes a while to load and save
  -Some of the songs are forgettable
  -Takes a while 
 to create a real good song
  
  Guitar Hero World Tour was the first GH game I ever got, I got it the same time as Guitar Hero 
 2. I only got the pack that had just a guitar, but I already had a microphone. 
  
  The First thing you notice about GH World Tour is that it has really long loading times. This was 
 expected, given the amount of content stored in this ps2 disc, and it is pretty much expected from 
 any ps2 game. 
  
  Because I wasn't very skilled when I first got it, in fact, I had only ever played it once before, 
 I used the cheat codes to automatically unlock all the songs straight away. (I don't need the cheats 
 anymore, I can now do expert) . 
  
  I am pretty impressed with the songs that you can play in GHWT, you'll play songs by bands like 
 Muse, Oasis, Metallica, Motorhead and Bon Jovi, and songs by solo acts like Ozzy Osbourne and Jimi 
 Hendrix. There are also a whole lot of appearances from famous people, like Sting, Ozzy, Jimi Hendrix, 
 Ted Nugent, Billy Corgan, Haley Williams, and a few more. These are all Unlockable, but, if you 
 don't have the full band kit, then you probably will miss out on these great characters. 
  
  My microphone broke halfway through playing, so I was unable to unlock some of the good characters 
 like Ozzy, but I did manage to get Billy Corgan, but he kind of freaks me out.
  
  One thing that excited me with GHWT is that you can make your own songs. I love creating things, 
 so this was a huge + for me. The song creator is pretty good, but it takes a long time to get use 
 to, and it takes quite a while to make a good song, but, if you take a while, you can come up with 
 some killer music. 
  
  The career mode hasn't changed much, except for the fact that there is about 20 venues, so there 
 is way loads of songs, even though some venues are optional. 
  
  Overall, GHWT is an awesome game that changes a lot from other GH games, but keeps the same great 
 style that the series always had. 
  
  Overall, 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 10:28 am PT
Review:  It is good game if you like music and creating and it's bad if you hate those. Some songs are very 
 hard and some are very easy. If you play guitar, it can be fun to say ohh I can do this on my guitar 
 or man I wish I could play this. As far as the game goes there isn't any flaws. They have at least 
 80 songs and you can create your own person and musical instrument. It's a lot like rock band just 
 you can't save your friend. Most the songs on here are good ( in my opinion ) .
  This one you make money on quick play and you repeat a song and get money also. You get ranks depending 
 on how much money you get. I forgot to mention you can unlock Sting, Ozzy Osbourne , Haley Williams 
 , Zac Wylde , Travis Barker , and Ted Nuget . Now I say this is the best in series others like 
 Guitar Hero 1, 2, or 3 the most so look at other reviews also to make sure you want this . Not 
 saying don't get it I mean like make sure it is right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilianetty
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:48 am PT
Review:  This game is super cool. The songs are great. Including drums, is like playing Rockband 1 and 2. 
 Another reason I love the game is that you can download songs and play them as you like. I realy 
 dont recomend expert if you dont want your hands to suffer but is a risk we all make when playing 
 games with that thing. I often play it on hard, is a less risky. The drums are very realistic, 
 more than the one in Rockband. (sorry for my english situation, cause I write in spanish) . En verdad 
 esto es un juego clasico que sin duda dejara a muchos felices, si es que son fans de verdad del 
 juego mas aclamado en el mundo llamado GUITAR HERO WORLD TOUR!
  
  This game is a classic like Aerosmith's game, and the Rockband's games.
  I recomend this game 
 if you wish to feel on a band as we all rockfans do and wish. Imagine yourself on a real band? 
 Thats an experience you can only feel playing this game, aclaimed worldwide, named GUITAR HERO 
 WORLD TOUR! You can play and enjoy with your friends! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoNin360
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 14, 2009 6:59 pm PT
Review:  The fourth major Guitar Hero to come out basically had to copy Rock Band for it to overcome Rock 
 Band's success (which it did somehow) . Guitar Hero: World Tour has done this, but didn't do a very 
 good job at it.
  
  First off almost everything about it is plain sloppy. They obviously did not take the time to organize 
 everything, and I don't even want to go into that much detail. Setting up is sloppy, making a band 
 is sloppy, finding songs is sloppy. Point made hopefully.
  
  The drums for Guitar Hero: World Tour look very unique, even better than Rock Band's, but it doesn't 
 play nearly as good. The material its made out of, which is rubber, makes almost no sound when 
 you hit it. This does not give a good sense of what you are trying to play, and it just sounds 
 awful. And the 2 cymbals are rather weak and just make playing the set more confusing. It is hard 
 to get into playing the drums and playing the notes correctly, especially if you played Rock Band's 
 drum set. The kick petal is also aweful, so just about everything but the drum set's appearence 
 is rather disapointing. And playing it just isn't fun, the notes look just like the guitar notes, 
 and the timing is whack, but enough about the drums.
  
  Singing is about what you would expect (I don't sing personally) But what I did notice is that 
 they are more strict about how the notes are sang. For example my little sister sings like 99% 
 on a song on RB, and can barely pass one on World Tour, so I'm guessing singing is a little more 
 tough with this one.
  
  And now the guitar is about the only enjoyable instrument to be played really. It's not really 
 improved from Guitar Hero 3, and it plays just about the same. There are some difficult songs, 
 and many more button mashing songs.
  
  Another thing is the song selection. Bad, is what I would describe the songs in one word or less. 
 Of course the greatness of the songs are varied to one's personal taste, but there has to be a 
 good number of people who agree with me. There are, I would say just a few really good songs on 
 World Tour. Many are boring, and just not fun at all to play. I swear there's even a country song 
 in here (On the Road Again?) and don't forget Beat it! by Micheal Jackson! Woo!!
  
  It's somewhat fun to play all together in a band, but it seems like the "Star Power" gets very 
 distracting. I swear I'm right in the middle of a star power, and there's already another star 
 power ready! There is a button on the new guitar, but it's not worth ruining your rhythm to reach 
 for.
  
  So although there are some pretty high peaks on enjoyment, it doesn't last. Additional songs may 
 be purchased, but this game has been a waste of money altogether already. It's like a poor version 
 of Rock Band, except for the superior guitar, but that's about it. The online play is maybe something 
 to if you want to play other people and such, but it won't last. Hardcore fans of Guitar Hero will 
 likely love this game, and anyone who has fallen for Rock Band will hate it. Compared to Guitar 
 Hero 3, GH3 was better, and it only had the guitar, and that's all "Guitar" Hero really needs. 
 Long live the old days of Guitar Hero. These music games are getting really old and quite frankly 
 I'm growing tired of them.
  
  Summary:
  
  Graphics: 7\10- Nothing special.
  Gameplay: 6.5\10- Read review lol.
  Controls: 5/10- Only the guitar plays well.
  Sound: 8\10
 
  
  Overall: 3\5, 6\10, 60\100, 6000\10000 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddenrulz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 2:51 am PT
Review:  I was hoping after "Legends of Rock" that the difficulty of the songs would be cut down a little 
 easier, and they have been. The overall set list of songs were very good songs. Songs like "Eye 
 of the Tiger" and "Hotel California", along with the instruments that World Tour has makes it feel 
 like you are actually play the songs accurately.
  
  Mii freestyle mode is fun, but the sound on some notes aren't very good. The career mode is very 
 good. Major artists make huge appearances in the game and they look fairly accurate to their real 
 life looks.
  
  The slide bar on the new guitars would work only if they were the same size as the Les Paul ones 
 from Legends of Rock. Create-a-rocker is a good system because you can follow a genre of rock or 
 just start from scratch with a game-created rocker. Customising your instruments looks good and 
 is.
  
  The music studio doesn't offer much in the way of difference sounds. GHMix isn't a good system, 
 especially for fast solos. Lead, unfortunately, has only one chords. So if you want to make a song 
 with alot of chords, you need to use the rhythm guitar. But the rhythm guitar, for solos, picks 
 up chords to often and makes solos so much easier to play and less interesting.
  
  But even with those flaws in GHWT, it is still a great game. Anyone will enjoy this game and it 
 is not fully multiplayer oriented like Rock Band was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EpiphoneMan2008
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Th multiplayer is an issue though the friend requests are horrid on all systems. You are in a game 
 right? then you get invited and your eyes automatically flicker to the big mail icon that shows 
 up and you miss some notes. Then you have to go all the way to the menu and then sign onto wi fi 
 and then accept the invite which about takes a whole minute to do and usually the person on the 
 other end dies of boredom! so now you got a bunch of crap to deal with. The way this game is set 
 up is not good. The sign on takes too long and the begin screens are pointless! why are they important? 
 all they are are kids with the plastic instruments telling you how to use them.......... STUPID! 
 The game itself is good once you get through all the crap intro screens and sign on minutes taken 
 away from your life span.
  
  
  ROOM FOR IMPROVEMENT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conkerrulez2334
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 20, 2009 1:01 pm PT
Review:  WILL YOU IDIOTS READ SOME OTHER REVIEW?!?!?!?!?! I'M TIRED OF PEOPLE READING THIS ONE!!!!!!!
  
  
  *****I GOT THE WHOLE BAND KIT THING WITH THE DRUMS AND MIC IN CASE YOU WERE WONDERING WHY 
 IT WAS 200 BUCKS********
  
  i thought this game would be good. but i was wrong. i hate everything about this game; the unresponsive 
 drum set and guitar (yes, the guitar is unresponsive.) , the terrible blurry graphics, the terrible 
 songs, the suckish multiplayer, the big mess of a so called "recording studio"... EVERYTHING IS 
 BAD!!! if there's any game i want to burn more than ET on the Atari 2600, it's this game. 
  
  if only they didn't include the drums and microphone, then maybe this game would have been 
 a little better, because, like, really. think about it. guitar hero was meant for guitar and bass. 
 not drums and microphones. why couldn't they just make one game with just the drums and call it 
 something like Drummer Hero and make another with just the microphone and call it something like 
 Singer Hero? because if they did that, the guitar hero series wouldn't have been destroyed. 
  
  yup. activision messed up big time with this sucker. and have i ever mention the quite large 
 amount of glitches? maybe some idiots who rated this review not helpful have never even realized 
 how bad this game really is.
  
  have they not played the game? have they not seen how many times it crashes? have they not seen 
 that the drum kits never work? didn't they do multiplayer? or the recording studio failure thing? 
 have they not seen that disgusting swirl of random colors when they played those eardrum-bursting 
 songs? have they not seen the glitches? have they not used the unresponsive guitar? hasn't their 
 game not read it when you strum or press a button? yeah. you get the point now. 
  
  i could go on forever explaining how bad the game is. oh, and there's no plot to this game. ever 
 realize that? so, don't buy this game at all. it's a waste of time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masta_Jedi
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2009 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Comparisons to harmonix's game Rockband come to mind to a lot of people, but i prefer to look at 
 this game for what it is, a completely different game trying to evolve the genre further, taking 
 some ideas from rockband of course, but definitely not ripping it off. As fans of guitar hero will 
 notice, the general feel is still there.
  The addition of the vocals and drums, as well as an extra note for the bass all work great. The 
 drum set deserves special attention, for it's innovative 5 drums set up. It makes playing them 
 a bit harder than in rockband, and that's just awesome since guitar hero is generally attractive 
 for its higher difficulty and challenge. Not a big fan of the way you activate star power though, 
 hitting both the yellow and orange plates at the same time is basically impossible in big parts 
 of a lot of songs, but as you play the songs again you can build a strategy of when to activate 
 it. vocals work well too, not too easy and not too hard, but didn't play them that much.. Speaking 
 of the instruments, the new guitar is also pretty nice. The slide bar is more trouble than its 
 worth, so you probably will never use it after you try it the first time, but it's a nice concept. 
 The guitar looks awesome, very pretty compared to the GH3 one.. buttons are quite sensitive though, 
 especially the strumming, and it takes some getting used to, also the whammy bar is really really 
 long, and tends to shift downwards as you shake around playing.. that can be annoying.. Another 
 new feature in the guitar is the star power button, which is nicely placed, and with a bit of practice 
 you can use it very well.. i prefer tilting the guitar, and luckily that option is still available..
 
  DLC is a great new thing for guitar hero, im happy they put that in. Some songs are alright, if 
 you are willing to spend wii points.. most of the free ones suck.. The songs people make with the 
 studio (which i will talk about next) are the best though. It's amazing what they can do with that 
 thing. and not just famous songs ignoring copyrights on there, some real cool original compositions 
 too!
  The studio tool itself is really well made and complex, so if you have the patience and the skill 
 to make some awesome music there, definitely use it! I myself don't have the patience, so i just 
 browse songs other people create.. still its a great idea for this type of game. Mii freestyle 
 also deserves mentioning.. its really not that fun, and you probably will only use it once and 
 then not bother anymore, but its funny to see Miis rocking out haha.
  The set list... oh boy... there are good songs and bad songs.. mostly bad.. its a huge setlist, 
 and they make a big deal out of it, but its just mostly boring songs to play and listen to.. you 
 end up missing notes out of boredom.. but its funny to see ozzy osbourne sing La Bamba in the last 
 show of the career mode! There are a lot of characters in this game, both GH characters and ones 
 based on real people. its kind of fun, but there are very few guitar battles!! they are the best, 
 they should put in a lot more, and battles with other instruments too! drum battle would be awesome!
 
  Well, not much else to say but.. if you want a challenge in music games, take this one and give 
 it a shot.. and if you don't have rockband instruments its worth buying the whole set, since lots 
 of new GH games are coming later this year using these instruments.. and they all work in rockband 
 2, so its really worth it!
  Hope you enjoyed this rather long review, check out my rockband 2 review as well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorafan62
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2009 4:55 am PT
Review:  If you didn't look at the bottom line i put amazing i speak words of truth. Great game play
  Got the whole band
  x1000 more fun than rock band.
  It starts out with the guitar now this 
 amazing.
  they got the recording studio so you can record your own music and play it.
  (How you like them apples) But you can't sing into the microphone you have to use a keyboard on 
 the guitar and when you play it no words bad neversoft.
  And the wi-fi can be a bit slow.
  Another amazing part community. guitarhero. com guitar site where link your stats and get in tournaments.
 
  Song selections are THE BEST and better than any-......-rock band ghwt (world tour) has mastered 
 the power of rock.
  so you can't beat rock band with world tour no no and NO.
  Nice try rock band.
  crazy train rocks can you just beat it haha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atromitos88
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2009 5:24 am PT
Review:  I started playing Guitar Hero 3. It was the perfect game for me. Maybe it's because I like metal 
 and rock music. When I learned that they will make a new guitar hero game, I started getting information 
 about it. When I learnt that it will have drums and microphone, only one thing was sure; I would 
 buy this game.
  When i bought it, i decided to write this review. And there it is:
  
  Guitar Hero World Tour is a very good game for people who like music and especially rock and metal. 
 If you play a musical instrument, you may find that a 5-button guitar and a plastic drum will be 
 a failure, you must change your mind. Guitar Hero is a videogame and real instrument are not. It 
 is much different, and Guitar Hero might be more difficult to play. It has a wonderful song list 
 with 86 songs, and it has Downloadable Content with many other songs. When I was playing those 
 songs, I liked many of them and I really liked them. You might find some songs unknown to you, 
 but when you listen to them you will like them. It was very clever to use songs that are forgotten 
 by the public.
  
  If you have played other guitar hero games and you liked them, you should buy this one too because 
 it has many new features. You can play with up to 4 players, offline but if you do not have any 
 friends to play, you can play online with people around the world. You can play co-op or battle. 
 Also, it has 4 instruments. A guitar, a bass (you use the same controller with the guitar) , a microphone 
 and drums. Furthermore, it has a recording studio where you can record your own song and then play 
 it. The guitar has a neck slider, and when there are complicated solos you can use it to play better. 
 The whammy and strum bar is bigger and it has an improved star power button.
  
  If you know how to play, skip this paragraph. For guitar and bass, when you see a note coming, 
 you press the button at the neck. When this note reaches the line, you must strum by pressing with 
 the strum bar or by putting your finger on the neck slider. Now about the drums, when the note 
 reaches the line, you must hit the correct drum. When the purple line reaches the line, you must 
 press the foot pedal. If you use the microphone, your voice must be like the singer's to play the 
 song.
  
  You can not decide if this game is good or not, unless you play it. 
  It is very addictive, the first day you will play more hours than any other game .I recommend you 
 to buy it, you won't regret it.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shiftyluke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 10:00 pm PT
Review:  i got this a few days before christmas and i gotta tell you, it is really good. it can keep you 
 entertained for hours, but there are a few kinks in the game
  
  graphics: 8/10
  i havent really played GH3 but i have seen enough vids on youtube to say that world tour only just 
 loses to GH3s graphics
  
  controls: 9/10
  the guitar is really good, and the neck slider is a real improvement in it, but at the same time 
 can get anoying when you are playing the slider notes tyhen all of a sudden a riff of normal notes 
 comes down the highway and you have to instantly get your fingures up the neck and get your fingures 
 on the right notes
  the drums are a greast new instalment to guitar hero, and i sorta found it a coinsidence to find 
 out they had drums after me and my friend were talking about if they would ever have a drum hero 
 or something like that, however gets boring after a while
  the mic is ok i guess, a must have if you always have friends over and are sick of singstar, but 
 career singing is just weird, due to the fact that if your a guy, you will feel silly singing to 
 one way or another or heartbreaker
  
  song selection: 7/10
  the songs are awesome, i was happy to see songs like the middle, are you gonna go my way, eye of 
 the tiger, crazy train, mr crowley, what ive done, sweet home alabalma and others, but the BAD 
 about the song selection is that half of the songs you might not even know, along with the bands, 
 and some are in SPANISH! you would feel crappy singing them
  
  characters: 8/10
  the characters ok, but because guitar hero DS on tour was my first guitar hero game, i was dissapointed 
 to see that gunner jaxon was not in world tour, and axel steel has changed alot, but was really 
 happy again when i found out you could make youir own character
  you can unlock famous people for guitar, drums and singing such as zakk wylde, sting, ted nugent, 
 ozzy ozbourne, billy corgan and some other girl i dont remember
  i also liked the character metalhead, but was dissapointed when i found out that he, and the famous 
 people had to be bought for $5000
  
  modes: 8/10
  the modes are good, including the mii freestyle, where you can choose a mii that you have created 
 and rock out playing whatever the hell you want, and the recording studio was ok, career was improved 
 from GHOT but the head to head mode requires 2 guitars, unlike GHOT where it is a completely different 
 mode wher you can battle the computer
  
  WIFI /6/10
  wifi mode is so and so. you pick up the game, and read the part about downloading more songs, but 
 there is another part that you werent told about
  you are required to have wiiconnect24 and a bunch of wii shop points to buy songs, and aparently 
 wii shop points cost alot of real life money, so router and USB wifi conecters will be dissapointed 
 here
  
  KINKS:
  the guitar has a nasty habbit of strumming on its own and sometimes, does it so much at once, fails 
 the song before its even started! and can ruin a long note by strumming on its own
  
  the drum is sorta bad too, it says that it is quite enough to hear the notes you play on the game, 
 but infact, the rubber makes so much noise you can barely hear the notes, and the cymbols are DISASTROUS
 
  after a while of me and my sister playing the drums, the orange symbol stopped working completely, 
 so we had to take it back and get a replacement
  
  overall:9/10
  overall, this game is GREAT, i highly recomend you get it, especially if you have heaps of friends 
 who enjoy multiplayer games
  ignore the kinks and bad stuff, thats not what games are about, heaps of things about this game 
 are great that they cancel out the bad things
  
  final thought:
  if you want to be a guitarist, but cant get good enough in real life, like video games and loves 
 music, this is a must have game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zombie_Phoenix
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2009 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Okay, before you guys thing I'm being overly critical, let it be known that I did give this game 
 a 8.0, which is pretty decent. Also, I still can't stop playing it, which must say something. However, 
 I do have some legitimate concerns. Let me begin with the drums.
  I must confess, I'm not a drummer, and I totally lack any sort of dexterity, skill, and rhythm 
 when it comes to drumming. Because of that, I have no issues with the game play because I would 
 suck at it no matter how great the game play is. My issue is with the hardware itself. For some 
 reason, the cymbals do not work and I have talked to others in forums who have the same issue. 
 It doesn't matter how hard I hit it or where on the cymbal gets hit, the note only registers about 
 one out of every five or so hits. Yes, I have done many things, changing the calibration, plugging 
 and unplugging parts, doing the training mode to make sure i was actually doing it right, but no 
 matter what I do it just does not seem to work out. Therefore, when I play with all four instruments, 
 the song inevitably ends after about a minute due to the drummer, no matter how well he is actually 
 doing. Bummer.
  Okay, that paragraph was too long, so this one will be short.
  My second issue is with the graphics. I know, I know, this isn't exactly MGS4 or anything, and 
 it is on the Wii, but I want to see something better in the future. Maybe the singer actually lip 
 syncs to the music more than every now and then, maybe the character builder will be better and 
 the tattoos will actually look like tattoos instead of what seems to be random shoddy looking clip 
 art. Oh well, can't do anything about it now.
  My third issue is the songs. Don't get me wrong, I love most of it. What I don't get is the songs 
 in foreign languages. What the hell. Also, the songs available for download leave something to 
 be desired. They're great if you like reggae. Nuff said.
  Finally, my fourth and last issue is I feel like I'm doing karaoke, but that's just me, and I did 
 not include it in my rating. Just had to get it off my chest. 
  Anyways, pretty good game. Great for parties (except the drums...) , and also fun as a single player. 
 Plenty of songs, and it's pretty fun making ugly characters :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo2Brawl
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero..... The game that brought the music genre the being an extremely popular genre. This 
 game started out as just a guitar is now to the full band and no matter what intrusment you play 
 it on you will have a blast playing this game. I love guitar hero this one takes everything that 
 #3 was good with and takes it up takes it up a level with over 85 songs on the disk, downloadable 
 songs, and you can now even make your own songs this game will definantly keep you hooked and bringing 
 you back in for more. Oh yeah and now you can make your on charcters which also is a very deep 
 mode. 
  I have the wii version of the game and this includes the exclusive mode, Mii Freestyle which you 
 pick a mii and play freely on the guitar or air drums with wiimote and nuncuck. All in all this 
 is a game that will keep you hooked and will have you wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 7:21 pm PT
Review:  GHWT is certainly an upgrade from the other GH games. Including the mic and the drums drastically 
 expands the possibilities of the game and allows for a greater simulation of being in a real band. 
 While many of the things Activision included were perfect for an expansion from the similar series 
 of titles, their execution was not completely on point, which force me to lower the overall score.
 
  
  First, I will start with the instruments. The guitar is most the same, except for a few features. 
 The slide bar allows for some interesting solo sections and the star power button helps those that 
 have trouble lifting the guitar in mid-strum. The addition of open notes on the base was also an 
 interesting feature. The mic is exactly like the one from Rock Band and is actually interchangeable. 
 The drums are in interesting contradiction. I both enjoy and dislike GH's version of the drum set. 
 While it is great to rearrange the pads for raised symbols, the construction of their sensitivity 
 and syncing with the game are almost impossible to perfect. In addition, the foot pedal doesn't 
 feel like it provides any resistance to create a realistic feeling (while Rock Band's is closer 
 to the real feeling) . The pads do not always respond appropriately.
  
  The song list is excellent. There is a good mix of both popular and lesser known music. Michael 
 Jackson's "Beat It" and Lynyrd Skynyrd's "Sweet Home Alabama" are personal favorites. "Hotel California" 
 is smooth as well. While the in-game music is solid, the current set of downloads is extremely 
 limited as far as good selection. The few Smashing Pumpkins songs are okay, but what else is there?
 
  
  Character creation was missing from the other versions on the Wii, so to add that is stellar. The 
 menus are a bit slow on reaction time, but there are plenty of options to play with.
  
  Tour mode has also been redone. There are no videos involved, nor is there a strictly linear pattern 
 to the music. The more songs you play, the more venues you unlock. You are forced to play everything 
 in sets rather than play just one song. The addition of famous musicians also gives the game a 
 little bonus extra content.
  
  The music studio is interesting. It is certainly a feature that RB does not have. I still do not 
 feel like I have a hang of the interface. I watched the tutorial online and still felt inept at 
 navigating the menus and coming up with something musical.
  
  Online play is also a little mixed. The ability to join other bands is great, but there is no ability 
 to have four separate players join the same group (it has to be from 2 game systems) . There is 
 also a little battle you may have with the guitar versus bass selection, where the computer will 
 force you into one or the other. 
  
  The Mii Freestyle mode is just a little mini-game for the fun of it. There does not seem to be 
 much purpose other than the kick out a random assortment of rhythms and sounds to a steady beat.
 
  
  In the end, it is one of the main two franchises out there that allows players to simulate playing 
 real instruments. While the improvements are appreciated, they also fall short of solid performance. 
 They do pave the way for the next series of improvements to the music franchise though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetravman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I'll first start off, shut up Rock Band or Guitar Hero biased people. I honestly find no difference 
 between the games anymore, besides some minor gameplay tweaks. Saying one is better than the other 
 is pathetic since they are basically the same game. 
  
  Activision picked up the Guitar Hero series and it eventually came down to this to compete with 
 Rock Band, a full band game. Which makes the name "Guitar Hero" questionable. Band Hero? No. Just 
 no. Of course the game features the guitar, bass, drums and the microphone to bring out the fake 
 rockstar in us. If aliens were to come visit us and see us playing toy instruments while we're 
 concentrating in one direction, they will be like wtf? But whatever.
  
  The guitar is back! (duh) And it's slightly but not really improved. Same buttons but somewhat 
 of a different layout. Strum bar is a heck of alot longer, and the star power button is much bigger. 
 I'm sure the star power button is alot better with most people since you can hit it with your wrist, 
 but I can't. I have a bad habit of playing this guitar like a bass since I am a bass player, so 
 I can't fricken reach the button. But I can't hate this game because of my own dumb style. Strum 
 bar is nice and I have more room to double pluck if I wanted to (two fingers) . The neck consists 
 of the same Green Red Yellow Blue Orange, and a new Pink Button! (jk I wish...) There is a neck 
 slider thing. If you want to get used to it and show off to your buddies, knock yourself out. Be 
 in mind this is not an easy thing to get used to. It's not a must learn thing, so don't bother 
 if you don't want to be too technical. There is a start button that is so micro sized, you'll be 
 looking at your guitar to find it while playing a song. You're likely to miss a note or 10 notes 
 in a ridiculous solo. It's not really realistic anyway to pause in a middle of a performance. "Hang 
 on audience, I have to pause our performance. I want a drink a water and possibly go to the can. 
 We will continue the song afterwards. Yay!" That's about it for new crap. For a bass, just use 
 the guitar controller. Lackluster! Make a bass you developers, besides that Gene Simon axe crap. 
 I'd like to see a longer neck with wider fret buttons and a double pick strum bar. That'll be the 
 real bass experience. I like the fact that there is a new open note exclusively for the bass. New 
 note is better than nothing new AT ALL.... rock band. It's a tad harder than Rhythm guitar actually, 
 but I'm still offended as a bass player for something this easy.
  
  Drums is a new thing. Neat looking thing, and it sure is a step-up from rock band drums. Symbol 
 thingys, and a touch sensitive pads. It is a step up, Rock Band 2 didn't do anything new besides 
 durablitity. That is however GH drum's weakness. There are some issues. My red pad didn't respond 
 sometimes and my foot pedal was the same for a bit. Then somehow my wire was pulled in my symbols 
 and now it don't work. Wires... right on Activision. I don't know if I did it or some ass pulled 
 it out in force, but a simple thing screwing the experience, that sucks. Other than that, it's 
 fun. Very well compares to Rock Band drumming.
  
  Microphone. You sing, beaultiful voice or horrid voice, anyone can play. Read the text and follow 
 along the note transitions. Sing in any octave you want. That's about it. Simple concept. Who can 
 screw that up. 
  
  Modes: Career, quickplay, online, Studio, and Mii Freestyle
  
  Career is linear. Bunch of sets, bunch of songs. Very lenghy but you won't enjoy all of it, I'll 
 tell you why in a moment. Quickplay is just playing songs and you can make your own sets of 6 songs 
 and just play them. Boom! Online is cool, but no one plays it. It's hard enough to find a full 
 band and play. It's dumb looking for random people to play as a band anyway. It's the same experience 
 as playing alone. Playing with friends is a different story. Playing with friends from other households 
 and completing career as a band is a neat addition. There is also head to head modes where you 
 basically fight to the death. Actually no. You just try to outplay your opponent with any instrument. 
 Or do band vs band. I never tried it, but I'm sure it'll frusterating trying to find another searching 
 band. Studio is a brand new thing. It is a neat idea and it works well. Just like in real life, 
 it's very time consuming to get what you want. As a musician, I personally don't use this. It is 
 not for everybody, I can tell. You need a good knowledge of basic music theory. It is very limited 
 compared to real life, so I don't bother. It's better for me to make music in my own band. There 
 are some cool songs that people make though, and it's awesome that you can share it with the world. 
 Best yet, others can experience it and play it themselves. Mii freestyle is like studio but with 
 no technical stuff and no recordings. Just bring out your funny looking Mii and jam on guitar or 
 drums. I don't like it, but I'm sure others will find it amusing for a while. Again, not for everybody.
 
  
  There is DLC for Wii, which is cool. I'm disappointed thus far since I found nothing of interest 
 to this date. Too many modern crap. I'm hoping to see Rush, but might not happen.
  
  As for gameplay, it's still great. Flying colours flying towards you and you hit the corresponding 
 buttons or pads. It's a simple concept but it can be very difficult, depending on the songs. There 
 are more than 80 songs, not including the DLC and the unlimited amount of custom songs you can 
 download. It's huge. Since it is so huge, you're going to love it and hate it. Unless you have 
 a great taste of many varieties of songs, you will enjoy if for most part. The game covers so many 
 genres, you are going to find some songs you like, and some you will hate. Like I said that career 
 will be a drag sometimes. You have to clear every song if you want to see the game to its fullest.
 
  
  All in all, very good game. (expected a long conclusion? Too bad) . I'm out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 9:46 am PT
Review:  Positive:
  + new controllers are very nice
  + new guitar gameplay elements work well for the most part
  + huge setlist with diverse songs 
 both in style and difficulty
  + career is less linear than before
  + awesome online play modes
  + band play is a blast
  
  Negative:
  - mediocre graphics at 
 best
  - drum sound hardly comes through the TV
  - downloaded songs eat up the Wii's tiny internal memory
  
  Rock Band and Guitar Hero will 
 probably continue to be the two main rhythm franchises in gaming, and predictably each will probably 
 put out a new game every year. This means there will always be competition between the two. Guitar 
 Hero seems to win with sales and Rock Band with critics, but which is really better? While I can't 
 answer that question as I've barely played Rock Band, I CAN tell you just how great a game Guitar 
 Hero: World Tour is. So here's a review that (shocker alert) isn't comparing World Tour to Rock 
 Band 2.
  
  The main gameplay mode for World Tour is the Career. In previous Guitar Hero games, you had to 
 beat all the songs in a set to move on, but now you have several sets to choose from all the time. 
 This makes the game feel much less linear and allows for you to get to the end of the game without 
 actually clearing all the gigs if you want. The game's set list is huge too, so the career is really 
 long. The other major mode is Quick Play, which you will likely go to most after finishing the 
 Career. This has been improved from before too. You can now select up to six songs to make up a 
 set rather than going back and choosing another between every song, which is really convenient.
 
  
  Both of these modes feature both single player and band play. The multiplayer is really one of 
 the best parts of World Tour, playing with friends and family is a blast. Two to four players can 
 play the guitar, bass, and drums, and another person can sing. You can play with the band in either 
 Career or Quick Play or take your group online to play Band vs Band mode, or if you only have two 
 or three people you can find others to bring in for some cooperative play as well. The band play 
 is really what's at the very core of World Tour, and it's brought to every frontier very nicely.
 
  
  The game's guitar gameplay still has its core rooted in the foundations of the previous games, 
 but there are some good new additions. The main new gameplay features involve the slider on the 
 neck of the guitar: a touch-sensitive strip with the five colors on different sections that you 
 simply have to be touching at the right time to hit a note (you don't have to strum) . These sections 
 of the songs have purple-ringed notes, and usually they go really fast. The only bad thing about 
 the slider sections is how inconvenient it is to reach down the neck and suddenly have to get your 
 hand back on the main fret buttons when the section ends (you WILL miss at least two notes, guaranteed) . 
 The slider has other uses too, such as making a wah effect instead of using the whammy bar or slapping 
 it instead of strumming (while still fingering the notes on the fret buttons) . The slider is a 
 neat addition to the controller that's fun, if sometimes hard, to use. 
  
  The drums have been added to Guitar Hero with much success, but also one or two issues. The drum 
 kit is really nice, with the two elevated symbols and bouncy pads, and they make a lot of noise 
 but it's not like beating the crud out of a hard wood floor (ok, fine, I compare to Rock Band once 
 in this entire review) . The gameplay works just fine except for Star Power, which is activated 
 by hitting both symbols simultaneously and is pretty inconvenient. It only works 50% of the time 
 when throwing in the extra symbol hit to one already there, and an offbeat hit is just hard to 
 do most of the time. Activating Star Power may be a challenge in itself, but the drums are still 
 a lot of fun to play.
  
  Singing is pretty well done too. It picks up your voice pitch pretty well when you're singing loud 
 enough (which really isn't TOO loud) . Star Power is a bit of an issue here, too: you have to either 
 hit the top of the mike or press A on the remote. It's awfully inconvenient to try and hit the 
 mike while singing, and I doubt the remote will actually be in your hand while you sing. Overall, 
 though, singing works well and goes with the game nicely.
  
  There is also a Music Studio, where you record and edit your own music. It's great for people who 
 know a lot about music and don't mind spending hours perfecting their work, but the rest of us 
 will probably not really feel inspired to use it. Thankfully, you can take advantage of other peoples' 
 work for free through GH Tunes, where you download songs people have made with the game. Another 
 mode where you play what you want is Mii Freestyle, which is basically a kids' mode but is kind 
 of fun for about 10 minutes.
  
  With all these great game modes and solid instrument gameplay, you still wouldn't have a complete 
 game without a great list of songs. Thankfully, World Tour delivers in great and sometimes surprising 
 ways. The song selection is absolutely and is very diverse both in the areas of difficulty and 
 song style. The setlist contains easy songs like 'What I've Done,' very difficult and challenging 
 songs like 'Hot for Teacher' and 'Mr. Crowley,' and just about everywhere in between on the difficulty 
 meter. The types of songs chosen are quite varied as well, with songs like 'Everlong' and 'Re-education 
 Through Labor' and very different songs like 'La Bamba.' There is also a good mix of classic hits 
 and newer works, which makes the song selection great for the adults too. There are also a few 
 songs within the list that aren't very fun to play or are too long (I'm looking at the three Tool 
 songs in particular) but overall the setlist does a good job of catering to all potential players' 
 tastes and skills and giving a lot of fun songs to play.
  
  As much as I would like to ignore the graphics department of the Wii version of World Tour, it 
 simply can't go unmentioned. The graphics are REALLY mediocre, if not just plain bad. There are 
 some improvements over the visuals from GHIII, such as cooler performances and slightly more realistic 
 instrument playing, but the rest is only worse than in the last game. The character animations 
 are pretty mediocre and they really don't look very good. Occasional things done with the gig locations 
 (such as a beach ball hitting the lights of AT&T Park) are so poorly done to the point where it's 
 laughable. Another thing to laugh at is when a guitar player's finger actually comes up THROUGH 
 the fret board. Quality graphics? I don't think so. So if World Tour fails in one area on Wii then 
 it's in the area of graphics. Thankfully, you won't be looking at the performances very much when 
 you're concentrating on playing, so it doesn't really affect the game as a whole much at all.
 
  
  The sound quality of World Tour is great, but there is at least one issue with it. Songs sound 
 very good and the quality is pretty much perfect. But the main problem lies in the sound mixing. 
 I don't know about you, but I like to actually hear the drums through the TV when I'm playing them. 
 Unfortunately, even with the drum volume all the way up, I can barely hear them at all when playing 
 the instrument. Overall, though, the sound department is good because of the quality of the songs.
 
  
  When a game is as good as Guitar Hero: World Tour, it's hard to complain too much even if it's 
 not as good as Rock Band (which I still do not know myself) . Within its own franchise it's a real 
 winner, not only because of the massive in-game setlist and added instruments, but also because 
 of the touches to the Career and Quick Play modes that make them so much better than before. I 
 highly recommend World Tour to anyone who has enjoyed past Guitar Hero titles; you shouldn't be 
 disappointed.
  
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Camera & Control: 9.0
  Graphics: 5.0
  Sound: 8.5
  Value: 9.5
  
  FINAL SCORE: 9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pavcs
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 9:20 am PT
Review:  This game has great songs and graphics. I liked making my own songs and the song selection was 
 great. The difficulty is half in half. Livin' on prayer is very easy to get a hundred. Beat It 
 is one of the hardest songs. Same with Eye of the Tiger. A lot better than "Rock Band". More songs. 
 There are over 60 songs. This game is just plain awesome because of the loads of fun and excitement. 
 There is also a new difficulty, "Beginner", for the little kids and first timers. Hopefully this 
 game puts an end to "Rock Band". Good for partys and just to challenge your friends. This game 
 is highly under rated and deserves a lot more credit. Guitar hero just has more fans and support. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockOut9
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 9:20 am PT
Review:  whether ur musically impaired or if ur already a roker u can have alot of fun with guitar Hero 
 4
  
  Drums: this is my favorite new installment. it was sortof awkward to play at first because of the 
 2 symbols, but after about a day or 2 u get used 2 it. 1 thing i rlly liked about it was that when 
 u hit it soft it sounds sof but when u hit it hard it sounds louderthe gameplay is the same as 
 rokband
  
  Guitar/Bass: pretty much the same as gh3, 2 ,1 except the bass has a new note which is just open 
 and the guitar has a new sensitive touch boardish thing that workes pretty well.
  
  Mic: Same as rokband except this time there is no tangerine thing
  
  Graphics: this is the 
 reason y it is 9.8, but it doesnt rlly matter wen it goes on star power the notes get rlly small.......... but 
 thats it besides that the graphics are alot like gh2 graphics
  
  everything else: music studio=fun, hard .mii freestyle =fun 4 smaller kids but still alot of fun 
 4 everybody. online=?. songs=great choices
  Guitar Hero is the best of alllllllllll time rythem game so get it!!!!!!!!!!!!
  c ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y2chuck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  I play real drums and find these drums to be much better than the Rockband drums but still not 
 great. There is some lag even after syncing it up under options which is pretty frustrating when 
 I can play most of these songs on real drums but fail when playing them on GH.
  
  The song list is fantastic and I do play real bass and real guitar as well but don't find that 
 to be frustrating like I do with playing the GH drums. I actually find some songs easier to play 
 on a REAL guitar than on GH but man is it fun!
  
  The Mii freestyle is pretty crappy, great for the kids but not a lot of fun for me. I tried out 
 the music studio and found it to be really annoying and cumbersome to setup and record anything, 
 again, probably because I've done my own recording on real instruments.
  
  Don't really care about the bad graphics or useless customizing you can do to your rocker and instruments, 
 it's more fun to just rock out.
  
  I haven't tried online play or downloading any songs but overall this is a great game to play alone 
 or with friends, not a huge improvement over GH 1 or Rockband but still awesome.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onnipotente
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Il migliore della serie, guitar hero world tour  un gioco che vi terr letteralmente incollati 
 davanti al televisore, suonerete per ore ed ore senza accorgervi del tempo che passa. Le tracce 
 musicali sono svariate e spaziano dal rock, al metal, al country, al pop e chi pi ne ha pi ne 
 metta, in un tripudio di musica che vi far divertire e cantare a squarcia gola senza rendervene 
 conto.
  
  A tutto quel ben di dio si aggiunge la possibilit di farsi il proprio rocker, vestirlo di tutto 
 punto, fargli tatuaggi, piercing e personalizzare la cosa pi importante per chi fa musica: il 
 proprio strumento. I disegni da applicare sono tantissimi e via via che si va avanti si potranno 
 aquistare dallo shop del gioco.
  
  Altra cosa ma non meno importante la modalit gruppo via internet, che vi permetter di creare 
 partite o farvi parte, suonando con altre persone in luoghi svariati della terra. Potrete suonare 
 con un batterista, con un bassista, con un cantante oppure un gruppo vero e proprio e divertirvi 
 tutti insieme.
  
  Questo gioco merita un voto alto "9", gioco longevo e molto difficile in modalit hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamefreak375
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour was a big step forward for the Wii. The music studio was a huge jump. It 
 allowed you to edit note tracks for you songs in 5 different parts (lead, rhythm, bass, drums, 
 keyboard) . You couldn't record vocals (although I probably see why) but you can convert the keyboard 
 part into a vocal part. Another accomplishment was the character creator. You could create people 
 that look like.... anyone. I had a few controller issue with the drums. My cymbal broke on the first 
 day. I sent it back and I waited four weeks to get it back. Probably the biggest addition was the 
 online music store. There are some songs that had to be left out of it (like the Jimi Hendrix pack 
 because the estate said that you can only sell the pack, not the individual songs) but it has a 
 pretty good selection. The only but very major setback was online play. You could only hook up 
 with one other Wii console which is quite disappointing compared to Rock Band 2. You can't play 
 Band vs. Band unless you have four players on one Wii.
  
  The verdict: If online is one of your major concerns, get Rock Band 2; but if not, then Guitar 
 Hero's game play, music studio and character creator won't disappoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendofan19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  GH: WT is Guitar hero with singing and drums. I know this doesn't sound new (considering the release 
 of Rock Band 2 recently) however this new rhythm game from Activision and Neversoft is in a league 
 of its own. The guitar as usual has the same old features however the new slider pad gives it the 
 extra edge on those tricky solos. The drums work well, very similar to that of Rock Band's but 
 the two cymbals give it that relistic drum experience. The microphone and singing work well even 
 though the lyrics are a little difficult to read at times. Now for the track list. With over 80 
 songs in all GH: WT can surely stand up next to Rock Band anyday. From "Crazy Train" to "Misery 
 Business" this game really spreads the wealth from the last 30 or so years. The GH Tunes Music 
 Studio is fun. But maybe a little fine tunig for next years edition. All and all GH: WT is a fun 
 and entertainging family experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scar-hawk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  You got to really hand it to Activision for creating such a great game on the Wii and although 
 Rockband beat Guitar Hero to it, the ability to test out your vocal skills, jam with your drums, 
 and strum with your guitar adds even more charm to an already addictive game. These features have 
 not only been a major selling point for Guitar Hero World Tour, but they've also allowed for some 
 great fun whenever some of your friends come over. Whether you don't have any spare instruments, 
 or your friends refused to bring their own, you have a nice, lag-free alternative option. Wi-fi. 
 
  Wi-fi in this particular game works split-screen. The objective of the match is to make the crowd 
 like the way you jam more than your opponent's. And don't worry, none of your opponents you meet 
 over wi-fi will have a song that you don't. Balancing, however, could be an issue as your opponent 
 could be an Expert guitarist whilst you're just a simple novice playing on Beginner mode. You can 
 always leave the match though which might really tick off your opponent. But other than some balancing 
 issues, the wi-fi portion of the game is a great addition and it really adds some replay value 
 to the game.
  Coming up is the music studio. The music studio may have been a disappointment to some GH fanatics 
 that were really hyping the feature. It's a bit complex to use. But after some getting used to, 
 you'll learn how to make some music. Well avoiding a tutorial of the usage of the music studio, 
 the music you create can be uploaded onto the GHTunes songlist. GHTunes is a complete community-operated 
 playlist consisting of songs that people from around the world have uploaded. You can narrow down 
 your searches on GHTunes to "All Time Best" which is where it will display the best songs of the 
 entirety of the game's lifetime. You can even narrow it down to songs that are just beginning to 
 become popular. And you never know, one of the songs you may have uploaded could turn out here. 
 You also have the ablility to rate songs on a scale from 1-5. 
  Leaderboards might add some replayability as you strive to earn your spot amongst the top players. 
 Although the leaderboards are a bit buggy, there still is a chance for you to appear up on there. 
 And just keep your fingers crossed that Activision fixes things up.
  The music store is one of the biggest features Guitar Hero: World Tour on Wii has to boast. With 
 numerous songs including the guitar duels you will encounter in Career mode. Those being of the 
 free ones of course. Songs such as Sacrifice and Your Face are also available for download for 
 free. And obviously most songs require you to pay. You may be wondering what currency is required 
 for you to download such songs. Well it's none other than Wii Points! All of the songs that are 
 not available to download for free cost 200 points. The songs will certainly take up all of your 
 Wii's internal memory if you ever decide to download all of the songs. And fortunately, you are 
 able to use a SD Card to save your songs onto for future purposes. Unfortunately, most songs aren't 
 worth those 2 bucks you're shelling out. But there certainly are a few and you can preview them 
 using the button displayed on the bottom of your TV screen that is labelled "Preview".
  Next up is a Wii exclusive mode called "Mii Freestyle mode". You can tell that is mainly targetted 
 for the casual gamer. But because it's difficult to create some really good music, those up for 
 the challenge can attempt to make somg good music as you and your custom made Mii jam to some tunes. 
 Although, it could use some big improvements, the Mii Freestyle mode is a nice little exclusive 
 feature that owners of the Wii version of the game get to enjoy.
  Career mode isn't much different from other Guitar Hero games. You play some songs and get some 
 money. As you gain more and more money from your career your Rock Rank raises. Your Rock Rank will 
 also appear when playing in Wi-fi matches where you can boast your progress with this handy little 
 number. As you progress in Career Mode you will unlock more options for customizing your guitar 
 including new body shapes such as Spiderweb guitar body shape. Quickplay mode is an alternative 
 mode rather than doing Career mode. You have access to all of the songs that are accessable in 
 Career mode. You also don't have to pay those "Gig Prices" that you would have to in Career mode. 
 For example, in Career mode you have to pay $8000 worth of in-game cash to play Tool's songs. Quickplay 
 mode, on the other hand, gives you access to the songs free of charge. And don't worry, playing 
 in Quickplay mode doesn't mean No Cash.
  
  Closing Comments:
  Guitar Hero: World Tour is a fantastic game for both a single player and multi player experience. 
 Besides the minor flaws displayed in the music studio and Freestyle Mode, the game is truely fantastic. 
 Guitar Hero: World Tour is a great package whether you purchase the Guitar Kit, the Band Kit, or 
 even the game alone if you already have a Guitar Hero guitar. 
  
  Scoring Section:
  
  Presentation: 8.0
  Although it can get pretty difficult for Guitar Hero newcomers, practice makes 
 perfect. 
  
  Sound: 9.0
  The songs displayed in Guitar Hero: World Tour are appealing to all audiences. And although I disagree 
 that Tool get a whole setlist to itself in Career Mode, the songs are still well chosen. And at 
 least a few will make you want to play the song all over again just to hear it again.
  
  Multiplayer: 9.5
  
  The multiplayer portion is a biggie in Guitar Hero: World Tour whether 
 your playing down at your couch with some family members or play with a stranger living in Kansas, 
 the multiplayer portion of this game is a fantastic experience. 
  
  Graphics: 8.0
  
  You should have no trouble at all with the graphics. Although they are PS2-ish. Nothing should 
 affect the gameplay. 
  
  Lasting Appeal: 9.5
  
  Guitar Hero: World Tour on Wii will definitely keep you coming for more and more. The fun just 
 never ends. With the DLC, GHTunes, Career Mode, multiplayer, and Wi-fi, I wouldn't blame you if 
 you don't sleep! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yukilliom
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  The Guitar Hero have just added a must-needed improvement to catch up to the Rock Band series. Well 
 they added the drum as all of you may have already guess that. The thing that I most disapoint from 
 that is that you need to buy the entrie set to get the drum set. Well don't that suck because the 
 entrie set cost 189.99, instead of Rock Band 2 whom come out when a drum kit that only cost 89.99. But 
 that is a good part for that, you can use the Rock Band drum set from the Guitar Hero World Tour. Just 
 to let you know there is a down side. The down side is that you can only play with 4 note keys instead 
 of the regluar 5 note keys with the Rock Band drum set.
  
  The second issue that I have to face is that ever instrument that you use (except the micophone 
 which is a plug-in) have to have a wii remote connet to it. So if you want to do a band you needed 
 at least 3 wii remote, and if you don't have that many remote you have to spend a addition 34.99 
 for each remote.
  
  But there are many good part. Well one of them is that it have wi-fi, which ever one love. The second 
 one is that you can buy addition songs with your wii point to add to your game. The last one is 
 Just my point of view, but there are a lot of good song prefrom by badass bands in this game. But 
 the sad thing is that all of the things that I have listed Rock Band have them too.
  
  If i was you I will just buy Guitar Hero Metallica when it come out, instead of Guitar Hero World 
 Tour, because Metallica is the best.
  
  P. S.-Sorry for my bad grammar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WoW_Gamer111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  I personally think this game is extremely fun and exciting. It is even better in this game because 
 now u can have a whole band to play with. It might help improve hand-eye coordination. The guitar 
 and drums are quite exciting and energizing to play. The singing is also great. =) The career is 
 fun with all instruments. The career is also great because, it is challenging and as u progress 
 in the career, u will unlock some things. The character creation menu is interesting because it 
 lets u customize every small element of ur own rocker. It is also great to have head to head battles 
 with friends.
  
  I would suggest to any new Wii owner and any experienced Wii owners as a great buy. This game can 
 be bought at many stores world-wide. 
  
  
  This game is also great because it is easy to learn how to play it and once u learn that, ul never 
 forget it. :D :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamereaper999
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i'd like to point out a MAJOR thing that disgusted me: 
  IN GAME ADVERTISING
  nobaody like commercials right? So why would we want them in a video game? If the Guitar Hero francise 
 was a game, id say the next "album" will be a total"sellout".
  It's sad to see a game turn to big companies for money
  
  Next theres the setlist:
  overall, 
 the songs are alright, but there was tons of bands that i've never heard of, and didn't want to 
 do the songs. There was a few good ones: B. Y. O. B, Trapped Under Ice, Hot For Teacher, Schism, Parabola, 
 Vicarious, Freak On A Leash, Mr. Crowly, Crazy Train, Stillborn... those were the highlights for 
 me.
  
  There wasn't many songs where i was like "oh cool im happy they put that one on!" most of the songs 
 were from bands i never even heard of. Im also VERY disapointed that they didn't include bands 
 that are WAAAAY better than many bands they put on, such as: Megadeth, Slipknot, Lamb Of God, AC/DC 
 (especially AC/DC, they havent put ONE of their songs on ANY GH!!!) ,
  Slayer, Disturbed, and Pantera just to name a few.
  
  Another thing i didn't like was the lack 
 of origional material:
  
  Most of the new stuff on GH was stuff thats already on Rock Band, thats was pretty dissapointing. 
 I was also annoyed at how THIS time around they used master tracks, which obvioulsly was only because 
 RB uses them. So GH was torturing us with crappy covers the whole time just to save a buck on the 
 copyright!!
  
  Next theres graphics:
  
  Now i know that graphics don't matter too much in a game like this, but im still amazed at how 
 little effort was put into it. For example, the Ozzy Osbourne character looked almost NOTHING like 
 Ozzy. There was almost NO DETAIL AT ALL on his face.
  
  Custom characters was a nice addition, but i was angry at a few things with that as well:
  
 
  Lack of customabilty, very few ways to alter the character's face. EXTREMELY small amount of unlockable 
 items for the character, and most of the clothes starting out with were'nt very good
  
  Theres some more topics to go over, but my review is already pretty long, so my final words for 
 this are:
  
  GH is "selling out", i havent tried RB2 yet, but i would advise to not get this game, it's ALRIGHT.... but 
 i could've been WAY BETTER
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amm795
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour Wii is a great game. To start, it has an amazingly large soundtrack full 
 of great songs. The new insturments are all great and I had no difficulty or problems with any 
 of them. The gameplay is the same of course adding singing/lyrics and drums, pretty similar to 
 Rock Band. 
  There are many new features worth pointing out. The character creating is very fun and quite in 
 depth with choosing colors and designing the physique of your character. You can also create and 
 design your own instruments which is a positive addition to the series. You can design album covers 
 for your band as well. There are many different places to play at with your band as well as many 
 rockstars to unlock. There is a song creator as well which works well and is extremly in depth. 
 And now there is a Mii Freestyle which is fun to do if your looking for something laid back and 
 simple. Other than those big features there are many new things like the slider on the guitar and 
 the game allows you to change the volumes of the bass, guitar, vocals etc.
  With all of these new features you won't be able to say Guitar Hero World Tour is a bad game. However 
 there are a few problems and things which could've been improved. The graphics are fine for wii 
 but a few things like people's hair could've been done much better because they just stick to shirts 
 and skin and barely actually move. The menus can be a little confusing at times. Choosing places 
 and people also is strangley done and very confusing and may leave you with something you hadn't 
 planned on.
  All said and done, this is a great game with a perfect soundtrack, fun gameplay. exciting new features, 
 and many new little things you may not notice that make the game even more great (changing the 
 volumes, you might see your guitarist singing along from time to time, and other things) . I reccomend 
 the game to everyone and it will keep you playing and playing all night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 22, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  As the name of the game implies, it's a music game in which, as if to 'keep up' with the 'Rock 
 Band' series, has implemented more instruments to play, including drums, bass and vocals.
  
  of course you would be thinking 'well there is nothing wrong with that! why the poor score?' 
 This is why:
  
  Gameplay: The game is just like other Guitar Hero games. You can choose to do 'career' mode in 
 which you earn cash and become a famous rock group, or quickplay where you can choose a song you 
 want to play and.. play it! However my main complaint comes from the songs within the game. While 
 there are a lot more songs in World Tour than GH3, they are poorly chosen and edging on being a 
 bore to play, with the exception of a very small number of songs.
  
  It is good that the game offers the extra instruments so the multiplayer is larger, but i fail 
 to see the point if everyone is going to be bored of playing it after a song or two.
  
  Graphics: they have their good and bad moments. In career mode, when are asked to pick a character, 
 they are all blurred and look terrible. However, once playing a song, the background 'show' looks 
 fine, but doesnt seem as well done as GH3.
  Also when a first starts playing and shows the name of the song and band, most of the time it is 
 incredibly illegible! The illegible writing continues when it displays the lyrics for the individual 
 unfortunate enough to be in charge of the vocals. If you dont know the words to the song, you're 
 in a bit of trouble unless you have a magnifying glass on handy.
  
  Value: Of course this game offers unlimited replay value, i dont think many would want to use it. 
 If you purchase the whole set so you can play drums/vocals etc, then i'm sorry for you.. As you 
 spent a whole heap of cash on something I dont see you using much. If you only have a single instrument, 
 i also pity you as you will not unlock the entire game, and with all sections being a bore, at 
 least with all instruments you may be able to extend that boredom longer than if you just had the 
 one instrument
  
  The Good: Big song choice, large multiplayer, downloadable songs from WiFi, customisable character
 
  
  The Bad: Songs are boring to play, illegible writing in most sections of the game, longer loading 
 times
  
  Final Word: I'll be sticking to GH3 thank you very much.. and let's hope Rock Band 2 does a better 
 job of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shredder25
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero has been great ever since it debuted, and it still holds as one of the most anticipated 
 games every time one comes out. GH: World Tour is no different.
  
  The game improves over GH3 with a new touch sensitive guitar, drums, and mic. Some people have had 
 problems with the drums sensitivity, but now there is a solution for that. I, personally had problems 
 with the guitar's strum bar a week after I got it, and it still does today. My year old Les Paul 
 still acts like it's brand new.
  
  In-game improvements consist of the music studio, mii freestyle, new careers, better cheats, better 
 online (somewhat) , open notes (bass) , dlc, and many more little improvements.
  
  The music studio is hard to figure out, but musical experience helps you out. GHTunes is basically 
 a free user made song download store. Thanks to the tutorials, new features are no problem to figure 
 out. Mii freestyle is pointless, but it's freestyle, so it's not too bad. The songs themselves are 
 great, but not nearly as hard as GH3.
  
  The letdowns are the jacked up leaderboards, custom song limits, no Death Magnetic (only 3 songs) 
 or Jimi Hendrix dlc, and instrument problems.
  
  However, most everything in the game is addictive, and band play is when the game is at its best. This 
 is a great game for rockers and hardcore gamers alike, and certainly one a teenager can't miss out 
 on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendonoob
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour is a great game. It comes again with many titles including the WII. It couldn't 
 be better. The song list is great and there are about 80 songs altogether. There are not many unknown 
 artists and there is a lot of variety. There are also great added versions just for the WII. It 
 has a game mode called MII freestyle when you make your own notes and just rock out with your MIIS 
 for a while. It's all pretty good except for the part that can't actually play the songs in the 
 playlist. If this was possible MII freestyle would have been the best game mode in the game. The 
 story mode is the average and fun being able to be played with any player you create being able 
 to customize it more and more as you progress in the story mode. The song creator is new and very 
 fun. It does take time and patience, but if you would devote your time to that for a while you'll 
 have a blast doing it (being able to share your created songs around the world for other people 
 to play and rate) . The gameplay is as awesome as ever with the many better known songs like Eye 
 of the Tiger, Beat It, Livin on a Prayer, andmany more great songs like groups like the Beastie 
 Boys. There is also a new difficulty called beginner for newbies. It is very, very easy (involving 
 just hitting any button you want every few seconds) but it's fun and it fits to the beat of the 
 song all of the time. There also more cheats than ever for you hackers (I dont use them but I have 
 found out there is many checking here on Gamespot!) including all songs, many rock legends, the 
 classic hyperspeed, big gems, and many many more. There are also downloadable songs able to be 
 bought on the internet (for a fair price) for even more variety for your playlist. So, overall 
 this game is an instant classic and a must have, for any guitar hero player, trust me this'll be 
 a fine collection to you row of guitar hero or rockband games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak1907
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Since May of last year I have been watching Guitar Hero: World Tour. First impression was "No are 
 you serious there copying Rockband this will suck." Then i saw the drums. Anyways lets get to the 
 review.
  The Drums are amazing and fun to play. They are extremely responsive and pretty challenging. The 
 foot pedal is annoying but you need it to have a realistic feeling. The elevated symbols make it 
 feel really like drums.
  The guitar added the new touch strip which actually is quite useful. When a solo comes up the notes 
 turn a different shade so you can slide your hand on the touch strip. This is useful but hard to 
 get used too. You can also tap the strip on sustained notes for a new sound. It's also used as 
 another strummer. Other than that the guitar is the same and really fun. Same with bass.
  The mic is fun to but not much different than Rockbands.
  The new music studio is fun, but almost 
 too hard that its not worth using. Once you can use it well it is quite fun. Mii Freestyle is surprisingly 
 fun you will get some amusement out of it. Making insane solo is definitely fun.
  The Good:
  Fun to play as a band
  Making your character is fun
  Can customize instruments
 
  Publish songs on GHtunes
  Re Education (Through Labor)
  The Kill
  Misery Business
  What I've Done
  The Bad:
  Falls a little short on challenge
  Track list could've been better
 
  The answer is yes it does live up to the hype. So i give it a 9.5 out of 10. This is for sure 
 worth $200 and is a great holiday gift. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JERMINITIS
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Drop your gaurd and jam out to some solid tracks from the most recent all the way back to the 1960's. 
 However, don't expect any record contracts anytime soon.
  
  This game offers an experience that the whole family, or group, can enjoy. Whether you dig playing 
 guitar, bass, or drums, you can find your place. Or, if you're braver than anyone else, you can 
 even 'belt out' some tunes as the lead singer. Whatever your desire as a rocker, the gameplay layout 
 is simple enough to figure out for begginers, and it has been improved a tad for the more experienced 
 players. The biggest improvement that I have noticed is the addition of the fret bar touch strip 
 to the guitar. Plus, the online play has worked rather well, which makes a solo rocker less lonely 
 if he/she chooses.
  
  The heart and soul of this game is the setlist. Which, I must say, wasn't my favorite when I first 
 played this game. Yet, after playing all of the songs, I've come to enjoy the majority of the tracks. 
 In addition, I've even went as far as downloading some of the tracks that I was initially unfamiliar 
 with onto my MP3 player, now that I know them.
  
  As I stated at the beginning, you should definitely drop your gaurd when you play this game. GHWT 
 can be enjoyed by one person. But, the biggest thrill that this game has to offer is when you and 
 some bandmates let it rip and kick out some jams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiiownzzz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  A nice handful of the songs are really fun to play but some of the others you kind of want to ask 
 yourself "Why the $%&* is that song on here"! I would say about a good 35 or 40 songs are fun to 
 play and the other half you don't even bother playing. I also really enjoy how the drums feel and 
 respond. The new option to download songs is a very nice touch to this game. In my opinion, Activision 
 should think about the people who play these games and look into the music that they listen to 
 (mostly teens 14-18) , some of these songs are really not made for GH. Also I must say that the 
 difficulty in the recent Guitar Hero games are slipping away, I remember about a year ago when 
 GH3 was really hard and everyone was trying to to beat Through the Fire an Flames, and only the 
 best of the best could beat it. That little battle with my friends and others to see who can beat 
 that song first was really suspenseful and time wasting. I already beat all the songs in this game... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joonhoahn01
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I heard that downloadable contents are not for free, which makes more advantages to other players 
 because you don't have enough cash (real ones) , such as, me. 
  
  The other problem is the Tool venue. You can't see your characters and you can't even see the crowd 
 either. If you played there in the real life, you can't even know what you're playing because of 
 all this spooky artworks! Oh, and guess what... Every time you rotate your head, you still see 
 the venue in the SAME direction! It's more like a screensaver just with note highways rather than 
 a venue! It doesn't make any sense! I bet almost no one saw this because they concentrate on their 
 note charts! The venue doesn't even fit in!
  
  I think we should learn to modify that wierd Tool venue into normal venues such as AT&T park (which 
 is existing in the game, so don't) or Dodger Stadiuum (yeah, and put the scenario as DAY because 
 I found that all GHWT venues have scenarios as night or indoors, which seems to make a hole a little 
 bit. 
  
  If you know how to record covers from actual guitars (not controllers) , you better tell everyone 
 NOW! I've never seen songs like those before on GHTunes!
  
  Other than that, it's good that you can bring in an actual drum set and plug it into the drum kit 
 controllers. Then you can use the actual drum kit to hit notes, meaning that people don't complain 
 about wireless controllers. Too bad I don't have one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drk_net
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  This game is great for those who like to bust karaoke (singing) and former Guitar Hero Games for 
 those guitar controller playing fans. The drums opens doors to anyone in the family to join in 
 and be able to play along.
  
  The Setlist is very large giving the opportunity for older and newer generations to fuse and enjoy 
 what the game has to offer.
  
  Character Creator gives a sense of self identity, where you create you own character that appeals 
 to your likings, not to mention, you may also create the instrument's apperance so you can stand 
 apart for the pack! If not, you can use certain unlockable characters like Sting, Ozzy Osbourne 
 amd others!
  
  The music creator gives you an added bonus of enjoyment! It can unleash an inner composer that 
 you might not have known existed within you.
  
  This game gives you the sense of teamwork, as you provide starpower for you and your teamates to 
 share..... just a great game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: niilo99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  what an amazing game, 
  there's so much you can do, to start for beginners there's the Mii free style which is cool
  
 and the online gaming is great for people with at have a strong internet connection, personally 
 i don't have one yet but it's coming alone. there's the ranking system which is good because it 
 gives you a challenge besides beating the carer mode on all instruments. And in quick play you 
 can make money for completing a song which you can spend in the store and it boosts up your ranking. 
 GH-tunes is great because i know that once a while you just want to shred, just hitting random 
 notes, not caring what it sounds like or if it's right, GH-tunes lets you do that and publish it 
 on the web.
  
  buy the band set plus another guitar since only comes with one and get your friends and have an 
 awesome time 
  
  
  Zach Roberts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaulBellini
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 22, 2008 12:08 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I love Guitar Hero III. It was hard, but not too hard. Rock Band for the Wii 
 is missing some functionality that the XBox and PS3 have, but the songs are so much better. I have 
 yet to look at the Rock Band 2 song list, but it has to be better than GH WT. The Tool gig is awesome, 
 like the Hendrix, Silversun Pickups was unexpected, but who wants to sing the Spanish songs? Too 
 much crap I don't know and didn't care for. Admittedly, I bought the bundle without the drums, 
 because they weren't available. But, after playing through 100% complete on Hard (guitar) , I have 
 no desire to spend the $$ on the drums, I'd rather buy Rock Band 2. The freestyle, music editor, 
 ability to play 4 v. 4 is nice, but the songs suck! I see that most reviews are positive, but I 
 was disappointed. By the way, Smashing Pumpkins is one of my favorite bands and Today is one of 
 the worst songs they ever produced. Zero would have been perfect for GH. I can't stress it enough, 
 cool game-like the additions, but the songs are weak. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyd_93
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  a whole year waiting to play the drums on guitar hero was well worth it. a few minor flaws but 
 overall still pretty great.
  
  Pros
  play drums
  play in a band
  wii has DLC
  can change difficulty in career mode if one song is too hard
  big set list
  System of a Down 
 =]
  new touch bar
  career mode as bass, guitar, lead singer and drummer
  beginner mode
  
  Cons
  touch sensitivity of drums
  problem in touch bar make it go off randomly, ending 
 streaks
  lack of boss battles
  not enough heavy metal or real rock music
  hardly any DLC for wii
  need 4 wii-motes to make band
  no cross compatiability woth RB
  drums 
 noisy and rig gets wobbly when you hit hard
  
  
  
  What can i say. Its AWESOME. drums are what i always wanted to play on guitar hero after the guitar 
 of course and i finally play BYOB with a drum set. sure the set can be less noisy and more sturdy 
 and made more sensitive (fixed with software) but it still doesnt hold me back. microphone isnt 
 something i plan using although i may try humming to get through. new guitar design is great also 
 and would have worked really good with TTFAF. only downside i can mention is the touch bar goes 
 off randomly stopping streaks and making you more prone to lose and the star power bar is bad IMO. 
 i much preferred it in the les paul guitar where only a slight hand movement can set star power 
 where as the custom, it takes a bit more push to get it which can cost you during an intense moment. 
 after playing through medium in career mode i was left upset with the lack of battles. only time 
 i played against someone was Zakk Wylde, and that was just a face-off. this left me really dissapointed. 
 whats guitar hero without versing travis barker on drums or jimi hendrix on guitar, sure they are 
 pro, but it would be fun to verse them. Also the lack of heavy rock, metal and heavy metal upsetted 
 me. Wheres slayer, or slipknot? All im hoping now is Guitar Hero Metallica will be awesome and 
 also incorporate the drums and vocals. prepare to ride the lightning in 2009
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adenton7
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  this is a great rythem game. i think it is the best one out yet. besides my drums and guitar not 
 working it is a great game. i love the idea they had about the drums. it makes them look much more 
 realistic than rock band. and te new guitar's slide bar is a great thing that they added. i only 
 hope that they do not add anything else to the guitar so i do not have to buy another new one. 
 that is the only real downside to the game is all the stuf is so expensive. and as of now i would 
 not buy it until they figure out for 100% sure what the problems are for the drums. i gues i was 
 just the lucky one to get a defective guitar. there are not that many guitars that are defective. 
 i know 1 is already too much, but compared to the drum sets there are much less guitar problems. 
 i really do not think that they should have ever had problems with the guitar because they have 
 been working on the guitar sence they started making the guitar hero games. i can understand the 
 drums because they are a new piece of technology for the guitar hero staff. after i get that situated 
 i will be playing the drums a lot. the drums are probably my favorite part of the new guitar hero. 
 i got to play them for about 3 or 4 days before they pooped out on me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zjohnsto
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  From a purely 'guitar hero' point of view (ie. no drums and vocals) , this game rocks, and rocks 
 hard.
  The mapping is accurate for guitar and bass, the learning curve is gradual, from 'play in your 
 sleep' (beginner) to 'how far is it to Carnegie?' (expert)
  With Beginner now an option for those who are utterly clueless to the game, but keen to get stick 
 into it, it makes a great entry level game for the entire series. 
  I had no trouble what so ever diving right into the thick of it with career mode. 
  The first 
 thing that struck me as awesome was making my own rocker! Although the level of detail you can 
 go into doesn't really translate into the game - you can't see tattoos and little things.
  Once done tune after tune i recognised fell beneath my fingers. As i was using the Les Paul i didn't 
 have the slider bar, but the game doesn't punish you for not shelling out the extra dosh. Hammer-ons 
 were as satisfying as GH3 (GH: Aerosmith doesn't compare) , and at no stage did the screen slowdown, 
 miss a note, or drop out.
  The only thing i'll say about the tunes is they seem to be at a significantly lower sample rate 
 than GH3. There's less detail in the sound, and i have to crank the volume higher to get the same 
 'oomph'. Nothing EQ can't fix, but even so it's like listening to 128 kps vs 256 kps (yes, there 
 is a difference) .
  And finally! Downloadable content! 
  I've downloaded An Endless Sporadic's tune 'Anything' because their tune on GH3 is by far my favourite. 
 They didn't disappoint. The amount of blocks it takes up is a little surprising, but hey, it's 
 all good.
  I have not, and will not, buy the kit or mic, simply because i'm a purest, so look to others for 
 how effective they are.
  There is SO much available to the guitarist i don't believe you're missing out - but i reserve 
 judgement until somebody else pulls out the kit...
  Highlights: Accurate, make your own dude/dudette, great range of original masters, downloadable 
 content, Tool.
  Downlights: Sample rate down, no incentive to shell out for kit/mic, can't see detail on rockers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinghal
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Drum set is flimsy and awkward:
  The cymbals are flimsy and hard to get used to. The sensitivity is very hard to get used to. I 
 have seen videos on YouTube. com about adjusting the sensitivity. 
  Guitar felt nice but was buggy:
  The guitar is much easier to play than the GH3 version. However, 
 mine was a little buggy. It would just strum on its own when I wasn't pushing anything. About a 
 week later it no longer does it but I am not confident that it will not start again. I wonder if 
 it just needed to be broken in. No response from Tech Support. 
  Character creator is fun:
  It is nice to be able to create your own rock star. The tattoos could have some better options. 
 
  Duels removed special notes:
  Remember those fun notes in GH3 where you could up the difficulty on your opponent and flip their 
 notes? Well, those are gone. That was the coolest part of the duels. 
  Overall:
  Don't like the fact that I have to play an entire gig at a time. Really like seeing actual rockers 
 like Ted Nugent and Sting in the game. Song selection is good and the vocals are easier than Rock 
 Band. The little trivia and sayings during load times are much weaker than before. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidafly
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  If you have a Wii, the GHWT band bundle is totally worth getting. There is a massive amount of 
 songs (plus DLC) , a chance to make your very own music, and new and improved band peripherals. There's 
 BYOB, Satch Boogie, Beat It, Schism, and so many more awesome songs. The music creator may seem 
 impossible at first but actually can be quite fun and valuable. Since there is too much awesome 
 things about it I'll list it's minor flaws. Drums sometimes don't register hits (can be fixed with 
 a tuning kit or finding the pad's sweet spot) , remote needed for every instrument, and almost 200 
 bucks. If you can deal with those few problems this game is just fantastic. Definately at least 
 9/10. yay
  Get It NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoruSama
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour is a huge step for the Guitar Hero series. It now features instruments for 
 a whole band (the drum kit and the microphone) . There are many songs to choose from, there's character 
 customization, and even a music studio.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as Rock Band's. However, it seems like Guitar Hero is missing 
 some key elements that made Rock Band such a great party game. There's no more screaming at your 
 friends to go into overdrive because you're failing a song. Another aspect is the fact that the 
 ability to do drum fills is a little a bit different. Drum fills apepar less often in Guitar Hero, 
 and you don't have to smash the last cymbal note to go into overdrive. You just bash random notes 
 when the screen indicates that a drum fill has to be done. The rock meter is also very hard to 
 see at times. Guitar Hero, however, does have star power.
  
  Drums on Guitar Hero are much better, having 3 circular pads, two cymbals, and a bass drum pedal. 
 It is much funner to play than simply having four pads in front of you. One problem, however, is 
 that GH's kick pedal isn't attached to a bar, so after many hard hits, it'll start moving around. 
 This is quite annoying, especially when you have songs with many bass drum notes.
  
  This is just a very, very general overview of Guitar Hero's band gameplay. It doesn't give much 
 detail. If I were to choose either Rock Band (2) or Guitar Hero for the better party game, I'd 
 choose Rock Band. They're both still great games though, and if you enjoyed Rock Band, you should 
 definitely take a look at Guitar Hero World tour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toad772
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  The Guitar Hero vs. Rock Band battle is on everyone's mind. The music genre is, for the first time 
 in gaming history, pushing the industry just as hard as sports games, or titles like GTA, and that's 
 a huge success for everyone involved. In the end though, everyone's going to wonder which music 
 game is the best, and that's something that may take a few iterations for us to seriously figure 
 out. By now you've undoubtedly seen our 360/PS3 review of World Tour (or if you haven't, you should 
 click on over and check it out) and have seen that our sister sites have all but confirmed that 
 Rock Band 2 takes the prize for this generation, due to some odd band-making issues, interface 
 problems, and general continuity that World Tour just doesn't seem to have out the gate. I personally 
 agree with those issues, but when you step into the realm of Wii, things change in a big way. Yes, 
 World Tour has some definite things that need changing, and if it was about your 360/PS3 experience, 
 I'd suggest you at least try to transition into Rock Band as well as Guitar Hero -- even if you're 
 like me, and a long-time Guitar Hero supporter -- as there are a few things in that game that outrank 
 Activision's latest offering, but on Wii specifically, Neversoft had a wildcard, and its name is 
 Vicarious Visions. 
  
  We all know the technical limitations that come with working on Wii, and they're issues that hardcore 
 Nintendo fans -- especially those that don't want to invest in a second or third system this generation 
 -- are having to deal with time and time again. There isn't enough space in our fridge -- meaning 
 that Nintendo's console has less than half a gig of storage space internally, and that's used for 
 WiiWare, Virtual Console, Channels, and save data -- so the thought of downloadable content or 
 expanded gameplay is about as far from most gamers' minds as you can get. Guitar Hero World Tour 
 is a first step in a whole new direction for Wii though, and it's that blending of a very fun music 
 game and a pile of new technology worked that puts this game in the must-buy category on Wii. 
 
  
  Let's dive on in. 
  
  For starters, I want to talk a bit about the core game, what works, and where World Tour misses 
 the boat. To me, both Rock Band and Guitar Hero are still different enough to validate multiple 
 purchases (though on Wii that's more of an issue, since the hardware still isn't fully confirmed 
 to work between both games; something Rock Band 2 is trying to change by allowing the new Guitar 
 Hero guitars to work in MTV's game) , and the main reason is that Rock Band 2 is a stronger party 
 experience, while Guitar Hero is still the hardcore music gamer's challenging, breakneck speed 
 music offering, now taken one step further with a full creation mode as well. This year's offering 
 adds vocals and drums -- with a set I personally like much more than Rock Band's hardware -- and 
 builds a very basic band mechanic into the game, but when you peel that all away you'll still find 
 that Guitar Hero is harder overall, and has a full-fledged Guitar Hero experience in there (if 
 you don't want to play as a band, you've still got very challenging guitar parts, pro face-off, 
 online face off, guitar duels, and so much more) . So while the IGN crew is in full agreement that 
 we'd rather party with a copy of Rock Band 2 at our side than Guitar Hero's new take on group rock, 
 I can more than see the advantage of having the classic Guitar Hero I know and love at my finger 
 tips, backed by a decent -- not amazing -- band experience. 
  
  In fact, both Rock Band and Guitar Hero have a list of issues I wish could be fixed, but what it 
 really comes down to is what works, and what doesn't with both games; it's up to you where you 
 should sink your cash. World Tour's first major advantage is that the hardware is superior to anything 
 I've used over the years, with the new touch pad guitars being a blast for quick finger-tapping 
 regular notes and playing sliding notes during solos. Since the touch pad acts as a strum bar during 
 regular notes and as an auto-play fret during purple highlighted notes (and you've still got a 
 whammy bar for bending notes, as well as a quick slide on the touch pad for a different effect 
 added in) , there are more opportunities for showing off in front of friends or during face-off 
 battles. Good stuff. 
  
  
  
  
  The drums are also stronger in my opinion, with a quieter rubber pad for the snare and two toms 
 and raised (surprisingly rugged) cymbals. On the software side, you've got all the modes you'd 
 expect from the "next gen" SKUs of Guitar Hero World Tour, and also a new Mii Freestyle mode that's 
 a nice, simple take on something like Wii Music. It's a blast to play, though it'll take some serious 
 skill to make anything that sounds good, so parents beware; it's basically a noise maker mode with 
 depth that younger players may never find. Still, if you're picking up World Tour for a few hardcore 
 gamers around the house, Mii Freestyle is a great add-on mode that -- at least in this reviewer's 
 opinion -- is more rewarding than the whole Wii Music package by Nintendo. There's a reason this 
 game wasn't shown off at Nintendo's latest media summit, and it's because Nintendo knows just how 
 strong other music offerings on Wii really are. Mii Freestyle gives you three back-beats to play 
 off of, and then based on your tilt of the guitar/bass you can add in your own notes (set up in 
 the key of whatever backbeat you're using) and literally jam with a buddy in a two-player free-form 
 mode. Wii Music lets you sprinkle in extra notes between pre-made songs, but Mii Freestyle recreates 
 the experience of improvisation in a way no other music game has really explored on Wii, or any 
 other console for that matter. It's simple, but fun. The music creation mode though, I have to say, 
 is a letdown. There's a whole new community aspect connected to World Tour, where players can use 
 the new Guitar Hero Mixer and studio to record their own music, throw it online, and let other 
 players take the music and play/rate it. It's a great concept in theory, and as long as some uber-hardcore 
 players really get into using it, it'll provide unlimited amounts of free content for World Tour 
 players; an awesome offering. For me though, it was just too complex to really get into, and I've 
 been playing musical instruments for over a decade, and have used actual professional music editing 
 software for years. The combination of guitar control for trying to scrub and edit, along with 
 the lack of keys to input musical notes (since you've only got five frets, and need to change up 
 what notes are assigned to them constantly) make composition difficult. I'd much rather have a 
 sequel make use of an online or downloadable program separate from the game itself, where players 
 can use a full-blown Mac/PC program to make their music, and then upload it to the same bank of 
 songs from a computer, rather than having to make the music using a guitar controller. It just 
 didn't work for me. 
  
  With that in mind though, there are already over 50 songs online to grab from people who are getting 
 into the creation process, and as long a hardcore group of players embrace it (maybe the Guitar 
 Hero Custom users out there can stop hacking games, and start creating real music, since many of 
 those players have some serious level design talent) you'll have endless new songs to check out. 
 So even if you don't get into the music-making process -- something I was originally very excited 
 about, but eventually put off by -- you'll still have the chance to quickly connect to the community 
 area, check out some free music, rate it, and if you really dig it, add it to your system's song 
 list just like any other downloadable content. In the future I'd also like to see some better guitar 
 sounds coming out of this mode, or more options overall, since all the music sounds like midi -- 
 like classic gaming sounds in a way -- perfect for those daring enough to make old game tunes at 
 the risk of getting caught by Activision's license police along the way. Case in point though, 
 the audio quality could be better. 
  
  World Tour does have some serious issues though, and that's of course the main reason for our PS3/360 
 score, and the reason Vicarious had to "save" this design with some aspects I'll touch on in a 
 minute. I mentioned the core band experience just isn't as strong with this one, and that rings 
 true from the beginning of the game, echoed in the career mode, and on-screen during songs. For 
 starters, there isn't any serious band creation. You name your team, character creation is optional, 
 and there's no identity behind the created rockers, so if everyone wants to be my studly 80's hair 
 metal-inspired rocker Jason Brandmire, all four users could rock out with him if they wanted, which 
 breaks any band continuity. There's no fan system either, which means there's also no risk in playing 
 shows. The career interface is no more than a few pages of album art where you select shows, and 
 some require cash to unlock (wait, now we're paying cash to play at shows where we'd normally earn 
 cash? Why? We already unlocked them a second ago from playing other shows before it) . You get cash 
 from sponsors as you play, but it's really just a clever way to award cash; there's never a time 
 when you select what sponsors you want, or juggle the pros and cons of different career paths. 
 It's basically the same old "play the songs, unlock them in quick play, and move on" feeling as 
 previous iterations of Guitar Hero; not much "band experience" at all to be found. 
  
  There are other issues as well: With star power now reworked so that there's one main bar shared 
 between everyone, and activating it will only engage star power for a few seconds, rather than 
 using up the whole bar. I get the idea there -- one moron can't use it all up for the band -- but 
 it isn't always easy to engage during a fast song. And with drums, which require both cymbals hit 
 at the same time rather than the much more entertaining "filler" system in Rock Band, in which 
 you risk missing notes, it's a bad choice overall. Along those same lines, the on-screen interface 
 is about as far from what you need in a game like this as possible, with everything put in a small 
 icon set in the upper left of the screen. With something like Rock Band, you can glance over to 
 the bar and see exactly where you are in terms of failing the song, and where everyone else is 
 in relation, while the cramped icons in World Tour make it tough to tell how close you are to failing, 
 and where your buddies are as well. The info is still there for you, but it's harder to interpret, 
 since you've got an overall band meter (no saving members in this one; if one person fails, the 
 band fails) as well as four little bars. Star Power and Sreak Combo are also way up at the top, 
 so if you're playing in the player four position on the right, you need to look all the way across 
 the screen to check what's going on; something you can usually spot out of the corner of your eye 
 in Rock Band. 
  
  
  
  
  I get the overall feeling that Guitar Hero's design team was out to totally ignore what Rock Band 
 has been doing, instead going in a different direction just to be different. I get that the team 
 wanted to set themselves apart from Rock Band, and that's fine, but certain aspects of the game 
 -- blue solo areas for guitar parts, the Bass Groove, drum fills for Star Power (a must) , and the 
 end-of-song random fill notes -- are serious advancements in the deisgn, and shouldn't have been 
 ignored just to spite the "other design" out there. Don't hurt the overall game just to send a 
 message to the competition. The touch pad, sixth fret for bass players, and fill areas on specific 
 songs with drums were all nice additions, but don't ignore great design ideas just to be different. 
 As I mentioned earlier though, even with those odd issues within the core game, Vicarious Visions 
 has managed to seriously turn an otherwise somewhat lacking experience on Wii into a package that 
 is a must-own for music gamers that own Nintendo's console. During the project's development, Vicarious 
 worked with Nintendo to open up the SD card slot for additional use in-game (the reason SD will 
 also be opened up for other games starting as soon as early next year) , and the result of that 
 hard work is an awesome package on Wii. For the first time ever on Wii, players can auto sign-in 
 to the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection when booting the game, and remain online in an Xbox Live-like 
 experience for their entire play session. That means you can check online friends at any time, 
 go to the music store and download tracks, play online with random players or friends at any time, 
 or go to the music store all seamlessly throughout the game with no other sign-in at all. Once 
 you boot up the game, you're in, and the team even included an option to auto sign-in from boot 
 every time, meaning that for the first time ever on Wii, all online work is done automatically; 
 awesome. 
  
  
  Fact: I had more fun with Mii Freestyle than all of Wii Music.
  With the opened SD card technology I mentioned, Vicarious has also bypassed the need for cleaning 
 out the fridge, with songs automatically downloaded to the SD card and then transferred (again, 
 in the background) from SD to Wii system memory during normal load times between tracks. That means 
 if you have a two gig SD card with dozens and dozens of songs on it, and you use one of those songs 
 in a playlist in career or quick play (or online) , the game will take just a few more seconds -- 
 about five to ten more than usual -- to automatically transfer that into play when needed during 
 normal load times, and you'll never need to worry about your internal space. Now, all of a sudden 
 the tables are turned when it comes to downloadable content, as Rock Band looks to have significantly 
 more overall (even on Wii) than Activision, but you won't need to manage data transfer with World 
 Tour, making the songs you download in Guitar Hero already set to use in-game. It does take an 
 additional 30 seconds or so after downloading a song in the music store to send it over to the 
 SD card, but once you do, you'll never need to move it again. What it comes down to now is whether 
 you want more DLC at the price of constant song data management, or if you'd rather have your purchased 
 music always available with no break in the gameplay. I'd personally to with the second option; 
 data management sucks on Wii. 
  
  
  
  
  Guitar Hero World Tour is a technical marvel on Wii, and the only real aspects that hold the game 
 back from being truly amazing overall are -- oddly enough -- the ones implemented by Neversoft's 
 core design. If Vicarious is going to continue being Activision's "Nintendo Guitar Hero team", 
 I'd suggest that they are given full control over how the game looks, feels, and presents itself 
 on Wii. A new interface, some basic band changes overall, and continued work in making the Wii 
 version a technical powerhouse could make Guitar Hero World Tour 2 (or whatever it's eventually 
 called) leagues above the other World Tour products in Activision's library. It obviously worked 
 with Mii Freestyle, online, and SD management. Let the team run with the whole design from here 
 on out. 
  
  
  Closing Comments
  Guitar Hero World Tour is bound to be an interesting case as players start to play it, compare 
 it with Rock Band on each of the respective systems, and develop their own opinions on the game 
 (and series) overall, and you can already see the change in perception across each platform in 
 our own overall scores. On 360 and PS3, Guitar Hero just doesn't hang in there with Rock Band 2 
 like we thought it would, but when it comes to the Wii battlefield, Activision's offering is not 
 only the strongest music game on the system, but also the biggest technical achievement we've seen 
 on Nintendo's system software-wise since launch. Players can connect and stay connected to online 
 from the game's initial boot, download and pull music directly from SD card with no fridge-cleaning 
 or player legwork needed, and the overall sense of connectivity from player to player, player to 
 the music store, or player to the Guitar Hero community where free community-made DLC is readily 
 available is unprecedented on Wii. Vicarious Visions has taken a package that admittedly has a 
 bit of an identity crisis in its first "full band" year, and turned it into a game where we can 
 overlook any odd issues for this first year in favor of amazing connectivity, and a fully streamlined 
 package. There's more in the Wii version of the game than even the 360/PS3 packages (Mii Freestyle 
 mode is simple, but casual fun) and when you weigh each version against its own system's merits, 
 and the competition found on that specific console, Guitar Hero sits at the top of Wii as a great 
 overall offering. Yes, there are issues, and the game is obviously pushing the Wii as far as it 
 can go (we noticed some four-player lag at times, something that transpired from time to time online; 
 always a minimal annoyance more than anything else) , but the payoff is a game that includes a mass 
 of content that's well worth a look. 
  
  If you own a PS3 or 360 in addition to Wii, you might want to weigh your options when considering 
 Rock Band 2 or World Tour, or a combination of both for hardware/software. If you're a Wii-only 
 gamer though, World Tour owns the system, and we've rated it accordingly. World Tour raises the 
 bar for what Wii games do both in connectivity and in data management. Oh, and there's a pretty 
 kick-ass music game in there too.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: judynails35
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun if you have the money or hate rock band but realy want to play the drums 
 or sing.
  if you have it please enjoy it because you can transform a realy bored party in the best disco 
 ever, so if you are going to buy rock band stop it and buy this realy addictive game and please 
 believe me!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  i played whit my cousins and every time that i went there its a realy good time that we spent playing 
 this and dont forget to enjoy it (if you have rock band trash it) and if you don't have it buy it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
  
  ok now im going to give you 3 reasons to play it :
  
  first: come on rock band songs are bored and its very easy and who wants a easy game that it can 
 be passed in a hour and bores you???????????
  
  second: guitar hero games are original and i think that rock band steal guitar hero is 
 
  
  and the last its that the instruments are realy cool and compared with rock band are only a bug 
 and the cymbals dont brake easily (and i think that with a bang they fall in pieces)
  
  So continue enjoying yor guitar hero world tour!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam3231
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  All the hype leading up to "Guitar Hero: World Tour" has its fair share of disappointments and 
 successes. I'd say that this is a fine addition to the guitar hero series but this is not much 
 different than the rock band series.
  
  The sound track is once again pretty good. Some artists have 2-3 songs in one game, which wasn't 
 a great idea since it takes away from the game's variety imo.
  
  The gameplay is similar to rock band, with players hitting notes synchronized to the music track. 
 The game has added some new elements to the tracks that separate it from previous versions such 
 as purple notes, where the player only has to tap the fret buttons to play the note.
  
  The instruments, haven't had any problems other than a broken drumstick, easily fixed though. They 
 work well including the new touch pad on the guitar.
  
  
  The career modes are generally easy to get through, if you're not unlocking all the songs using 
 cheat codes, you will find it unusually easy to unlock them without especially if you're a previous 
 guitar hero player.
  
  The create-a-rocker mode is easy to use and you can explore tons of customization. I give this 
 area two thumbs up, they really took their time with this aspect of the game.
  
  Receiving two thumbs down however, is the track creator. Even if you bear enough patience to figure 
 this contraption out, you probably won't have enough tolerance to make a track worthwhile. What 
 ultimately kills this feature of the game is the interface. The variety of sounds are all there, 
 there's more sound making material than you could ever imagine, but trying to use it all cannot 
 be described any better than "cryptic," But on the bright side, this is the first of such a feature 
 in its genre and if you got eight hours to burn this might be right up your alley.
  
  The wii-exclusive "Mii-Freestyle," - - it takes about 15 minutes of playing to diagnose this joke.
 
  
  From my experience Wi-Fi works well 1 v 1, not so much 2 v 2. I haven't tried any of the other 
 options yet but once again another Wi-Fi game ridden by the searching feature
  
  Good game but not far beyond rock band.
  
  By the way I would rate this a 7.5 but -.5 for wii-motes 
 required on every instrument, ridiculous. What was nintendo thinking?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zolo913
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero World Tour is pretty much everything it was said to be and more. To start off, the 
 music soundtrack is amazing. It has a variety of music from Michael Jackson to Smashing Pumpkins. 
 You can also create your own set list so you don't have to scan through the menu after every song 
 to start playing again. The visuals are stunning and colorful with vivid details. The create your 
 own character options are massive. There are at least 6 different types of rockers you can create 
 and design. You can give them tatoos, whacked-out hairdos, piercings, pretty much anything else 
 you want you can do to your rocker. Also, you can customize the their instruments and buy more 
 designs and clothes for your character and instruments. The career mode is decent and leaves a 
 little to be desired, but no surprise there. The boss battles are great and the inclusion of famous 
 rock-stars like Ozzy Osbourne and Bill Corgan is an awesome idea on Activision's part. The only 
 complaint is the load screens. There are far too many of them and they are a bit too slow. Over 
 all, this an great game that should be on any gamer's shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeytheleo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  this game is rockband and much more. it has a character creator that is probaly a ton better than 
 rockbands. its character creator is sort of like the sims character creator. also the guitar is 
 more responsive and quiter than the previous versions making this better the other guitar heroes. 
 Also the drums are intense with the new cymbols. i know for rockband you can get drums with cymbols 
 but they are $300. there are a few downsides to this game though. one is the comet from the mic 
 is all over the place when you sing and it is freakin annoying. also the ever so great music studio 
 is insanely herd and whenever you try to make a song it turns out crappy.
  
  overall the game is great for any guitar hero fans and rockband fans and i totally recommend getting 
 it for any knew players too. i give this game a 93/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiifanaticnumbe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Okay I went to a friends house and tried world tour for the first time. one word AMAZING! GHWT 
 has charactor creator, song creation room, and battle of the bands for online. Well the gameplay 
 was extremely fun and the The drums are just pure fun especially wen ur playin a fast paced song 
 in Hard or Expert. THey added a new feature for the guitar a sliding neck and personally i think 
 its better for us. i mean they just doing the songs with the crazy hammer-ons fun to play. You 
 place ur fingers on the bar and follow the purple lines to make u slide. I really can't say how 
 it works cuz my friend was the one that did most of the sliding, I nly had one song that had the 
 sliding and it was only for 4 notes. XD any ways the microphone is fun. THe only problem I have 
 with the microphone is that if u dnt no how the song goes, you can easily make u or ur teammates 
 fail miserable. Like me lol I didnt know how the song Rambling man goes and me and band failed. 
 YEt when I sang Trapped Under ice, I freakin got a 95% in Expert :) Now the drums are just fun 
 as hell. Though I've experienced the problem that people are talking about, my friend says that 
 I'm not hitting the song in good timing, yet it only worked wen i freakin smacked the cymbal hard 
 as hell! Other then that its fun, butit takes time to getting used to. I was in easy for lyk 4 
 songs, but then i quickly went to medium and then hard XD (Its crazy man) THe song list is pretty 
 good for the most part, the only problem I have with it is that the begginning of the game most 
 the songs are freaking slow as hell. It took a while to get to the fast paced songs. O well anyways 
 this game is a must buy if you dnt wana buy rock band 2, or mayb u hve RB2 but u want a guitar 
 hero drum set idk its ur money. lol o btw they got the game in budles like just the game, game 
 and guiar, and the entire band kit. I'm personally gona wait for the Drum Kit, since i already 
 have the GH3 guitar ^_^ I cnt wait to own all you guys online or vice versa XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashingZyme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  The game in it's self is awesome (I'd call it perfection but some would argue, even though if it 
 isn't arguing about the game per se. It has more tracks than the previous installment and it's 
 overall well done. The mere fact that it even has downloadable content for the Wii is amazing, 
 making it a must-have for Wii owners who happen to be music lovers. It's more varied than the other 
 games, having genres other than rock and having the careers have different set lists instead of 
 the same one everytime you do a new career. While the game is great, the instruments have given 
 me a little trouble. The Guitar is better than the previous one, but it's kinda hard for me to 
 find the correct buttons in the slider, maybe I just need to get used to it more. The drums... are 
 good, but don't be surprised if you're having trouble with them cause I've heard it happen already. 
 I myself had a problem with the yellow cymbal, it didn't want to recognize when I hit it, so I 
 decided to do the red octane thing and while Im currently waiting for my MIDI Usb cable, I read 
 that having a computer near by might damage the play, so I decided to turn of my computer and the 
 yellow cymbal started to work better, so maybe that's an option. Either way, the games a good buy 
 and it's worth it. I'd recommend for you to buy a later version though, to see if they fix the 
 drums... or buy a recent version and do the MIDI Usb thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellowbud
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  the guitar is amazing, you can tell they thought threw a lot of cool ideas. the mic is great and 
 easy to pick up and sing. the drums i must say work great but are as loud as real drums. i would 
 have payed a little more for thin screen pads to hit. i tend to hear the drumming i am doing over 
 everything else, when GHW seems to be more visual and and reaction based game. maybe they should 
 have thrown in a cool collapsible drum stool. for all the loud thumps you have got to endure. the 
 music list is the best thing, playing new songs is the fun thing for me and friends.
  the music maker is cool if you have the time to use it.
  enjoy the game and i hope the metallica 
 game is better than aerosmith game. that sucked. the guitar that came out with the aerosmith set 
 was the only good thing. to rap it all up its a great game and on WII it is really clean and there 
 is hardly any bumps or bangs along the way. the equipment is way better built this time around. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghcantwell
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band and Rock Band 2 bad, but Guitar Hero World Tour is cool! GHWT has great multi player 
 ability and cool that you can create your own songs and characters. The on line play is great fun 
 and it makes it more interesting. It is cool that you can down load songs even on the Wii. I would 
 highly recommend GHWT. It's worth the investment! What is really dumb about this review is that 
 it has to be 100 words and I've said all I can about how cool Guitar Hero World Tour is! I guess 
 I just have to keep saying it until I can make it one hundred words. I don't think any one should 
 be forced to write more but since I must and since I think Guitar Hero World Tour is so cool, I 
 will say it again. Buy it -- that is Guitar Hero World Tour -- because it is really, really cool! 
 Got it? Okay! Thanks. Okay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gh057rider
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This is my first Guitar Hero for a next-gen system (I actually bought a PS2 just for GH) . My first 
 impression is that it was a good decision to switch to the Wii, but it still isn't all I would 
 have hoped for. Don't let the Pay-to-Play Wifi icon mislead you, it's referring to DLC, not online 
 play.
  
  The game itself is solid. Picking up the guitar and playing is just like the previous versions. 
 The new touch strip is... not all it was hyped up to be. You don't HAVE to use it at all, and when 
 you do it often works against you. Other than that I haven't had any problems with the new guitar 
 hardware (though navigating the Wii menu with the guitar is kinda annoying) . There are a few guitar 
 battles (without power-ups like GH3) but they aren't really note worthy. The addition of open notes 
 on the bass is a nice addition (it displays a line across like the drum pedal) but doesn't really 
 add much difficulty. For example, "No Sleep Till Brooklyn" the difference between Expert and Hard 
 basically just switches the greens with opens (which actually makes it easier since you don't have 
 to move your hand back and forth) . I'm sure this isn't the case with every song, but and it does 
 make playing bass more fun than it used to be.
  
  The drum kit has serious sensitivity issues. Activision is aware and is already working on a tuner 
 to fix the problem. From what I've read my kit isn't as bad as some, but I do have to hit my orange 
 cymbal pretty hard to get it to register (and since star power is yellow + orange it's sometimes 
 difficult) . The drum gameplay is fun, I assumed it would be much harder for non-drummers than it 
 actually is, which is nice. The kit is small enough that I can leave it set up in the corner of 
 my bedroom without it being in the way too much while its still big enough to feel like actual 
 drums. Setting the drums up was easy (only took about 10 minutes to pull everything out of the 
 box to turning on the Wii) but I haven't taken them apart yet so I can't give any info on that.
 
  
  Vocals is probably the most awkward of the instruments. Even playing by myself with nobody else 
 home I find it embarrassing to try and hype up a crowd that doesn't actually exist. It isn't terribly 
 difficult to sing the lyrics on pitch and you can sing in any octave so deep voices don't have 
 to worry about destroying their vocal chords. It's VERY easy to accumulate star power with vocals 
 but there's nothing wrong with that. You can choose between static or scrolling vocals. Static 
 reveals the line you're on and the next line as well as a "tunnel" which designates pitch. Scrolling 
 is more like karaoke which is easier for lyrics but harder for pitch. The mic is wired and plugs 
 into the back of the Wii, but the cord is VERY long, I don't see it being an issue at all.
  
  IMPORTANT NOTE: YOU NEED TO HAVE A WII-MOTE FOR THE MIC! You can't navigate the menu without 
 a Wii-mote and thus can't start playing a song. So in order to play a full band you are required 
 to have 4 Wii-motes (Though you can switch the Wii-motes between instruments in single instrument 
 play) .
  
  You can progress through the game as both a band (any combination of the instruments) or individual 
 musician (guitarist, bassist, drummer, singer) . The order of the songs is different for each instrument, 
 and you have some freedom to pick which gigs to play in what order. You do have to clear entire 
 gigs of 3-5 songs in order to advance. It shows you the songs beforehand but the encores and guitar 
 battles are "surprises". A nice feature is that any money you earn goes to your band (from career 
 single instrument, band, or quickplay [you earn bonuses like "Never Red" for small amounts of cash] ) 
 so you have more opportunity to upgrade your attire or instruments (no songs/extras to buy though) . 
 Another nice touch is the ability to change difficulty mid-gig, I generally start on a challenging 
 difficulty and go down if the next song is too difficult.
  
  Character creator is slightly gimped on the Wii, but it still qualifies as fully-functional. You 
 simply don't have as many options on the Wii. DLC does work for the Wii! You can download a song 
 (make sure you have about 200 blocks free on the console) and then transfer it to an SD card. Songs 
 DO NOT play from the SD card, they are transferred temporarily to the Wii (so you have to keep 
 some space available) . I'm starting to hear rumors that all of the DLC will NOT be available on 
 the Wii and while I hope this isn't true, I wouldn't be surprised. I know that track packs are 
 not available and each song is 200 Wii points, but what will be available is yet to be seen. 
 
  
  From what I've been told, on the Wii, GHWT instruments WILL NOT WORK WITH ROCK BAND 1 OR 2 AND 
 VISE VERSA. I don't have any RB games so I can neither confirm or deny this (but I tend to think 
 they are not compatible or we'd have heard about it by now) .
  
  I haven't played any online matches yet so I cannot comment on it, but if/when I do I will update 
 my review. I haven't played with Mii Freestyle, and I'm not much of a musician so I haven't done 
 much with the studio (It seems too complicated for amateurs) . GHTunes is kinda nice, but custom 
 content doesn't sound nearly as good as real songs and I don't know how much attention I'll be 
 paying to it. Also, I'm nowhere near completing the game so if I find something else to mention 
 I will update this review. Overall, I am happy with the game (even with the $189.99 price point) 
 and I'm happy I went with the Wii version over the PS2. 
  
  UPDATE: I gave online band play a shot and I was disconnected on both tries (once during matchmaking, 
 and once halfway through a song) . Up to the point I was disconnected, it didn't seem laggy at all, 
 so I don't know what the deal was. Mii Freestyle is mildly entertaining, I bet kids would enjoy 
 it more, but it isn't nearly as much fun as the actual game. You basically just wail on your instrument 
 and complete "training cards" which don't actually matter. There's some interesting stuff on GHTunes, 
 but nothing really extraordinary. Everything sounds like bad midis, which plays well to video game 
 songs, but not to actual music. No real effect on the bottom line of my score, but worth mentioning. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: japanesegoth
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  I figured I'd buy the new Guitar Hero because I've pretty much had enough of Guitar Hero 3. I was 
 expecting a little more than what I got. I just bought the game because I can't afford to spend 
 $200 on something that I'm not even going to play that much and if I'm not going to be having a 
 lot of people over to play it. Anyway, from my previous experiences with Guitar Hero, this one 
 is just way too easy. I started on Hard difficulty expecting it to be challenging since I just 
 bought the game so I wasn't familiar with any of the songs yet. But after playing a few I started 
 to think... wow, either I'm just getting that good that hard is now not a problem or they've dumbed 
 the difficulty down. My brother also plays guitar hero and he said it was easier too... besides 
 that, the song list is so-so but I knew that before I bought it. At least us Wii owners are finally 
 getting downloadable content which is both good and bad. Just watch out for developers selling 
 you junk that should've been included in the game in the first place.
  
  I guess this game was intended to be more like rock band so maybe that's why I'm not too impressed 
 with it. Rock Band isn't as difficult either but it's more fun when you have more people playing.
 
  
  The create-a-song feature (whatever it's called) is a pretty nice addition. I know I have no clue 
 what note is what but I'm sure my brother will be able to make a pretty decent song since he's 
 into music and being able to share them online is pretty sweet. I'm sure we'll be seeing a lot 
 of nintendo themed songs.
  
  The inclusion of Miis is an interesting new feature. I don't really think it adds to much to the 
 game but it's always fun seeing my ridiculous looking Miis flailing around with a guitar.
  
  Overall not a bad game. My main problems were just the easier difficulty and the less than 
 exceptional song list, but that is probably to be expected since they've had about 5 guitar hero 
 games already and they are pretty much cramming as much in as possible even though it may not be 
 the best suited for a rhythm game such as this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpmrad321
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  The game is nothing less than perfect. They bumped the difficulty of songs up even higher. The 
 choices of songs put in were awsome. very few songs shouldnt've been put in the game.... maybe 5. 
 the songs unlocked at the end are the 10 hours i put into the game yesterday. Pull Me Under is 
 a great song. Mostly becasue its dream theatre. They should've put Under a Glass Moon bye Dream 
 Theatre instead, but o well, maybe in DLC.
  
  Guitar Parts are harder
  Drums are very well put together and every song is a pretty hard. Ecspecially "Hot For Teacher".
 
  
  
  the Character Modification is very cool as well as the build your own guitar. I think they could've 
 done a little better job on the song creator but its still top notch and worth it. 
  
  The game comes with 4 free downloadable songs. 2 of witch are the guitar battle songs.
  
  i 
 havnt tried the online multiplayer quite yet. havnt had the time to since there are so many other 
 options in the game but im sure that its good.
  
  the game is deff worth the money. and if you dont have enough for the whole band pack, go buy the 
 game buy itself and get the other instruments later. you'll spend so much time with the guitar 
 and multiple features that u wont even think about the other instruments.
  
  If you havnt bought the game yet, Go out and buy it now.
  
  DO IT,,,,,,, NOW!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alhenriq1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. Great for small groups, big groups, or even solo. If you have ever played rock 
 band, it's very similar, but the instruments are much nicer. 
  
  The Drums
  
  The drums are surprisingly realistic and much easier to play than RB's. Being a drummer, I had 
 some problems getting used to the RB pad and it was a little tricky finding the right head to hit. 
 This was not the case with GH. They did a great job, making it a lot more like a real set and quite 
 fun to whale on =) . Also, it has rubber on the bottoms of everything, so no sliding.
  
  The Guitar
  
  Far superior to the infuriating RB one. This one strums as it should. Works with 
 the GH3 guitar for the WII so there was no need to buy another one. Very nice appearance too.
 
  
  Vocals
  
  Have yet to try it actually, no one wants to sing, lol.
  
  The Rest
  
  Customizable characters. Excellent song list. Internet connection utilized for the WII. What 
 more could you ask for? Worth the money, great value, sure to be a hit at gatherings. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
