-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/guitarhero/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The best tracklist of any Guitar Hero game to date.
 Lots of master tracks from the original bands and artists.
 Online play is a fantastic addition.
 Higher difficulty level ensures experienced players won't get bored quickly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Higher difficulty level ensures most people's arms will fall off halfway through the expert career.
 Battle mode and boss battles aren't interesting additions.
 A heavy dose of in-game advertising.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.7, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 3,628 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: RedOctane
Developer: Vicarious Visions
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Oct 28, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Guitar Hero III ups the ante with more challenge and new modes, and though not all the new stuff 
 is great, the terrific tracklist and gameplay are sure to hook you in. 

  You wouldn't have been wrong to come into Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock with some sense of trepidation. 
 With original Guitar Hero developer Harmonix off the project and Tony Hawk creators Neversoft now 
 on board, it would be fair to wonder if anything that made the wildly popular rhythm game franchise 
 so awesome would be lost in the shuffle. The good news is that Guitar Hero III is Guitar Hero through 
 and through. The core gameplay that fans love hasn't changed outside of some basic tweaks, and 
 the long and varied tracklist is the best of any game in the series to date. If there are any chinks 
 in the armor of this sequel, it's that some of the newer mode additions and a few odd design decisions 
 do more to get in the way of the fun than anything else. Likewise, the extreme difficulty of some 
 of the game's more severe songs might end up turning off newer players. Those issues aside, it's 
 hard to argue with what Guitar Hero III offers from a content perspective, especially if you're 
 a longtime fan of the franchise.  

           Say hello to the return of the shred.      

  We won't spend a great deal of time trying to educate you on the ways of Guitar Hero if you've 
 never played one of these games before. The quick and dirty explanation is that you have a guitar 
 controller with five fret buttons and a strummer. Notes appear on the screen, you hit the matching 
 buttons, and rock is made. In Guitar Hero III, you'll be making the rock with one of the best soundtracks 
 to be found in any rhythm game. The soundtrack spans multiple eras and genres. Classic rock is 
 represented with songs such as Santana's "Black Magic Woman," the Rolling Stones' "Paint it Black," 
 and ZZ Top's "La Grange." Alternative rock from the '90s is present in a big way with tracks such 
 as The Smashing Pumpkins' "Cherub Rock," Red Hot Chili Peppers' "Suck My Kiss" and Pearl Jam's 
 "Evenflow" on-hand. Classic punk fans will dig being able to play the Dead Kennedys' "Holiday in 
 Cambodia," Social Distortion's "Story of My Life," and the Sex Pistols' "Anarchy in the UK." Modern 
 rock hits such as Bloc Party's "Helicopter," The Killers' "When You Were Young" and Queens of the 
 Stone Age's "3's and 7's" are also available. And for all the metalheads, you get major classics 
 such as Slayer's "Raining Blood," Iron Maiden's "Number of the Beast" and Metallica's "One." It's 
 an all-around fantastic list with only a few blemishes here and there. It's easily a much higher 
 ratio of quality over crap than what Guitar Hero II had.  

  It's worth noting the number of original tracks added into this year's game. Well over half of 
 the songs in Guitar Hero III are the original songs by the artists, as opposed to covers created 
 for the purposes of the game. A couple of bands, including the Sex Pistols and early '90s funk-metal 
 outfit Living Colour, actually went into the studio and rerecorded their songs for the game, which 
 is pretty cool. The one downside to having so many master tracks in this game is that it does make 
 the songs that are still covers stick out all the more. It doesn't help that the general quality 
 of the covers has also been downgraded a good bit since the last sequel. The woman covering Pat 
 Benatar's "Hit Me With Your Best Shot" doesn't really sound anything like the '80s songstress; 
 the version of Black Sabbath's "Paranoid" in the game features a uniformly unimpressive Ozzy Osbourne 
 impersonator; and the entire cover of "Holiday in Cambodia" has been pretty badly butchered with 
 some weird structuring changes, badly edited lyrics, and a guy who sounds more like someone trying 
 to parody Jello Biafra than anyone remotely authentic. Of course, the guitar parts in these covers 
 don't suffer much and in fact do a fine job of emulating the real-life songs. It's just the surrounding 
 pieces that rob the tracks of authenticity.  

  Of note as well is the fact that Guitar Hero II's focus on extreme shredding over simple yet memorable 
 riffs is even more intense in this sequel. The easy and medium difficulties are as good a starting 
 point as they've ever been (though even they are a smidge more difficult than previous installments) , 
 but the curve definitely takes a steep incline when you bump up to hard and expert. The jump in 
 expertise required for each setting is far greater than ever before, and at times it comes across 
 as just too much. As awesome as songs like "One" and "Raining Blood" are, they're so intense that 
 it's unlikely that anyone who didn't get all the way through expert in Guitar Hero II will have 
 a blessed clue what to do with these songs. And then there's that pesky song from extreme power 
 metal group DragonForce, "Through the Fire and Flames." It sounds a little bit like a Dungeons 
 &amp; Dragons dork singing over a tape of the Contra soundtrack that's been thrown in a blender 
 and set to "liquefy," and it is so excruciatingly, arthritis-inflictingly difficult that you'll 
 be thanking your lucky stars it's a bonus song and not something you're required to complete to 
 advance. Regardless, there are enough songs that do require completion that aren't terribly far 
 behind in difficulty level that it might just be enough to scare some people off from finishing 
 expert altogether. There's an old adage along the lines of "You win more friends with accessible 
 fun than you do by breaking people's fingers with a fake guitar." Or something like that. Whatever. 
 The point is that Guitar Hero III feels decidedly geared toward the hardcore Guitar Hero fan, and 
 less for the newcomer.  

  Painful difficulty aside, the game is still lots and lots of fun. The core gameplay hasn't been 
 altered much, save for a few minor adjustments here and there. Hammer-ons and pull-offs, the techniques 
 used to hit crazy streaks of tightly packed single notes, are now easier than ever before (possibly 
 to offset some of the extreme extremeness of the harder songs) , and the notes that can be hammered 
 on or pulled off now glow brightly to signify as such. While playing, you'll notice that the game 
 also keeps track of your note streaks both with a counter and with periodic exclamatory text messages 
 on the screen that notify you when you've hit certain streak milestones. There are also some changes 
 to the way your star-power meter is displayed, as well as your score tracker, though these are 
 mostly just aesthetic changes.  

           If RedOctane were a band, Guitar Hero III would be that album that they made 'for the 
 fans.'      

  You progress through Guitar Hero III much as you would any of the previous games. The career mode 
 uses the same tiered-unlocking system as its predecessors, with encores at the end of each tier. 
 One wrinkle to this year's mode is the addition of animated cutscenes that sketch a minimal story 
 about your band's meteoric rise and eventual fall (literally) into hell. It's not much of a tale, 
 but there are a few moments of amusement here and there. One particularly interesting addition 
 to this year's game is a co-op career mode. This works much like the single-player career mode, 
 but you can play through with a friend who you can divvy up either lead or rhythm guitar/bass duties 
 with. Co-op play hasn't changed much since last year's game, but this new career progression is 
 a neat idea.  

  Unfortunately, it's a neat idea that's overly restrictive in practice. For one thing, there are 
 six songs you can unlock  only  in co-op career, which means that if you don't have a buddy with 
 a second guitar that can come over and spend an afternoon playing, you won't get those songs (at 
 least until someone eventually digs up the "unlock all songs" code for the game) . Also, no version 
 of the game ships with a co-op quick-play option. The only way to play cooperatively on a single 
 console is to play in the co-op career mode, and you have to unlock six tiers' worth of songs before 
 you unlock all the available songs. Interestingly enough, there is a launch-day patch for the Xbox 
 360 version of the game that adds a co-op quick-play option. However, if your 360 isn't connected 
 to Xbox Live, or you happen to buy any other version of the game, you're out of luck at the moment. 
     

  Elsewhere in the multiplayer arena, the face-off and pro face-off modes from the previous Guitar 
 Hero games return, and they're still generally excellent. However, the one new addition is anything 
 but. Titled battle mode, this mode replaces the star-power mechanic with Mario Kart-style weapons. 
 If you hit a specific note string, you'll gain a weapon you can launch at your opponent by tilting 
 the guitar. Weapons include broken strings, jacked-up whammy bars, amplifier overloads (which cause 
 notes to appear and disappear randomly) , and a reversal of the notes to lefty flip (and vice versa) . 
 On paper, this mode seems as if it could be amusing, but in practice it's just dumb. Most of the 
 battle-mode matches we played were over in 30 seconds or less because one player simply couldn't 
 recover quickly enough to get a weapon and fire back. It's basically a situation where whoever 
 gets a weapon first wins most of the time. Even when matches do go on for a bit longer, they aren't 
 really much fun anyway.  

           Get used to severe hand pain.      

  Battle mode actually finds its way into the career mode in the form of boss battles. Activision 
 went out and licensed a pair of notable guitar players: Guns N' Roses/Velvet Revolver legend Slash, 
 and Rage Against the Machine/Audioslave shredder Tom Morello. At the end of a couple of tiers in 
 the career mode, you go head-to-head against these guys in original guitar tracks that they themselves 
 recorded, during which time battle-mode rules apply. Nevertheless, the same balancing issue pops 
 up. Most of the boss battles can be bested pretty quickly if you get a couple of weapons in a row. 
 The last boss battle has you playing a heavy-metal cover of "The Devil Went Down to Georgia" against 
 a fairly obvious opponent, and that fight is considerably tougher than the other two, but it's 
 also the last boss of the game, so it would kind of have to be. The boss-battle mechanic just feels 
 tacked on. With only three battles out of eight tiers in the game, and only two of them against 
 real guitarists, it feels like a quickly tossed-together mechanic that, again, just isn't that 
 much fun.  

  Quite a bit more enjoyable than any battle modes or boss battles is the addition of online play 
 for the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and Wii versions of the game. Guitar Hero has never been online 
 before, and the ability to go online and take on the top axe grinders in the world is a huge bonus. 
 Online options include all the offline gameplay modes. Ranked matches let you play face-off, pro 
 face-off, and battle modes, and player matches let you do all of that plus the co-op songs. Sadly, 
 you can't do the co-op career mode online, but at least your friends can strap on a bass and play 
 online. There are some key differences between the three online versions of the game. The PlayStation 
 3 version doesn't include any manner of friends-list support, which means you can play only against 
 random players online. The Wii version lets you play both random players and friends, though the 
 friend options are limited to game-specific friend codes. The Xbox 360 version probably has the 
 greatest ease of use online, with all the standard Xbox Live accoutrements, as well as easy access 
 to downloadable songs (though, depending on your opinion of the Guitar Hero II pricing of said 
 songs, that might be a blessing or a curse) . The PS3 version should also include downloadable songs 
 through the PlayStation Network store; unfortunately, the Wii version isn't set up for any kind 
 of content downloads. The good news about all three versions is that they perform wonderfully online. 
 Lag never got in the way of the gameplay experience in any matches we played.  

  While on the subject of differences between versions, it's worth noting that each version of Guitar 
 Hero III comes with its own guitar bundle. Xbox 360 owners may not necessarily want a bundle if 
 they already own the Guitar Hero II guitar, but III comes with a new wireless guitar that features 
 a detachable neck, a much better whammy bar, better strap design, and more responsive buttons. 
 If you weren't satisfied with the GH II guitar, this is a good upgrade and potentially worth the 
 $100 asking price for the bundle. PS3 and Wii owners have never had a GH game before, so you will 
 need to buy a bundle to play with the guitar. The PS3 version costs the same as the 360 one, and 
 the guitar is functionally identical as well, save for a small dongle that has to be plugged into 
 the PS3's USB port to make the wireless action work. The Wii version costs $90, and has the most 
 unique guitar of all of the available versions, in that it features a connector for the Wii Remote. 
 The remote fits snugly into a port on the back of the guitar, and the remote essentially takes 
 over as the guitar's tilt sensor. It also does a few unique things, such as buzzing slightly when 
 you engage star power, and playing all the missed note sounds through the Wii Remote speaker. PS2 
 owners also get a bundle, though unless you really, really want a wireless guitar, there's not 
 much reason to go that route here. The new guitar's buttons aren't much better than the previous 
 PS2 guitars, and the sync process for the wireless controller is kind of clunky. It's a nice-looking 
 guitar, but it's not quite worth paying $90 for.  

  The change in developers has also resulted in a slight change in visual style in Guitar Hero III. 
 The look of all the various characters and environments has changed noticeably, and everything 
 has been given a more defined and exaggerated look. It might be slightly jarring to those accustomed 
 to the standard Guitar Hero visuals, but once you get used to it, you'll find the game to be pretty 
 sharp-looking. The guitarist characters look excellent, and even the secondary band players look 
 more detailed than ever before (though considering how dog-ugly the singer is, maybe he could have 
 stood to have a little less detail) . The PS2 and Wii versions look about on par with one another, 
 and look maybe slightly better than the last couple of PS2 Guitar Hero games. The Xbox 360 and 
 PS3 versions are considerably better-looking, even over Guitar Hero II on the 360. However, the 
 one thing that does get in the way with these versions is occasional bouts of frame-rate slowdown, 
 specifically when engaging star power while lots of notes are onscreen. This chugging is really 
 distracting and can occasionally throw you off while you're playing. Rhythm games, perhaps more 
 than any other genre, really need to not slow down, and it's disappointing that this one does. 

           These are the characters you remember, but they look a bit different now.      

  It's 
 also disappointing that Activision has finally decided to corporate up the Guitar Hero experience 
 with a fair amount of lame product placement and dynamic in-game advertising. It's one thing to 
 get branded guitars and get Guitar Center to sponsor your in-game shop -- it's quite another to 
 have several of the game's environments feature billboards that display ads dynamically, and logos 
 for Pontiac and Axe Body Spray that pop up all over the place. It even goes so far as to have Axe-sponsored 
 guitars you can buy in-game, and Axe-sponsored go-go dancers prancing about the stage while you 
 play. Gross.  

  An abundance of advertising, a few visual issues, some overly restrictive design decisions, weak 
 new modes, and a major upping of the difficulty level might seem like a lot of potential hindrances 
 for a game to overcome, and yet none of these problems are big enough to rob Guitar Hero III of 
 the same brand of addictive fun that made the previous entries in the franchise so engaging. Certainly 
 the fantastic track list goes a long way toward that end, but the gameplay is really what sells 
 it. Sure, the difficulty can be vexing, but the game never loses that sense of "just one more song" 
 addictiveness, even at the height of its challenge level. Once you start playing, you'll be hooked 
 for hours at a time, both online and off. It might ultimately just be more Guitar Hero, but that's 
 hardly a bad thing -- in fact, it's a great thing.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (259 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: red0584
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2009 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock (Wii)
  
  GH III is still a great game, but not as great on Wii. Find out why.
  
  OK, you should know 
 what GH is about, but in case not, here's the rundown:
  
  The game comes with a guitar-shaped controller and you press the colored buttons shown on screen 
 and strum with the strum bar.
  
  As you may or may not know, Harmonix, the creators of GH I and GH II and GH Rocks the 80's, has 
 left and gone to create Rock Band, and left GH in the hands of Neversoft, the Tony Hawk game makers. 
 While this may seem odd, don't worry, because Neversoft got the hang of things pretty good. 
  
  GH debuts on the Nintendo consoles. It has new features, including online play. Now you can 
 play cooperatively or competitively. You can just do a face-off, or you can do a Guitar Battle, 
 which I will get to later.
  
  Another new feature is that the guitar is now wireless. The guitar has gone through a makeover 
 and is now a Les Paul. But a major pain is that you have to put the Wii remote in the guitar, which 
 not only wastes some of your life, but it can lead to 30 minutes of tearing the room apart looking 
 for the Wii remote cause you wanna play Brawl. And if you don't like the guitar, or even the faceplate, 
 too bad, cause there are no other GH III guitars or guitars from the previous games, cause it's 
 the first on Nintendo consoles. And why they don't make faceplates, I don't know.
  
  The graphics, even for the Wii, aren't very good. There aren't any of those small additons that 
 the 360 and PS3 have, like your fingers on fire, or blue lightning coming from the guitar. (Both 
 of those are in-game) . And their hair doesn't move at all, but if you wanna argue with me and say 
 that they dump gallon after gallon of hairspray on their heads every morning and that your hair 
 going inside your back when they lean their head back is a sign of a "real" guitarist, then I don't 
 wanna hear it.
  
  The career mode is different in many ways. There are these new animated cutscenes, but they just 
 feel like they're there. There are a bunch more bonus songs to buy with money you earn in-game. 
 But there are nodownloadable songs which you would buy with real money! But, the setlist is now 
 so much better, with tracks like Slow Ride, Hit Me with Your Best Shot, Barracuda, School's Out, 
 Paint it Black, One, and many, many more. You will also notice that the setlist is kinda more hard 
 rock-ish, and if you don't believe me, go play Before I Forget or Raining Blood. The other thing 
 you'll notice is that GH III is really hard. It feels like it was made for people who have already 
 played GH's and mastered them. Let it be known that GH III is not a very good starting point for 
 people who are new to the series. Some songs seem OK, the others seem a little hard, some seem 
 pretty hard, but then there's the Through the Fire and Flames song which is just R-I-D-I-C-U-L-O-U-S. 
 So if you're planning on making this your first GH, don't, and borrow someone's 360 or PS2 and 
 start with one of the older GH's.
  
  Also, there are these new Guitar Battles where you and another guitarist play a song, and instead 
 of getting Star Power, you get these weapons that you use to try to get your opponent to fail. 
 No, you're not gonna get a fire flower, you're gonna get weapons like things that make your opponent 
 have to repeatedly press a button or the whammy bar, make your opponent's difficulty harder, or 
 make the screen spazz out on their side. These can be played online, and they occur 3 times in 
 career mode: Against Tom Morello from Rage Against the Machine, then Slash from Guns N Roses, and 
 the Devil from, well, hell.
  
  Otherwise, the gameplay is still the same.
  
  RECAP
  
  GH III is the best GH to date. It has an awesome setlist and new features that make it shine. 
 It's still fun, but it is much, much harder, and isn't a very good starting point for those new 
 to the series. And this Wii version has annoyances that put it a bunch of steps down from the 360 
 and PS3 versions.
  
  Pros-
  -Great new setlist
  -Competitive or cooperative online play
  -No downloadable songs
  -Guitars are now wireless
 
  -Same gameplay you know and love
  
  Cons
  -Much, much harder
  -Not a good GH starting point
  -No downloadable songs
  -Bad graphics even for the Wii
  -No 
 other guitars/faceplates
  -You have to put the Wii remote inside the guitar
  
  Score: 7.5/10
  
  Thanks for reading!
  
  -red0584
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 5:41 pm PT
Review:  The Good: An excellent, very long track list; it's easy to slowly improve at the game because the 
 songs vary so much in difficulty; Wi-Fi and local two player; intuitive Wii remote use; career, 
 face off, and co-op career are all tons of fun; many characters to choose from, including some 
 real rockers; plenty of customization.
  
  The Bad: Horrendous graphics from a crappy PS2 port that would've looked bad on a Gamecube; battle 
 mode is lame; the game gets very close to impossible; no DLC; chracter movement is poor; co-op 
 is short and the difficulty ramps up quickly.
  
  Guitar Hero is one of the greatest video game franchises ever made. While the PS2 graphics won't 
 wow you by any stretch, the gameplay, no matter what you do, is going to be fantastic. Just about 
 everyone has dreamed at one time of being a real rock star, and you feel like you really are, very 
 often, in the game. The five colored fret buttons, the strum bar, and the whammy bar that make 
 up the controls, and the plastic guitar itself, are pop culture icons by now.
  
  But Guitar Hero has many new challenges to overcome. First and foremost is its competition with 
 Rock Band, which is being developed by the team who made the first two Guitar Hero games. Rock 
 Band uses more or less the same guitar set up but includes drums and vocals, though it was originally 
 only available on PS3 and 360.
  
  To compete, Guitar Hero moved to all systems, being released on PS2, PS3, 360 and Wii simultaneously. 
 Multiplatform titles, however, have to face the advantages and limitations of the hardware and 
 make the best of them, making it difficult to make the best possible game on each system.
  
  Not to mention that Guitar Hero has to come into the next generation in terms of graphics, 
 online play, and the new idea of downloadable content.
  
  Rock Band and Guitar Hero III each have wonderful graphics on 360 and PS3. Both have downloadable 
 content, just about perfect gameplay, and online play.
  
  Activision made a risk bringing Guitar Hero to Wii, as Guitar Hero had never been released on a 
 Nintendo platform. This was the same risk taken by both franchises on 360, but for Activision, 
 it paid off far more making the Wii edition. Wii is now the bestselling system this generation, 
 and thus Guitar Hero sold far better on Wii than on any other system.
  
  But what the masses are unaware of is that this version of Guitar Hero III isn't anywhere close 
 to the best version. Activision did decide on using the Wii remote in a unique and intuitive way, 
 and the gameplay can't go wrong, but many other features are stripped away.
  
  The track list is obviously wonderful. There are probably going to be certain songs you love and 
 some you may hate. I personally loved many of the songs, liked most of them, and hated just a few, 
 because death metal isn't my thing. But it's ok because there's so much variety, over 70 songs 
 total, in the game.
  
  The gameplay with the fret buttons, strum bar and whammy bar is all excellent. It's notable that 
 HD televisions have lag playing the game, and can seriously affect the experience, but fortunately 
 there's a calibration system in the software. Hammer-ons and pull-offs don't have to be right on 
 the dot by any stretch, and in fact may be a little too loose. You can hit one long before it comes 
 and it'll still count.
  
  But regardless, the gameplay is fantastic, and that's to be expected. Many aspects, while mainly 
 unimportant to a music game, can't simply be overlooked though. That would be acting like it doesn't 
 matter, and it does, because otherwise it's an excuse for the developers to be lazy. These aspects 
 bring down the game a few notches, particularly this version.
  
  The graphics in the game are straight from the PS2. As all Wii owners know, this is extremely annoying 
 and disappointing. The Gamecube was capable of graphics superior to the PS2's, and the Wii can 
 do twice what a Gamecube can do, so PS2 graphics are insulting on Wii, which is indeed a next gen 
 system. It is obviously true that the Wii doesn't have nearly the horsepower of the other two systems, 
 but that doesn't mean that the Wii's graphics should be overlooked, the same way the 360's graphics 
 shouldn't be overlooked because PS3's are better.
  
  I truly am disappointed in this sense, because the graphics are extremely last gen. Also, the characters 
 movements look very robotic, despite the motion capture used in many cases, and the crowd appear 
 to be two-dimensional. This doesn't destroy the game, but it cripples it from being far greater 
 than what it is, at least on Wii.
  
  However, the use of the Wii remote was extremely intelligent from Activision. Using the powerful 
 motion detection and rumble pack, plus the speaker of the Wii remote allow for a mildly better 
 experience with the controls. It seems that the controller notices your Star Power movement more 
 efficiently, the rumble pack lets you clearly know when it's been put into effect, and the speaker 
 in the remote is better than hearing it from the T. V. It feels more like you actually broke a string 
 or hit a wrong note, though the guitar in the song itself naturally comes from the game.
  
  The face off modes are excellent, the career is long and enjoyable on all difficulties, and there's 
 plenty of maneuverability to get you better at the game. The varying challenge of the songs allows 
 for you to slowly improve at your shredding, especially in co-op, where you can also play bass, 
 which is generally easier.
  
  Co-op is great too, but the campaign is shorter for some reason in this version of the career. 
 This means the difficulty ramps up faster anyway in it, though the bonus songs are still available. 
 That's a minor nuisance for those who don't get a chance to play the game much and need to very 
 slowly improve.
  
  Battle mode is a pretty weak addition. While it's a lot of fun playing against Tom Morello, Slash 
 and the Devil, or your friends, the result is based too much on luck and not enough on skill. If 
 you're playing expert and get the wrong 'attack' sent at you from your opponent, you'll lose very 
 easily.
  
  Still, the core of the game is there, which alone wins it tons of points. Wi-Fi is also included, 
 and it's solid. You can play the multiplayer modes just like local multiplayer (except co-op, obviously) 
 and face off against gamers who could be a lot better, or a lot worse, than you.
  
  However, the most annoying part is that the Wii didn't get downloadable content. While the 360 
 and PS3 versions allow the owners to keep the game fresh playing new songs added commonly, the 
 Wii version loses its splendor faster.
  
  Plus, there's a point in the game where everyone starts finding the game impossible, which is a 
 major turn-off. This isn't the case in other Guitar Hero games because it still feels possible 
 to beat the game, but Legends of Rock has about eight songs that are nigh impossible to beat. Those 
 who can are generally prodigies.
  
  Still, the game is certainly worth a purchase because it's Guitar Hero. The main reasons I took 
 away from the score is that I'm judging it by Wii standards, the fact this game should be next 
 gen, and that the gameplay is no longer quite so revolutionary.
  
  If you say these things don't matter, that's saying the developers can be lazy and not try in those 
 areas, which shouldn't be the case. True, they aren't quite as important as usual in a music game, 
 but it has to be judged.
  
  These next gen standards are far higher than what is often seen in this version of the game. But 
 it's good to remember this guitar controller will work with all future Wii Guitar Hero games, which 
 means your money will be well spent. Plus, you're still getting the amazing experience that is 
 Guitar Hero on Wii, which is reason enough for a purchase. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: conkerrulez2334
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 5:24 pm PT
Review:  ok. like, this game is so awesome, and it's really fun. like, when you first put that nice looking 
 guitar controller together, and put this game in your wii, you will be AMAZED!! it has better songs 
 than in any other guitar hero game i ever played as of right now. like, the guitar controller = 
 (almost) perfect. the graphics are ok for a wii. and the game is mad challenging. the career mode 
 was put together nicely. there's just 2 things i don't like about the career mode: you can't get 
 money from playing bonus songs and you can't unlock the guitar players you battle by just pwning 
 them in the face and playing an encore with them. you have to get them from the shop. stupid, right? 
 so, about the songs, they're fun to play and have good note charts, except when you play Through 
 The Fire And Flames on medium, there's one part in the solo where the notes don't go with the song 
 at all. and here's a good thing about the guitar: you use star power by moving the guitar to the 
 side. but if you're not in the position where you can do that, you can just press the minus button. 
 the multiplayer is great, the shop has a big variety of awesome looking guitars and basses, and 
 there are lots of cool outfits for the guitar players. so, that's the good stuff and some bad stuff. 
 so, here's more bad stuff: most people in the game are ugly (especially the guy singer) , the strum 
 bar for the guitar makes the loudest, and i mean THE LOUDEST and most annoying clicking noise ever, 
 the game is a little too short and you can't get star power while you're using star power. FINAL 
 VERDICT: so, this game is a must-have for anyone who has a wii, ps2, xbox 360 or ps3. but if you 
 want the best version of this game, get it on the xbox 360 or ps3, because those are the only versions 
 with downloadable content. wii and ps2 versions don't have downloadable content (bummer) . PLEASE 
 RATE!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainingMetal
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2009 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Here's the story on Guitar Hero. Players try to rock their way to becoming guitar champions. It's 
 all about the music on this game, and players can even play against each other Online or with split 
 screen! The game is all fun and games.
  
  Story: 6/10
  There's not much of a story in this game. It is told through cutscenes that are dialogue free. 
 The game starts off with the band in a backyard, and as the player advances through the game, the 
 band can play in more levels and will be required to play harder and harder songs. The stages range 
 from a simple clubhouse to a middle-ages themed stage, complete with a dragon and two knights, 
 to hell itself.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  The graphics for the Wii version is not as good as the versions for the other platforms, but the 
 graphics for this game is still very good in its own right. There's nice lighting and effects, 
 and both the band and the audience have sufficient detail. The game will have views from everywhere, 
 and on occasion, will center around the player's guitar. The singer in the band also lip synchs 
 the lyrics in the song very accuratley, and moves around too. The same applies to the rest of the 
 band; the guitarist and bassist move their hands for every note, and the drummer bangs his drums 
 and symbols accordingly.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Predictably, the songs included in this game is rock and roll. Songs are the main factor in this 
 game. The music is sometimes cut off if the player makes mistakes. Different types of songs have 
 been selected for this game, but all of them are related to rock and roll. The sound effects are 
 equally good. If the player misses notes, the Wii Remote will make error sounds, and if the band 
 is not hitting the notes correctly, the audience starts booing and jeering. Conversely, if the 
 Band is accuratley playing the notes, the audience starts cheering and going wild. If the player 
 activates star power, the music volume is amplified, and the crowd gets even more wild!
  
  Controls: 8/10
  The game often uses the Guitar controller. The Guitar uses 5 fret buttons, a 
 Strumming Bar, and a Whammy Bar. The player must press both the correct fret button (s) and strum 
 the bar at the same time to play notes (up or down) . Long ones require the fret button (s) to be 
 held. The bad things about the guitar controller is that the + and - buttons are not really in 
 reach during gameplay, limiting the appropriate times for pausing. The game also features a lefty 
 flip option, so the notes will be reversed, but the whammy bar will still be out of reach, making 
 this option unreliable. The Wii version also requires a Wii remote, which is placed inside the 
 guitar. It may provide extra sound and rumble features, but it's always a pain to keep putting 
 it in.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  The gameplay is quite simple. Notes will appear going down the game field. The player must hit 
 these notes in order to maintain popularity and the music. If the player fails to press the right 
 notes, the Rock meter will go down, and the notes will be missed. The Rock meter indicates the 
 band's popularity. If the rock meter is fully depleted, the band is booed off the stage. Star notes 
 sometimes replace regular notes. When the player hits all of the star notes in correct sequence, 
 the star power meter is filled. At 3 bulbs (the unit for measuring star power) , the player can 
 use star power, which doubles the score multiplier, and decreases miss penalties. The multiplier 
 can go up to four times, and up to eight times with star power. Star power can be activated by 
 swinging the guitar up or by pressing the "-" button. The whammy bar helps people score more and 
 gain even more star power! In another mode of gameplay, Battle Mode, the star power is replaced 
 with Battle Power. These weapons can be used to make it harder for opponents to play the song. 
 There are many types of Battle Powers, such as a Whammy attack, which requires the affected player 
 to swing the Whammy bar in order to play again. Throughout the single-player Career mode, there 
 are Boss Battles that function like battle games. The playable characters include fictional characters 
 such as ones based on Jack Black, Gene Simmons, and Jimmi Hendrix, as well as actual guitarists 
 such as Tom Morello and Slash. Unfortunatley, Bret Michaels does not appear in this version, but 
 he only appears in two songs anyways. Bonus songs, outfits, characters, and guitars are unlocked 
 through spending cash earned by playing new songs (or by playing songs better) . There are four 
 different difficulties (Easy, Medium, Hard, and Expert) . The learning curve from Medium to Hard 
 is steep, but it's still possible to advance through the difficulties. Playing songs on Harder 
 difficulties will give out more money.
  
  Replayability: 7/10
  This game is good for parties, or rock fans. It also has good Single Player, which has plenty of 
 replayability, and has a decent Online system.
  
  Overall: 8/10
  Guitar Hero 3 is a good multiplayer game, and has good Single-Player modes. The game is quite original, 
 and there are many unlockables. The music is also great, and the Graphics are very nice regardless 
 of the versions. Get this game if interested in Rock and Roll, and try it out otherwise.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweetwater94
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 8, 2009 9:45 am PT
Review:  I know there are lots of Guitar Hero fanboys out there who will disagree with me, and I used to 
 love Guitar Hero until this game came out and when I got Rock Band 2. This game really did not 
 impress me, with mediocre setlist and graphics, and more of the same old gameplay without anything 
 really new added in. There is not much more to say about this game except that only if you really 
 really love Guitar Hero and classic rock then you should get this game, otherwise, spend your money 
 on Rock Band. 
  
  Graphics: 5.0 I know the Wii doesn't have a strong graphical engine but these graphics really really 
 sucked. 
  
  Gameplay: 6.0 The gameplay was unoriginal and just more of the same. 
  
  Setlist 6.5 The setlist was not my favorite with too much classic rock and such but it did have 
 some gems like the Sex Pistols. 
  
  Replayability 7.5 The game is replayable even though it does get repetitive. 
  
  Overall (Not 
 an average of above scores) : 6.5 Just a mediocre offering from the Guitar Hero franchise and it 
 really ruined the whole series for me. Activision you really messed up on this one. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddenrulz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 1:37 am PT
Review:  Legends of Rock is a good game in itself, but there are some flaws in it. You need to be a real 
 gaming freak to top this game. The Good:
  
  * The set list: Most of the songs are by well known artists.
  * Co-op: Playing with friends is 
 always more fun in Guitar Hero.
  * The acuracy of the notes: It feels like you are actually playing the song properly. The Bad:
 
  
  * The characters: They look so dodgy
  * The acuracy of the notes: It's really hard for beginners to play, even for some veterans it's 
 just too hard.
  
  GHLoR is a very good game, however, the series needs to be focused on everyone playing for fun, 
 not getting kicked off every five seconds. The game needs easier songs so everyone can play. I'm 
 sick and tired of people saying "I couldn't play that song cause of this and that." It's so annoying 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMFFVII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Hmmmmmm Guitar hero 3. Yes well. Basically it incorporates the game style of parrappa the rappa 
 and places it onto a stick shaped like a guitar. It also allows anyone seeking to become a rock 
 god to become a rock god without having any actual talent whatsoever, which in my personal view 
 gets it the 2 big thumbs up :-)
  
  In GH3 you play a career mode in which you basically play your guitar through different gigs as 
 a freaky weird punk character with your freaky weird punk band increasing your popularity and audience 
 as you go. You can play through multiple difficulties which increase the amount of buttons you 
 need to push and the speed you need to puch them within a song. Personally the hardest difficulty 
 is absolutely impossible and pointless because it requires you to push 5 buttons with just 4 fingers 
 at a super human speed, so even if you practice a song on this difficulty throughout your entire 
 life i still think you will have to have your hand amputated before you even come close to to getting 
 half way through the track whether or not you're chuck norris, vin diesel or tinky winky, who all 
 are super mega awsome to some retards *cough* people
  
  Sorry, you also have a single track mode which allows you to play any track from the game on its 
 own to try and beat the record, you have most likely set yourself, and there is an online multiplayer 
 mode which lets you battle or play other player co-op style from around the world, that's if you 
 manage to find anyone who isn't a retard *cough* i mean player who likes to play on a stupid difficulty.
 
  
  I haven't actually played any of the other console versions of the game but the wii version is 
 more likely to have less in it than the other next gen consoles and unfortunately the designers 
 of the game haven't quite worked out that people would actually like the option to download new 
 and old tracks from the other games unlike rockband which seem to work that out on their first 
 time round even though they did make the first 2 guitar heroes but I digress. 
  
  Personally if your looking for a guitar hero game to buy, this is probably the one to get cause 
 i don't really think that the drumkit and microphone in world tour is worth an extra 100 or $135 
 unless your planning on spending the next few years imagining yourself playing every instrument 
 on stage, but then you'd probably get wii music and have an actual character that looks like you 
 or ideally homer simpson play a flute but i digress. This game is actually fun and highly addictive 
 and may be one of the best 60 you can possibly spend on a wii game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSaif
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 12:03 am PT
Review:  Ever wonder if you wanted play a guitar to impress everyone. feeling your insatiable hunger not 
 fulfilled. feeling empty inside ? with this game and guitar it has become reality. Easy to handle, 
 a relaxing past time. you literally compete with your friends and family as a good means of favorable 
 interactions.
  
  it includes songs from guns and roses , rage against the machines   
   
 
  
  As you continue to practice nothing seems out of ordinary
  prior to the expense it is totally every penny your spent worth it .
  it is a mind boggling and 
 diabolical experience
  You will find it clearly that the game has begun to hone your skills to a whole new level....
 
  
  This game is critically acclaimed to be one of the best must-haves of ps3 and xbox360... The songs 
 are well-known and brings life to the moment of the 60's and 70's... You are given the privilege 
 to purchase songs virtually from the game.... and you may also purchase famous new revolutionary 
 songs from xbox marketplace (c) or PlayStation store (c) ..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoBlueDragonEX
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 6:30 pm PT
Review:  What's become a video game phenomenon has come out with its fourth game in its main series: World 
 Tour. Except I don't own it yet. So I'm gonna be reviewing its previous game: Legends of Rock. 
 I actually got this game from my older sister because she knows I like rock music and I like video 
 games. When I received it, I wasn't really looking forward to playing it. The idea of playing a 
 plastic guitar to a set rhythm seemed stupid. After playing Legends of Rock for 30 minutes, I was 
 left to eat my words. Here's what Legends of Rock has to offer.
  The song has a great play-list, which includes "Sunshine of Your Love" by Cream, "Paint it Black" 
 by the Rolling Stones, "La Grange" by ZZ Top, and "The Seeker" by the Who. There are tons of other 
 awesome songs, but those four are my favorites. I play on the Medium difficulty because I suck 
 at this game, but occasionally I play on Hard. It never works out that well. This game features 
 the legendary guitarists Tom Morello and Slash (Lead guitarist of Guns and Roses) . They appear 
 as boss characters where you try to top them at their own song. You can also unlock them as playable 
 characters, and they come with their own special guitars. This game is everything you'd expect 
 from Guitar Hero, but with some minor flaws. First of all, the difficulty can get out of control 
 sometimes, but maybe that's just me. Secondly, the constant whammying and strumming can be hell 
 on your hands. These things probably won't bother people with strong hands and are good at this 
 game. This game is really a great guitar simulation if you don't have time for real guitar. If 
 Legends of Rock was this fun, I'm definitely getting World Tour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nypd66
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I suck at guitar hero, I can barely play on Medium, But I LOVE THIS GAME. It has some great tracks 
 from some of the best bands out there. And the graphics are great. The sound that comes out of 
 this game is almost like you're at an actual concert for each band. Whether you suck or are good 
 at these games, you need to buy it. And hey, buying this game, also opens up the ability to buy 
 Rock band and Rock band 2, I mean you'll have a Guitar and mic if you have an Xbox live mic, so 
 you can do all of the stuff but drums. Anyway, the game was fun and a great challenge, great for 
 getting carpal tunnel. The achievements for this game were tricky. If you're great at this game 
 and can play on hard or expert, you could get all of them easy, but if you can't play above medium 
 or easy, it's gonna be harder. Well it's fun, and has some rocking music. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vyse-the-Legend
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  If you have ever wanted to play a musical instrument but did not want to invest the time and money 
 needed, you no longer have to worry because Activision has come up with quite a great series: Guitar 
 Hero. Guitar Hero 3: Legends of Rock is the best game in the series up until this point. It includes 
 70+ new songs. The basic idea behind the game is to strum with your right hand while having your 
 left fingers on the correct colored keys, or vice versa if you are left handed. you will find yourself 
 in free play most of the time tackling one of the 4 difficulties so you do not even have to bother 
 with a crappy story mode. If unlocking each and every song, is your cup of tea then go for it, 
 but if you would rather jump into the action right away, there will be a cheat code to help you 
 do so. This game is quite fun and worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chewjacka206
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  I like this game very much, from its addictive game play to its average visuals that make you laugh. 
 The only problem is that World tour is out and that has better songs, modes and visuals, but this 
 is a great effort. The best song is Before I forget but the hardest is Through fire and flames. 
 Expect a full review of World tour in the new year! Ha ha ha ha ha ha aha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
 h a I just did this so it fills it up! a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  If you didn't read the review properly, here it is again!
  
  I like this game very much, 
 from its addictive game play to its average visuals that make you laugh. The only problem is that 
 World tour is out and that has better songs, modes and visuals, but this is a great effort. The 
 best song is Before I forget but the hardest is Through fire and flames. Expect a full review of 
 World tour in the new year! Ha ha ha ha ha ha aha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha h a I just did this so it 
 fills it up! a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dannydude65
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock Review (Wii) Dannydude65
  
  GH3 is the first real good rhythm/music game on the Wii. With 73 playable songs (54 being master 
 recordings!) including unlockables you will be playing this until you get World Tour!
  
  
  Sound Track: 
  
  "3's and 7's" - Queens of the Stone Age
  "Avalancha" - Heroes del Silencio 
 
  "Barracuda" - Heart
  "Black Magic Woman" - Santana
  "Cherub Rock" - Smashing Pumpkins
  "Closer" - Lacuna Coil
  "Cities on Flame with Rock and Roll" 
 - Blue Oyster Cult
  "Cult of Personality" - Living Colour 
  "Even Flow" - Pearl Jam
  "Generation Rock" - Revolverheld
  "Go That Far" - Bret Michaels Band
  "Hier Kommt Alex" - Die 
 Toten Hosen 
  "Hit Me with Your Best Shot" - Pat Benatar
  "I'm in the Band" - The Hellacopters
  "In the Belly of a Shark" - Gallows
  "Knights of Cydonia" 
 - Muse
  "La Grange" - ZZ Top
  "Lay Down" - Priestess
  "Mauvais Garon" - NAAST
  "The Metal" - Tenacious D
  "Minus Celsius" - Backyard Babies
  "Miss Murder" - AFI
  "Mississippi 
 Queen" - Mountain 
  "My Name Is Jonas" - Weezer
  "The Number of the Beast" - Iron Maiden
  "One" - Metallica
  "Paint It, Black" - The Rolling Stones 
  "Paranoid" - Black Sabbath
  "Radio 
 Song" - Superbus 
  "Raining Blood" - Slayer 
  "Reptilia" - The Strokes
  "Rock and Roll All Nite" - Kiss 
  "Rock You Like a Hurricane" - Scorpions 
  "Ruby" - Kaiser 
 Chiefs 
  "Sabotage" - Beastie Boys 
  "School's Out" - Alice Cooper 
  "She Bangs the Drums" - The Stone Roses 
  "She Builds Quick Machines" - Velvet Revolver 
  "Slow 
 Ride" - Foghat 
  "Suck My Kiss" - Red Hot Chili Peppers 
  "Take This Life" - In Flames 
  "Talk Dirty to Me" - Poison 
  "Through the Fire and Flames" - DragonForce 
  "Welcome to the 
 Jungle" - Guns N' Roses 
  "When You Were Young" - The Killers 
  
  Gameplay
  + Addictive
  +Challenging
  +Replay Value is High
  + Excellent Designed Guitar Controller
 
  
  Sound:
  + Amazing 
  - If you pluck loudly you can't hear the music as much
  
  Graphics:
  + You can see what you play
  - Characters could be better
  
  Multiplayer:
 
  +Local and Wi- FI have loads of modes
  +Wi-Fi is Fun
  +Local Can Be Fun.......
  - But you need to buy another guitar to be perfect!
  
  Overall:
  Set list: +
  Gameplay: 
 +
  Sound: + 
  Graphics: -
  Multiplayer: + 
  
  Guitar Hero III is one of the best rhythm game on Wii (World Tour maybe better- Reviewed Boxing 
 Day)
  
  
  Dannydude65 :) :) :) :) :) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gears-of-war-99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  I got Guitar Hero 3 on my Nintendo wii almost one year ago on Christmas day and i loved it. Even 
 though its not like playing real guitar (i know cos i play) its still really great and if you cant 
 afford a new guitar hero you might get this cheaper.
  It features loads of great songs like
  Welcome to the jungle - Guns N' Roses
  Stricken - Disturbed
 
  Before I Forget - Slipknot
  and many more.
  Here's some ratings...
  
  Game play 9/10
  The game play is awesome on expert especially when you do loads of hammer-ons... that's 
 all i can really say.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  The graphics are great for a wii game but the drummer actually looks like it took like 10 minutes 
 to make...
  
  Sound 10/10
  The Sound is great considering its a music game but all the songs are clear and you can choose 
 whether you want low vocals, high vocals or none at all and you can do the same with the guitar.
 
  
  I don't know why but if i don't play this on an LCD TV i don't like it, not saying its a bad game 
 its just weird for me...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPurry
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is a great game and very addicting. The game starts of when you 
 are in a band and you are not very popular. But after you do songs your band gets more and more 
 popular. But the story isn't very important because i just found this game just plain old fun. 
 With great multiplayer online and offline and 71 tracks including bonus tracks which will keep 
 you playing for quite a while.
  
  If you already have a Guitar Hero game and you really good this game will still be challenging 
 because a lot of these songs are pretty hard. This game also features famous guitar players such 
 as Tom Morello from Rage Against the Machine and Slash from Guns n Roses. The Guitar is also a 
 wireless guitar which makes it easier to rock out. 
  
  This game is my first Guitar Hero game and i loved it. I'm given it a 9.0. ROCK ON!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krapdos_Wario
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Play using the guitar-shaped controller is easier (try to play One at Hard/Expert using the Wii 
 Remote and you will understand) and more addictive, but I don't have it, so I play using the Wii 
 Remote. ) :
  I know this game was made to play with the guitar, so I don't mind that I can't play some songs 
 at Hard and Expert. I still think this game ROCKS. ( :
  
  I hope I get the guitar someday so I can play this game even better.
  
  I have not played the 
 World Tou yet, so I can't write a review about it. But about the III i can say many things, and 
 I will make a summary of everything: the grade is: 10 THOUSAND. 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1... (10000 
 times)
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  by Krapdos Wario 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is the third game in the Guitar Hero series. The story starts 
 as a band struggles to find a new guitarist. The players character comes in and starts small in 
 the backyard for their first show, after it goes well a band manager named Lou asks the bad if 
 they like to go bigger than they are by signing a contract. Now that their first real gig is here, 
 they have more challenges to go through.
  
  What I liked about this game is that the Guitar playing gameplay is still greatly intact from the 
 original game. Great graphics. New and great new characters. You can play as real guitarists such 
 as Tom Morello from Rage Against the Machine and Slash from Guns and Roses. Metallica's One is 
 in the sound track. Great character models, except for one character. Funny animated cutscenes. 
 Online play for the Wii version.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that the lead singers mouth is a bit too long. Can be really 
 hypnotic if you've played too long. Some not so good songs. I never really did the online play.
 
  
  Overall, Guitar Hero III is still that fun Guitar playing experience with some good songs like 
 Cherub Rock from Smashing Pumpkins and One from Metallica, but some songs aren't as good and gameplay 
 is hypnotic. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaCookie7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  This game, is put simply, the definition of addictive. After only briefly playing Guitar Hero 2 
 at a friends house, I immediately wanted to go out and purchase a copy of Guitar Hero III: Legends 
 of Rock. 
  
  My first impressions of the game were a little over the place. It was fun, but I didn't imagine 
 how quickly I would become addicted to it. Starting off in easy and getting my first glimpse of 
 the set list, I was, at the time, a little disappointed by the initial few songs thrown my way 
 - but after moving up to medium and playing into the second section of songs, my opinion quickly 
 changed.
  
  The games graphics are quite good by Wii standards, although the animations, particularly that 
 of the drummer and the crowds consisting of just a few character models, were rather bad. However, 
 these things are barely noticeable when your eyes are fixated on the fret board.
  
  By now, most of you will understand how the game works, and for those of you who don't - here's 
 a quick briefing. You use a plastic guitar connected to your console to hit a combination of buttons 
 the game throws at you synchronised to music. It's a simple as that. There are a few things that 
 mix gameplay up, such as the use of the whammy bar to gain starpower on specific notes, Guitar 
 Battles against some "Legends of Rock" (Tom Morello, Slash and... The Devil?) and a few slightly 
 altered multi-player game modes, but for the most part that's it.
  
  Sounds too simple to be fun, right? Wrong! The simplistic nature of Guitar Hero is addicting from 
 virtually the beginning. Although less outgoing people may find it hard to get into, once you do, 
 it's a blast to play - at parties or simply to pass time. This isn't a game for everyone, but most 
 should be able to enjoy and appreciate it.
  
  The game does have quite a challenging difficulty level though. Getting used to the fourth (blue) 
 and fifth (orange) frets can take some serious time, but once you do, you'll be having even more 
 fun rediscovering the setlist in more advanced difficulties.
  
  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock has over 80 songs to pick from, a massive step-up from Guitar 
 Hero 2. Most of the songs are great, but some covers aren't quite as good as they could have been 
 - but most people won't even notice these. It is also compatible with the Guitar Hero 2 controller, 
 so owners of GH2 will find them getting even more value at a smaller price with Guitar Hero III.
 
  
  Overall this is one hell of an addicting party game. Welcome addition to most gamers collections.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 9
  Replay Value: 10
  Overall: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GHWTmonster
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This truly is a great addition to the series; unfortunately it is often overlooked and underrated 
 because of Rockband. But the guitar part in Rockband is easy and the songs aren't meant for the 
 guitar. In Guitar Hero 3 however, you can play some truly challenging songs like Raining Blood, 
 Knights of Cydonia, and of course the famous Through the Fire and the Flames. There are also some 
 crowd favorites form some of your favorite bands, and if you ever happen to have a buddy over then 
 you can find an extra guitar and play a very fun co-op mode where you can play on different difficulties.
 
  Now the hard part: the cons. You can only play with up to two people at a time and that is if 
 you're willing to buy another guitar or if your buddy has the game and is willing to bring it over. 
 The guitar controllers will also break sometimes or a button will randomly not respond. Other than 
 these nasty side effects, this game is still a great and highly addictive game. Basically, you 
 have GHWTmonster's recommendation to buy this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam3231
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  There's not really much more to say about this game other than it's a classic. The soundtrack used 
 in the game was great, and you just don't want to stop trying to beat the next hardest song. It 
 offers difficulties for guitar hero newbies and veterans, veterans won't be disappointed by the 
 song difficulty as the game offers some pretty complex songs on expert, most famous being "Through 
 the fire and flames," The wifi on this game generally works well, although I am not a fan of the 
 searching system. Also there is no downloadable content for the wii version, which is a little 
 disappointing but doesn't take away from the overall integrity of this game. I'd highly recommend 
 picking this one up, it's probably the best soundtrack out of all the rock band and gh games for 
 the Wii so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travisstaggs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't to much different then the other Guitar Heroes just a few extra things, this one 
 has great songs for the most part, alright review time kids.
  
  Graphics: 10/10 graphics are great very impressive theres really not to much to say about graphics 
 when it comes to any Guitar Hero reviews.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 Gameplay is great and just because I'm reviewing and talking about the Wii version 
 means nothing its just as fun for the WIi going against Slash or the Devil in a guitar battle is 
 very fun and original, co-op mode is great, I love this game.
  
  Sound: 10/10 the sound is no different then any other Guitar Hero except for the songs of course 
 like I said earlier most of the songs are very great and well done.
  
  Replay Value: 9.5/10 Replay is very high mostly with a friend or just taking turns with your friends 
 playing songs on quick play.
  
  Overall: 9.5/10 Great a definite for any system this is for lolz
  \m/ (^_^) \m/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frostybro24
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Score
  55% Gameplay: 9
  15% Graphics: 5
  10% Replay Value: 7
  5% Tilt: 8
  15% Music: 8
  
  8.0
  
  The latest installment of guitar hero is, as expected, the best 
 to date. It features a beefier Les Paul Guitar (although guitars from the previous installments 
 work as well if you have the PS2 or XBOX 360 version) and over 70 new songs.
  
  In the Wii version, you plug the Wii-mote into the guitar and if you have 2 guitars, you need 2 
 Wii-motes. The Wii version, thanks to its motion sensitive controller, also has more responsive 
 star power activation.
  
  Guitar Hero III is quite a challenging game. Anyone who has not played before will have trouble 
 with Easy mode at first, then have difficulties later on getting used to the 4th and 5th fret buttons. 
 As I am writing this, I still have four songs to go in Hard mode. Many players will stop after 
 beating Medium, as the difficulty takes a sharp increase going into Hard. The difference between 
 Hard and Expert is not that much. Anyone who can beat Hard will breeze through all but maybe the 
 last one or sets on Expert.
  
  As for the song selection it is very diverse. I have heard from friends who have I and II that 
 III is the best by far. You will probably not play the bonus songs more than once, though, if at 
 all. Also, the graphics suck, but not so much that it will make the game less enjoyable.
  
  Overall, Guitar Hero III is a great game, but if you do get it, be sure to pick up the next installment, 
 because you'll soon be itching for more.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CazmoV
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  "What's the point in spending 70 on guitar hero III when you could buy a second hand guitar for 
 around the same price?"
  
  That is a huge point used by many that put me off buying this game for quite a while. Surely learning 
 the real thing is better?
  Correct. It is. I'd just like to say now that I CAN play the guitar already, and I'm pretty good 
 at it. I thought this may stop me enjoying this game seeing as I have experience the massive fun 
 of being able to pick up a guitar and do a brain melting riff, and the game probably doesn't compare 
 to the real thing at all.
  But I was wrong. Sure, I prefer to learn the real song on a real guitar through a real amp. But 
 the controller and the original gameplay is unique enough to keep anyone from wannabee rock stars 
 to experienced musicians entertained. 
  Basically, there are 4 levels of difficulty. Easy, medium, hard, expert. On each level of difficulty 
 there is 8 sets of songs. On each set there are 5 songs. Your mission is simple. Work your way 
 through all of the sets. When you complete easy, go onto medium, etc.
  This all go's perfect and fun. At this point there are very few (if any) down sides to the game. 
 But it's as you get to expert mode where things get bad...
  The first thing many people want to do when they play on a friends copy of Guitar Hero III is play 
 "Through The Fire And The Flames" by "Dragonforce" on expert mode, purely for it's incredibly difficult 
 ways. No one has every gotten 100%, therefore no one has ever completed the game fully, and i highly 
 doubt anyone will. The majority of expert mode is like this. Practically impossible. To be honest, 
 the final set on Hard mode is enough of a challenge, Activision could have probably done without 
 adding expert mode in.
  Other than that, the game works brilliantly. Wifi may not be so great (seeing as the only games 
 you seem to be able to find are sad boys who want to play Through The Fire And The Flames on expert 
 to see who loses by the most points) , but everything else is good.
  Highly recommended to... anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakeisdisturbed
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  First it was DDR and now Guitar Hero has entered the rhythm world of video games. The first two 
 additions and the add-on, Rock the 80s, were fun and addictive as expected but number 3 seems to 
 be number 1.
  
  Whether it is story mode or multiplayer, you will have a blast playing Guitar Hero III. The song 
 selection is amazing. From Jimi Hendrix to Killswitch Engage, this game displays top-notch music. 
 You can also take your skills online to play against other people with the game. 
  
  The games story mode takes your own band on a tour around the world playing shows in places all 
 around. For example, the second to last gig you have is all the way out in Japan and the one before 
 that is in a desert. As the story progresses, the songs get more and more difficult (obviously) . 
 So when you complete a gig, you earn money and when you are done touring that area you will receive 
 a new contract and move onto the next place you rock out at.
  
  Overall, this game was amazing and one of the most addictive games created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superstarmario1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  at first i did not guitar hero exists. but once i played guitar hero 3 at my friends house. I WANTED 
 THE GAME!!!
  
  at first i thought i has going to be freaking hard to play but i was kinda easy. They even teach 
 you how to play.
  the song list is great and the Difficulty is great if you want to start from the very beginning 
 like me if you are new to it.
  The gameplay is awesome the face off and pro face off are real easy to understand. the white arrow 
 points to the person who is wining. if they are not missing any notes the arrow will point more 
 down to you. Battle is easy to understand too. you just get items like star power and use them to 
 screw them up so their rock meter dies and you win.
  The graghics are good and the sound too.
  this is just a great game. i was new to it and i passed 
 it all the way to EXPERT.
  
  guitar hero 3=10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomiPetteri
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it's time to write a quick note of the game I've probably played most in my life, Guitar 
 Hero: Legends of Rock since the Guitar Hero: World Tour is coming.
  
  I can't believe how excited I was picking it up from the post office. From the start it was the 
 SH*T one couldn't never put down before mastering it completely. There's no adjective to describe 
 how addictive the game is.
  
  Learning curve is just right. First you're trembling on easy, then suddenly every day you notice 
 to get a bit better. Then it's your first FC on easy, you're on to medium and that blue button 
 is a pain in the BUTT but you overcome it nailing your first FC on medium and you're thinking while 
 remembering the first time you tried hard/expert and failed after 10 seconds that could you really 
 do it now? And you could. There's no game more rewarding than this.
  
  Soundtrack is sweet. It has maybe a bit too much classic old rock, though thinking the name of 
 the game that's probably meant to be, and it's okay. It has some modern rock too and that's cool.
 
  
  The controller is just plain awesome. It works 100% and playing hard/expert you really feel like 
 rockin' to a song. Only downfall is that the whammy bar is pretty fragile and probably first to 
 get broken.
  
  Overall the game is a near perfect experience. Okay they blew up the sounds and it was first released 
 mono but that's something one can get over with. AND the lack of DLC but I guess Nintendo is equally 
 to blame for that.
  
  So 9.5/10. Lets hope that the World Tour will reach the first 10 I've given to a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevewins1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever wanted to be in a band? Have you ever caught yourself strumming an air guitar? Do 
 you want to play a guitar but think that it's to hard? Well then Guitar Hero 3 is a great game 
 for you! I got this game just recently and found it really hard to put down. When I got it, I didn't 
 really know what it was like because I never played the other two but this game is great.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 has over seventy different songs that you can jam to and they all have a different 
 difficulty. Some are incredibly easy for beginners and some are extremely hard for the experts. 
 Whether you're good or bad, you can still enjoy this game. I thought that most of the songs were 
 great and you probably will too. There's some old songs that are from around the 80's and some 
 newer songs from 2006. There's a wide variety of songs and some are in different languages. Most 
 songs are catchy and I can often find myself singing one. There are some songs that I dislike but 
 the majority I like.
  Game Play/Songs: 9/10
  
  The next thing that I'd like to talk about is the storyline. This game mainly is about playing 
 your guitar but there is a career mode. In it, you basically just play through the songs on any 
 difficulty: Easy, Medium, Hard, or Expert. When you unlock a section in career mode, you unlock 
 it in quick play. In career mode, you earn money for playing songs and you can use this money to 
 buy things such as characters, songs, guitars, and many more things! Also, throughout career mode, 
 you can face bosses in intense battles on certain songs. When facing them, you play in battle mode 
 where you need to use items to mess them up.
  Storyline: 9/10
  
  Next, I'd like to cover graphics. This game doesn't really require such superb graphics and I haven't 
 really played the other versions so I can't compare. I believe that the graphics are pretty good 
 though. You can see the fretboard and everything has enough pixels.
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  The sound is great too. Earlier on, when this game was first released, the only sound option was 
 mono but now they have fixed it and everything is fine. You can hear all the songs and there aren't 
 really any flaws with it. There are some sound effects in appropriate places too. In Guitar Hero, 
 if you don't hit the notes, you won't hear that sound in the song so it makes it more realistic. 
 You actually have to play or you won't hear the notes in the actual song. Also, if you use the 
 whammy bar on long notes, you can add your own personal style to the song by changing the notes 
 slightly.
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The controls are what you would expect. There are 5 fret buttons, 1 strum bar, and the whammy bar. 
 You need to push the fret buttons when you see the correct notes on the screen and you must strum 
 as well. This makes it more realistic. You can use the whammy bar to add your own style into the 
 song. To turn on star power (an effect to get you more points) , you must tilt the guitar up. This 
 gives more of a "rock star" feeling contributing to the point of the game.
  Controls: 10/10
  
  If you use a router or a Nintendo Wi-Fi USB Connector, you can play this 
 game online against strangers or friends. This is a fun way to give yourself a challenge or try 
 to prove that you are the best. They have ranking boards for every song. Can you make it onto them? 
 On Wi-Fi, there are few quitters so its fun and you don't end up with sore losers that always power 
 off.
  Online: 9/10
  
  You can always keep replaying this game because there's always room to improve. Currently, nobody 
 as ever gotten 100% on the song "Through The Fire and Flames" on expert mode. There's always room 
 to improve and there's always a challenge out there for you.
  Replayability: 10/10
  
  So overall, I think that this is a great game and I'd definitely get it if I were you. if I got 
 this game as a gift, I'd definitely keep it. This game may be hard to find but it's definitely 
 worth the searching. If you have the other versions, or have always wanted to play a guitar, I'm 
 sure that this is the game for you.
  Overall: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkKid44
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero has always been a classic game. The series showd how fun a game actually could be. 
 
  
  Well, you might say, "I wouldn't know! I've only owned Nintendo Systems!" 
  
  Well fear not! It has come!
  
  You should know the drill. A fret board is placed on the screen 
 with notes (Green, Red, Yellow, Blue, Orange) coming towards you. You must hold down the colour 
 button on your (rad new Les Paul) plastic guitar and strum when the notes come into your territory.
 
  
  The gameplay is the same as usual and the game has some new features like Battle Mode or Online 
 Play.
  
  Also the game features some WICKED song like: "Welcome to the Jungle", "Helicopter", "Bulls on 
 Parade", Paint it Black", "One" and SO much more!
  
  Everything sounds great until one factor comes to mind: The Wii version was a second thought not 
 a main priority. So, as a result: No DLC, No Good Graphics and Not as good sound.
  
  Also (in all versions Ps3/360/Wii/PS2) the game is called LEGENDS OF ROCK and the only legends 
 you'll find are Slah and Tom Morello (and Bret Michaels will sing his songs but he's not in the 
 Wii Version) ! With a game of that much possibility to bring some real guitar heros, they left us 
 with almost nothing at all!
  
  So basically GH3 Wii is a great game for spcial and casual guitar fun. You can't find anything 
 else like it (especially on Wii) . But the game deffinately could have been MUCH more.
  
  If you are reading this review do yourself a favor and wait until Oct 26 for GH WT which will give 
 you DLC, better graphics, a music studio, more Legends of rock and full band play (all on Wii) 
 for only 60 bucks more than GH3! PLEASE WAIT!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcemanBryan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is a great game in many ways. The songs are great and the game is long lasting 
 
  
  Pros:
  -Great music selections
  -Awesome gameplay
  -Long lasting
  -Many unlockable guitars
  -Challenging
  -Just plain fun
  -Fun with the family
  
  Cons:
 
  -Gets boring after a while
  -Hard to reach orange button
  -Only exciting when you play with people
  
  Overall, guitar hero is a great game if you like 
 guitars or if you dont. It'll change your mind. Although my pinky is incapable of reaching the 
 orange button, im pretty good at it also. Guitar Hero III is a must have for the wii.
  
  . (....\............../....)
  . \....\........... /..../ 
  ...\....\........../..../
  ....\..../. I.`\./ 
 
  ..../... I.... I.. (`\
  ... I..... I.... I....\...\ 
  ... I..... I. I. I..\...)
  ...\.....` .. .......' ROCK ON!
  ....\_________.
  ..... oh ya.. 
  ..... oh ya!...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javier00789
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  This game is really great if you had guitar hero 1 2 or a game like this i suggest you get it cause 
 it will probaly be your favourite game youll get since its my favourite its so much fun and ill 
 bet when you try it out at a store youll be saving up for it then when you do get it youll have 
 lots of fun :) Once you do try it its pretty addicting so try not to get addicted just like me 
 but still have fun due to the first day i tried which was june 18th i am currently 3 songs off 
 beating hard mode and ive started expert and beated about 18 songs and beat easy and medium so 
 its a exxcelent game i cant wait for guitar hero mettalica so i can have much more fun with guitar 
 hero the guitar is pretty good but i perfer the wii version of the guitar instead of the ps2 or 
 xbox one or the other consoles. this game is much better then gh aerosmith and gh 2 and 1 so i think 
 if you find all the guitar hero games bundle and have enough and are thinking about it choose guitar 
 hero 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbmars
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This came is so crazy! It's awesome. The guitar choice is exelent. The characters clothes & the 
 characters are cool. Stages & Songs are the best. On the wii it's so cool. The graphics are that 
 crazy, They are a lot better on Xbox 360 but it's still ok. The story is a little bit short it 
 could have been better. The cheat codes that were made are pretty cool. The bonus video content 
 & Multiplayer are great like the Videos with Tom Morrelo & Slash. The characters moves are pretty 
 cool. It is better than most of the other Guitar Hereos. The Les Paul Guitars are some of Les Paul's 
 best. Guitar Hero Areosmith is not too great. If you like Rockband This is better. The Levels are 
 great. Some of the new characters are pretty cool. The guitar battles against the pros are real 
 cool, The pro choice fits the story & it's great also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mutt45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  When i first got this game (and i got it on the launch date) i didnt think i would play it as much 
 as i do now. Its just the perfect game to pick up and play right away. You dont have to get deep 
 into the storyline to start enjoying this game. Its great.
  
  Also, the online play makes it just THAT much better to play. There's always someone to play against, 
 and i think the longest ive ever waited for someone to play against, was only like...5 minutes. 
 This game is great and im glad i got it.
  
  The replay value of this game is incredible, there's tons of songs and a lot of things to unlock, 
 you probably wont get bored anytime soon. 
  
  I guess you can say that the only downfall for this game is the graphics, they're PS2 quality, 
 which isnt that great. But really, i could care less, thats just a minor flaw that, to be honest, 
 i dont care one bit about. But all in all this game is great and i cant wait to get World Tour 
 when it comes out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half_Jaw223
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  The Best game you'll ever play, seriously. so many songs, characters, guitars and stages your head 
 will EXPLODE! I started out on easy because i had never played but 3 months later im already five 
 starring stuff on expert. it has all the classic songs, my favs are Holiday in cambodia, My curse, impulse, bulls 
 on parade and The Way it ends. there's also Rock you like a hurricane, School's out, paint it black 
 and cities on flame with rock and roll and the other 66 songs, and then the guitars (mostly gibson) and 
 characters including the 5 bonus characters which are Slash, Tom Morello, Lou, Elroy Budvis/Rock God, MetalHead/Grim 
 Ripper. Rock And And Grim ripper are replaced with Elroy Budvis And Metalhead on the Wii And PS2. 
 Between Playing Online, Playing With And Friend And Trying Beat Raining Blood, You'll Never Ever 
 EVUR get bored!
  My Guitar Hero Community Name Is Papagenu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorwang12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Well i honestly think that this game is certinly the best in series... It has an awesome setlist 
 with roughly 75 songs in it... Some of the songs include Guns N Roses "Welcome to the Jungle", Kiss 
 "Rock and Roll All Nite", and Metallica's "One"... With also Slayer's "Raining Blood", Disturbed's 
 "Stricken", and many more bone crushing songs... The game has a very fun and lengthy career witch 
 could last u a while... This game is deffinately a little challenging especially for the experts... The 
 hardest song on there by far is DragonForce's "Through the Fire and Flames"... that song is almost 
 impossible!.. The career has lots of cool items to buy too.. u can buy guitars, finishes, songs, 
 videos, characters, outfits, and styles... So in conclusion, if ur lookin for a finger snappin game 
 with alot of awesome songs and solos this is ur game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destroyer159512
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  This game hooks you... the first time you play it you love it then you wanna buy it and you wanna 
 rock ALL DAY with it! now if you played an older guitar hero game, something new is Guitar Battles, 
 where you can battle another guitarist using attacks you get by hitting notes, just like star power, 
 to make them fail. for example... whammy, where you cant hit a note until you move the whammy bar 
 up and down. and then there is lefty flip (i hate this the most) it flips the chart around, like 
 a mirror. (which is incredibly hard if you play on expert) . Now another thing thats new and really 
 cool... rockin out online! you can co-op, face off, pro face off, and battle. and you create your 
 username, and you can even look at high scores (some of these are amazing!)
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  You use a guitar like controller and you hit colored fret buttons and you strum... 
 PERFECT for people that think real guitar is too hard.
  
  Sound 10/10 
  Awesome songs such as welcome to the jungle, rock and roll all night, evenflow, and even THROUGH 
 THE FIRE AND THE FLAMES (dont bother trying it on expert)
  
  Graphics 10/10
  the hair on people looks so damn real up close
  
  Controls 10/10
  no comment
  
  Overall 
 9.5/10
  The game is very well, but no downloading songs?!?! Thats not fair for wii owners...
  With that 
 in the game, it would be a perfect 10, but... theres a game coming called Guitar hero world tour 
 for wii, 360, ps3 and ps2 and wait? creating songs? more frets on the guitar? creating rockers? 
 creating guitars? drums? vocals? DOWNLOADING SONGS FOR Wii?! DOWNLOADING OTHER PEOPLES CREATED 
 SONGS?! OZZFEST STAGE?! JIMI HENDRIX SONGS?! CRAZY TRAIN!?!?!?! This game will be an 11/10 :O
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Whoa the most rock and roll is right ' ere in Guitar Hero 3 Legends Of Rock. Become a true rock 
 legend in one of the most solid selection of songs ever! The game features over 70 songs each of 
 the most classic bands of the 70's, 80's, 90's and early 2000's including bands like Kiss, Heart, 
 Santanna, Iron Maiden and Metallica! The game also includes some foreign bonus songs such as Generation 
 Rock etc.
  
  The game features the same fantastic gameplay and music like previous Guitar Hero parts and its 
 just gotten harder to press those blue and yellow buttons. Its no joke, the game is much harder 
 than previous Guitar Hero parts, but once you get the groove on, your all set to shred! The only 
 use of the Wii's motion sensing is that when you have star power you can lift up your guitar to 
 shred which is distracting but fun. 
  
  Graphics are updated but they are still a little choppy in some places like the crowd detail and 
 some of the outside visuals. It is bearable but it could have been much better.
  
  Online is very topsy turvy and RedOctane should work on it abit more. 
  
  The worst part of 
 this Guitar Hero is probably the difficulty, songs on medium are harder than before and give you 
 more of a run for your moneythan you expected. 
  
  I think that Guitar Hero needs the following people: Bon Jovi, Linkin Park, Nickleback and 3 Doors 
 Down. 
  Without them, I feel Guitar Hero is just using underground bands to record the songs. 
  
  Great 
 job Activision, RedOctance and Bud Cat; I feel future games like Guitar Hero World Tour will be 
 a big success if all the companies co-operate and revise the problems. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  The Good: An excellent, very long track list; it's easy to slowly improve at the game because the 
 songs vary so much in difficulty; Wi-Fi and local two player; intuitive Wii remote use; career, 
 face off, and co-op career are all tons of fun; many characters to choose from, including some 
 real rockers; plenty of customization.
  
  The Bad: Horrendous graphics from a crappy PS2 port that would've looked bad on a Gamecube; battle 
 mode is lame; the game gets very close to impossible; no DLC; chracter movement is poor; co-op 
 is short and the difficulty ramps up quickly.
  
  Guitar Hero is one of the greatest video game franchises ever made. While the PS2 graphics won't 
 wow you by any stretch, the gameplay, no matter what you do, is going to be fantastic. Just about 
 everyone has dreamed at one time of being a real rock star, and you feel like you really are, very 
 often, in the game. The five colored fret buttons, the strum bar, and the whammy bar that make 
 up the controls, and the plastic guitar itself, are pop culture icons by now.
  
  But Guitar Hero has many new challenges to overcome. First and foremost is its competition with 
 Rock Band, which is being developed by the team who made the first two Guitar Hero games. Rock 
 Band uses more or less the same guitar set up but includes drums and vocals, though it was originally 
 only available on PS3 and 360.
  
  To compete, Guitar Hero moved to all systems, being released on PS2, PS3, 360 and Wii simultaneously. 
 Multiplatform titles, however, have to face the advantages and limitations of the hardware and 
 make the best of them, making it difficult to make the best possible game on each system.
  
  Not to mention that Guitar Hero has to come into the next generation in terms of graphics, 
 online play, and the new idea of downloadable content.
  
  Rock Band and Guitar Hero III each have wonderful graphics on 360 and PS3. Both have downloadable 
 content, just about perfect gameplay, and online play.
  
  Activision made a risk bringing Guitar Hero to Wii, as Guitar Hero had never been released on a 
 Nintendo platform. This was the same risk taken by both franchises on 360, but for Activision, 
 it paid off far more making the Wii edition. Wii is now the bestselling system this generation, 
 and thus Guitar Hero sold far better on Wii than on any other system.
  
  But what the masses are unaware of is that this version of Guitar Hero III isn't anywhere close 
 to the best version. Activision did decide on using the Wii remote in a unique and intuitive way, 
 and the gameplay can't go wrong, but many other features are stripped away.
  
  The track list is obviously wonderful. There are probably going to be certain songs you love and 
 some you may hate. I personally loved many of the songs, liked most of them, and hated just a few, 
 because death metal isn't my thing. But it's ok because there's so much variety, over 70 songs 
 total, in the game.
  
  The gameplay with the fret buttons, strum bar and whammy bar is all excellent. It's notable that 
 HD televisions have lag playing the game, and can seriously affect the experience, but fortunately 
 there's a calibration system in the software. Hammer-ons and pull-offs don't have to be right on 
 the dot by any stretch, and in fact may be a little too loose. You can hit one long before it comes 
 and it'll still count.
  
  But regardless, the gameplay is fantastic, and that's to be expected. Many aspects, while mainly 
 unimportant to a music game, can't simply be overlooked though. That would be acting like it doesn't 
 matter, and it does, because otherwise it's an excuse for the developers to be lazy. These aspects 
 bring down the game a few notches, particularly this version.
  
  The graphics in the game are straight from the PS2. As all Wii owners know, this is extremely annoying 
 and disappointing. The Gamecube was capable of graphics superior to the PS2's, and the Wii can 
 do twice what a Gamecube can do, so PS2 graphics are insulting on Wii, which is indeed a next gen 
 system. It is obviously true that the Wii doesn't have nearly the horsepower of the other two systems, 
 but that doesn't mean that the Wii's graphics should be overlooked, the same way the 360's graphics 
 shouldn't be overlooked because PS3's are better.
  
  I truly am disappointed in this sense, because the graphics are extremely last gen. Also, the characters 
 movements look very robotic, despite the motion capture used in many cases, and the crowd appear 
 to be two-dimensional. This doesn't destroy the game, but it cripples it from being far greater 
 than what it is, at least on Wii.
  
  However, the use of the Wii remote was extremely intelligent from Activision. Using the powerful 
 motion detection and rumble pack, plus the speaker of the Wii remote allow for a mildly better 
 experience with the controls. It seems that the controller notices your Star Power movement more 
 efficiently, the rumble pack lets you clearly know when it's been put into effect, and the speaker 
 in the remote is better than hearing it from the T. V. It feels more like you actually broke a string 
 or hit a wrong note, though the guitar in the song itself naturally comes from the game.
  
  The face off modes are excellent, the career is long and enjoyable on all difficulties, and there's 
 plenty of maneuverability to get you better at the game. The varying challenge of the songs allows 
 for you to slowly improve at your shredding, especially in co-op, where you can also play bass, 
 which is generally easier.
  
  Co-op is great too, but the campaign is shorter for some reason in this version of the career. 
 This means the difficulty ramps up faster anyway in it, though the bonus songs are still available. 
 That's a minor nuisance for those who don't get a chance to play the game much and need to very 
 slowly improve.
  
  Battle mode is a pretty weak addition. While it's a lot of fun playing against Tom Morello, Slash 
 and the Devil, or your friends, the result is based too much on luck and not enough on skill. If 
 you're playing expert and get the wrong 'attack' sent at you from your opponent, you'll lose very 
 easily.
  
  Still, the core of the game is there, which alone wins it tons of points. Wi-Fi is also included, 
 and it's solid. You can play the multiplayer modes just like local multiplayer (except co-op, obviously) 
 and face off against gamers who could be a lot better, or a lot worse, than you.
  
  However, the most annoying part is that the Wii didn't get downloadable content. While the 360 
 and PS3 versions allow the owners to keep the game fresh playing new songs added commonly, the 
 Wii version loses its splendor faster.
  
  Plus, there's a point in the game where everyone starts finding the game impossible, which is a 
 major turn-off. This isn't the case in other Guitar Hero games because it still feels possible 
 to beat the game, but Legends of Rock has about eight songs that are nigh impossible to beat. Those 
 who can are generally prodigies.
  
  Still, the game is certainly worth a purchase because it's Guitar Hero. The main reasons I took 
 away from the score is that I'm judging it by Wii standards, the fact this game should be next 
 gen, and that the gameplay is no longer quite so revolutionary.
  
  If you say these things don't matter, that's saying the developers can be lazy and not try in those 
 areas, which shouldn't be the case. True, they aren't quite as important as usual in a music game, 
 but it has to be judged.
  
  These next gen standards are far higher than what is often seen in this version of the game. But 
 it's good to remember this guitar controller will work with all future Wii Guitar Hero games, which 
 means your money will be well spent. Plus, you're still getting the amazing experience that is 
 Guitar Hero on Wii, which is reason enough for a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo4ever25
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 Legends of Rock, was at the very least exciting. It introduces the first Guitar Hero 
 Game to the wii and more people are still buying it, even past the release date. Compared to Rock 
 Band, I would say that this game is a much better game for beginners looking for a way to have 
 fun and kill time. (casual gamers) But even for me, after owning this game for a long time, i still 
 play it at least 3 times a weeek. Now even though Guitar Hero has its good points, it has one bad 
 thing; the online Wi-Fi. Often if you are playing easy or medium difficulty against someone that 
 is playing hard or Expert they will win even if they miss half of the notes because they get more 
 notes. I was playing the song Through the Fire and the Flames by Dragonforce (hard song) on easy 
 difficulty. The person i was playing against was on Medium. In the end he got maybe 75% of notes 
 hit while i got around 96% and he beat me. But nonetheless, most people don't play hard mode and 
 you can quit out of it anytime by presssing the - button on the guitar. If you are looking for 
 a good beweeginning music game you won't get bored of, this is your pick. But if you are looking 
 for a change from only guitar, get Rock Band. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marr_27
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero series is no doubt some of the best games out there, but Guitar Hero III is the best 
 out of all.
  
  The songs are great, graphics are great, I play it all the time & it never gets old. Its so fun 
 battling other players online & being able 2 play with your friends.
  
  
  But here's a couple of things I've noticed that's not so great:
  
  1. I use the les paul guitar 
 (I'm not sure if this is only for the Wii guitars) but the strum bar makes alot of noise when you're 
 playing and it sort of gets you off rhythm, especially when you're playing songs on Hard/Expert.
 
  
  2. I got WiFi because I know you can download songs for GH on other platforms. Well, you can't 
 download songs on the Wii and that really sucks.
  
  but other than that, its great.
  I'd totally recommend it :]
  & I cannot wait for GH4 to come out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpunk96
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is the newest installment in the main Guitar Hero line of games and it's also the 
 best. As well as the most difficult. The game does not mess around, master it or your screwed. However 
 if you haven't played a Guitar Hero game before this one, this game will be very addicting. Why? It's 
 because of the amazing Soundtrack. I mean Foghat, Guns N Roses, Slayer, Iron Maiden.... Hell Ya! Still, no 
 AC/DC, which sucks. The new cutscences are great and help make the single player even better, and 
 the new Vs. and Co - op mode is great! The controller is of course great fun. The graphics are really 
 nice and overall the game is designed really well. The game does a good job of being a challenge, but 
 you keep playing in order to unlock more songs and more playable people (like Slash) . Even once 
 you beat this game you will come back to it once in a while to play a song or two. The game's also 
 loads of fun at a party or with some friends. Overall I highly think this game is worth the high 
 price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarman2uk
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Ever wanted to unlock your inner rock star?
  
  One of those people who just loves to rock out with your tennis racket or air guitar - if so you're 
 like me and will absolutely love Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock out now on the Nintendo Wii.
 
  For a start this is one of the best games you will ever play, if you like rock music that is - 
 and who doesn't!
  GH III is rock exemplified. It's one of those games that you will be playing for hours once you 
 start... just to discover what the next song/challenge is going to be.
  
  For those of you living in the dark ages, the Guitar Hero series has been around for quite a while 
 now on various platforms, but the latest version on the Wii is just excellent - with a wireless 
 Les Paul controller you are set from the moment you open the box to be destined for rock stardom! 
 Cue hotel room being completely trashed
  
  You play the guitar by flicking the little switch in the middle of the guitar up and down as if 
 you were strumming it for real, while at the same time, pressing the coloured fret buttons in time 
 with what is being displayed on the screen... sounds easy?!
  
  On easy mode, it's not a massive challenge, more of a gentle intro, but medium and expert levels 
 will really give your fingers a workout in this music-rhythm game.
  
  When I first started playing Guitar Hero I made the mistake of trying to play the guitar like a 
 guitar... being a guitarist for real why wouldn't I?
  But that's where I went wrongyou just can't play it with a real plectrum and a crate of Newcastle 
 Brown Ale  well, maybe not the plectrum! 
  At the end of the day it's a game and you have to play the game... but after a short time you will 
 get the sensation that you're really playing the song and enjoying the glorious stage sets and 
 venues that you get the chance to rock out in.
  
  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock really does offer the ultimate rock experience with freshly added 
 content (downloadable content being available next year apparently) , multi-player action-inspired 
 battle mode as well as horrendous boss battles and a host of exclusive content which you unlock 
 as you progress through the game.
  
  You can either take the arcade approach of just diving in and playing the songs, or choose to make 
 it a career and start from scratch, name your band and hope the audience likes you as you work 
 your way through your in an attempt to become a true rock god!
  
  And the set list is one of the best to date, 70 tracks in total, including master tracks by legendary 
 artists such as Aerosmith, Guns 'N' Roses, The Rolling Stones, Pearl Jam and Rage Against the Machine. 
 There are also original songs by guitar legends Slash and Tom Morello - two of the bosses you have 
 to defeat in a gruelling guitar battle.
  The game works well solo, but connect to the Web and you're able to take advantage of head-to-head 
 battles with axe-shredders worldwide. Or if you don't fancy a head-to-head then you could always 
 team up with someone and play the co-op career mode, exclusive to Wii, Xbox 360 and PlayStation 
 3. 
  
  I love this game and can easily lose a few hours rocking out  it's especially good fun when you 
 have friends round, especially if they've got their own controller.
  
  I'm looking forward to Guitar Hero World Tour which features a drum kit and no doubt a whole new 
 set list and challenges, but until that's released later in the year, I will continue to rock out 
 to the Legends of Rock.
  
  The lastability in GH III is practically endless. So crank up the volume - preferably to 11 - and 
 get ready to rock with one of the best games available now on the Wii.
  
  For more information, screenshots etc... check out: http://www. guitarherogame. com and http://www. activision. com 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I started my joy of GH with the second one like many people did. Of course, I had to pick up the 
 follow up because there were just so many good tunes added to the set list.
  
  Graphically this version isn't much of an improvement but that's cool because you don't really 
 have time to look at it anyhow. Lol The songs seem to be a little more difficult but that may be 
 because I was a bit rusty after a long holiday of playing some GH. Regardless, the set list was 
 quite fun and I really enjoyed it.
  
  Of course, one of the biggest differences in this version, for good or for ill, are the boss battles. 
 I'll admit, Morello really pissed me off at first until I figured out what I was doing. Slash and 
 Lou weren't too bad though. Sure, it takes you a little time to figure them out but it's not too 
 bad. In the end, however, I don't think the boss battles really added anything significant to the 
 game.
  
  I'm afraid to say it but I feel like the GH fad is starting to wane. Despite the fun I had with 
 this game I felt like there isn't a whole lot more that can happen with this game to help it continue 
 the excitement. I guess we'll see and, most certainly, I could be wrong.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunar52
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  I'm just going to be blunt. This game is definition of "addictive". I guarantee you will spend 
 hours and hours playing this.
  
  O. K. Now let me get to the review.
  
  Guitar Hero 3, like It's predecessors, is a guitar-based rhythm game. Colored notes come down on 
 the screen and you must match the fret buttons on the controller with the notes while strumming. 
 It may sound basic but it can get very deep.
  
  The controller itself is separated into two pieces when you buy it. It is like this for easier 
 storage. You simply take the neck and press it into the body. The neck has 5 fret buttons to control 
 the notes.
  
  Let me break down the score.
  
  Game Play: 10/10
  
  Like I explained before. Colored notes come down on the screen and you have to press the fret buttons 
 on your guitar controller while strumming. It is incredibly deep and dangerously addictive. It's 
 incredibly fun.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  The graphics in Guitar Hero 3 are pretty bad but It's a rhythm game so who really cares?
  
 
  Song List: 10/10
  
  The song list is great. There are over 70 songs and they are all awesome and are fun to play.
 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  The sound is great. There are lots of noises going on at the same time but each is distinct enough 
 so you don't get confused.
  
  Online Play: 8.5/10
  
  The online play is great but the only flaw is that people tend to leave before the song is finished 
 if they are getting owned which can be frustrating. There is also barely any lag.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  I've been playing this game almost everyday for the past 3 months. I can guarantee 
 you that you will become addicted and will get your moneys worth.
  
  Overall Score 9.3
  
  Guitar Hero 3 is an excellent game and it is really fun. Go pick it up.
  
  -Lunar
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryan10901994
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero III for the nintendo wii is probobly the best of the lot, if it wasnt for the graphics, 
 but graphics arent the reason for the wii's success the reason millions of people across the world 
 have enjoyed their wii was because the gameplay. its trully remarkable!
  
  First of all the wii version for guitar hero III has acouple more songs than the ps2 and the 360 
 versions, giving the wii a head start. graphic wise the wii is just barely over the ps2 with the 
 360 ahead of of them both.
  
  what i found wasnt that great about guitar hero III was that the difficulty between easy-medium, 
 medium-hard etc was way too difficult giving the player one more note to worry about and also quickening 
 the pace, i have just began playing hard mode and i have had guitar hero III since june, 2008.
 
  
  one thing that bugged me the most was that the game didnt have any ozzy, 3 days grace, and guns 
 and roses songs (besides welcome to the jungle) plus any of my other favorite bands. 
  
  in the end i gave guitar hero III a 9.0 for its creativity and awesomness!
  
  graphics= 7.0
 
  
  gameplay= 9.0
  
  sound= 8.0
  
  length= 6.0
  
  replayability= 10
  
  well i forgot how do that average stuff so anyways i gave it a 9.0, hope you all have a great time! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jin_man
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  First things first, I've never played a guitar hero game before this. I was a little worried this 
 game might get a little boring after a while, but I was wrong!
  
  First thing I should say about this game is that it has the best difficulty range. It has four 
 levels; easy, medium, hard and expert. Each level increases the number of buttons needed starting 
 with three on easy and ending with five on hard. Expert just makes it faster and adds more notes. 
 There is even a "cheat" that will increase the speed if you need an extra challenge or if you like 
 fast speeds but can only handle three buttons.
  
  Graphics are okay on the Wii version but compared to the other platforms, a little lacking. Hair 
 doesn't move and there is little lighting. These things don't ruin the game or make it bad but 
 it does give the Wii version a lighter, more happier feel compared to the darker rock concert on 
 the other platforms. The audience looks ok but many times it looks like they are all doing the 
 same thing. The lead guitar player looks and moves great. The singer looks a little creepy but 
 the lip movement is perfect and really looks like he is singing. The drummer on the other hand 
 looks robotic. He moves very fast and doesn't look like there is any energy. 
  
  Gameplay is the main part of this game. It is fast and enjoyable. On expert mode, it really feels 
 like you are playing the guitar. At times it can be hard but rarely frustrating.
  
  Music is most important thing in a Music/Rhythm game and guitar hero III really goes the extra 
 step. With tons of songs from many different rock styles and bands in the main set list and many 
 more to unlock and buy, this game has something for everyone. A few songs are not played by the 
 orignal band and are noticeable but they are still great. The game even has a near impossible song 
 called "Through the Fire and Flames" which really shows who is the guitar heros and who arern't. 
 This game really benifits from a great soundtrack making each play enjoyable.
  
  The game was a good career mode which has nicely done animated cutscenes for both the co-op and 
 single player but they don't do much and are just there to be enjoyed. In the games store, there 
 are unlockable characters, costumes and many many guitars.
  
  This game does many good things but at the end, it is mostly for the fans of the series and of 
 the bands. If you are interested, try out the past two games because this game does get hard at 
 times. If you aren't a rock fan or dislike the music, this game is not for you but for everyone 
 else, this is a great Wii game that should be in every games collection! ROCK ON! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bopie64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  When I got Guitar Hero Legends of Rock, I had never played a Guitar Hero game. I love rhythmic 
 games, but I was never really a rock fan, but it turns out this game is great even for people who 
 aren't really much of rock fans. I loved the music, and playing the guitar parts of the songs felt 
 really innovative for me. I always go back to play the songs on this and am waiting for World Tour 
 now. I love games like this. Multiplayer is fun, too but it is hard to get another guitar, you 
 need to find someone else with a Wii and Guitar Hero to bring one over and then play. Also online 
 is difficult because hardly anyone is online. If more people were online that would be better. 
 The music is great though and it feels like guitar. It's definitely not for everybody, though because 
 some people do not enjoy games having to do with Guitar. Plus they offer lefty flip which is always 
 inviting to me because I am a lefty and I know lefties. Great game. Plus it is fun to learn, at 
 the beginning pretty much everyone is bad but it is really cool when you get good at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iRoibeard
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 20, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  When i bought the wii I couldn't wait to get all these great games so when guitar hero 3 came out 
 I said "Anything for 110 euro should be great" but when i bought got home plugged it in I nearly 
 killed myself. Who would giv this game a 10? 110 euro just to press a couple of buttons. I nearly 
 cried when i only got 38 euro store credit but once again gamestop saved the day i got super smash 
 bros. brawl wooo! Seriously if you really want a good game get smash bros. brawl! Its the best 
 game ever. If you dont like rock dont get the game. If you do like rock dont get the game. If you 
 think this review is crazy honey your crazy. Im never gonna get another guitar hero. I just bought 
 a gamecube controller memory card and splinter cell. Oh god I hope they don't dissapoint. Rock 
 band looks O. K but I'm not risking my money like that once again. Oh by the way Roibeard is Irish 
 for Robbie so...
  
  Robbie out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbplayer
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3, good or bad. The answer is bad. I just don't see how this could be a good game. 
 All that you do is press buttons fast! Now how could this be any bit fun? I just don't understand 
 how everybody likes this game. The good part is that great music. Infact the good thing is the 
 free music! Sure it is tricky but it could use more like an adventure mode and your a rockstar 
 on a world tour! Now that would be fun. One other thing great is the graphics. The graphics are 
 very life-like. I do not know how must people like Guitar Hero! It is just pressing certain buttons! 
 But I don't really know why this game is rated T. It should be Ec. For early childhood. 
  Breakdown
  graphics 8.5
  sound 9.9
  fun 1.0
  hardness 5.0
  effort 1.0
  gameplay 1.0
 
  
  overall 3.5 bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Releasing about the same time as Rock Band, Guitar Hero 3 had a rough start, but people like me 
 stuck true to the series.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 is what it promised to be, and with a few modern songs, it appealed quite a bit to 
 everyone under 20.
  
  A few good things about Guitar Hero three:
  
  1. The song selection is more modern, with Dragon Force, Senses Fail, and other more recent bands.
 
  
  2. The gameplay is just like the previous Guitar Heroes, and is what it promises to be.
  
  3. Of course - Guitar Hero 3 is challenging!
  
  But some bad things:
  
  1. The song 
 selection... Most fo them ROCK, but others weren't meant for Guitar Hero (Miss Murder, nobody wants 
 to boogy with screamo.)
  
  2. The graphics... They all look so stiff, not realistic at all... The drummer is just drumming, 
 no feeling at all, and the singer...? He looks scary! XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDawg333
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  The Guitar Hero Series has been good over the years. But Guitar Hero 3 is way kool! Guitar Hero 
 3 has the most greatest soundtracks in a Guitar Hero game. No wonder they call it 'Legends of Rock'!
 
  
  If u dont love Guitar Hero 3, U SUCK!!! Guitar Hero 3 is just a totally sweetness game. I been 
 playin it a lot. U got all these songs to unlock and all these characters, clothing, videos, and 
 whatnot to unlock also. But i used some of the codes, like the unlock everything code. If i didnt 
 have that code, i dont know what i'd do!
  
  Anyways, i play the songs a lot. I been trying to get better. My friend can play Through the Fire 
 and Flames on Hard!!!!!!!!!!!! I didnt believe him at first, but then he showed me that he could. 
 And my jaws dropped to the floor! I was so impressed. I been trying to get as good as him, but 
 im still working on it.
  
  The game has pretty good songs, like Miss Murder, Bulls On Parade, and My Curse. Those are great 
 songs. They did a great job with Guitar Hero 3. I never played any other GH games, but i really 
 like this one.
  
  Overall the game is absolutely fun. It keeps u busy for days, its a keeper. I give it a 9 out of 
 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkDSpro63
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  When Guitar Hero first emerged from the surface, it became an instant success. Activision now released 
 Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock in October of 2007 as the fourth iteration in the series (counting 
 Rock the 80's) . Like any game, Legends of Rock had several great features and several not-so-great 
 features. But nonetheless, this is still Guitar Hero.
  
  The gameplay is the same as before. You have five colored fret buttons on the screen. The notes 
 scroll down while you strum and press the correct fret buttons according to the screen. The entertaining 
 gameplay is backed up with a strong setlist with songs from Metallica, Muse, Iron Maiden, Living 
 Colour, Guns N Roses, and much more. Although DLC and such is not available on the Wii version 
 (which isn't much of a gripe) , the gameplay is still fantastic.
  
  An issue I had with this is the new battle mode. It's basically two players facing off playing 
 a song and using power-ups to cripple a player. Sure, it sounds fun, but it's relatively short 
 and frustrating. From my experiences, the longest time I played a round of battle mode was probably 
 45 seconds. Another issue is that boss battles can't be played in quickplay. The game features 
 real guitaristis put into the game to create boss battles. So during career mode, you'll have a 
 chance to duke it out with Tom Morello and Slash. It was really disappointing because these boss 
 battles are very fun to play. Just think about it. It would be pretty fun to play Vs. Slash without 
 those annoying power-ups. But the biggest issue was the level of difficulty. Compared to the other 
 Guitar Hero games, Legends of Rock is the most difficult. Especially some of the solos are very 
 hard which have your fingers constantly moving up and down, back and forth, in between, the works. 
 One example would be "Through the Fire and Flames" by Dragonforce, which has you moving your fingers 
 at light speed literally from start to finish. The song is a bonus and it's optional. But once 
 you try it, you'll know that it's nearly impossible.
  
  To conclude, Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is a welcome addition to the series. Despite the 
 difficulty towards the last couple songs, it was an enjoyable experience. I mostly found online 
 as the best feature in the game. Especially for a Wii game, the feature worked very well. Needless 
 to say, GHIII is at least worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamereviewer360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 2:27 am PT
Review:  Presentation
  Great new hit songs, new modes tht are ok and cool loading screens. But the cut scenes are just 
 annoying cos there just randomly placed in between stages in the game and its just full of long 
 haired men grunting at each other
  
  Graphics
  Bad, but not too bad, but its a wii game so cut it some slack
  
  Sound
  Great songs, every 
 genre you can think of, and most of the songs are all master copies. Sound quality is good but 
 again the crappy cut scenes are just full of grunting
  
  Gameplay
  huge fun with the new wireless guitar, and a challenge for any gamer. theres also practice mode 
 for newbies. so the gameplay is all good apart from the dragon force song which is completely stupid 
 about a billion notes come at you and its imposible
  
  Extras
  Rewarding Career mode, multiplayer, online, co-op mode, the list goes on. but not a lot of unlockable 
 content and you still cant make your own character
  
  
  guitar hero 3 is what you would expect from a third guitar hero game it adds some new stuff and 
 the new guitars are awsome but graphicaly we were hoping for something better this time so in my 
 book it still isnt there yet and with rock band already dominating the rhythm genre guitar hero 
 4 better be good 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacuuuuu3
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Ok I'm finally back to reviewing, which is pretty cool, at least for me, so... what a better start 
 than Guitar Hero 3? The game's awesome, but why not starting with the review:
  Pros: Great gameplay feels extremely realistic, online play, really fun, co-op.
  Contras: As 
 gamespot said, the battle mode against someone else can finish in seconds.
  Graphics: The graphics are not from another world... to be sincere... they're kinda sucky... but 
 does that affect the game at all? Hell no:
  6/10
  Difficulty: DANG... if u can do dragonforce on expert 100%, u'd be classified as an insane no-lifer... 
 The difficulty in this game is extremely high, I'm on hard right now... in... Same Old Song and 
 Dance, and I can pretty much say that hard is a GREAT step from medium, medium is pretty easy, 
 but when u get to hard, u have to try each song like at least 2 times (except in some cases) , so 
 ya anyways, if u want a challenge, this is the right game:
  10/10
  Addiction: Pretty addictive, except when ur trying a song repeatedly or u get tired.
  9/10
 
  Gameplay: Amazingly it does feel like ur playing a guitar and giving a concert. The guitar is 
 pretty well used, and after 1 or 2 songs, u'd feel like an expert guitarrist.
  10/10
  Replay Value: OK, let's see... a bunch of songs, career mode, quickplay, co-op, 4 difficulties, 
 wi-fi.... what else can u ask for?
  10/10
  Variety: Read "replay value":
  10/10
  Sound: The songs in this game are awesome tracks, all times songs, most of them pretty good:
 
  10/10
  Story: Cool cartoon scenes, but only cool, nothing really amazing:
  7/10
  Multiplayer: Pretty good, except for battle mode, also wi-fi connection and co-op (even in wi-fi!) :
 
  9.5/10
  Conclusion this game's awesome and definitely worth a try unless u don't like fun and music!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdiamnz69
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is a great. Its the best game out of its series right now. Great online Cool characters, 
 and good songs. The story mode is fun, with the bosses that you fight, including Slash Tom Morello 
 and Lou (the devil) . Now unless you are a master at Guitar Hero 3 its gonna be hard for you to beat 
 Lou. He is the fricken master! The songs are good, and their are playable except one song. Through 
 The Fire and Flames. If your able to 5 star every song on Expert, its likely you can beat Through 
 The Fire And Flames on Expert. This song is impossible. Imfucingpossibe! The online is great except 
 the occasional lag. Sometimes it can be really bad, where you loos connection, but i have experienced 
 worse. They some new characters, like Midori (i think thats her name) Lou Tom Morello and Slash. 
 Theres different charcters in differnet versions. Overall, its a great game, but skip this, and 
 buy Rock Band, Or Gh4 when it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  As the title says, this was my first Guitar Hero game (ever) and it rocked! I coundn't get off 
 the thing! (this means it's awesome) and this is probably one of the best wii games i've been on. 
 Anywho. I'll sum it up
  
  graphics: alright, but could of been much better but all the good things in the game cover this 
 up! 7/10
  
  sound: this is what makes the game so good! it has some cool songs in this which you'll want to 
 play over and over again! gameplay: The guitar rocks and is very innovative and usally works well 
 which makes the game just more fun and it's also fun to play the songs! 10/10
  
  and it goes on...
  
  if you like to play jammin rock tunes and have a wii, buy this game!
 
  
  P. S Even has my favourite song in!
  
  P. P. S now i have nothing to do so, A A A A A S ajh jhf fjf jtutjn iie jsdfhh ssapas jshhs hdbd 
 hdsi sksjdnh ssjs djdk aihsugaui jksj kasj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SupBrah8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  
  
  
  Guitar Hero III for the Wii Review
  
  Guitar Hero III for the Wii will not disappoint. If you can come up with the money, buy it. Here 
 are my reasons to buy it:
  
  Guitar Hero II for the wii has very superb soundtrack. The local two player is probably the most 
 fun two player game out for the wii yet. Also the online is good, because it has a variety of modes, 
 such as Co-op and Pro-Face off. The online also is mostly lag-free, but lags a tiny bit sometimes. 
 My only complaint with the online is the lack of players. It may take 5 minutes to find a player 
 to play with.
  
  Now for the multiplayer. The 2 player mode is very fun, perhaps 10X as much fun as the online mode. 
 I don't know why it is so much fun, maybe because you can actually communicate, but it is very 
 fun. If you have the money to buy an extra controller, buy it. It makes the Guitar Hero experience 
 much more fun.
  
  The single player is fun, especially career. The only thing Guitar Hero did wrong in career are 
 the boss battles. They are not even fun. Single player isnt as fun as online or multiplayer because 
 most of the modes are gone. Also, I think that you should be able to pick the character you play 
 as in quickplay, because you cant
  
  I like the wii guitar because it feels more heavy than any other guitars and more natural, so for 
 me it is easier to play with the wii guitar than the XBOX360 or the PS3 guitars. The only bad thing 
 about the wii guitar is that you need a controller to play. So if you wanted to play with two guitars, 
 but you only had one remote you couldnt be able to play 2 player
  
  The songs are very fun, but some are just so difficult its not even fun One. Example is The Way 
 It Ends
  
  And some songs are so Easy that its not even fun One example is: The Senses Fail Song (forgot the 
 name)
  
  But most of the songs are just right in difficulty.
  
  Multiplayer=10
  
  Online=9.5
  
  Single Player=9
  
  Overall=9.5
  
  Buy Guitar Hero Wii if you can come 
 up with the money
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankDK1995
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  This game is very awesome! The soundtrack for the game I think is the best one that they have ever 
 made. songs like welcome to the jungle, paint it black, the metal, and other ones are awesome. 
 And another new feature that I enjoy a lot is the guitar battles. those are so cool! you get to 
 battle Tom Morello, Slash!, and Lou (the devil) WFC (Wi-Fi Connection) for this game is very good. 
 playing with someone from across the country and beating them is very satisfying! you can do battles, 
 face off , pro faceoffs, or co-op. the les paul that comes with the wii one is awesome too! I love 
 the look of it. and I like the way that you can put the wii remote in there and play! it works 
 so good to be a wireless guitar! That is so cool! the devil went to georgia when you are facing 
 lou is probably my favorite thing to play. every time I get on guitar hero three that is what I 
 choose to play first because it is so awesome!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-man45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  The summer previously before the release of this game I had played Guitar Hero 2 for about a week 
 straight at our friends' beach house. Talk about addiction. So anyway, naturally, I bought GH 3, 
 and it didn't disappoint.
  
  Gameplay.
  Guitar Hero 3 offers a whopping total of over 70 tracks to jam on. Some are VERY easy while a lot 
 of them are so hard it may take you a long time to pass them. The career mode is where you can 
 unlock the main set list, while bonus songs can be bought at the store. If you've played a Guitar 
 Hero game before, you know how it works-little circular notes move down the screen on a "guitar 
 neck" until they come to the place where you must play them. You have five different fret buttons 
 that can be hit: green, red, yellow, blue, and orange. Where are these fret buttons, you might 
 ask? The fret buttons are placed on a guitar controller that resembles a Gibson Les Paul. While 
 you press the button that matches the note you are playing, you must hit a strum bar as well to 
 "play" the note. There is also a whammy bar, that, when wobbled down and up, adds sort of a vibrato 
 effect on long notes. There are four difficulty levels: easy, medium, hard, and expert. While easy 
 and medium may be a snore fest, hard and expert will have you playing notes so fast you may faint! 
 (just kidding)
  Aside from career there is co-op where you and a friend can play through a career together. There 
 is a battle mode too where you and a friend can throw power-ups at each other while playing the 
 same song. There is also straight multi-player where you and your friend see who can get the best 
 score.
  
  Graphics. The people rocking out behind your note guitar neck look really good but some textures 
 are really bad.
  
  Sound. The songs have to sound good in order to play them correctly.
  
  Lasting Appeal. Obviously this game has replay value and you can also hook up to Nintendo WFC 
 and play there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strat-Master
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is the first game of the franchise to be on the Wii. And for being 
 one of the first good music-based rhythm games, it sets standards up to a higher level.
  
  The setlist in this game is fantastic, with classic metal and rock songs like One, Welcome To The 
 Jungle, and Rock You Like A Hurricane. There is also some good new songs like Prayer of a Refugee, 
 Stricken, and Through The Fire And Flames.
  
  The graphics are mediocre, but it doesn't bother gameplay at all.
  
  The gameplay is fun, but 
 after playing it many times it gets very shallow. Also the game is not worth playing without any 
 volume on it, it just gets very boring.
  
  I recommend GH3 if you love rock and roll but you don't have the time to learn how to play real 
 guitar. It is one of the best rock games out yet, so try it sometime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stargui
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is one of the best rock n' roll games ever, with it's amazing tracks such as "rock 
 you like a hurricane", "Rock and Roll all Nite" and "Through the Fire and Flames", and it's four 
 difficulties levels will suck you into the rock world, "obligating you to complete every track 
 on every difficulty. One of the best games I've ever seen and played.
  
  My rating: (Price: Worth buying or not)
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 - online, multiplayer and bosses 
 could be better.
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10 - Pretty good.
  
  Audio: 10/10 - Outstanding tracks audio. Totally ROCKS ^_^ !
  
  Value: 9.5/10 - Really good 
 game even for those who (somehow) don't enjoy ROOOOCK!!!
  
  Price: 10/10 - Simply the best music game you'll ever find on the wii until they release the 4, 
 of course.
  
  Total: 9.4 - Added 0.1 because guitar controller is also a big addition!!!
  
  If you agree/disagree, message me at Gamespot telling me why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeWierd20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game rocks. And it lives up to it's name that way! As the third installment to 
 the GH series, this game offers most other extremely popular songs that the last two games never 
 included. Bands included are Red Hot Chili Peppers, Metalica, Kiss, even Foghat, all introducing 
 their own songs to the game. You can now play as Tom Maralow, and even Slash!
  
  Graphics: 4/5
  
  Not perfect, and kinda crappy too. Yet, the guitars and characters are detailed, 
 and the singers mouth movement is accurate. The lighting effect is AMAZING. Every single light 
 that flickers sends a sparkle of light on some part of the stage, and as well as lighting, there 
 is a different light show that plays through for every single song. The stages could use some work, 
 but other than that the game is fairly good in the terms of graphics.
  
  Music: 5/5
  
  What would you expect? The game is ABOUT music, and with over 70 playable songs, the music never 
 gets old. All the tracks are in the best quality available, and you can hear it crystal clear!
 
  
  Game play: 5/5
  
  It would have to be, on the count that there are 4 different difficulty settings available, as 
 well as 3 different multi player options. There are 5 "fret" buttons that roll down a note board. 
 As they come down, you must press the buttons in the responding order. Some come down as "star 
 power" notes, which, after correctly hitting the notes, fills your "star power" meter. When your 
 meter is half full, you tilt the guitar controller upward to activate "start power mode", making 
 all your points sky rocket, and also cause the sounds from the guitar to echo loudly like in a 
 real rock concert!
  
  Replay Value 4/5
  
  After you've played all the songs, you can play them over again in two player mode. As well as 
 career mode, you can play co-op career mode, which is just like the normal career mode only with 
 two players. There are optional bonus songs, but guess what? No download able songs like in the 
 PS3 and Xbox360 version! But it doesn't hurt TO badly, since those songs aren't nearly as fun as 
 the ones included.
  
  Altogether score: 9.5/10
  
  I say this because the only thing that lacks is the replay value, and graphics. I don't care THAT 
 much about graphics, so it doesn't hurt me to much. Buy it, don't rent (if that's possible) . The 
 game is good, fun, and "good" music is what makes it remarkably an extremely fun game. Truly a 
 fun game, truly a game for rockers and jammers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim_shorts
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Instead of making the game as good as possible on the Wii, Neversoft basically ported the PS2 version 
 to Wii. There are many problems with the game, but the good outweighs the bad.
  
  
  
  Gameplay-9
  
  Unfortunately, the gameplay isn't quite up to par with the first two installments 
 of the series. The feeling that you're actually playing the song is still there, but is somewhat 
 hampered by the hammer on system. For example, if I have a long red note followed by a green hammer 
 on, I can hit the red note, stop playing, hit the orange note eight times, and then play the green 
 note without a problem. The hammer ons are just plain too easy. However, Neversoft did improve 
 on the note charts slightly. The way it makes you move your fingers is very similar to the way 
 a real guitar player must move his or her fingers. The game makes up for the easy hammer ons by 
 throwing a ton of them at you. The game's difficulty is much higher than in previous installments, 
 which is a good thing in my opinion. If you've been playing Guitar Hero since the second game or 
 before, the difficulty should be no problem. The new battle mode is very frustrating, but can be 
 fun at times. A problem arises when two people are battling on different difficulties though. Someone 
 on medium will have a much easier time of winning then someone on expert. The medium player will 
 even get powerups before the person on expert. This puts the expert player in a bit of a connundrum. 
 Does he play at a disadvantage, or be bored to tears playing on medium? The online for the Wii 
 is, as always, disappointing. It takes a very long time to find anyone to play with, and even then, 
 it's usually someone who plays on easy or medium. Anyone looking for an expert match will have 
 to wait even longer. Don't expect matches to last very long either. Most people quit when they 
 start losing. This really isn't the game's fault, but is worth noting.
  
  
  
  Graphics-7
  
  
  Remember what I said about the game just being a PS2 port on Wii? This is 
 most evident in the graphics department. The character motions look very unnatural. The guitarists' 
 hands go through the guitar rather than on it, and the crowd has 3 different character models used 
 over and over again. The note gems don't even shine like they used to. Everything looks polygonal, 
 and the you can occasionally see the characters load onto the screen. That's just laziness.
  
  
  Sound-9 
  
  
  The most important aspect of the Guitar Hero franchise is the music 
 of course. There are many good songs this time around, but an equal amount of bad ones, such as 
 Kool Thing and Nothing For Me Here, but as long as you ignore those, the music should be no issue. 
 The Wii's sound is mono only, but it doesn't make the sound worse, just different. The game's trademark 
 guitar sounds on the menus are back, and just as good as ever. The crowd's noises are about as 
 numerous as the crowd's character models, but the booing when the gig is heading south makes for 
 better realism. It can get annoying when you're alternating between green and yellow and the crowd 
 is booing and cheering every two seconds. 
  
  
  Value-8
  
  
  This is an expensive game, but one that will last you a very long time. The only thing that really 
 hurts the value of this game is the poor quality of the controller. The Les Paul controller features 
 very many problems, such as the notes going out, the whammy bar breaking, and the occasional dropped 
 note. The many songs and the online play really add to the replay value, and if you're like me, 
 you'll spend hours trying to bump up your career score. 
  
  
  
  Tilt-9
  
  
  The good really does outweigh the bad in this game. It's too bad that Neversoft got so lazy, or 
 this game could have been the best in the series. This is still a game that I would reccommend 
 to anyone, regardless of the graphical problems and the bumped up difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bellers23
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  I only picked this game up a day ago so perhaps it's a little early to be giving it a full review. 
 I can tell you that the reason I'm writing this so soon after buying and without having even seen 
 all the features is to hopefully convince a few of you who may be in two minds over buying the 
 game, to go out and do it today. You certainly won't be dissapointed.
  
  My initial impressions upon taking the equipment from the box was how impressive the guitar was. 
 Despite having heard from friends and other reviewers that the guitar was genius I never fully 
 understood how it could be, given that it was only a lump of plastic after all. Well let me say 
 this now. THE GUITAR IS GENIUS. It's easy to put together and it contains the Wiimote safely inside. 
 Don't worry about navigating through the various Wii menus whilst the Wiimote is tucked away there's 
 a handy little analogue stick built onto the guitar controller and the green and red keys act as 
 your A & B buttons respectively. The strummer acts as your navigation tool through the onscreen 
 Guitar Hero menus. So again don't worry that the Wiimote's locked away. The guitar comes in 2 pieces 
 and it's as simple as clicking the neck into the body to build. You only have to pull a lever and 
 slide the neck away from the body to fold back down. This makes it ideal for taking round to your 
 friends and families. As I said before the Wiimote tucks away inside of the guitar but not only 
 tht it acts as the battery pack too. Finally an additional controller for your Wii you don't need 
 batteries for and didn't I say earlier that it's modelled on the classic Gibson Les Paul, and you 
 can customise the look with additional face plates for it and you can add stickers which come with 
 the game too.
  
  Onto the game then.
  
  It's easy to pick up but it's certinly not easy to play. As a noob and in no way musically minded (until 
 now) I expected that it would take me some time to get into the way of playing the game but not 
 at all. After a rather dodgy first attempt at playing Foghat's Slow Ride, the first track available 
 to you, where I was booed off of stage within no more than 30 seconds it finally clicked with me 
 that you not only have to hit the keys in time you also have to strum on the ,erm, strummer bit 
 as well. Schoolboy error I know. So far I've found the game easy enough to play when you play on 
 the easy settings as you need only remember to use 3 coloured keys at first and the songs are slow 
 enough to give you time to get your fingers into place. The further into the game you go and the 
 further up the levels you traverse, the more tricky the button combinations and speed the colours 
 come at you. I had a brief shot at Hard level. I started crying briefly afterwards as my fingers 
 were going all over the place... even after the song had finished. There is a very clear and precise 
 in game tutorial for those of you still struggling and I recommend giving it a visit even for those 
 who pick up the game easily enough. If there's a particular track or even particular section of 
 a track your struggling to get you can try that particular section out in the tutorial mode if 
 you'd rather cut out the bits around it.
  
  Talking of songs, all the tracks I've been able to access so far are brill. Whlst not many have 
 been known to me before now, you really get into them whilst your playing along. If you earn enough 
 money whilst on the career mode you can buy additional songs to play from the in game shop. Asides 
 the audio the visuals are clear, crisp and colourful and you can't help but get into the whole 
 rocking experience.
  
  Online play exists and as ever with the Nintendo Wi-Fi it's free to use. So far I haven't had a 
 problem acessing games. I've even won a few unranked face-offs so far. I've yet to experience a 
 ranking win yet though.
  
  The only problems I've discovered so far with Guitar Hero III are number 1, no in game character 
 creation. You can buy outfits and customise the characters provided but unbelievably there's no 
 way of recreating your rocker alter ego that I've discovered so far. 
  
  Problem number 2 lies with the online side. Whilst playing online is awesome why isn't there anyway 
 that we Wii users can download musical content like our XBOX360 cousins?
  
  Whilst not a problem as such why aren't the lyrics printed up on screen for non-players to sing 
 along whilst they are waiting for a shot of the guitar?
  
  And finally the most irritating problem to me is the noise that comes from the Wiimote when you 
 miss a note. The twang and rumble from it puts you off and it can take a few notes to recover which 
 all adds to your fury.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  To sum the game up then?
  
  It's the ultimate party game that anyone could pick up and play almost instantly. It's by no means 
 perfect but as you can see from my complaints directly above I'm clutching at straws to fault it. 
 The guitar is a 10/10 and the games not long way behind.
  
  I'm already looking forward to the Guitar Hero World Tour. Here come the drums, here come the drums......
 
  
  9/10 a must buy party game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr-shay360
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  The Good-Fun Charachters, fun graphics, incredible gameplay and a great songlist the songs are mostly 
 master tapes (original coppies) and the ones tht aren't because the master tapes could not be found 
 are brilliantly re recorded
  
  
  
  The Bad- IT IS INSANELY HARD, and FRUSTRATING, and the drummer looks like some machine
  
  but 
 even though being really hard and annoying at times when you play this game something magical happens 
 and u turn into an animal and jump on the sofa and stuff IT IS REAL FUN and worth the money
  
  so if ur a fan of guitar hero go out and get it but if u missed out on the first 2 guitar hero 
 games think twice about getting it because the bar for entry for new players is hihgh and i mean 
 high it took me hours to be able to finish a song on easy
  
  sorry for any typos i kinda did this in a rush
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asturns
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game with 39 songs, not including TTFAF and the bonus section. You can play 
 as 12 different characters total, earn money, play awesome songs, and enter guitar hero heck. It 
 also has a new thing not in GH1 or GH2. Battles. Battles are where you have a guitar battle with 
 a person. in game, you have 3 guitar battles, but you can have unlimited with your friends. Use 
 battle power to attack your opponent and send his rock-o-meter down the drain. Aim to beat the 
 game on the 4 levels, Easy, Medium, Hard, and Expert and play TTFAF at the end. Has great graphics 
 and easy-to-learn playing. Unless your guitar controller is broken, you could go far. If you have 
 played previous versions of Guitar Hero, this should be easier for you, since you've got the hang 
 of it. But don't get cocky! This is a total step up from GH2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCheesePriest
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  After playing Guitar Hero III solidly for about a month, i decided to play Guitar Hero II again 
 to remember what made me play it non-stop for 11 months.
  I was shocked to say the least.
  The characters looked as if they were being stretched across the screen.
  The track listing was 
 as forgettable as the suddenly obvious covers.
  My guitar controller, the seemingly infallible cherry SG, was clunky and unresponsive, and the 
 controller itself was aesthetically laughable.
  I knew that Guitar Hero II would be made obsolete, but I could never have guessed it could be achieved 
 with such brilliant results.
  
  The Les Paul controller (or Wiitar as it is sometimes known) is astounding, only your own inexperience 
 will render the hammer-ons and pull-offs useless, and the neck detaches, so if I took it to a friends 
 house I need no longer feel uncomfortable with the guitar just sticking out of a bag.
  The track listing has been more considered, I suspect they were trying to fill up space on GHII 
 with songs like Carry Me Home. I was glad to see The Metal by Tenacious D in the game, showing 
 that novelty band or not, they can still write a good tune.
  Granted, songs like When You Were Young are inexcusably lame and Story of My Life is quite boring, 
 other people actually like songs like Miss Murder (why?!) , and much to my annoyance Paranoid is 
 a rather shoddy cover of the classic. There are still some gems like The Number of the Beast and 
 One present.
  
  I have impressed many with my Guitar Hero skills, but after playing Through the Fire and Flames 
 on expert in practice mode, I was thankful that its a bonus song and not part of career mode. But 
 you need to bear in mind that you can play through the game on easy, then you can try medium, then 
 hard and so on. People who say its too difficult are just annoyed because they're rubbish at it, 
 don't let them scare you away from this game.
  
  Overall I'd recommend Guitar Hero III to anyone and everyone, unless they absolutely despise rock 
 music or the guitar or are deaf or have no fingers etc., etc.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skylar561169
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Die hard Nintendo fans have been dieing for a game that they can relate to with Xbox and Playstation 
 users. It seems that now they have the remedy. With over 70 songs, an online mode that actually 
 works, when people are actually playing it, a long lasting career mode, and local multiplayer this 
 game is spectacular. You proabaly won't be amazed the first time you play it, to be candid. But 
 the lasting appeal of this game is something that truly desserves mention. You'll find yourself 
 cranking up your amp (t. v.) and playing guitar like a true legend. (hmmm... maybe thats where the 
 title got its name from) I've had the game since the day it came out and I still pick it up and 
 play it. Also, there is a huge level of challenge. With four levels, easy, medium, hard, expert, 
 there's no doubt that you will have a goal set and you will grow better and better as days to weeks, 
 months, years, and so on. I guess there isn't much more I can say but if you are a huge rock music 
 fan, a rythm game fan, or own a Wii you should ALREADY own this game, or should get in your car 
 right no and go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javrixx
Rating: 5
Date: May 19, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  First, let me get this out of the way. I never played any previous Guitar Hero. Well, I played 
 Guitar Hero 2 once while waiting overnight for the Wii when it came out. That was fun, a lot of 
 fun.
  
  So when this game out I bought it. It was great, lots of fun. But a little hard. To a noob Guitar 
 Hero player, even medium gets tough towards the end. And hard, no way. It doesn't even really train 
 you to use the 5th orange color. This game is expecting you to already have a pretty good skill 
 from the first two Guitar Hero games. So the difficulty and learning curb just wasn't right for 
 us noobs.
  
  And then Rock Band came out. I got that and never looked back at Guitar Hero. Guitar Hero is just 
 the same stuff repackaged with new songs and a tiny graphics update. Rock band brought so many 
 new things to the table. And Rock Band coming out for the Wii, I would see no reason to play Guitar 
 Hero any more. Sorry fanboys, but it is the truth. 
  
  The only reason to get this over Rock Band is for the difficulty. If you have serious skills built 
 up from the previous games, this is for you. If you are looking to show off your expert skills 
 and look cool in front of your friends get this. 
  
  But for the real people who want to have real fun, nothing like picking up a mic and singing away 
 to Oasis's Wonderwall on Rock Band. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billybeegood
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  hardly a downside but did they really have to make dragonforce that hard?
  i know its a huge goal to beat it, but is it really worth it to spend 300-400 hours playing guitar 
 hero just to impress your friends and stick a video on youtube. i know its highly addicting and 
 all, but after 5 hours straight i started to think, is it really worth it (that and my eyes were 
 sore) after you play guitar hero for that long you start to enjoy other games of which you would 
 otherwise get no use of, so that is a major upside to this game,
  overall: great reaction time for the guitar, smart inovation, great song choice and a sense of 
 humor on the loading screens. but the best feature of all in this game is wifi, here's a tip. if 
 your on wifi battle mode and a guy goes on easy, press back until he at least goes to medium because 
 you know he's cheating, and if he dosn't change his mind after 5 times, put yours' on easy and 
 pick: paranoid, one and through the fire and flames. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hukibeast
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is this game sucks. 
  Let me start with the price tag; "$80.00"! For a few more bucks some places will sell you a REAL 
 used electric guitar. On to the graphics, terrible, especially for Next-gen. Everything is blocky 
 and the characters and their movements are extremely unnatural. Gameplay isn't that great either. 
 Very shallow actually, as if you were playing a game from the 80's except with a guitar-shaped 
 controller. Hardware, really stupid. The funny thing is that apparently reports say 75% of the 
 cheap plastic guitars that come with this game have a brocken wammy-bar, nice going game designers! 
 The song choice isn't that good, many really good bands refused to sign on to this, a good choice 
 I might add. The idea of this game is so stupid it can make a person sick. As a real guitar player, 
 I must say this is nowhere near the real thing. And most people spend enough of their lives wasted 
 on this trash that they could have actually learned a REAL instrument. But the worst thing is when 
 people actually memorize their favorite songs and play them to you with the controller unplugged, 
 it really proves how lame this is. Stick to the air guitar, because this is a waste of your time 
 and money!
  
  If you don't believe this review is true, message me, I assure you all my facts are correct. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: POkemonfreak101
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Alright well first off, this is like my #2 favorite game of all time. I'm just obsessed with it. 
 For those who have owned or played an previous GH titles, i highly recommend you pick this up ASAP! 
 and for the others, it is still a fantastics game; different colored notes come down the screen 
 and when they reach the bottom, you hit the designated button for the color and strum. its easier 
 said than done. lol. the online mode is ok i suppose; the lack of DLC (downloadable content) sort 
 of hurts, but oh well its not that big of a deal. You can link your account to guitarhero. com, 
 but the scores on tha t website dont show the correct scores for me. and neither do the leaderboards, 
 but again, thats just me. finding people can be a chore sometimes, but i hardly play online so 
 it doesnt really apply to me. anyway yeah 10/10 go pick it up now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyd_93
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Starting the game with no skill whatsoever is very hard, and it took me at least 2 hours to get 
 the hang of it in training. After that i started the career mode. Varying characters to start with 
 we pretty cool and you could tell what some of them were based on, well i could only figure out 
 2 and there was slash and tom morello as well. Playing through career mode was fun and a bit hard 
 for a first time, but after i finished easy, i practised some more before moving onto medium. Medium 
 was harder than easy of course with faster notes and more of them and the introduction of the blue 
 key. Too bad there wasnt any training exercises to get used to it. I'm still trying to get used 
 to hard mode and moving my right hand. Wifi is great with only a few hiccups.
  1. you have to make sure its connected to wifi, before playing career so your score is sure to 
 be sent to your account on the website.
  2. sometimes it wont find any oppnents even though you didnt specify it
  3. may kick you out 
 for no reason.
  4. i only got this once, but during a match it glitched up and caused it to freeze and emit a high 
 pitched sound, which didnt stop until i reset it
  no DLC is the real bummer, i really wanted to play tracks like bleed it out and the pretender, 
 but no external hard drive for the wii makes it not possible.
  
  so in short, guitar hero 3 is a must buy for the wii, and raining blood and through the fire and 
 flames are insane on expert and i cant wait to see guitar hero 4 with the drums, it can only get 
 better :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majorpain98
Rating: 9
Date: May 9, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Great few glitches on the wii though thats the only reason i give it a 9 just it has great multiplayer 
 great gameplay but the graphics are a little lacking wat we all expected id like to see this fixed 
 in aerosmith but it probably wont be fixed and i looked at the full song list and aerosmith doesnt 
 have near as much as gh3. Cant wait to try out aerosmith but not expecting as much hope activision 
 and other makers will prove me wrong. Definetly one of the best games for wii and i would reccomend 
 this too anyone and everyone who asked the best game for wii was. Im looking forward for other 
 games like battle of the bands but judging the commercial they did a bad job advertising. im probably 
 not goin to get it it looks like its just trying to stand up to gh but its goin to be a downfall 
 for whoever made that because i cant remember at this moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_rock_74
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  GH3 one of the best games i have ever played i loved to play it on the wii or xbox 360 because 
 i can play on-line. Everyone i know will play about 2-5 hours a day but they never get better. It 
 is a great game for all ages because it brings back all of the classic song from the 1970's,1980's, even 
 the 1990's. Every kid and aduld has to play this game it is very fun to see people fail on easy 
 but amazing when they beat expert. Some of my favorite songs where. Raining Blood, Cliffs Of Dover, One, Holiday 
 in Cambonia, Paint in Black, and very very more you can never stop playing it!! I really love the 
 game because of the guitar battles they are sooooo fun i love to play tom marrelo from rage Against 
 The Machine mostly because that is one of my favorite band if you have any other things you love 
 about the game i recimend you to send me a massage because i want to hear about your favorite parts 
 of this game any more otther games. If you need help with a game i will love to help you also please 
 add me to your friends list thanx bye!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 1 and 2 were great examples of showing us how to bring out the inner rockstar in all 
 of us. And without much of a doubt. GH3 doesn't deny that at all.
  
  To start off with, Guitar Hero 3has the same basic concept and gameplay that made the first 2 Guitar 
 Hero's excellent. THere's some new features in this game like the better portrayal of hammer-ons 
 and pull-offs. THough the addition of boss battles is a great idea, its execution is kind of dissapointing. 
 Basically, if you mess up too early, and you don't know the song very well, you will lose before 
 you get past the first verse. THere's powerups like broken string, amp overload (causes the screen 
 to flash and blur) and the dreadful lefty flip. But, the tracklist is way, way better than GH2. 
 It mirrors the tracklist of GH1 (it may even be better) . Featuring songs like Rock And Roll All 
 night, Bulls On Parade, When You Were Young, Even Flow, Welcome To the Jungle, Pride And Joy, Stricken, 
 Raining Blood and much more memorable songs to rock out to. The difficulty is much more better 
 than the dificulty in GH2. However, the expert difficulty is probably going to be a big challenge 
 to succeed in (especially in Raining Blood, which is probably the hardest song on the normal setlist) . 
 Besides that, GH3 is f*****g excellent. Gotta love it.
  
  Guitar Hero is probably one of the best in the series, only behind GH1, but by only a little bit. 
 Thank you, Activision and RedOctane. And of course, Gamespot rated it incorrectly, giving it an 
 8. Its way better than that. More like a 9-9.5. But anyways, a much better tracklist than GH2 and 
 some awesome new goodies, makes GH3 a really awesome game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  I didn't really want to get this game at first. My brother wanted to get it and I told him that 
 it probably isn't too great. Now I stand corrected. It is a good game. If you're into stories, 
 action, adventures or any of that stuff, you won't find it here. But you will find some great songs, 
 a very unique way of gameplay, and hours and hours of replay value!
  
  The sound in this game is great. They are a lot of songs that you hear on the radio, and some great 
 songs that no one has ever heard of before! The graphics is where this game is lacking value. They 
 aren't too great. But online play makes up for all of that.
  
  There are pleanty of unlockables to be found so you will be playing for hours and hours trying 
 to get every character, costume, color, guitar, and song! It is quite a goal to shoot for if you 
 want to collect them all!
  
  I reccomend this game if you like DDR, but don't like dancing. It will keep you entertained for 
 a long time and the multiplayer is great. The game is also great at parties as mentioned on the 
 Gamespot review. This game is worth it. Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeavenNathious
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  So yeah, that's pretty much what Guitar Hero III is. That's both kind of a bad thing and a good 
 thing. It does it same old Guitar Hero thing and gives you a montage of notes that you have to 
 hit with your Les Paul guitar. 
  
  
  The first nice thing is the multi platforming, so you don't have an excuse not to get it. It's 
 for freakin Wii, PS2, PS3, and Xbox 360. And each system offers slightly different gameplay features. 
 However, the graphics are the same on each system, and haven't improved that much.
  
  Now on to the game itself; becoming a wannabe guitarist is a lot of fun. There's a ton of shiny 
 new songs that you can jam through, plus bonus tracks. Each song you play through gives you money, 
 and you can buy new things like costumes for your characters and new guitars. Speaking of characters, 
 it was cool to see Slash and Tom Morello in the game, and you can even play as them, along with 
 some other characters also.
  
  A few complaints I have though is that why the hell did they put a guitar battle mode in the game? 
 It can be incredibly frustrating to play against a boss while playing lefty, with a broken string, 
 or with your wammy bar broken. Sometimes the wammy bar doesn't even function properly, and you're 
 sitting there moving the thing up and down frantically like an idiot until you lose. It's too hard. 
 Now the next complaint isn't as big a deal, but they could have come up with some other cool way 
 to improve the game, since playing the same way as the other 2 games can be a little dull and repetitive. 
 But if you get into it and enjoy the song, it's a real treat. 
  
  So yeah, Guitar Hero III is a solid rhythm game, one that's fun to play and you shouldn't miss 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IgNIght
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I have had Guitar Hero III for several months now, and while I may not have played it in a while, 
 I can still remember the joy of playing it for the first time. I had never played any of the previous 
 Guitar Heroes, and it was a video game experience that was very unique. One of my all-time favorite 
 Guitar Hero moments was, after beating the game on hard, watching my Mom stare down the TV and 
 mash on the buttons on easy with such intensity I thought her head would explode.
  The game is solid, with terrific game play and sweet party capabilities. I'm going to assume most 
 people know what Guitar Hero is. You see colored circles on the screen and push the corresponding 
 colored buttons while strumming on a plastic bar, blah, blah, blah; so I'm just going to say what 
 I did not like about the game. First, it cost $90. You might say "but it comes with a guitar, duh", 
 but I say, it isn't anything but a shell you put your wii-mote in. That makes it a $40 shell if 
 you subtract the cost of the $50 game. Also, if you wanted to play with your friends, they would 
 have to have their own guitars, because there are no standalone guitars available (at the moment) . 
 Also, I have played Rock Banda lotat my friends' houses' and there is no comparison to Guitar 
 Hero III. So if you have a Wii, get this, if you have a PS3 or 360, I would recommend Rock Band, 
 even though it is a tad bit expensive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiltont
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  This game is realy fun to play if your into music. When you are playing it gives you a great feeling 
 that your actually playing a guitar. Online, and multiplayer are very fun to play with friends, 
 and with a great varity of songs to pick, keeps you playing for a while. Career seems to be same 
 guitar playing over and over not much variety, yt it is fun to earn money and unlock stuff. Battle 
 mode, isnt th best but at least its something different. What I have noticed straight away is th 
 very poor graphics which looks like all the effort has gone to the 360 and PS3, I have seen much 
 better graphics on Wii and I think that they could have done a much better job! (very upset) . 
 
  
  The gameplay is very fun until you get to hard, which can be quite fast to catch the notes as they 
 come past, and require a fair bit of practice. And expert..... well I think expert is there to be 
 looked and laughed at not to be played unless your serioulsy an expert! Over all - I like it ,and 
 its worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metal-Guard
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 23, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Lets get this out of the way, Guitar Hero 3: Legends of Rock for Wii is an ok game. GH III has 
 a great set list including, well you guessed it, legends of rock themselves. Like: Paranoid, Pride 
 and Joy, and who could forget Miss Murderer by AFI ... well I could forget that last one. Still 
 the songs are widely expansive. They range from good ol rock n roll, to headbanger worthy, to demonic 
 tones and evilness. 2 player is fun, especially co-op carrer mode (but why no battles in co-op?) 
 Battle mode is fun stuff with friends too. 
  
  Well that was the enjoyable stuff, now for the bad stuff.
  
  First of all if you buy the Wii 
 or PS2 versions of GH III you'll notice the grapics are poor compared to the 360 and PS3 versions. 
 Yes the graphics are HD on the 360 and PS3 but the Wii and PS2 can display way better graphics 
 than unrealistic looking flames (in the Tiki Party stage) and horrible hair movements (keep a look 
 on the lead singer's hair, it all moves at the same time) I've seen much better for these consoles, 
 graphics wise. Playing the guitar is fun, but unless you have guitar playing skills (unlike me) 
 you'll struggle through this game as its difficulty oddly speeds up in between difficulty levels. 
 It really got frustrating after completing normal mode then entering hard mode. Some of the notes 
 don't match with the notes being played, and practically every old song is a by a cover band. There's 
 also some registering problems with the Wii guitar. Sure it's great that you dont have to use another 
 set of batteries for the guitars, but sometimes the whammy bar stops functioning. This may seem 
 minor, but it gets frustrating when your opponent gets the whammy attack in battle mode and your 
 whammy bar stops working. You can fix it , sure, but its a pain to do. The final groan is lack 
 of downloadable content. No new songs, patches, or anything to improve the game comes with the 
 Wii version, and that's sad.
  
  So as I said Guitar Hero 3: Legends of Rock is an ok game, but it lost more than it can pay back 
 for in the long run.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platinum_Pikmin
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 Legends of Rock was one of the most hotly anticipated games of 2007 and still remains 
 hard-to-get. Is all this hype just a bunch of flash and no substance? Not in your life! Anyway, 
 here is my review of this funky fresh game.
  
  Graphics: One look at this game and you would think that it had pretty decent graphics for the 
 Wii, not a graphical powerhouse. One look at the Xbox 360 version, however, and you would feel 
 slapped in the face. It looks a lot better but all in all, it doesn't matter for this type of game 
 really.
  
  Sound: This game has been praised as the best music track in the series, and rightly so. This has 
 so many great songs in it, and most of it is original recording from the bands themselves. Of course, 
 not all songs can be winners ("Hit Me With Your Best Shot" is so bad, they mock it in the in-game 
 tutorial) and some of the songs are censored, so you'll be wondering why there is so much dead 
 space in Gallow's "In The Belly Of A Shark"
  
  Gameplay: Even though Harmonix didn't work on Guitar Hero 3, Neversoft has done an admiral job 
 of capturing that classic feel. Although, the timing to hit the notes is a lot more forgiving this 
 time around, they make up for it by ratcheting up the games overall difficulty to near insane levels! 
 This is not a game for a casual gamer to pick up and play.
  
  Local Multiplayer: This is one catagory that Guitar Hero seems to be lacking in, it never really 
 feels like you are playing with someone, just beside them in co-op career mode. Thankfully, the 
 competitive serves up a lot more satisfying stuff. My one beef with it is that you can get a higher 
 percent and still lose and if you mess up and Player 2 doesn't, your done for.
  
  Online: Yes the online capabilities that every Guitar Hero fan has been dreaming of has finally 
 arrived, and it's pretty good too. All the options that you can do locally, you can do online. 
 I never experienced any lag either, the kiss of death for such a timing oriented game.
  
  Overall: This is the Guitar Hero that you have been waiting for, it is the only one for the Wii 
 and I highly recommend it to anyone who is even the slightest bit interested. However, there is 
 one problem, with the shadow of Rockband for the Wii looming over us in just two months (at the 
 time of this review) , you might want to spend your well earned cash on Rockband instead of this 
 if you are more multiplayer focused. There is just one more piece of advice that I must depart 
 you with, two wrongs don't make a right, but three rights make a left.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phazon_Killer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  first I have to say that this was my first guitar hero game i ever bought and i have to say the 
 control guitar is the slickest gaming accessory out there. This game is really so fun trying to 
 beat the game at different levels is fun trying to get your skills better makes you want to keep 
 playing this game, it has very good songs i personally like rock you like a hurricane by the scorpions. 
 The online multilayer makes the Wii version a game that u can keep playing for a while I still 
 play gh3 even now because i got many friends Online at times. this is a really great i recommend 
 this if u have not had the mind to get it yet ive been playing this game for a while now nd ive 
 beaten hard already, the thing that drvies me crazy about the game is through the fire and the 
 flames i cant believe how hard that song is, it lows you away, other than that all the other songs 
 are pretty decent and dont drive u crazy, btw my friend for this is 3136-6022-8517 pm me if u add 
 me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefox10210
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is the latest addition to the Guitar Hero franchise, and is the first next-gen 
 Guitar Hero game, with the exception of the Playstation 2 version. Guitar Hero III on the Wii is 
 a very good Guitar Hero, and is definitely better than the 2 PS2 Guitar Heroes before it. It features 
 what which is in my opinion the best tracklist of all the Guitar Hero games, and the Les Paul controller 
 is better than ever. The game has a very clean look to it, with the exception of a few very rare 
 glitchy textures. The next-gen versions of Guitar Hero also feature online play, which has never 
 been featured to a full extent before as it is now in GHIII.
  Among all these new features, Guitar Hero III has some very minor problems, which some may actually 
 enjoy. For one thing, this game is much harder than any Guitar Hero game before it, with the Dragonforce 
 song "Through The Fire And Flames", which is extremely crazy. It would be easier to come to this 
 game after playing the first two installments then beginning with this game in its high difficulty. 
 Another setback for the Wii version is the lack of downloadable content due to the Wii's lack of 
 a hard drive. This isn't very big of a problem, but is sometimes pretty dissapointing.
  Overall, Guitar Hero III for the Wii is a very strong game, and a must-have for any wannabe rocker. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixVenom
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero III gives players an experience of rocking out and jaming to some great rock tunes 
 from present and classic bands. Guitar Hero III isnt much of an upgrade from previous versions 
 but provides rockers with a great track list and some new modes. All Guitar Hero games have had 
 great track lists, besides rock the 80's not enough songs, and this one is no different. Most of 
 the tracks are by the original artists which provides a better experience and you can tell which 
 ones are b not by the bands themselves. GH III does offer rockers a variety of difficulty, easy 
 and medium are not to tough for players but hard and expert will give your hands. wrists, forearms 
 and shoulders a good workout. At some point the game seems to be to hard, harder than it should 
 be but practice does make perfect or in this case just not bombing out a concert. Online play is 
 great cause you can play against a stranger or rock out with a friend. Single and online play is 
 very addicting, its hard to put the game down when you start. Battle mode is a nice idea but just 
 not for the career mode. This is a good multiplayer adition to battle against a friend or someone 
 online. Or at least it shouldnt be the last thing you have to do to beat the game cause they made 
 Lou very hard to beat and it gets very frustrating when it takes days or weeks to beat him. This 
 game has a great replay value with different difficulty levels and lots to unlock and a bunch of 
 bonus songs. Also this is a great party game, getting a bunch of people together and rocking out 
 together or have a friendly tounry. You cant go wrong with GHIII, it will grow on you and you will 
 find yourself airguitaring the songs when you hear them on the radio or on tv without evern knowing 
 you are doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PikaPikaboo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  
  Get ready to rock with the third full installment of the pop culture phenomenon known as the Guitar 
 Hero Series, this time on the Nintendo Wii. For those unfamiliar with the series, you strum a plastic 
 guitar with five differently colored buttons in various patterns as waves of notes fly down a treadmill, 
 in relation to the music.
  
  The first thing you will notice upon opening the box is guitar. In relation to past official GH 
 controllers, this looks more like a real guitar than a cheap plastic toy. Resembling the legendary 
 Gibson Les Paul, the guitar comes with the ability to change faceplates to give a more customized 
 feel, with the plates usually promoting bands like the Sex Pistols and Rage Against the Machine. 
 The guitar is weighted perfectly and buttons are a smooth as butter, which is especially handy 
 when you start on the very fast songs and harder difficulties. There is a small cubbyhole for your 
 Wiimote, from which the "Wrong Note" noise comes from, adding to the realism and experience. However, 
 some of my friends have told that, like previous incarnations, stickers put on the buttons and 
 overly vicious use of the whammy bar can break them and keep them from functioning. Also, the new 
 detachable neck can apparently cause the buttons to not work, but that hasn't happened to me yet. 
 Lastly, it only comes bundled with one guitar, and you can't buy individual ones. You can't even 
 buy 3rd party ones yet!
  
  Now in a rhythm game, the soundtrack is literately what the game is based around. The soundtrack 
 this one is very good. The include classics (The Rolling Stones, Mountain) and the new kids on 
 the block (Killswitch Engage, Weezer) . The songs also range from pop to puck to even metal, showing 
 a well rounded genre taste. And, for the first time in a Guitar Hero series, the songs actually 
 grow progressively harder the further down the list you go. For example, you start easy (Pat Benatar's 
 Hit Me with Your Best Shot and Senses Fail's Can't Be Saved) to ungodly difficult shredfests (Slayer's 
 Raining Blood and the 7 minute, speed metal epic of Dragonforce's Through the Fire and Flames) . 
 My only beef with the set list it includes no name bands who I've never even heard of, and they 
 aren't even that good (LA Slum Lords anybody? Anybody?) . Not to take away from the fact that there 
 are a few no name gems in here (Like the Scouts of St. Sebastian's In Love or An Endless Sporadic's 
 Impulse) . Another beef I have is the Wii's inability to have downloadable content like the Xbox 
 and PS3. But that, aside a solid set list none the less.
  
  Then there's the graphics and visuals. The Wii version doesn't that the same flare and HD ability 
 of its Xbox360 and PS3 counterparts, but I does have that much more mature look that this game 
 should have. Past games were too cartoonish and bizarre. One thing I hate about it is its blatant 
 product advertising, like unlocking stuff in a virtual Guitar Center or seeing a pack of 5 Gum 
 while browsing the songs. Advertising for the companies that make the guitars how ever his restrained 
 to just putting them on the names, but that's fine. In this game however, you will spend much more 
 time looking at the notes on the treadmill than the backgrounds, so graphics in this game are not 
 a big deal.
  
  But I know what you're saying. "But Troggie, what about the gameplay? Doesn't gameplay make them 
 game?!" And you would be right. The gameplay is just as addictive as ever, and it WILL hook you 
 to thrash down songs on higher and higher difficulties. There is enough meat her to keep pros advancing 
 and practicing to take down the final songs and for newbies to work up on. Co-op mode is still 
 here and bass/rhythm lines are still much easier than their lead counterparts. A new mode is the 
 Battle Mode, where while shredding the tracks against others, instead of star power and getting 
 more points than them, you now have to get Mario Kart-style power ups to make you opponents fail. 
 Some of these include Difficulty Up, Whammy (opponent must whammy to continue to play) , Double 
 Notes, and Left Flip (Green is now on the right and orange is on the left, and so on) . Much improved 
 over other versions. Also, online play is here. The connection are usually fluid and work with 
 out fail, except when you lose connections, but that falls on the Wii's problem, and not the game. 
 However the excessively large Friend codes, no chatting ability, and no menu-style game selection 
 to choose games is a nuisance, but not a bad first go. Another problem is the fact that in Battles 
 and Face Offs, those on lower difficulties will beat you, and online, n00bs will purposely go on 
 a lower difficulty to win. And the fact that when you beat the game, you're done; that's pretty 
 much it. But overall, it's a great game, alone or at a party.
  
  So does this game meet expectations? Yes. Does it exceed them? No. Overall it's a solid game but 
 Nintendo's inability and general stubbornness to move with times in respects to graphics and online 
 capabilities keep this overall game from really shining. Hopefully they can fix these problems 
 on GHIV and the upcoming Guitar Hero: On Tour for the Nintendo DS.
  
  ***As of February 2008, you can buy individual guitars, but the 3rd party ones still don't exist.
 
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Graphics: [7.5/10]
  Sound: [9/10]
  Gameplay [8.5/10]
  Controls: [9/10]
  Replay Value: N/A
 
  Overall: 8.5
  
  
  --Trogdor390
  [Edited by Pikaboo]
  
  For more reviews like this, check: http://wiiniis-united. co. nr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReviewKing
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  The best Guitar Hero yet, and I'll tell you why.
  
  Gameplay: It has a good storyline and you play the guitar the same way as before, but sometimes 
 the whammy dosen't work. Like for example, when you whammy it may not work or it does it slowly. 
 Also, the co-op is cool also where you can add up to your carrer money and get even more guitars 
 for beating it.
  
  Sound: The music rocks and it may be the best playlist so far. When are you ever going to hear 
 a bad song, NEVER. But they could've hired voice actors for the storyline. Come on, why can't they 
 spend a few more dollers on voice actors?
  
  Graphics: The graphics are ok on the Wii, but they could've spent a few more days on the graphics. 
 The graphics are better on the Xbow 360 and PS3. So I hope the Aerosmith game has better graphics.
 
  
  Characters: They look a little different with their move to Neversoft, but they look a little cooler 
 and mostly because of their new characters with Tom Morello, Slash, Lou, Elroy Budvis, and Metalhead.
 
  
  Why I Like It: It is a very fun game to play and to play with friends, it has good music and I 
 mostly like the unlockables.
  
  Worth Buying: This is a good game to buy, it may be like a $100, but its worth it. The guitar of 
 course is expensive, the game is even less than the guitar. Instead of buying another guitar, find 
 a friend with Guitar Hero 3 on Wii and play with him/her.
  
  That was my new review, if you liked it, please give a thumbs-up, or if you want, you can look 
 at my other reviews, I'll try to improves those too. Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4Bluntman
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Finally... They finally got Metallica into a Guitar Hero game, I've been waiting a long time for 
 this and let me just say, One is still one of my favorite songs to play, I've gotten streaks of 
 over 1000 notes and scores of over 400,000, but i digress. With other great songs like Cherub Rock 
 and Knights of Cydonia, not to mention the insanely impossible Through The Fire And Flames, this 
 is hands down the best installment of the game thus far. The hammer-ons & pull-offs were made even 
 easier to hit from the previous game, making it a little bit easier. With the addition of even 
 more three-note chords and even one song with a four-note chord, it pushes you to stretch your 
 fingers to the breaking point in order to hit the consecutive notes. All-in-all, this game has 
 a better overall song list and and is a bit easier on the gameplay, making for a great musical 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  It would be embarassing to not have Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock at all. It is on all [important] 
 platforms, so why not? This is the first time it's appeared on a Nintendo system, so some are just 
 beggining. Too bad for you, this game is extremly hard.
  
  Harmonix left for Rock Band and that left Neversoft to create a new Guitar Hero game. They got 
 the hang of it quickly, and they probably thought everyone else would too, but since it's the first 
 time on a Nintendo platform, that would be an exeption.
  
  This is still Guitar Hero. You are still rocking on the Guitars, just this time, it's wireless. 
 You are still trying to rock on five fret buttons. It is just another Guitar Hero game, except 
 Neversoft created it this time.
  
  The tracklist is pretty good. This is without a doubt, the best tracklist in a Guitar Hero game 
 so far. The game is amazing if you are having a party. But still, the game is extremly tough, especially 
 for begginers. Some of the songs just feel like random notes placed and then called a song. That's 
 not the story, but it comes pretty close. The game also uses a heavy dose of in-game advertising. 
 As if Need for Speed wasn't enough, now it's in a guitar game? You people are despret.
  
  The multiplayer is ok. They tried to make it feel like you're playing against someone. Good job, 
 these are quick too! Most matches end in about thirty seconds since the other person can't keep 
 up because of these attacks. The attacks will do stuff like cut a string, raise the difficulty, 
 and other stuff like that. It's a neat idea, but it doesn't always work right because of the calibration.
 
  
  The game still comes with online play, same for the Wii. The connectivity works pretty good overall, 
 but we've still experience some problems with it. You are also still playing against the person, 
 so there is no peace.
  
  The Wii is probably the most intresting one because of the Wii remote's potential. You plug it 
 in to the guitar and when you miss a note, the little noise comes out of the Wii remote plus it 
 rumbles, which helps improve gameplay.
  
  When you put it all together, it's just another guitar hero game, but you are all turned against 
 each other, so there isn't much cooperate gameplay. It is a pretty good sequal if you've played 
 it before, but this is not reccomended for first time players to the Guitar Hero series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboy1996
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  This game is fun and hard. The expert difficulty is very hard only the best of the best could get 
 100% on a song on expert. Ok let's start off this with career. There's only like 3 boss battles 
 slash and some more people. you face them all in a new mode called battle mode you can attack people 
 with and attack makes you have double the notes on a the note chart your facing the person on . 
 You have like 8 peirs or what ever its called. From artist like living coular and pearl jam , smashing 
 punkins and a whole lot more. The guitar is design better then any guitar in the seris theres a 
 little slot where the wiimote go's and when you missing a note the sound come out of the wiimote. 
 theres a song called through the fire and flames it super crazy on expert. The graphics are lame 
 look like ps2 when it first came out graphics. Online is super cool you've this little guitar hero 
 this and if you click on it you'll get this vip code that will get into guitar hero .com. My profile 
 name is fatboy1996. Thats all I got to say abuot it the carrer is good graphics are horrible the 
 online is very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clarkeyboy21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  
  Guitar Hero 3: Legends of Rock is the fourth in a series of rhythm games in which the goal is to 
 hit the notes as they scroll down the screen, strumming on the strum bar when they reach the right 
 moment. As the game retails around 69.99 ($89.99) with the Red Octane Les Paul controller it's 
 a well worth investment.
  
  The game is pretty much the same as the others in the Guitar Hero franchise with some interesting 
 changes to the layout. The newly designed fret board and frets, with a stylish new rock meter and 
 points counter it altogether looks sleeker.
  
  In previous Guitar Hero games, it was hard to 'Hammer-on' and 'Pull-off', but with a new system 
 it is a lot easier to hit those solos and with the difficulty ever more increasing with the games, 
 it looks like you need to take advantage of this feature. Another one of Guitar Hero 3's strong 
 points is the note streak counter. When you get around 28 notes in a row it starts to count them 
 and show them, this is useful to Xbox 360 users for the achievements, and it is also nice to see 
 how well you are doing.
  
  A major flaw in this game is the difficulty, if you are used to playing Guitar hero 2, it will 
 seem easier due to the Hammer-on and pull off changes, but if you are a beginner it is best to 
 start on an easier version of the game. Although hard, it is do-able so if you really want Guitar 
 Hero 3 and you feel you will fail at it, get it anyway as by playing it you become better very 
 quickly.
  
  The hardest song in Guitar Hero 3 is Through the fire and the flames by Dragon Force with immense 
 solo's you'd be lucky to get past 2%.
  
  The Wii version of Guitar Hero 3 generally plays well with it sometimes lagging or stalling at 
 points, when going to a new screen, requiring you to reset your console.
  
  The new look design of the fret board, rock meter and points counter look better than previous 
 Guitar Hero games. As Neversoft have used green screen and motion capture technology, the movement 
 of the characters and even the singers mouth moves to the song very well, although it does look 
 huge and kind of out of proportion.
  
  Also the set list of Guitar Hero 3 is probably the best feature of this game with over half of 
 the songs being original and the other half actual good covers, Guitar Hero 3, definitely is the 
 one for music. Although the sound isn't 7.1 Dolby as it said on the box, it is still a brilliant 
 sound output.
  
  Red Octane has taken another step in making a better game with their wireless Les Paul Guitars. 
 As all of the next gen systems are wireless, it works well, with the PS2 having a dongle for it 
 to connect. They work well and are better than the old ones a you can truly rock out without the 
 wires affecting your guitar shredding! The Wii version requires you to put your wiimote in the 
 guitar and when you miss a note the sound comes from the remote, which adds to great effect. For 
 storage you can now take off the neck and change face-plates to a more retro look.
  
  The game features classics from The Rolling stones', Santana, ZZ Top, The Red Hot Chilli Peppers 
 and many unsigned bands to add together and make a set of top bands. As it is good to have a lot 
 of Originals, the covers still stand out and although aren't as bad as the other Guitar Hero's 
 they are still cringe worthy.
  
  Because of all of these new songs, and so many of them there is a lot to cover in the game. With 
 70 tracks for PS2 and Wii owners and 70+ for those with an Xbox 360, or PS3 connected to the Internet 
 and want to download new ones that are added frequently.
  
  The game still has the same characters as Guitar Hero 2 apart from the Grim Ripper, Clive Winston, 
 Eddie Knox and Pandora. The only addition that Guitar Hero 3 adds is Lou, the devil who is unlocked 
 at the end of the game. You can now also be Slash and Tom Morello, with new joke characters Elroy 
 Budvis and Metal head. 
  
  The big feature for Guitar Hero 3 is the battles feature. Instead of star power you get battles 
 so when you activate your battle attack it will either affect your opponents screen or steal one 
 of their attacks. The attacks include Lefty Flip (when the notes bar is switched to confuse you) , 
 Whammy (where you need to whammy to start hitting notes again) , Difficulty Up (where your difficulty 
 is increased by one, unless on Expert when it doesn't come up) , power-up steal (you take your opponent's 
 power-up) and Amp Overload (where the notes flash on and off making it harder to anticipate when 
 to strum) . In total there are three battles in the career, one against Tom Morello from Rage against, 
 one from Slash, from Guns n' Roses and the final, and very tricky one is a tribute called The devil 
 went down to Georgia, by The Charlie Daniels band.
  
  Although a good idea in principle when in practice battle mode simply doesn't work. People often 
 save their power-ups and use them one after the other at hard parts, making it impossible for your 
 opponent to recover quick enough, also people online tend to go on the easiest difficulty so that 
 they will be able to survive the barrage of attacks and be able to get power-ups themselves. The 
 worst aspect of the Battle feature of the game is the fact that if you pass the song, something 
 called 'Death Drain' comes up which just drains your performance and makes it harder to see the 
 notes, this is very quick and isn't explained very well in the game. 
  
  The online modes are available on the Wii, PS3 and Xbox 360, overall the connections are good and 
 people seem to have a great time without many bugs. There are four modes for online, Face-off, 
 Pro face-off, Battle or Co-op. All of your progress throughout the game is tracked with www. GuitarHero. com, 
 which is very useful.
  
  If you're looking for a game that has brilliant original music, battles to blow your mind and awesome 
 online that'll rock you out of this world, this is the game to buy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamsammy71
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  I received Guitar Hero 3 for my birthday this year. I was VERY excited to own the girst guitar 
 hero for my Wii system. Even though it is a great game, it has its faults just like any other game. 
 
  
  Good
  *More and better music than before- Whether its classic rock, alternertive, grundge, heavy metal, 
 it has a huge selection of great songs to pick from.
  
  *More collectibles in previous guitar heros- Thousands of cool items, songs, and videos that you 
 can unlock or buy from the store.
  
  *Decent graphics for the Wii.
  
  *More challenging- Play on easy, medium, hard, or expert to meet your skill needs.
  
  *More 
 responsive Guitar- All the colored buttons respond almost right away to you command.
  
  *2 player mode- Play with a friend!
  
  *Extremely addicting fun!
  
  Bad
  
  *Online- 
 Friend codes were a bad idea. If you don't want to use friend codes, then compete with an anonomus 
 player that you have to wait forever for or you get disconnected from. If that doesnt happen, then 
 you suffer from lag which could cause you to loose, and no one wants that.
  
  *Sound- The sound coming out MONO! It is being fixed so that soon will not be a problem
  
  
 Overall, it is a really great game that all music lovers should own to have a great time with.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  this game has its goods and bads. the goods are that it is extremely fun and very addicting. it 
 requires skill..... a lot of skill to beat expert songs. so it is very hard. but it has a fantastic 
 multiplayer aspect to it that it probably the best on wii so far. it is great at parties and gatherings. 
 and it is much better than the last guitar hero. it is a great game for the wii but the graphics 
 and guitars are much better on xbox 360 or ps3. it is very expensive. i got mine for $120 in australia 
 with 1 guitar and for 2 guitars it is i think around $180 to $200 which is double the price of 
 a normal wii game. but if you have the money its deffinatley worth checking out. but you can use 
 the wii remote as a second guitar but is impossible to use once the notes start coming fast after 
 another. overall a very very fun and enjoyable game and is a deffinate must have for the wii if 
 you have the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon-chan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Now let's take a gander and something that all gamers should know about to an extent, otherwise 
 you can't really claim your stake to that form of nerdum. I'm talking about a game that's been 
 rocking the nation that I've recently had the opportunity to jam to, yes; all these music references 
 are leading up to: Guitar Hero III 
  
  I was really unsure about getting this game, yeah I've heard about its popularity and its massive 
 fan base following, but I was still unswayed to go out and pop out 80 bucks for it, plus during 
 the time my local Game Stop did not carry it. Well, luck had it that my mom found a cheaper value 
 to the game at a local Good Will store, which acts much like her second home, 60 bucks really wasn't 
 that bad considering, plus I didn't have to shell out the cash for it, so lucky me. 
  
  Grabbed up the Wii version of this hit and warmed up the system, it'd been a while since I've found 
 any worth in playing. As fun as the game play the Wii offers, it hasn't had an impressive lineup 
 seen as of yet, with few exceptions. 
  
  I went through the tutorial, and as with any new controller, there was a slight learning curve, 
 soon it has you strumming and dropping the hammer on all your guitar battles.
  
  Guitar hero has a pretty impressive lineup of music; most are recognizable while others were new 
 to me but fun to play. Following up there's a few exclusives made just for this game, there's a 
 couple battles with Guitar legends, Slash and Tom Morello. This game doesn't mince and match with 
 the people behind the music besides bonus videos which you can purchase within the game. Keeping 
 it heavily oriented on the tunes themselves, as they should be. There's downloadable content as 
 well for those of you with the wireless connection, so enjoy that, there's freebies and other stuff 
 that you can get as well.
  
  You have a career mode within the game that allows you to pick from one of the default guitarist 
 set on the game, as well as a few unlockables which you can either purchase after a certain point 
 of the game or unlock through certain requirements. There's a slight level of customization and 
 you can pick out both your guitar and the outfit that your rocker will be wearing. There's still 
 a lot to be desired here and it would be cooler if you had wider capability to design your crawler 
 to fame. 
  
  After you name your band, you watch this animation that gives you a wordless basis of the story: 
 you're able to strum and you want to make it big. As you play through the career mode, you rack 
 up the mullah which in turn allows you to buy things from the store in game, you can get songs, 
 new guitars, outfits and other neat little tidbits as well. As you progress, you're rewarded with 
 cut scenes and watch as your fame increases. 
  
  There's stage bosses along the way that you shred into battle with, Slash and Tom Morello act as 
 these obstacles and you must press the beat or face defeat. Instead of Star Power, when you complete 
 a combo you get Battle Power, which allows you to cut your opponents strings, switch to lefty (or 
 righty if you're already a lefty) mess their whammy, up the difficulty or even double their notes. 
 Which is a must since the bosses always play perfectly otherwise. Not to mention the final baddie 
 in career mode, the devil himself, can be a major pain in the backside.
  
  There's also a quick play mode that allows you to select a song you want without worry of progressing 
 the story, you can enter practice mode as well to better learn how to hit the sweet tunes and make 
 'em sing right; a good method that'll slow down the game play and allow you to better adjust to 
 those tough melodies. 
  
  Kicking it to the masses,
  
  The concept of the game is great, playing on a guitar controller that in a way simulates a real 
 guitar, but really isn't anything like it or as difficult as a real one. It truly makes a gamer 
 feel like a rockin' hurricane at times. It's a good contribution to the foundation that Guitar 
 Hero has been built on. 
  
  Graphics: After starting at the buttons dropping down across the strings, it gets a little stressing 
 on your eyes if you play to long, but this is due to the movement, at times when I break away from 
 the game it feels like the room is stretching and I get nauseated. Aside from that, for the Wii 
 version, pretty much all the men are ugly and hard to look at, while the chicks are pretty and 
 really define what the visuals are capable of. The movements are realistic and follow guitar playing 
 pretty well. At times whatever is going on in the background is really distracting to the game 
 play and can break concentration. Other than that, it really doesn't matter what things look like 
 as long as you can play.
  
  Sound: We're listening to CD quality hits, you have to concentrate on the music and the buttons 
 you're mashing down otherwise you're not going to get to far chummer; everything is fun to listen 
 to and there's an excellent track list. 
  
  Playability: The games controls work just fine, my only gripe is that if you accidentally have 
 your whammy bar pushed down while you're connecting the Wiimote, you'll end up jamming it to where 
 the game doesn't sense it and it seems like it's broken. This can be solved by powering down, taking 
 the remote out and replacing it in and restarting the game. If you've really done everything to 
 try and fix it, well, bummer. 
  
  Entertainment: I found it very difficult not to get into the game, finding myself hopping around 
 and throwing the guitar in the air to unleash Star Power is very gratifying, this game delivers 
 that vibe, I don't know what it is per say but it makes my fingers twitch and strum to the beat 
 so sweet. 
  
  Replay: There are many things to unlock and the higher difficulty levels within the game constantly 
 challenges the player to get better and better. The replay is moderately high. There's also a co-op 
 career mode that'll make the game worth blasting through again. 
  
  All and all: This game is easy for anyone to pick up and rock to, it's fun and addictive and a 
 great party game that others will enjoy listening and playing at the same time. So throw up your 
 horns slashers and get ready to rock, not suck!
  
  -Ri 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virulent_vortex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  In the past, games which have been based solely around the use of peripheral controllers or extra 
 devices have never really been all that successful. To an extent the Eye-Toy line-up of games garnered 
 average levels of praise but faced an equal amount of criticism on the grounds that they were little 
 more than a gimmick. Dance Dance Revolution managed to establish a good name for itself with its 
 Rhythm-action style gameplay, which ultimately granted the player a true sense of involvement. 
 Actions performed in the real world affected how well you did in the game and higher levels of 
 difficulty would often necessitate commitment to practice and honing of your skills on the dance 
 mat. The premise, however, was simple: Press the correct button on the mat, at the right time along 
 with the music in order to score points. 
  
  Essentially, Guitar Hero for the PS2 took this concept and translated the action from the dance 
 floor, onto the stage via the use of a peripheral Guitar controller, replacing the arrows with 
 coloured fret buttons, and picking up the flick of a strum bar rather than a press on the mat. 
 A multiplayer mode also meant that if an extra guitar controller was available then you and a buddy 
 could pair yourselves up or face off against each other on any of the available tracks. Guitar 
 Hero II enhanced the experience by introducing new songs, new characters, downloadable content, 
 online play and adopting a more sophisticated level of presentation with regards to the animation 
 and also the fret board, which gave you an indication of how well the song was going.
  
  Now, with Guitar Hero III the same basic formula has been implemented and, thankfully, all but 
 perfected. It's the same Guitar Hero we all came to know and love; only this time some of the included 
 tracks are surely destined to test the willpower of even the most skilled Guitar Hero. *cough* 
 Dragonforce *cough*. The basic game is comprised of Career, Co-op career, Battle, Online and Training 
 mode. There are four main difficulty settings to choose from: Easy, Medium, Hard, and the terrifying 
 Expert mode. The first difficulty level, Easy, only focuses on the first three fret buttons while 
 displaying a significantly reduced amount of notes for the player to play. Medium introduces a 
 fourth fret button while adding more notes, and Hard includes the final fret button while adding 
 additional notes. Expert does not introduce any other frets to learn, but throws even more notes 
 into the mix for the more sadistic players out there. Incidentally this version of the game does 
 not do such a good job of easing novice players into the series as Guitar Hero II did, and some 
 of the songs require a considerable amount of practice and patience to get to grips with. This 
 isn't necessarily a bad thing though. On the contrary, for experienced players this is by far the 
 most rewarding of all the Guitar Hero games to date.
  
  The soundtrack is fantastic, featuring over 70 songs available on the disc from the get go, including 
 un-lockable and extra tracks which can be bought from the in-game store, along with new outfits, 
 guitars and more characters. The game introduces several revered faces from the music industry 
 with the likes of Tom Morello and Slash both making an appearance, each with unique animation and 
 Guitar battle tracks. Just on a side note, it should be said that the presentation in Guitar Hero 
 III is both artistic and unique. While the Wii version, that this review is based upon, does not 
 shine as much as the PS3 or Xbox versions do, they are more than acceptable and the differences 
 between versions are minimal. On the other hand, the Wii version of the game incorporates the use 
 of the Wii-mote adding rumble and speaker sounds to the Guitar. Additionally some exclusive characters 
 are also available for purchase. Besides, Guitar Hero is all about the gameplay; of course it delivers 
 in that respect too. Some may argue that it's just more of the same, but this is an extremely hollow 
 statement to make. Nothing beats the feeling of finding a song you love only to realise you're 
 a bit pants at playing it, before going on to dedicate time into practicing it and returning to 
 finally nail that one tricky solo or section that always caught you out.
  
  Guitar Hero III isn't without its problems. If anything the jump from Medium to Hard mode is mercilessly 
 high and occasionally the game demands a high level of skill in order to progress which can seem 
 off-putting and place a bit of a damper on the experience, especially for new-comers. I would be 
 willing to argue that Guitar Hero III's only real problem is that it over-estimates the player's 
 starting ability which could lead to many novices throwing in the towel early, leaving them with 
 a disc gathering dust in the corner and the impression that Guitar Hero III is just another useless 
 peripheral based game designed only for dedicated followers of the series. But this would be a 
 crying shame because if you do persevere, the game opens up a whole new world of Rhythm-action 
 thrills for you to play through. In effect, the more you play, the more there is for you to play. 
 Pull through and Guitar Hero can prove to be an exciting experience like no other, one which proves 
 both inspirational and very entertaining indeed. 
  
  Thanks for reading - GC
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halbridious
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero looks like a pretty basic game - pick up a guitar and press buttons at the right time. 
 And to tell the truthe, GH is an easy game. But for those who like a challange it can be one of 
 the most CHALLANGING GAMES you could ever play. Hard mode is difficult, Expert almost requires 
 superhuman dexterity (not quite) .
  
  The song choices really bring out the best in GH. GHs I and II both had good music, but this is 
 some of the best. Paint it Black, One, Rock You Like A Hurricane, and my personal favorite, Welcome 
 To The Jungle (Rolling Stones, Metallica, Scorpions, and Guns and Roses respectively) . Playing 
 classic songs and watching colored notes scroll by just feels right and fun.
  
  Multiplayer is fun too. play the bass part or lead guitar, it doesnt matter, while your partner 
 plays the other. Battles against another player allow for interesting play when powerups are thrown 
 your way.
  
  One of the funnest things about guitare hero is the fact that there is so much to buy. So many 
 guitars, guitar finishes, outfits for characters, characters, songs, movies and more. There will 
 be stuff to buy until you tire of buying stuff.
  
  All in all GH3 is a great game, one you should buy immediatly for your WIi (or maybe another consol 
 if you must) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redhotpeppers
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2009 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is a great game. First of all the guitar feels great. It is never difficult to try 
 to strum or press any of the fret buttons. There are a few diffrent modes. The mode you will probaly 
 spend the most time on is carrer mode. In the carrer mode you play songs and as you start playing 
 harder songs you can play in diffrent stadiums. All the stadiums and songs are great. The more 
 notes you hit the more money you get to spend in the store. The store has great stuff like songs, guitars, charcters 
 and much more. The one new addition is battle mode. In it you use power ups to try to make your 
 opponets fail the song. It is good on the medium difficulty. But when you play it on expert the 
 match will end in about 15 seconds. The online is probably the best online that is on the wii. 
 You can face your freinds or just play with random people. There are 5 modes. It is a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThickFreak
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III was one my most anticipated purchases of 2007, and I was giddy as all when I got 
 it. On Easy-Hard, this is just as perfect as GH I & II, but once you bump it up to Expert, the 
 small flaws really hold it back.
  
  First, I'll talk about the good. The tracklist is, by far, the best in the series. Every single 
 tier of songs has at least a few great tracks, and the number of stinkers is alot lower than the 
 last outing. The only tracks that really fall flat (not bonus tracks) are Kool Thing and Raing 
 Blood. There are some others That are pretty rough, but I could stand them. This gives it much 
 more replay value than the other games, which, although they had some great songs, didn't have 
 the best tracks overall.
  
  Another great aspect is the online play. Considering how hard it is to get another controller (for 
 the Wii at least) , it makes it possible to play those great multi-player-only songs. It's also 
 really fun to pwn some person you don't even know. I never have any connection problems, and the 
 only time it lags is when someone quits.
  
  Now for the bad. First off, and this is the first thing you notice, the graphics suck. The textures 
 look really bad, the detail is much, much worse, the crowd looks TERRIBLE, and the drummer moves 
 like a robot. This you can get over though, because the frame rate is always solid, and the notes 
 are brighter than ever, which makes it easier to see them. I also like it how Hammer-On's and Pull-Off's 
 are whiter than the others, making it clear that they are what they are.
  
  Second, and this is possibly the most dissapointing, the bonus songs are downright painful. I only 
 found 3-4 that I liked, such as TTFAF, F. P. R. C or whatever its called, and a few that are only 
 kind of good. Now, I understand them putting in some Euro music for marketing purposes, but I just 
 don't want to listen to people singing like it's an opera, in foreign language. The lack of all 
 the cool local Boston bands from the first two is also dissapointing.
  
  Third, the actual charts. For the most part, they work. But some songs (Black Magic Women for example) 
 just don't. When it seems like you should be able to do a HO or PO, you can't, because in reality, 
 Santana picks it weirdly like that. A song in that tier shouldn't be that hard, and you realize 
 that the chart has real problems. There are lots of other songs that have the same problems, just 
 not as severely.
  
  Overall, if you are a real fan of the series, or looking to pick it up for the first time, it's 
 worth a buy. But hardcore fans beware: Better does NOT = better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegamemonkey
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  The series continues with what is possibly the best rhythm game to date. It's a very simple game 
 where the only concept is to hit the buttons at the right times, and yet it's almost impossible 
 to put down. The sound track is amazing with over 40 fantastic rock songs. It also comes included 
 with a controller shaped like a guitar, which gives it a much more realistic feel. Guitar hero 
 III still has a fair share of bad things about it though, Such as the price tag of 90$ (ouch) . Some 
 other of those things are expert mode which can be a real strain on the players hands, the fact 
 that the sound track is a bit small, and the so called "bonus songs" which are very, awful choices 
 of songs. In summary, if you have the money and love rock and roll, Guitar hero III is the game 
 for you.
  
  On a separate note, I recommend the song 3's & 7's it is a very good song. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jubo07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 4:51 am PT
Review:  I have personally enjoyed playing this game, the strive to get better and to beat songs on Hard 
 and Expert is was makes people keep playing and playing for countless hours (Example. http://www. guitarhero. com/accounts/401851) . 
 Yes thats me, iIve now played for about 100 hours or so (at the point of 1200 songs at 5 minutes 
 average) . There has never been a game that has kept me coming back quite like this one since, dont 
 laugh, Wii sports when I first got my Wii. Overall this is the best game interactively for the 
 Wii and for me personally the best game on the Wii pre - brawl / Mario Kart which are destined 
 to be great games. I gave it a 9.5, great graphics when you invest in the component cables (HD) , 
 lots of great classic and newer songs, and great fun when played with friends or family. Note: 
 i would have gave a 10 if there was downloadable content on the Wii version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bomberman10
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Game play: 9.5/10 simply outstanding game play. once you beat all the songs on expert, try the 
 wii remote. 
  
  Music 10/10 duh. this game wouldn't survive without the great music. you have a great variety of 
 songs
  
  Sound: 7.9/10 the sound the wii mote makes when you strum a note but miss it is very, very irritating. 
 the rest is decent in this category. this is by far the worst category.
  
  replay 9.5 out of 10 increase the difficulty and you got a whole new game. online 9/10 great, but 
 you could still expect more. it is a lot of fun when you battle someone on expert. co-op is not 
 a lot of fun.
  
  shop:9 out of 10: a great shop with a lot of things to buy. the bonus characters, and songs add 
 to the fun.
  
  overall 9/10 the sound really drains the overall or else
  i could of given this game a 9.9/10. other than that, this game is a must buy for all music lovers, 
 and guitar players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lio83197
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I never played any of the other guitar hero games that came out, but as soon as I put my hands 
 on this one I loved it. It is challenging but loads of fun. I can't seem to put it down. As you 
 work your way through the songs you get better and better at being able to use the guitar. By the 
 end of the game you are pretty much an expert. The online feature is great because it lets you 
 play against other people that are not in the same room as you. However if your friends have this 
 game then tell them to bring their guitar over for some head to head combat right in the comfort 
 of your own home. I played this and Rock Band, and I must say that this is definitely much better. 
 Rock Band is not as challenging or as fun. Easy mode in GH3 is like medium mode in Rock Band (so 
 you could just imagine how simple Easy mode is in Rock Band lol) . Definitely by this game if your 
 looking for good music and a good challenge, and also a great game to play at parties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gandalf5000
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Alright, ill cut the BS and be straight with you all. I use to hate on guitar hero. people would 
 as me at school and i would say "WHY THE HELL WOULD I PLAY THAT $ (-) 17?!?!?" Maybe it was the cheesy 
 "rock" image it has, maybe it was the tons of idiots that would talk about it like it was some 
 sort of thing greater then Christ, or maybe it was because everyone i ever knew that i did not 
 like just happen to be a huge guitar hero fan.
  
  Well that all changed when guitar hero III legends of rock came out, i moved away from idiotvil 
 and bought the wii version of the game and have not put it down since. The video store here just 
 happen to finally receive a new shipment the day i decided to go check out what new games they 
 had, after the whole Christmas rush thing it was pretty hard to find anything. So i bought it because 
 it seemed fun, and i really liked the track list since just about every major gaming site posted 
 the track list when it came out every other day. 
  
  Aside from the kinda wacky ps2ish graphics, this game is very smooth and very fun. I do not really 
 give a darn that it does not have freaking 720P high definition graphics or download able content 
 (since most of the guitar hero download able content sucks compaired to rockbands DLC,) . The game 
 play is very smooth and very accurate, i have had no problems with any kind of game play problems 
 in the last 2 weeks i have owned the game (only 2 weeks but ive been playing it damn near everyday) . 
 
  
  The guitar is pretty cool, stick the wii mote in it and your ready to get nasty on some plastic 
 frets and a strum bar. You can also just push a button to activate star power instead of tilting 
 the guitar like an idiot and risk losing your groove. I like the white guitar alot, it looks clean 
 as fuggg. 
  
  This guitar hero is from what i hear more difficult then the previous 2 games. Im not sure since 
 i have yet to play the others but from my expirence it is pretty difficult. Espcially on the harder 
 ones like hard and expert. The raised difficulty is a plus in my opinion. I mean if you have a 
 game that is too easy, then your already good at it, if its too hard then obviously you need to 
 just get better and improve your playing skills. 
  
  The packaging is very well done, it felt cool opening the box up and finding all of the neat little 
 stuff it comes with (a strap, stickers, instruction book) . I actually kept the box and all of its 
 original contents. Why? I dont know, im just a weird-o like that, its not so much obsessive, its 
 just me being weird to where i like to keep stuff like that. I like the box very much, the art 
 is very well done and its a nice big box you can put up on display on your wall or some wacky caca. 
 
  
  I have yet to play multi player (or online) but a friend of mine is going to get the wii version 
 soon so ill get to experience that when the time comes.
  
  Over all this is an awesome game, if your a fan of the series or just want something new for your 
 wii, its an awesome and very good choice. 89.99 which totals out to be about 97 dollars with tax 
 is kind of expensive, but for the experience and fun it brings i think its a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFS102
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero has released its 4th game in the highly regarded series. Incase you didn't know, Guitar 
 Hero 3 will let you be a Guitar legend by building your way up the ranks one show at a time. You 
 probably know this if your already a Guitar Hero fan, but even if your not you should check out 
 this game so YOU can be the next Legend of Rock.
  
  The gameplay of Guitar Hero 3 is pretty much the same as the previous guitar hero's. On the tv 
 screen, notes come down the screen at a certain speed ( faster for harder levels) . When a note gets 
 to the bottom that means its time to play it. To play the note, you must press the corresponding 
 button on your guitar (if a red note comes, you press the red button) . When you press the button, 
 you must also strum the note with the strum bar on your guitar. My explanation of how it works 
 is probably confusing, but luckily there is tutorial to explain everything. 
  
  The gameplay of guitar hero is extremely addicting and fun. The first time you start playing a 
 song, you get the instant feeling that you're a rock star. It feels great and the game is really 
 hard to put down. But unfortunately there is a downside. On harder levels, the game can get really, 
 really hard. I know it's supposed to be harder on hard levels, but even on the medium mode it can 
 get too difficult. Then there's the song "Through the fire and flames" by Dragonforce. This song 
 is just ridiculously hard. If you can beat this on the expert level, you're a guitar god.
  
  Other than the single player mode in guitar hero 3, there's also a co-op mode where you and 
 a friend can jam to your favorite song. Co-op is really good and if you have someone to constantly 
 play with, I recommend you get a second guitar because co-op is make the game even better. The 
 other edition that the game has is an online mode. You can play songs with people across the country 
 in modes from co-op to battle. The online works good and will provide some fun, but is not as good 
 as co-op mode.
  
  Overall Guitar Hero 3 is another good sequel in the guitar hero series. It lives up to its namesake 
 just as we expected, but the game could use a little more modes thrown into it to make it more 
 "new" from the other games. Guitar Hero 3 is a game any rock lover should get, but to anyone who's 
 never tried guitar hero I recommend you get an older one because this game can be very hard. 
 
  
  
  Overall Guitar Hero 3 gets an 8 out of 10.
  
  
  -NFS102
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEguitarhero08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III Legends of Rock. Well, let me clarrify something please. There are 2 Legends in 
 the game. Tom Morello, and Slash. You're not going to unlock Jimmy Paige or anything, or Santana, 
 just those two. That minor flaw aside, this game ROCKS.
  
  Sound (Songs in the game) : (10/10) best soundtrack in a Guitar Hero game. You'll play Pat Benetar, 
 to Slayer, and Metallica, Eric Johnson, the legendary Iron Maiden. Sadly, no Ac/Dc, but that's 
 allright.
  
  Gameplay: (10/10) Hit notes that come up on a screen. Sound simple? Try Through The Fire and Flames 
 on Expert, then tell me it's simple haha. IT seems Activision focused more on difficulty, and Rock 
 Band (Harmonix) focused on pleasure, and accesiblitly to all players. TO me, difficulty it better 
 because it's more of a challenge, but to some people, sticking on Easy is the way to go because 
 Easy is simple.
  
  Graphics: (6.5/10) : Yikes. The Wii's graphics for Gh3 was really....... bad. You could see the musicians 
 arm come OUT of the guitar, and it looks like PS2, not the next-gen. Graphics don't make a game 
 though
  
  
  OVERALL: 9.5/10. Superb game, before you know it you'll get over 100 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seiryu-617
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 announces a shift in creative control from Harmonix to Neversoft. Fans of the series 
 need not be afraid that the game may be lacking as a result, because in many ways it is an improvement 
 over its predecessors.
  
  The Gameplay is top notch as far as rhythm games go, and doesn't change that much over previous 
 versions. You press whatever colored button the song tells you to play, so its pretty straightforward. 
 It does introduce the new Battle Mode which is pretty innovative, with you facing off against bosses 
 with various power-ups used to make them fail. The Wii has a few exclusive features like motion 
 controls and the rumble feature. They don't really alter the gameplay in any way, they're pretty 
 much there as extras. The career modes are pretty extensive with plenty of songs to keep you occupied. 
 The big thing here is the stellar multiplayer, which you can use to prove to your friends that 
 you can rock out better than them. Face-off is fun to challenge your friends, and you can also 
 do Co-op and Battle Modes as well. You can also challenge people on Wi-Fi on all these modes. There's 
 only a few problems with the gameplay like the sensitivity of the controller, which may cause you 
 to activate Star Power by accident until you get a good feel for it. My Wi-Fi can lag occasionally, 
 but im prepared to say this is probably my retarded internet and most likely wont cause problems 
 for others. The lack of downloadable songs is lame, but there is talk that this will change soon.
 
  
  The Graphics are pretty sub-par. Fortunately you only see the poorly drawn crowds before songs, 
 and then the band is animated better. The drummer looks like there was very little effort put into 
 him, but again most of the focus when playing isn't on the graphics, it's on the notes and the 
 guitarist, both of which are animated very smoothly.
  
  The Sound is excellent, which should be expected of a game involving music. The tracklist is very 
 good, with a wide variety of songs to play. Some of the songs feel out of tune (for lack of a better 
 word) due to the fact that they are cover versions. Most of the songs do not suffer from this though, 
 and the experience is very enjoyable.
  
  Overall this is a very solid game with few faults. It is extremely addicting, especially when you 
 have a group of friends over, you could play all night. Seriously, I've done it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Jimmy Page of the world-famous band Led Zeppelin is quite possibly one of the greatest guitar players 
 ever. The loud, intense music, the crazy stage anticsseeing a Led Zeppelin show isn't just like 
 listening to music; it's like watching a show. So who wouldn't want to be just like Jimmy Page? 
 How cool would it be, to have so many fans and be so ridiculously good at playing the guitar? Well, 
 Guitar Hero III for the Nintendo Wii tries to give you a chance to do just that
  
  The basic gameplay mechanic of Guitar Hero III is probably already relatively well know to you 
 -- unless you've been living under a rock for the last year or two, when the series really picked 
 up a ton of fans. But for all those cavemen out there, I'll explain it. The game screen has a sheet 
 rolling toward you, with color-coded notes on it. As the notes pass the bottom of your screen, 
 you must hold the corresponding color on the guitar controller and hit the strum button, for lack 
 of a better word, on the body of your guitar.
  
  Sounds pretty simple, right? Well, it is. At first. The obvious appeal (or one aspect of it, anyway) 
 is that this game is going to get progressively difficult. It features a number of difficulty modes 
 and a gentle learning curve, which makes it easily accessible to Wii owners of all gaming skill. 
 However, it's by no means an easy game, as the difficulty level will shoot up intensely as you 
 progress further into the game.
  
  Still, though, this spike in difficulty level isn't a huge problem. See, hardcore fans are going 
 to love the difficulty, and make it a point to definitely play through it all. Casual gamers who 
 decide to purchase the game might not ever even attempt to play through the higher difficulty levels, 
 but they'll still have fun playing on easier difficulty settings.
  
  Of course, a guitar alone is not enough to make you famous. So what next? You've gotta get some 
 music! Well, while I'm not much a fan of this game, I've got to admit that the soundtrack is impressive. 
 It includes more than 70 rock-n-roll classics, featuring such stars as Pat Benatar. Even if you're 
 not a huge rock junkie, you'll still recognize a lot of these songs. Some of them don't have much 
 guitar work, which are placed early in the game and are much easier; others, however, have huge 
 amount of guitar-playing, and you'll end up playing just about every note in the entire song.
 
  
  One comment about the music, however: somehow, a bit of a problem escaped the many layers of testing 
 that this game surely underwent. Stereo sound was completely omitted, and the entire game plays 
 in Mono. For the majority of us out there, including myself, this is no big deal. However, if you're 
 looking to hook up this game to a surround sound system, you'll probably notice a significant drop 
 in the quality of the songs.
  
  I've thus far omitted one of the most interesting and critical aspects of this entire game: the 
 controller. Yes, the Wii Remote itself is already the craziest (read: most innovative) controller 
 on the market. But the Guitar Hero controller is arguably evencrazier? See, it's actually shaped 
 like a guitar. There's a slot on the guitar for a Wii remote to snap in, which is also a pretty 
 neat feature. As you play notes, you'll feel like you're actually playing a guitar. It's pretty 
 cool, and the whole role-playing idea of the game is excellently done and well fleshed out.
  
  Again, let me further extrapolate. There are a number of modes in Guitar Hero, but the most 
 engaging is Career. You'll decide on your band name, your guitar, then you'll hit the road and 
 get ready to rock. You proceed through a number of places to play, gradually gaining recognition 
 and eventually working your way up to becoming a true "Guitar Hero". It's not really much of a 
 plot, but with the good music and physical guitar controller in your hands, it takes little stretch 
 of imagination to actually believe that you're on the road with a band. You'll probably lapse into 
 that sort of mentality a few times -- I know I did
  
  To progress through a song, you've essentially just got to stay alive. For every note that you 
 miss, your life meter will go down, while it will increase for every note that you hit. If your 
 meter drops down to zero, the crowd will boo you off the stage, you'll fail, and have to try all 
 over again (trust me, this can get pretty annoying with some of the longer songs) . You can increase 
 your score (and your life meter) even more if you can keep up note combos. Hitting notes correctly 
 in a row builds up point multipliers; hitting enough notes in a row can get you a multiplier of 
 four -- the caveat is that as soon as you miss a note, the multiplier counter starts all over. 
 After gaining enough star power (obtained by hitting star-shaped notes that come up) , you can also 
 tilt the guitar up to use this star power, which allows an additional multiplier of two on top 
 of what you've already got.
  
  There are also some pretty impressive multiplayer features for Guitar Hero III, a welcome addition 
 by most Wii owners clamoring for some good online play. Local multiplayer is fine, but really just 
 involves either competing for a high score against a friend or playing co-op, where one person 
 is a lead guitarist and the other is a bassist. There's also online play, courtesy of Nintendo's 
 WiFi Connection. The basic game modes are the same, actually, and unfortunately, the online aspect 
 in this game just doesn't have the spark that past truly great online games have had. It's nice 
 to be able to play anyone whenever you feel like it, but online -- multiplayer in general, in fact 
 -- just feels a little flat here.
  
  Up until now, pretty much everything I've mentioned about this game has been positive. Yet, as 
 you probably knew before you even clicked on this review, I awarded Guitar Hero III a mere 5 out 
 of 10. What went wrong? Why isn't it better? I'll answer with a single word -- two words, actually. 
 Replay value.
  
  To be blunt, it's horrendous. Absolutely horrible. Yes, there are people out there who argue that 
 there's tons of replay value; you can play each song as many times as you like, there's multiplayer, 
 and other crap. I'll by completely honest here, though: there's little reason to play Guitar Hero 
 III's songs more than once or twice. Sure, they're fun. And yes, they sound pretty good. But the 
 truth is, you'll realize not far into the game that you're pretty much doing the same thing over 
 and over and over and over again. It never changes. There's no REAL variety.
  
  And let's do a bit of quick mental math at this point. Let's just round down a bit to 70 songs. 
 Let's then suppose that on average, each song lasts 4 minutes -- generous, trust me. For those 
 of you that can't do that in your head, that's 280 minutes -- about four hours. Throw in another 
 three hours -- again, being VERY generous -- to account for the time you'll spend playing multiplayer. 
 And trust me when I say that you will probably not want to play through any of these songs again. 
 Add it all up, and you've got scarce over seven hours. I'm sorry, but that does not, by any means, 
 warrant a whopping ninety dollar (the game includes both the game disc and a single, overpriced 
 guitar) purchase.
  
  There was tons of potential here, yes. But to be honest, it was just one huge flaw that felled 
 the giant called Guitar Hero III. The lack of any real variety just kills itonce you realize that 
 you're essentially doing the same thing the entire game, you'll likely shake your head in disgust, 
 and then never pick up this game again. For die-hard Guitar Hero fans (rock star wannabes?) , Guitar 
 Hero III may be a good one to pick up -- as the series goes, it's actually not bad. But sad as 
 it is, this game just happens to be tremendously overrated, and unless you're willing to shell 
 out nearly a hundred bucks for a game that will, in all honestly, likely yield you less than ten 
 hours of gameplay, then you should take a pass on Guitar Hero III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomoto5
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  OK games pot these is my review for the game Guitar hero 3 Legends of rock .
  These is an absoluty game and the first i play because i naever know these game is playng with 
 and guitar XD ( DUMMY) the songs in these game are very cool but not the best i wish the career 
 mode is very interesting and dificult but the only 2 things make these game not the best is a couple 
 of music and the battle mode is really horrible for me and frustraiting but is cool for a game 
 of guitars the personaje in the game are very cool especialy Slash he is awsom for me the best 
 guitarrist ever (the singer in the band is really ugly really ugly for me) OK for me is all because 
 is a simple but incredible game and when you tipe the boton just in the moment sounds like the 
 real guitar but when you fail the sound is horrible.
  and the diferent of sound in the different dificults is really cool and a great detaill for these 
 awsom game.
  OK these was my review of the game Guitar Hero 3 legends of rock BYE BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokemoniac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The series finally comes to a Nintendo system in its third year. The wireless controller also is 
 a great addition, because you don't have to worry about wires coming out. New characters, a new music 
 soundtrack (at least I think) , and wi-fi make it the all-in-one package we've been waiting for.
 
  
  The game is quite fun and familiar, so Xbox360 and PlayStation players will have a ball with this. Also, the 
 new characters are like this: some are awesome and appropriate (live free) , others are inappropriate 
 and bad (die hard) . The soundtrack is the best I've ever seen. My favourite 3 are 1. slow ride (foghat,1979) 2. miss 
 murder (AFI,1970 not sure though) 3. Boss battle VS Lou (inspired by The Charlie Daniels Band,1970) .
 
  
  The game, I'm sure will be better than this next time around. Overall, I would recommend this game 
 if it killed me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jono088
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  Alot of people were apprehensive when they found out the original creaters of Guitar Hero (Harmonix) 
 were off the team for number 3 and replacing them were Neversoft, but when Guitar Hero 3: Legends 
 of Rock was finally released they were anything but disappointed.
  
  Now if you've never played guitar hero (god your deprived) then basically you get a guitar shaped 
 controller, with 5 buttons, a strumming bar and a whammy bar. You hit the buttons as according 
 to what comes up on screen, and at the same time you have to remember to strum. As for the whammy 
 bar, well thats to make things sound a little bit crazy, and it's sometimes used it battles.
  
  Guitar battles are a new addition to the game, where if you nail a certain section of notes 
 you get 'attacks'. You raise the neck of the guitar (or alternatively press the minus button on 
 the body of the guitar) to use the attack. The attacks are things like Amp Overload, where their 
 fret board (the thing that you read the notes off on your TV screen) shakes and the notes flash 
 which makes it damn hard to read! You also get other attacks like broken string (they have to press 
 a certain button alot to fix the 'string') or a whammy attack where they have to whammy tons to 
 start playing the notes again. But remember, you can attack them... but they can attack you back!
 
  Lots of people dislike these battles, but they can be fun... as long as your winning! Otherwise... there 
 a pain in the ass because you need to do them to finish the game.
  
  Another change we've seen to Guitar Hero has been the increased amount of difficulty. For those 
 who've never played, easy will seem pretty hard at first, and medium up will seem harder than buying 
 a guitar and having a real face off. But soon you'll get the hang of it and you'll be fine. A good 
 thing about the increased amount of difficulty, it gives people more to aim for, and experienced 
 players a longer playing time.
  
  A nice little addition is the online playability. Wait, did I say a "nice little addition"? Scrap 
 that. Its awesome!
  You can play against strangers in ranked/un-ranked face offs or battles. You can also organise 
 matches against your friends by getting a 12 digit code and adding them. The code is kind of annoying, 
 but then again, so is the wii number isnt it?
  
  One thing they could improve would be the things that happen in the background. The drummer looks 
 like he left his brain in grade three (then again... he is the drummer) the lead singer looks like 
 a muppet, and the crowd are stupid. For example: One by Metallica (the last song on career mode) 
 has a 17 second intro of no guitar. It's the sound of battle (guns helicopter yelling (go! go! 
 go!) etc) and everyones rocking out!???
  
  But the absolute magnificent gameplay makes up for those factors, this game is guaranteed to get 
 you hooked and standing there infront of the TV, pleasing the crowd for hours on end.
  
  Thanks for reading my first ever review!
  Let me know if it ROCKED!!
  
  -jono088 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeedog009
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  So, I am new to the Guitar Hero franchise, and I have had a blast playing this game. There are 
 a wide variety of songs, ranging from the classics to the newest hits. The controller feels just 
 right, and is wireless, which is very helpful. There are 4 difficulty levels, ranging form easy 
 to expert. It can be very challenging when you get to expert mode though, especially near the end 
 of the expert carrer. The new edition to the series is boss battles, where you play guitar against 
 rock legends such as Slash. This is also a great party game. When I got the game, everybody wanted 
 to come over to play it. They wouldn't leave. It was an instant hit. Also, the guitar will work 
 with Rock Band, so that increases the value. Overall, this is a highly addictive game, and I would 
 recommend to everybody who likes to play fun games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teamking
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero. Almost everyone knows the series. Most know it because of the special guitar hero 
 controller. They say Guitar hero III. But this is the first one that released for the wii. A lot 
 of people have waited a very long time for this game. The graphics can be a little bit ugly compared 
 to other games. But the soundtrack makes you forget about that. The difficulty can be hard. But 
 that makes the game last longer (positive!) . The wii version has some cool stuff that the other 
 versions dont have. The guitar rumbles when you activate star power. Sound comes out the guitar 
 when strum on the wrong moment. This gives a real good guitar feeling.
  This game is very enjoyable for people who like rock music. And remember this: Don't smash your 
 guitar unless you have enough money for a new one. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xblane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a game to simulate playing a real guitar, this really is NOT the game for 
 you. But if you were looking to simulate playing a real guitar, I'd say, go and buy a real guitar. 
 Having said that, this game is awesome.
  
  The most appealing thing about this game to me, is the amount of replay value you get out of it. 
 With over 70 songs to play across 4 difficulty levels ranging from 'anyone can' easy to 'that guy 
 that invested his life in this game can' expert*, it will take a long time for you to get over 
 the songs. And let's face it, there are a lot of great songs in the line up.
  
  If you're a music fan, I'd really recommend this one. A must have for the Wii.
  
  *Note that 
 I've rated this 'Just Right' because it is as hard as it needs to be where it needs to be.... I 
 think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfatman24
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Basically its the same as Guitar Hero II with a few minor differences.
  
  New characters.
  But all the characters suck. The devil is annoying, and who wants to be some 
 broad with purple pigtails. Why couldn't they just have a character customization like Rock Band.
 
  
  New song list.
  Which are all awesome except Raining Blood.
  
  Online multi-player.
  Works great. When I get bored playing alone I can easily connect to the 
 internet and jump right into a game.
  
  Boss battling.
  Was a terrible edition. Just the battles in general were bad. Even if your playing against a friend, 
 it ruins the game. I don't know about you but when I play I want to hit the notes and if some jack 
 off is trying to change the mode from medium to hard or trying to cut my red string then I just 
 get pissed off. And why do the bosses never miss a note? I want to see Slash or Tom Morello come 
 play against me and see if they hit all the notes. Or even better yet, see the devil do it. 
  
  Downloadable content.
  Uh-oh, they messed up again. The Xbox 360 has downloadable content, 
 the PS3 has downloadable content. For some reason Activision, RedOctane, and Vicarious Visions 
 decided to abominate the Wii. The Wii is perfectly capable of downloadable content so why don't 
 they have it? When they were asked this they said it was coming. Well its been atleast 4 months 
 now and still they don't have downloadable content. How hard is it to make so Wii owners can download 
 games? This pissed me off the most.
  
  
  But it was worth the buy becuase when it comes down to it, its just fun to play a video game using 
 a guitar. Its a simple and easy route to become a virtual rock legend and it is highly addictive. 
 
  
  BUT RAINING BLOOD IS WAY TOO HARD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerking9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  It has great story mode depth, but I wish I could hear people talking so the story could be more 
 indepth. I suggest for families and parties mostlly sleep-overs. I could have more and better songs 
 because some of those songs are stupid (Barrcuda) . I wish it had more songs from the past Guitar 
 Heroes like Carry on Wayward Son and Shout at the Devil, but overall this game is amazingly good 
 so go out and buy it right now, but you probably can't because it is sold out (laugh out loud) . 
 Trust this review, and trust me and go out and buy this game right now SERIOUSLY, JUST DO IT. This 
 game is an Activision masterpiece if you want a platformer game either get Super Mario Galaxy, 
 Geometry Wars: Galaxies, WarioWare: Smooth Moves, or GUITAR HERO III. This game is totally worth 
 the wait with it's nearly one hundred songs and almost unlimited hours of game play it makes the 
 perfect long-term game for owning, and you will just spend thirty hours unlocking everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afriendofnayru
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  The amazing game concept known as Guitar Hero has finally come out on a Nintendo system, and it 
 is a perfect fit for the Wii. The music is the best selection yet - focusing on the good old classics 
 and features many songs such as "Rock You Like A Hurricane", "Reigning Blood", "Black Magic Woman", 
 and many international classics that are unlockable as well. All you have to do is match up the 
 coloured buttons with the coloured notes you see on the on-screen fretboard and strum. The gameplay 
 is excellent - easy for beginners to pick up and still quite entertaining for the veteran players. 
 The addition of guitar battles too versus players like Slash from Guns N' Roses, and Tom Morello 
 from Rage Against the Machine in career mode was also a great addition to the game. It's a fun 
 change to be able to play against a computerized character and make them fail the song. This feature 
 has also been made available in the Multiplayer function. The addition of Co-Op Career Mode has 
 also been quite a challenge too. Working together with a friend to master a song takes work. With 
 updated graphics as well, this game is a must have for the Wii console. The only negative is a 
 technical error made in the production of the disks. The sound quality was produced in Mono, meaning 
 that at this point in technology, it sounds really poor. Activision is replacing the affected disks 
 however, so there isn't anything to worry about. Still, I recommend getting this game if you don't 
 already own it. Even if you already own the first or second Guitar Hero, this game is so advanced 
 in the series that it is definately worth picking up. And since the wii version specifically was 
 almost impossible to find during the 2007 holiday season - that definately proves the game's worth. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suicidal_KO
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  A great game that's just plain addicting. The songs are awesome and although there's so many, they 
 could've put a few more in. The battles in multi player are awesome because you can use attacks 
 like broken string on your opponent. Career mode's nice but you can just use cheats to unlock everything. 
 I said I didn't like it but my friend made me play.... I was very wrong about it being bad and boring. 
 The modes add different buttons or tempos to it... unfortunately I can't get past medium mode because 
 I'm a perfectionist but I hear about people who get expert mode passed after like 3 hours. Training 
 mode isn't much help, but playing a super hard song on super slow is cool. For a game that hurts 
 my fingers when I do get to play it cuz I play so much, it's very addicting and fun. 8.5 stars 
 suits this game well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  **Due to the type of game Guitar Hero is the regular STORY section of my review will be replaced 
 with TRACKLIST**
  
  GAMEPLAY: Well it is another Guitar Hero. You press your fingers on the notes with corresponding 
 colors (green, red, yellow, blue, orange) and strum with well the strum bar (or whatever you want 
 to call it) . You can whammy (spell?) on long notes (with the whammy bar) to change the sounds and 
 double your score (on star power notes) . When you have star power simply turn the guitar up to 
 power boost your score for a short period of time. The gameplay is solid and really not hard to 
 learn (though adjusting your hand to hit orange sometimes take a bit of getting used to) . So all 
 in all 9 out of 10.
  
  TRACKLIST: Well the songs are amazing. "Through The Fire and Flames", "Welcome To The Jungle", 
 "One", "The Metal", "Slow Ride", "Paint It Black", "Black Sunshine", "Story of My Life", and "Knights 
 of Cydonia" are some examples of the great soundtrack. There will almost never be a song you hate 
 (unless you hate metal) . The bonus songs however don't contribute to beating career much, but can 
 help for money to buy extras. On the other hand though without them there is little to actually 
 play or do on quickplay and they are good songs so you can only use this to help with my score. 
 Once again I'm going to say 9 out of 10.
  
  GRAPHICS: While usually I wouldn't grade a Wii game's graphics compared to other systems the difference 
 here is it is the same game on a different system so it is hard not to compare. The Wii version 
 isn't horrible on the graphical side, but when compared to 360 or PS3 there is a difference or 
 at least from what I've seen. I don't know how to describe it other then less detail in the Wii 
 version. However graphics hardly matter as you will pay more attention to the notes anyways.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: All I'm going to say is you'll want to play this again. 9 out of 10.
  
  OVERALL: 
 It's not a perfect game, but it is worth all $90 to play (well unless it was a sale then you get 
 more then your money's worth) . The game is fun and the soundtrack / tracklist will make you play 
 again and again. Overall however I'm gonna say 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abstract_Choas
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3: Legends of Rock is the Wii's first entry of the Guitar Hero series. The game has 
 a fairly strong song list to choose from. The thing that really makes this game fun to play is 
 the online multi-player over Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. 
  
  This game offers enough skill differentiation for any skill level to play and be adequately challenged. 
 The seasoned Guitar Hero Veteran will have a lot of fun battling it out online against people form 
 all over the world. There really is a lot of things to buy using the money you make on tours. Plenty 
 of guitars, characters, clothes, bonus songs, behind the scenes videos and much more. A Co-op career 
 choice has been added so you can rock out with a friend, one plays lead the other plays the bass 
 line, and unlock 5 songs unique to the Co-Op career. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifan001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is back and with a better sound track than ever. Featuring 70+ songs with 4 levels 
 of difficulty, the game offers plenty of replay value, addicting gameplay in both online and offline, 
 and a great addition to parties. 
  
  Some of these 70+ songs of Guitar Hero include "Slow Ride", "Number and the Beast", "When You Were 
 Young", "Story of My Life", "Before I Forget", "Stricken", "Radio Song" "Avalancha", "Ruby", "Knights 
 of Cydonia", "Holiday in Cambodia," "Cliffs of Dover", and the insanely hard "Through the Fire 
 and the Flames" by Dragonforce. A couple songs- "Suck My Kiss" and the song played by Tenacious 
 D are only played through Co-op mode.
  
  As you probably knew, you play the game with the Les Paul Guitar controller. For the Wii version, 
 you stick your Wiimote inside the guitar. Whenever you want to activate Star Power (Playing a series 
 of star shaped notes perfectly adds to your star power, giving you additional points and very useful 
 for parts that may be troubling to get past.) , you simply tilt the guitar controller up. It's a 
 unique, fun little feature that gets you more involved in the game. It's nice to see the motion 
 sensing be used. Using just the Wiimote also works as well. "A" is the green fret, right on the 
 D-Pad is the red, "B" is the yellow, "1" is blue and "2" is orange. However, playing with the Wiimote 
 doesn't feel natural. Someone skilled with the Wiimote can save money and prevent you from wanting 
 a 2nd Les Paul Guitar controller. 
  
  As I mentioned before, there are 4 levels of difficulty. Easy is using only the green, red and 
 yellow frets. Normal adds the blue. Hard adds the orange and forces you to either shift your hand 
 or reach out for the orange. Each level requires playing more notes and the buttons scroll down 
 the screen much faster. At the same time, the licensed sound track stays at the same pace. Hard 
 and Expert mode may cause your wrist and your arms weary and may feel like they're about ready 
 to fall off. Expert mode on "Through the Fire and the Flames" is more than likely to keep dedicated 
 players really busy. 
  
  A new idea in Guitar Hero 3 is a mode called the battle mode. 2 people (or a human vs. CPU) battle 
 each other and try to survive. As the notes play, playing through a series of notes will earn power 
 ups to try and throw off the opponent. Such power ups include a broken string, upping the opponents 
 level of diffulty, amp overload, etc. It's an interesting idea, but it's rather difficult to make 
 a comeback if you're falling behind. To beat Career mode, you have to play 3 of these battle mode 
 games: against Tom Morello, Slash and Lou. I'm not very fond of battle mode. That's just me, though. 
 
  
  Just simply completing the song will earn you 3 stars. The setlist will earn you cash. 4 and 5 
 stars will earn you even more cash for purchasing additional guitars, characters, styles, costumes, 
 bonus songs and more. No matter what happens you'll end up with the same amount of cash whether 
 getting 5 stars your first time through or 3 and working up to 5.
  
  The graphics are great. (Do NOT compare Wii graphics to XBOX 360 and PS3. Wii focuses on revolutionary, 
 innovative technology put into video games and therefore just didn't need to care about the graphics!) 
 There are some frame rate issues that could've been worked out. Plus, if you ever watch the audience, 
 and your rock meter is on yellow, they'll be clapping with the song. Immediately when your rock 
 meter hits green, they'll start rocking to it and everyone is doing the exact same motions at the 
 exact same time, which looks kind of unnatural. It's not a bad thing considering the audience really 
 isn't the focus of the game, but I think the designers got a little lazy with that area. There 
 are some stuipid adveriting schemes. The video shoot shows Pontiac, and even the guitars themselves 
 are made as advertisements. Blatant in-game advertising.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 is certainly a game to own unless you believe that $90 for the game is too much. 
 It's $50 for the game and $40 for the Les Paul Guitar that comes with it. It's highly addicting, 
 great single and multiplayer, and can easily spend hours if your arms don't hurt by then.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 for the Nintendo Wii
  
  Gameplay- 9/10 x3
  Sound- 10/10 x2
  Graphics- 8/10 x2
  Storyline- 7/10 x2
  Extra's and Replay Value- 10/10 x1
  
  Guitar Hero 
 3 for the wii is one of the hottest games out there and for a preety good reason. You play a guitar 
 newbie who leads there way up to superstar and bust some killer songs from all over the time board. 
 The games storyline is preety bland, but who cares when you got over 70+ songs to choose from. 
 Theres 4 difficulties to this game each adding more speed and notes and different colored buttons 
 to the mix, each time to switch difficulty its like your playing a totally different song. The 
 guitar itself is well made and the wii mote fits in nice. Sadly the wii version has no downloadable 
 feature but still its a small thing considering the great line up already in the game. The graphics 
 are nice and really the songs go so fast once you get off easy that you barly have time to look 
 anywhere besides what your playing. If your a music fan this game will keep your going for a heck 
 of long time, if not and just wanted to see what the rave was about you could beat the main story 
 quest in a couple of hours. Overall smashing music game and with a price of $89.99 thats not bad 
 compaired to Rockband of $200 even if its better in most cases that price tag hurts for an average 
 gamer. 
  
  
  
  Overall- 87 out of 100 for gamespot a 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BooReno62
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  #1. The main reason I bought this game... the soundtrack. No doubt in my mind the best GH soundtrack 
 yet with songs like "One" (Someone finally got Metallica to hand over the rights to one of their 
 songs) , "Cult of Personality" (Even though it was a new version) , among other great songs, that 
 if I listed may get pointlessly criticized for my taste in music, nonetheless, it's a great soundtrack 
 with music for everyone's tastes. I even found some new bands that I had never even heard of before 
 that I am now a fan of.
  
  #2. Thank god for the new controller. This controller feels SO much better than the clunky GH 2 
 controllers. Also, hammer ons are much less difficult in this one; otherwise the difficulty of 
 this game would be just insane (as if some people don't already think that) . The buttons feel much 
 nicer on your fingers and are easier to push, and the new strum bar makes it much easier to strum 
 fast, but does seem a little too sensitive sometimes. Oh, and I forgot to mention one of the best 
 parts about it... it's wireless.
  
  #3. Online play and Multiplayer. One of the things GH 2 stressed was the new multiplayer modes. 
 Well GH 3 added another mode... battle mode... and I don't like it. I go online and search for any 
 game on expert. I find a battle mode game. You get to choose your difficulty in battle mode. I 
 choose expert, my opponent chooses medium. After I lost 2 songs won 1 and then lost another one 
 (it was best of 5) all in sudden death (you go to sudden death if no one fails after the entire 
 song) I realized that this mode is not fair for expert players playing against easy and medium 
 opponents. It's basically impossible to get someone on easy or medium to fail a song if they are 
 halfway decent at Guitar Hero. The boss battles in career mode don't really add anything new either. 
 New battle mode aside, online play is rather fun and adds a ton of replay value to the game (seriously, 
 I have spent more time online than playing alone) , it works fine and rarely lags, but it can be 
 difficult to find a game sometimes. The new soundtrack also added some more fun to the Co-op game 
 (it's even got its own career) , most of the songs have some pretty fun to play bass/rhythm guitar 
 parts, especially when compared to most of GH 2's bass parts.
  
  #4. Difficulty. Before I bought GH 3 I had almost 5 starred every non- bonus song on expert on 
 GH 2 (Darn you Psychobilly Freakout and Misirlou) . I played through the first 6 sections on expert 
 with ease 5 starring most songs on the first go... when I hit the seventh section. That's where 
 the game gets tough; it took me a little work to get by those songs. I found the last section not 
 too hard to pass (just pass, not do well on) , with the one major exception being "Raining Blood". 
 I actually just beat "Raining Blood" about a month ago, and I'd had the game 2 months before then 
 (seriously I 5 starred all the songs in the first 7 sections before I even PASSED "Raining Blood") . 
 I do have other friends that own this game that are having more trouble than I did passing the 
 seventh section and they're on hard, so I have to say that GH 3 is definitely a hard game, which 
 may be a good or bad thing, I'm someone who liked the challenge of this game, until I got to "Raining 
 Blood", but some people might not like the challenge at all, but all in all I still think the game 
 is worth it.
  
  Overall Guitar Hero 3 is a worthy addition to the series, even though it doesn't do much to change 
 the overall Guitar Hero formula, I found the new soundtrack, new guitar controller, ability to 
 play online, and heck, even the challenge were worth my $90 investment, so if you can manage to 
 find a Wii and buy one or have played the other Guitar Heroes, I'd definitely recommend this game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UhhhGahMan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  Everyone knows that Guitar Hero is one of the best music based games in history. GH3 is clearly 
 the best GH up to date. The soundtrack is a load of modern rock songs and some classic old school 
 rock songs. From The Scorpions to Metallica to Slipknot and Disturbed. This game is so friggin' 
 righteous. It is a sanctuary to all music playing lovers. There are some great new characters and 
 multiplayer modes. Some of the songs tend to skip a little though. And the Battle mode is too hard 
 in the campaign but other than that everything else is just PLAIN FUN. Even for those who haven't 
 played any of the GH games can get a kick out of this one. But beware of the greatest enemy in 
 the game, Through the Fire and Flames by Dragonforce. This song will leave you laughing in insanity. 
 Even if you beat the song IT WILL LEAVE YOU CRIPPLED!!!!!!!!!! hahaha I'm just joking but seriously 
 this song is really hard to beat. I was never the same again when I beat it. (still joking but I 
 did beat it BARELY) Other than that song, the game is just down right awesome. If you get it you 
 will ENJOY IT. It is worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Christoph410
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  A few months ago, before i bought the game. i always told to my myself, i must have this game, i 
 must play this game. A friend told me once of this game and today I think its the best game 
 i have ever played. I have the version of the Playstation but, I have seen the version of the Wii, 
 and I think i'll buy it too, for the internet options, the graphics (these are great of course!) and 
 the guitar. So, if you already have the game after reading this go and play, if not go and buy 
 it! its worth playing, you wont get bored playing it, never.
  
  When i started playing it, it was really, really hard to finish a song, even in easy, now the songs 
 in hard are easy, the only way to master it, is to continue playing until the end. You can also 
 play with your friends in the multiplayer mode, and see who is the best, or even start a career 
 and be a legend of rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwistedMetalFan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 10:02 am PT
Review:  If you played the Guitar Hero 1 and 2, then you should know what this series is all about. A game 
 that imitates the feel of playing music, on a guitar shaped controller. Most people before 3 knew 
 the series for GUitar Hero II, a game about rocking faster and harder than the original. Well, 
 Guitar Hero III lives up to that a little to well. The overall difficulty of the game should do 
 well with people who have been playing Guitar Hero for a while now. The songlist shouldn't dissipoint 
 most, it has more original recordings than any other Guitar Hero game. But because of this, the 
 song list is harder than ever. This becomes extremly noticable on the 8th tier, which features 
 songs like Raining Blood by Slayer, and One by Metallica. It took me the whole day to beat the 
 last teir on expert. A new edition to the game that some will love and others will hate is the 
 edition of 'Battle Mode'. I personally injoy this new mode, its all about strategy and good timing 
 your attacks, which replace star power in this mode. You when when the other player, or boss, misses 
 enough notes that they fail. The reason why some people will hate it, most of the time you will 
 play though very little of the song. Which can be annoying, if your playing one of favorite songs 
 on the game. The addition of online play is probally the best new mode in the game. Pick from Co-op, 
 face-off, pro-face-off, and battle mode. If plain on playing mutiplayer just on your Wii, you might 
 have a problem, there is no Co-op quickplay. The only way to play both parts at once is with the 
 new Co-op career mode. Which may sound fine until someone new comes in and plays on a different 
 difficulty than the other person the switched with, you have to start the career over. So overall, 
 if your a fan of Guitar Hero, this is a must play, if your a newcomer, try it at a friends house 
 or something like that first. To make sure its not to hard for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gwottalegend
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is the best in the series and Activision has brought to the Wii, its great that 
 we have a wireless guitar now so i dont have to sit so close to the Television. There are some 
 new features like "Battle Mode" where people can rock off against each other or verse guitar icons 
 like Tom Morello from Rage Against the Machine and Slash from Guns n Roses.
  
  There is co-op mode campaign so you can rock with a friend or go solo in your quest to become a 
 rock legend.
  
  Also online capability is a great addition and there is even a dedicated site that hosts tournaments 
 and keeps player stats. With over 70 tracks like "Welcome to the Jungle", "Even Flow", "Slow Ride", 
 "When you were Young" and the infamous "Through the Fire and Flames" by Dragonforce, Guitar Hero 
 3: Legends of Rock, will keep you coming back for hours on end and become one of the most iconic 
 music games in history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MexRoy10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  this a very cool/awesome game 
  I cant believe how fun this game gets everyday
  its a game everyone should get for the wii
  
  
  
  ill Tell you a story: this is when i 
 still didnt have Guitar Hero 3
  I had gone to Mexico with my family for Winter Break and i had bearly even know how to play it.
 
  When I got to my friends house I started playing Guitar Hero 3 and it was AWESOME I was so good 
 at Medium
  Then after like one day we beat the game so we started playing Fifa 08 or smthing.
  then when 
 I was returning from Mexico to here U. S. Now i have Guitar Hero 3. So i was thinking"what am i supposed 
 to do if I already beat the game at my friends and i know what is going to happen.
  So i was kinda pissed but I began to play it just to beat Career mode.
  what i didnt realize 
 was that there was more songs that you had to unlock in Coop Mode. so i was playing daily.
  Then i started to play online were you will never stop playing
  then i started to play with friends 
 online,
  then i started a new account on guitarhero. com which made me want to get 5 stars on all my easy 
 and medium songs i already did that
  but Online makes me want to play alot
  right now im in Hard Mode almost done just need like 4 more songs
  Expert i can do like 10 to 
 14 songs well that doesnt matter, but i just saying
  theres alot of things o do after your done in Career Mode
  
  Graphics look great
  Guitar 
 is very cool
  Wii is very cool
  whatever just 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bones2515
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  I haven't played any versions of GH3 besides for the Wii so I can't compare the guitars. But I 
 will say that the wireless guitar for the Wii is great. It's a good size and very natural feeling. 
 This is also the first edition of the game I've played so I also can't compare it to GH2 or GH1. 
 
  
  The song selection has a very wide range and most of the songs keep you interested enough to want 
 to play them over and over. However, they can't all be good. Once you get to Hard mode there are 
 more and more songs that will require some practice. The problem is that when it's a song you really 
 don't like playing or even listening to (i. e. Raining Blood) the game can be a little frustrating. 
 
  
  Practice makes perfect in GH3 and it's amazing how quickly you can go from being just able to pass 
 something on medium to completely destroying the songs with near perfect scores. It's also difficult 
 enough that in order to beat the game on Expert you've really got to be great. I've had it for 
 about 3 weeks now and can beat some of the songs on expert, but am really focusing on upping my 
 ratings on hard.
  
  GH3 is highly addictive and a lot of fun to play alone or with other people around. I've never 
 played a guitar battle against another person, but I think it would be fun (as long as you were 
 appropriately matched) . I think that for 100 bucks it's a great buy and worth every penny. I would 
 highly recommend it to anyone young or old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyjoesh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  great great great greatgreat great gregregreat great great greatat great great greatat greatgreat 
 great great greagreat ggreat great great greatreat great greattgreat great great ggreagreat great 
 great greatt great great greatreatgreat great great greatgreat greatgregreat great great greatat 
 great great great great greatgreat great gregreat ggreat great great greatreat great greatat greatgreat 
 great great greatgreagreat great great greatt great great greatgreat great great greatgreat great 
 great great greatgreat great greatgreat great great greatgreat great great great greatgregreat 
 great great greatat great greatgreat great great greatgreat great ggreat great great greatgreat 
 great gregregreat great great greatat great great greatat greatgreat great great greagreat ggreat 
 great great greatreat great greattgreat great great ggreagreat great great greatt great great greatreatgreat 
 great great greatgreat greatgregreat great great greatat great great great great greatgreat great 
 gregreat ggreat great great greatreat great greatat greatgreat great great greatgreagreat great 
 great greatt great great greatgreat great great greatgreat great great great greatgreat great greatgreat 
 great great greatgreat great great great greatgregreat great great greatat great greatgreat great 
 great greatgreat great great greatreat great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickster_11
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  i was never a fan of rythem games. they were hard, almost unapproachable, and i usually didnt care 
 for the music in it. when guitar hero came along it seemed cool and simple but i wasnt sure if 
 id like the setlist. when i heard that GH3 would have slash and metallica and guns n roses in it 
 i was instantly sold. i soon found out that even some of the songs i never heard b4 like even flow 
 or the metal would be really fun to play. now i regret not getting the first two installments.
 
  the game equips you with a miniature plastic guitar. its simple just press the colored buttons 
 and strum as they scroll down the screen. whats not simple is the insane difficulty. the game tries 
 to be realistic. and it succeeds. that also meens that the solo in One will take a long time to 
 learn. dont get me wrong the game is a load of fun. its just if you dont like high difficulty and 
 having to practice, then this game isnt for u. how ever if you dont mind high difficulty then u 
 will be shredding on songs like welcome to the jungle, through the fire and flames, cliffs of dover, 
 and knights of cydonia. most of the 70+ songs are the original master tracks, and most of the covers 
 are very good. i didnt notice at first that some songs were covers (i wont tell u which ones so 
 u wont be dissapointed) .
  it seemed like some of the really good songs were covers but since metallica is in here, some sacrifices 
 had to be made. the game will send u on a carreer of rock stardom. u join a band. play other pplz 
 music and become the hottest band on earth without recording something original! the game has short 
 yet entertaing cutscenes each time u beat a set of songs. there are even two guitar battles against 
 real ppl. slash and tom morrello. these battles are fun but u cant play them in a quick play mode. 
 
  the game also has online multi that works good, coop, and tons of unlockables. if u like rock then 
 this will keep u busy for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomrings
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 27, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  At least 98% of the U. S. A.'s teenage population has probably at least heard of Guitar Hero in one 
 of its five forms; the first one, two, three, encore, and rumors. This one's different because 
 cheesy company Activision has somehow gotten their money hungry hands on a great series that used 
 to be run by less popular team Harmonix. The song list is my least favorite part. There's no Megadeth 
 and most of the songs are from years starting with the number 2, which for the most part is a bad 
 thing for me. The inclusion of Dragonforce, Aerosmith, Iron Maiden (though they were in Encore 
 too) , and especially Metallica were great though. The graphics are still horrible, something to 
 expect from the series. Though they've been touched on and motion-capture was used, they're still 
 bad for the new aged systems and that drummer is STIFF! The new looks of the rock meter and pretty 
 much all the stuff you'll really be looking at has been done nicely, and though the cheats are 
 right there in your face for when you find them out, all but two of them can be turned on and off, 
 and only work in certain modes. The characters are another downside to a series of very popular 
 characters. I think Metalhead and Elroy Budvis could've been easily replaced by Pandora and Grim 
 Ripper. Veteran rockers though got graphic touch-ups, but stupid new looks. Axel used to be awesome, 
 now I'd rather play as Donkey Kong. Izzy used to be played as by men, now well I won't even go 
 into Izzy.
  
  Elite Beat Agents doesn't have any songs I like in it, but Elite Beat Agents is meant to do stuff 
 weird like that. Guitar Hero is meant to rock out, and though songs like Rock This Town and that 
 one thing by The Allman Brothers didn't give me anything good either, there are just way too many 
 bad songs in this game. Another upside to the song list is a few foreign language songs in the 
 bonus list (which by the way is gigantic and makes up most of the record breaking list of over 
 70 songs) , so go do yourself a favor and rock out to "Avalancha", "Heir Kommt Alex", "Generation 
 Rock", and "Maviaus Garcion"!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gh3addict
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  GH3 for the Wii is great the gameplay is the same as the 360 and PS3 versions. It has the same 
 features minus Downloadable Content, which sucks, but it still has great online play. There are 
 graphic flaws, but it being for the Wii it's expected. It is so close to the X-Box 360 and PS3 
 it's worth getting if you only have a Wii. This game is worth the $90 dollar price tag. If you 
 have a PS2 I still recommend getting this game for the Wii. Mainly for the fact that the PS2 version 
 doesn't have online play. The game even has some of the greatest songs, such as Poison's Talk Dirty 
 to Me, Metallica's One, Gun's N' Roses' Welcome to the Jungle, and many more. It is a shame though 
 that there is no DLC. If you are new to game and not sure if you want it I would give it a try. 
 It is so much fun when see the first green, red, yellow, blue, or orange buttons come across the 
 fretboard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palooka123
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  This fun game was added to my collecton proudly. It has a whole new song list includeing
  
  
  
  1. Slow Ride (as made famous by Foghat)
  2. Talk Dirty to Me (by Poison)
  3. Hit Me 
 with Your Best Shot (as made famous by Pat Benetar)
  4. Story of My Life (as made famous by Social Distortion)
  5. Encore: Rock and Roll All Nite 
 (as made famous by Kiss)
  6. Co-op Encore: Sabotage (by Beastie Boys)
  7. Mississippi Queen (as made famous by Mountain)
  8. School's Out (as made famous by Alice Cooper)
 
  9. Sunshine of Your Love (as made famous by Cream)
  10. Barracuda (as made famous by Heart)
  11. Boss: Tom Morello's Original Boss Battle Recording
 
  12. Encore: Bulls on Parade (by Rage Against The Machine)
  13. Co-op Encore: Reptillia (by The Strokes)
  14. When You Were Young (by The Killers)
  15. 
 Miss Murder (by AFI)
  16. The Seeker (as made famous by The Who)
  17. Lay Down (by Priestess)
  18. Encore: Paint It Black (by The Rolling Stones)
  19. Co-op 
 Encore: Suck My Kiss (by Red Hot Chili Peppers)
  20. Paranoid (as made famous by Black Sabbath)
  21. Anarchy in the U. K. (by The Sex Pistols)
 
  22. Kool Thing (by Sonic Youth)
  23. My Name is Jonas (by Weezer)
  24. Encore: Even Flow (by Pearl Jam)
  25. Co-op Encore: Cities on Flame with Rock and Roll (as 
 made famous by Blue Oyster Cult)
  26. Holiday in Cambodia (as made famous by Dead Kennedys)
  27. Rock You Like a Hurricane (as 
 made famous by Scorpions)
  28. Same Old Song and Dance (by Aerosmith)
  29. La Grange (as made famous by ZZ Top)
  30. Boss: Slash's Original Boss Battle Recording
 
  31. Encore: Welcome to The Jungle (by Guns N' Roses)
  32. Co-op Encore: Helicopter (by Bloc Party)
  33. Black Magic Woman (as made famous by Santana)
 
  34. Cherub Rock (by Smashing Pumpkins)
  35. Black Sunshine (as made famous by White Zombie)
  36. The Metal (by Tenacious D)
  37. Encore: 
 Pride and Joy (as made famous by Stevie Ray Vaughn)
  38. Co-op Encore: Monsters (by Matchbook Romance)
  39. Before I Forget (by Slipknot)
  40. Stricken 
 (by Disturbed)
  41. 3's and 7's (by Queens of the Stone Age)
  42. Knights of Cydonia (by Muse)
  43. Encore: Cult of Personality (by Living Colour, Re-recorded)
 
  44. Raining Blood (by Slayer)
  45. Cliffs of Dover (as made famous by Eric Johnson)
  46. Number of the Beast (by Iron Maiden)
  47. One (by Metallica)
  48. Boss: Lou (The Devil) 
 Boss Battle Recording
  49. Encore: Devil Went Down to Georgia (as made famous by Charlie Daniels Band, Steve Oumiette 
 rendition)
  50. Avalancha (by Hroes del Silencio)
  51. Can't Be Saved (by Senses Fail)
  52. Close (by Lacuna Coil)
  53. Don't Hold Back (by The Sleeping)
  54. Down n' Dirty (by LA 
 Slum Lords)
  55. F. C. P. Remix (by The Fall of Troy)
  56. Generation Rock (by Revolverheld)
  57. Go That Far (by Bret Michaels Band)
  58. Hier Kommt 
 Alex (by Die Toten Hosen)
  59. I'm in the Band (by The Hellacopters)
  60. Impulse (by An Endless Sporadic)
  61. In Love (by Scouts of St. Sebastian)
  62. In the 
 Belly of a Shark (by Gallows)
  63. Mauvais Garon (by Naast)
  64. Metal Heavy Lady (by Lions)
  65. Minus Celsius (by Backyard Babies)
  66. My Curse (by Killswitch 
 Engage)
  67. Nothing for Me Here (by Dope)
  68. Prayer of the Refugee (by Rise Against)
  69. Radio Song (by Superbus)
  70. Ruby (by Kaiser Chiefs)
  71. She Bangs the Drums (by The 
 Stone Roses)
  72. Take This Life (by In Flames)
  73. The Way It Ends (by Prototype)
  74. Through the Fire and Flames (by DragonForce
  
  All these songs i truley enjoy and this 
 list took me a while to find all these out and write them down but there are also more to buy from 
 the shop and we will all look forward to playing!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauricio_gun
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  The best guitar simulator I`ve ever played, as a guitar, bass guitar and drummer player, i loved 
 that game, the songs, the options and the playing mode, differently from rock band, which I hated, 
 guitar hero III easily is better, and makes wii as a good music video game.
  
  is very real, and when I see my friends playing i get my guitar and start to play it with them, 
 in songs like Rock You Like A Hurricane (Scorpions) , or Paranoid (Black Sabbath) , and i can see 
 that the time and the notes are perfects, making a perfect match, it`s incredible, i almost have 
 no words to say how much i loved that, the videos, the making off, the enthusiasm that the game 
 gives you, it`s unbelievable.
  
  People says that this game seams to affect little children, letting them aggressive and making 
 inappropriate things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazybankai9
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Get ready for one of the most intense music games ever!!!! Guitar hero 3 legends of rock. In guitar 
 heros third rock game there is over 70 songs and 6 playable characters. Sadly they took out Eddie 
 Knox but added Slash and Tom Morello. The songs sound googd put get a little pitchy at some points. 
 The graphics are not that excellent ethier. Even though ive said some bad things about the game 
 i still think this is one of the best wii games. It is fun clicking the buttons and making your 
 own music creation. The game like never gets boaring and the thrills last forever. It gets even 
 more fun with nintendo wi-fi connection. If you like music games this is a game for you. But the 
 problem is if do not like hard games this is not a game for you. Oh yeah dont forget guitar 3 is 
 the same as 2 and 1 but with diffrent songs.!!!!!!!!!!-Crazybankai9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IIHit-and-RunII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is my first guitar hero, it is one of my only games that i am addicted too. Story 
 mode is great, and fun. Buying songs, videos, costumes, and guitars is really fun. Graphics are 
 fantastic since Wii is not about graphics. Although you don't care about the graphics while playing 
 its still fun. The gameplay is the same as i expected looking at the videos. I really liked the 
 guitar controller, the button are smooth. The cool thing about the new guitar is that you could 
 customize it, with faceplates and stickers. 
  Playing online is real fun without latency at all! I wish all games are without lag. If you only 
 want to buy the game for online play ( for the Wii) i don't recommend people buying it because 
 nobody plays it online, i reccomend buying the 360 version for online because it has many people 
 playing it online. The gameplay is very addicting since you just have to push the notes that come 
 up. Although Guitar Hero is still fun, I think it gets a little boring when u play it for about 
 1 month. Maybe because i'm a new gamer of guitar hero, maybe part 3 isn't the one for me to start 
 with. But overall for the Wii this game is great and i hope more people play it online.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-Am-Santa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun for people of all ages. All the way from about 2nd grade up, it has a place for 
 everyone. Whether your an expert at Guitar Hero or just starting, you should be able to enjoy this 
 game right from the start. Awesome songs from the 70's to modern day. The only fault i can seem 
 to find is the appearance of the characters, but the longer you play the more you'll get use to 
 it. It's fun when you start recognizing songs from this game at your local wal-mart! For the Wii 
 you place the remote inside the guitar. Easy to hook up, and take out. When a mistake is made the 
 noise comes out of the Wii-mote. To me thats great it makes it a little realistic. If your debating 
 on whether this game is worth the spendy price then I say it is. Yes, it is expensive but still 
 worth it. It's a great game for when you have a bunch of friends over, and never seems to get to 
 old. i give it a 9.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffinduck01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  My my were to start. Yes it guitar hero but developed by Neversoft and some other bs companyies 
 i never seen before got involved to (wtf is budcat) . anyway its a lot of fun. to start things off 
 you need to put the wii mote in the guitar. this can be a little anoying but if you have 2 or more 
 controlers it shouldent be too much odf a problem. The online play works great with only barly 
 noticable laging every now and again but nothing so seriose its gonna screw up your 300 note streak. 
 The new battle mode blows but it does (sorta) mix things up during carrer mode. Also, THE TRACKLIST 
 IS THE BEST ONE EVER (except for Rocks the 80's but thats becouse i love older music) and this 
 is manly becouse i am a huge metal fan so raining blood one number of the beast black sunshine 
 the metal stricken and that slipknot song became my favoites. Even discoverd some stuff i now like 
 ZZ top rolling stones heart even CRAZY! Although the 6 bonus tracks that you can only get in co-op 
 carrer was a bit anoying i just put in the unlock every song code and fixed that problem but the 
 songs blow anyway so it was almost not worth it. The dificulty is really hard. anything above normal 
 is TOO FREKING HARD but luckly normal is a lot of fun while still being chalangeing. And after 
 all the fun and playing though ever song at least 5 times to get a 5 star in every on on easy and 
 medium i still play it ever day for some reason. But in short fun game but a real guitar will prove 
 to have much more longevity of musical enjoyment so i would take my guitar over this game anyday 
 but for those of us tone deef or just lazy and with no pacience we got gh3 enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiicube64
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is a great addition to the guitar hero series and has the best track list so far. You 
 can play songs like Sunshine of your love, Paint it black, and my personal favorite The devil went 
 down to Georgia.
  
  With guitar hero 3 being on all the consoles theres going to be one for everyone this time around! 
 The 360 version is great and with downloadable content it makes it even better! The PS3 version 
 is basically the same thing as the 360. The Wii's version is different, I have noticed that the 
 Wiis guitar is somewhat more sturdy than the rest and this is the first game on wii where friend 
 codes don't hurt it because there is the option of doing it with strangers.
  
  what you might find annoying is battle mode GS was wrong that battles only last 30 sec. it does 
 last a couple minutes but people mostly will lose because you cant make your whammy work when your 
 attack.
  
  Nintendo is going to release downloadable content early 2008and will be released on wiiware and 
 that will make the wii version fantastic and make it right up there on the throne with the PS3 
 and 360 versions.
  
  Overall its great and you should go out and get it...... if you can! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is a great game. The concept of playing guitar in a rhythm game 
 is awesome and really, really fun. The new Les Paul controller is very nice as well. The gameplay 
 isn't really changed from GHII (as far as I know) , but it's still endlessly enjoyable. I haven't 
 gotten bored with it after almost three weeks and the higher difficulties are hard enough to the 
 point where you may never beat it. I think I've heard people complain that this game is too hard, 
 but you have to get used to the controller first, and you most likely won't get good at it unless 
 you own it. There is some suggestive/inappropriate garbage in the game that I wish they could have 
 just left out because I, for one, don't enjoy seeing that stuff, but that's why it's rated 'T', 
 I guess. The game has a pretty good soundtrack (but again, some songs are definitely bad) . Personally, 
 my favorite songs to play are 'Lay Down', 'Welcome to the Jungle', 'Rock You Like A Hurricane', 
 and 'Rock and Roll All Nite'. My favorite song overall, though, is 'Through the Fire and Flames', 
 which is also the hardest song in the game. The online play is GREAT and it's probably the best 
 Wi-Fi game out there. 
  
  That said, GHIII is a great game. Once you get used to the controller, you'll be addicted for at 
 least a few days. The guitar controller is great and with the Wii remote inside it, it's even more 
 awesome! I definitely will be playing this game a lot and for a long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This is an extremely fun game to play. I had not had this much fun playing a game ever! At first 
 I was totally against this game and thought it would be a horrible game to play. But then I saw 
 the South Park episode where they made fun of Guitar Hero and for some reason it made me want to 
 egt one of these.
  
  After driving all over the place to find one, I got hook instantly. It was very addictive and hard 
 to put down. I beat the game in Easy and Medium modes, and am still working on Hard, as the game 
 is a lot more difficult when you get to that level.
  
  The songs are awesome and keep you wanting to play on and on. I would really hope that someday 
 they release Guitar Hero 1 and 2 onto the Wii console as well so that there would be more songs 
 to play or make downloadable content for the game as well.
  
  Overall this was one of the most enoyable experiences I have had playing a game. I would recommend 
 this to anybody, for those who are against this game and say people should be trying to play a 
 real guitar, once you play this my idea and thoughts of the game changed entirely. It is a lot 
 of fun!
  
  Beware, your hands, arms, and eyes get pretty messed up after long periods of playing the game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_ObSeSsIoN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is just plain awesome, as i already said it is the best Guitar Hero ever. The guitar 
 is better, the notes come bye faster ,and the Les Paul controller couldnt look nicer. It definitely 
 has the best songs ever in a rythm game, my personal favorites are: (No particular order) Through 
 The Fire and Flames by Dragonforce, Reptilia by The Strokes, Kniights Of Cydonia by Muse, Sabotage 
 by The Beastie Boys, Bulls On Parade by Rage Against The Machine, and Monsters by Matchbook Romance. The 
 whammy bar is way better, along with the strum bar. The Buttons' reactions are amazing, and the graphics 
 are incredible. The funnest difficulty is easily expert, i dont know what the hell GameSpot was thinking 
 when they rated this. This game Is definitely worth your time and money. Believe me, you wont be dissapointed 
 if you get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamikaziCat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  A amazing game, I wouldn't quite call it perfect. There are some songs I would like to see, and 
 some songs that should just die. That is not why i didn't rate it perfect though. I Do not like 
 the new starpower gauge, it is so much harder to tell how much star power you actually have. Also 
 nothing changed in the game play. It seems as if it is the same game as GH2 with diffrent songs 
 and online play. The online play is amazing, not laggy or choppy on the wii. The only thing i think 
 is odd is that when you lose a ranked game there is no penalty other than stopping your win streak. 
 You don't lose points, you just stay the same as you were. There is no risk in the ranked game 
 part, which makes it less exciting than if there was. Another thing i do not like is you do not 
 have the chance to rematch unless they are your friend. The chances are good that you will never 
 play that person again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chankhe
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  this game is tottaly the best
  i think this game is the best with mario galaxy
  when i payed $100 dollar i was thinking was it worth it ????
  But now i m rocking my living room 
 with some cracking guitar playing
  great song damn good song with great guitar solos
  for those who are having trouble learning the guitar BUY THIS GAME
  if u learn trumpetr tuba 
 or some valve instrument
  this will sharpen your skills and if u suck too this wll help u speed ure note playing up
  Though 
 the expert level is really tough
  telling you wii owners buy this game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks, I have alot of reason why.
  
  The track list on this game is great, alot of current and past songs, but song none the less that 
 everyone should know.
  
  The game control on this game is perfect, no mess ups, the only time it messes up is when you miss 
 a note, but everyone should know that it's going to happen.
  
  The Sound quality is excellent, you can hear everything from, the Bass, to the Singer to the crowds 
 reaction.
  
  The Character selection is great there are so many characters already unlocked and even more to 
 buy at the Store.
  
  Overall this is a great game, I like this game alot and it's a game you even play online against 
 other players.
  
  All in all this game rocks, and the only other I have to say is why am I typeing so much, when 
 I could be playing GH3.
  
  I'm jokeing you know, but I do play it pretty much everyday.
  
  I hope everyone enjoied my Review of GH3: Legend of Rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CSMBULLDOG
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  its a really good game. highly addictive. Lots of people would say it a good party game but it 
 is only fun if everyone there is good or if everyone is bad. Noone enjoys being shown up infront 
 of everyone. Its has lots of actual songs you will reconize, not just cover bands. Of course it 
 gets too hard for most people. but if you like to waste a lot of time with GH then it should be 
 normal and fun for you. the only real differance between 360 and WII is the graphics but that shouldn't 
 really matter because its never been that great back there. If you like this game but you believe 
 its just too hard and if you really want a good party game with the GH idea then ROCK BAND is for 
 you. I believe its better but if you want a challenge then GH 3 is for that player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunshot134
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Even though the Harmonics left to go on to do Rock Band, Guitar Hero III seems to be even better 
 with Activision (which has merged with blizzard) taking control. The set list is excellent. It 
 has some of the most memorable songs from the most memorable bands. But there is still something 
 that bugs me. Despite the name this is the fourth installment in the series, I've noticed there 
 is a lack of Zeppelin or AC/DC still. But on the bright side the hammer-ons and pull offs have 
 been further improved. The higher difficulty does provide guitar hero veterans with an excellent 
 and fun challenge. But with the increased difficulty comes one warning: this game is not for guitar 
 hero newbies with no experience with the game or any sort of real instrument. 
  Also, the battle mode idea was a great concept but many of the power- ups are easy to recover from 
 and you'll have many of your battles go into sudden death. The face-off and pro face-off modes 
 can be fun, but many people on all sorts of battle modes will be cheap and go on easy or medium 
 because they know they won't mess up. So with people being cheap online, it really drains some 
 of the fun unless you have some friends that are willing to take a little challenge.
  Another thing is the look of the game. GH3 really pulls of that concert look. Even with the cartoon-like 
 graphics. The venues look great even if the characters aren't most realistic (with the exception 
 of Tom Morello and Slash.) 
  And my last point is the better feel of the guitar. The guitar feels more authentic and the fret 
 buttons have a much better grip. The guitar is a little heavier, but in a good way. Also the detachable 
 neck is very convenient. My only complaint with the design is: how do you change the face plates?
 
  Guitar hero III is great fun for all music fans. The improved guitar design is great. The set-list 
 is excellent. The increased difficulty is great fun. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StreetSurfer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  OK, so I got Guitar Hero 3 for Christmas for the Nintendo Wii. Now, I've had it for about 2 weeks 
 now and I gotta say, it rocks! So first things first, the guitar looks amazing! It's a white Gibson 
 Les Paul for the Nintendo Wii (the rest of the consoles have black ones and the PS2 has a Kramer) . 
 Also, one of the first things you'll notice with the guitar is the fact that it has a built in 
 compartment specially made to fit in the wii remote. This is because it needs the wii remotes wireless 
 cababilities to play. Oh, and I would like to point out that this year, ALL THE GUITARS are WIRELESS! 
 Which is an extra bonus. Another cool feature is that the neck is detachable for easy storage. 
 But i gotta say, I dont usually take it apart to bring it to my friends' houses, I just hold it 
 as it is. It also has detachable faceplates that can be changed because now RedOctane sells cool 
 designed faceplates. The neck strap is also longer this time around. Plus, the the wii version 
 has WIFI online play which adds an extra awesomeness to the already great game. Now enough of the 
 guitar, now to the game! OK, so right now I'm already deep within the game to give a decent detailed 
 review. I already beaten the game on easy, medium, and almost done at hard. This time around, they 
 keep some old characters and add in 2 special characters for the wii PLUS, two legends. So heres 
 the character list. First I'll start out with the veterans: Axel Steel, Judy Nails, Lars, Johny 
 Napalm. Now here are the new kids: Midori, Elroy Budvis, Metalhead, and Lou the Devil. Elroy and 
 Metalhead are special unlockable characters and Lou the Devil is the last boss you have to battle. 
 Now, they also have 2 playable legends which are Slash and Tom Morello which really KIX ASS!!!! 
 The guitar variety is far more larger thsi time around. Now they actually have the old GH controller 
 as a buyable guitar as well as an AXE perfume guitar. Another cool feature is the boss battles. 
 What you do is instead of star power, you get gems. These gems include special powers that allow 
 you to "attack your opponent" like whammy bar, amp overload, lefty flip, double notes, difficulty 
 up, and so much more. You have to try to mess them up and get them to lose before the song is over. 
 If that doesnt happen, and none of the players win, it goes to sudden death. The graphics are a 
 bit nicer this time, but the drummer still feels robotic, and the crowd isn't that fantastic either. 
 And let me be the one to say, this GH3 is ALOT HARDER than the 2 predecessors. It also includes 
 over 70 tracks and one of the hardest songs to ever be played in any guitar hero game, "Through 
 the Fire and Flames" by Dragonforce. 8 freakin minutes of hammer ons and pulloffs and pure torture!!!! 
 Also, now, the story mode includes little cutscenes which is pretty funny, but it doesn't really 
 add much flare. The online play is pretty good and a whole lot of fun. You can hook up your friends 
 and just instantly set up a match in be rockin out with your buddies online in seconds! I'm tellin 
 ya, the connection and online play is really good! I think the only bad part of the game is the 
 fact that you can't (currently) purchase an extra wii controller guitar. YET! Other than that, 
 Guitar Hero 3 is really all it's cracked up to be. A great game for the family as well as your 
 friends. ONE OF THE BEST GAMES FOR THE NINTENDO WII. MUST HAVE! Though the price may be a bit high, 
 it is well worth it. If you got a couple of cool bux to spend, you gotta try this game out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matgam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I said it already but i'll say it again this is the best Guitar Hero in the entire series. It has 
 the best rock songs I have ever heard in a game besides Smackdown! vs Raw and most importantly 
 the most addictive game I've played on the Wii. even though it only takes a few hours to beat on 
 easy you'll still have the incredible erge to buy every song, guitar, character and outfit in the 
 game and you will still want to play more. The most interesting thing about the game is custimizing 
 your controller, since the game comes with stickers you'll be able to custimize it right when you 
 bring it home.
  
  
  Gameplay:10
  Sound:10
  Graphics:8
  Value:10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tk-42121
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  guitar hero 3 is a amazing game i used to not be a big fan on guitar hero or ruythim games at all 
 but guitar hero 3 opened my eyes it has getr songs and very addictive gameplay with songs like 
 Rock and Roll All Nite, One, Number of the beast just to name a few it is definatly the best song 
 list in guitar hero history but the game isn't perfict the main thing i didnt like is battle mode 
 its fun the 1st few time but then gets real annoying mainly in the carrer mode when you have to 
 fight the legendry guitar players the other thing that got me annoyed it the difficulty on hard 
 and expert its feracking insane ececally on thourgh the fire and flames its just maddness but for 
 the most part guitar hero is a fun game anyone can enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodrigo9900
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 has all the best songs in my opinion and is in almost all systems, it has songs which 
 are very well know... Its AWESOME.... and the Les Paul guitar is better than all the other guitars 
 because of the detachable neck and wireless feature... Its all its crack-up to be...!!! It has 
 songs that i didn't know but now do.... i would strongly agree to buying it... It has songs like 
 barracuda, through the fire and flames... I love it and haven't stopped playing it since the day 
 I got it as a gift in Christmas Day ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyman222111
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Just a spectacular game to play, but needs to sell the extra guitars cheaper and easier to get. 
 The hard levaels also hurt your fingers a lot. You really need a strong left and right hand to 
 play really good. I like the way they make the guitar wireless by plugging the wii controller into 
 it but i hate having to take it out everytime i want to play different wii games and channels. 
 A great wide variety of songs to play and great touch with having to buy extra songs. The graphics 
 are great, but i hate the extra moving around in the backround. It's very distracting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosKontrol
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  A game for the ages. Surely, it stands out as one of the best games for the Wii. Online is an added 
 bonus, allowing you to play with friends and strangers alike. Career mode is great, especially 
 with the new added cutscenes to enrich the story told. The only downfall of this game is it being 
 Mono, but it's being fixed. Sure, it's a little hard for people to get into it after Medium, but 
 it grows on you and you'll be playing it like a pro in no time. With a killer sound track, and 
 songs like Raining Blood, One, Welcome to the Jungle, Knights of Cydonia, it's arguably the best 
 Guitar Hero out there. Multiplayer is also included, so play with your friends and have fun. If 
 you like good games, get this. What's not good about it? Don't get this game if you hate, hate, 
 HATE the Wii. Get it. Now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimybrit
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game on Christmas, and well I loved it. I only have the second one on the 360 and 
 this one on Wii. I wasn't expecting it to be so good! Here is my review for this awesome game
 
  
  Graphics-9.9 The graphics are nice and cartoony. I liked the look and it was easy on the eye. Just 
 one tiny problem... the drummer.
  
  Story-10 There isn't really a story but hey, it's GH and it's like it should be. You play a fake 
 guitar at different places and then when you beat it you go on to the next difficulty.
  
  Music/Sound-10 The soundtrack is awesome and there's tons of songs to play! The sound is great 
 too. There's so many songs to play!
  
  Replay Value- 10 You could play it for hours and hours and hours and hours and never ever stop. 
 Yeah, it's that addictive.
  
  Overall-10 I loved this game and I can't wait for the fourth one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownHedgehog
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  This is the fourth and latest installment of the award-winning Guitar Hero series. Once again, 
 players can rock and roll in the comfort of their homes. This time around, players can rock with 
 other players online, and even face each other in new exhilirating "Guitar Battles." Star Power 
 is replaced with Battle Power, and after they hit every note in a Battle Combo (similar to a Star 
 Combo) , they earn a certain powerup to make their opponent sweat. Powerups such as "Broken String," 
 which disables one of your opponent's fret buttons. If your opponent uses it on you, you have to 
 press that fret button repeatedly to fix it. "Guitar Battles" are included in Career Mode, in which 
 the player must face off with popular guitarists such as Tom Morello and Slash. Guitar Hero III 
 is the first game in the series to have an actual storyline. After every playlist you complete, 
 you get to watch an animted cutscene before moving onto the next. And you can always watch it again 
 in the Options Menu. The game features another truck load of unlockables, including famous guitars, 
 made-up guitars, a few hidden characters, exclusive songs and even videos of some parts in the 
 making of Guitar Hero III, including the Universal Capture of Tom Morello, Slash and Bret Michaels. 
 (He can only be seen in the Xbox 360, PS3 and Mac versions.) The graphics have become more colourful 
 and brighter since Guitar Hero II. The band's performing has improved too. The drummer now performs 
 realistic drumming, and the singer's lip-sync is even better than ever. If you have a HD TV, and 
 you'd want to make the most out of it, the Xbox 360 version is reccommended. Guitar Hero III has 
 become even harder this time around. As you advance in Hard Career Mode, it feels like you're already 
 playing Expert Career Mode. So, when you're about to encounter some guitar solos, you should be 
 expecting even more notes charging at you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursedmonkeY95
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Well I bought guitar hero 3 for xbox 360 and the Wii (so my brother would play on 360) and i would 
 prefer the xbox version. For the Wii, online play and solo tour is great.... but I cant beat it 
 becuase of the boss battles... If one of the bosses uses a whammy, I cant do anything about it becuase 
 it is broken. Also, when i strum once really lightly, it counts on stumming twice beucase of ther 
 loose strummer.
  
  If you were a person who bought guitar hero 3 for the Wii, I wouldnt say to return it. You could 
 have a working guitar and it would be real easy for you. I hope you enjoy your game but now i play 
 it for 360! Also, the online is really good, although it somewhat takes a while to find a match 
 to find with someone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikotuck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This game does not get old because it is a new kind of video game that is not anything like other 
 games. You get to be a rockstar making money and buying electric guitars. What doesn't sound fun 
 about that? There are a bunch of really awesome songs by metallica, the rolling stones, aerosmith, 
 dragonforce, and a lot of other famous bands. You always want to get better reviews on songs untill 
 you get it perfect. So that is a way the game does not get old, and another way it never gets old 
 is you want to collect all the guitars and characters and songs and you also want to someday be 
 able to play on expert so you keep practicing your favorite songs. One more thing! You can be Slash! 
 The greatest guitarist ever in a video game! This is one truly great game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Micro-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  What can we say about Guitar Hero 3? Lets start with the good. Guitar Hero 3 is one of those games 
 that pulls you in. Despite the fact it lacks an interesting storyline there is always new songs 
 to unlock while playing in career mode and new levels to play as you improve. You'll battle against 
 bosses such as Slash, Tom Morello, and "Lou". They all have a unique song to play with battle mode 
 enabled. Battle mode is the mode you play with when you try to hit a combination of notes in order 
 to obtain power-ups to mess up your opponent. A few examples of these include broken string, which 
 causes your opponent to continuously push a button in order to repair the string. Another example 
 would be the overpowered amp, in which buttons will cut out and make it difficult to hit all of 
 them. It makes some notes invisible. Overall the best part of Guitar Hero 3 is its ability to addict 
 you. It pulls you in. Once your able to play one of the songs to almost 100% you want to try it 
 a level harder or attempt it again to play it perfectly. You'll continue to play on until you find 
 the right way to play.
  
  Onto the bad. Guitar Hero 3 is more good then bad, but you'll notice a few things as you play through. 
 A few of the problems are linked to the wireless controller. I'm not sure about other system versions, 
 but on the Nintendo Wii a few of the buttons have a delay depending on the remote power and sensor 
 system from the Wii. If you've played enough you'll understand what I'm talking about. It begins 
 to get difficult to complete the song because of the button not reading. You'll get the feeling 
 you know your gonna play it right, but it just doesn't read. Another small problem is the buttons 
 are a bit close together which can cause some finger mashing. Its also a bit difficult for younger 
 children to play. 
  
  Overall Guitar Hero 3 deserves respect. Its a great game to play with other people and can be a 
 hit when you have friends and family over because of the excessive amount of older songs. Mostly 
 anyone will enjoy it unless your not completely into the whole rock music genre. Most people like 
 rock to an extent. Guitar Hero 3 is worth a try for you. Plus, the ability to make the sounds of 
 a real guitarist and get the feel of powering up the crowd to enjoy your music just feels great. Its 
 combination of excellent guitar songs and addicting controls create a great game for everyone to 
 enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rabbids_Rule
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  -Alot of songs
  -Great soundtrack
  -Alot of fun
  -Boss battles are fun and a challenge
  -Co-op band is alot of fun
  -Alot of unlockable characters, 
 guitars, songs, outfits, etc.
  -Wide range of difficutly levels will want you too keep on re-playing
  -Slash is included in 
 this game
  -Great graphics
  -Using the whammy bar is fun
  -Wireless guitars
  -Graphics are nice
  
  The Bad:
  
  -Level Hard and Expert is very hard and it feels like 
 your fingers are going to fall off
  -Alot of in-game advertising
  -You can't get extra guitars for the Wii version
  
  This is game is just alot of fun, and has 
 a great multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vitomanez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Highly Addictive, Great Song List, Gives Veteran Guitar Hero gamers a challenge, Through 
 the Fire and Flames is on it, Slash is unlockable.
  
  The Bad: Sometimes to difficult for its own good, Battle mode isn't that great of an addition, 
 Some terrible song choices, Axe guitar? WTF!
  
  Guitar Hero 3 is the newest addition to the Guitar Hero series, and definitely one of the best 
 ones out.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay mechanics are basically the same with an added battle mode. In battle mode, 
 the star power that you would normally get during a song turns into battle power. You basically 
 attack the other Hero with multiple attacks screwing up their fret board. Its not all that interesting 
 in that you hardly ever finish a song. You also get a nice new guitar, the wireLES PAUL
  9/10
  
  Graphics: EXTREMELY disappointed that we got the PS2 port of the graphics instead of 
 a barely toned down Xbox 360 version. Its a bit improved from the PS2's Guitar Hero 2, but still 
 not great and certainly not up to what it could be. The same Bassist, Drummer and singers (Male/Female) 
 are back. The drummer looks completely terrible though. The singer looks like the hair that is 
 on the side of his head are mini wings that non-stop flap.
  7/10
  
  Sound: In my opinion, Guitar Hero 3 has the best track list of series. It has Guns n' Roses' Welcome 
 to the Jungle as well as Through the Fire and Flames by Dragonforce. and Paint It Black by Rolling 
 Stones.
  9/10
  
  Value: Extremely high replay value. You will be playing this game for hours on end over and over, 
 especially because it has ONLINE PLAY. Go GHIII.
  9/10
  
  Overall, a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TWD98
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3 for is one of the best games out there because of its addicting gameplay and great 
 multiplayer. In career mode you can unlock new songs, characters, guitars, etc. and battle against 
 guitar legends. Career mode is the main part of the game but there's also multiplayer and wifi 
 which is also fun cause you actually play against someone and it can be way more challenging if 
 your playing against someone good. I find the game challenging once you get to hard mode cause 
 of the orange button cause you actually have to move your hand to reach it and then when a green 
 note comes then you have to rotate back which can be very annoying. Also because the wii remote 
 is in the guitar when you navigate around the wii menu you have to use the analog stick on the 
 guitar which can be a little annoying but overall the songs are great and it is an awesome party 
 game if you have another guitar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6411
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I've only had this for a few days and I already love it. Ive never played the series before. Ive 
 only played it once at my cousins (it was GH2) and I was bad at it then. Then i get GH3 and Im 
 much better and i think it rocks! Now that the story is outta the way, it time for the review. 
 
  
  The Good: The music... its just great. Some songs you may not know, and others are just classic 
 to you. The game is highly addictive, but, with willpower, you can stop. The Guitar is really great 
 and makes the game way more fun than just a wiimote. 
  
  The Bad: Thinking..... oh yeah! The difficulty can get extremely difficult sometimes. 
  
  Two 
 important things in the game: 
  
  Sound: Without sound and music, this game wold be nothing. the music makes the game come alive. 
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is pretty basic, but it gets loads of fun. The main thing in the game is 
 really the Music/Sound. 
  
  Overall: This game is a great one. The Music/Sound is awsome, and he gameplay is what makes it 
 addicting. Theres no point in renting, get it with a guitar, NOW! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doey77
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I've only had this for a few days and I already love it. Ive never played the series before. Ive 
 only played it once at my cousins (it was GH2) and I was bad at it then. Then i get GH3 and Im 
 much better and i think it rocks! Now that the story is outta the way, it time for the review. 
 
  
  The Good: The music... its just great. Some songs you may not know, and others are just classic 
 to you. The game is highly addictive, but, with willpower, you can stop. The Guitar is really great 
 and makes the game way more fun than just a wiimote. 
  
  The Bad: Thinking..... oh yeah! The difficulty can get extremely difficult sometimes. 
  
  Two 
 important things in the game: 
  
  Sound: Without sound and music, this game wold be nothing. the music makes the game come alive. 
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is pretty basic, but it gets loads of fun. The main thing in the game is 
 really the Music/Sound. 
  
  Overall: This game is a great one. The Music/Sound is awsome, and he gameplay is what makes it 
 addicting. Theres no point in renting, get it with a guitar, NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SegaMan1968
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Great idea. This is the same as the previous offerings and the same on any platform, (graphics 
 quality improved on 360 & PS3 & PC) . Nothing new here except the song list. I like platformers, 
 or adventure games for the consoles and I love rockin' out - just don't need to do it in front 
 of the TV.
  
  One great aspect of a game like this is how universal it is. A 360 guru can easily pick up and 
 play on his or her buddies Wii version or the PS3 version as they all use an add-on guitar controller, 
 (can be played without the guitar controller but then everyone will know you're a cheap-skate) .
 
  
  Why doesn't the guitar girls headlights incorporate the same jugglery motion developed long ago 
 in games like Dead or Alive 2? The visuals of the band performing in the background could have 
 been better if only to entertain the folks on the wing waiting for their turn to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csortland
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  This is a great addition to the Guitar Hero series. The track list will have you turing up the 
 volume on your TV and praying your ears don't bleed. It's got some of the great classics like "Paint 
 it Black" by the Rolling Stones. Along with others like Black Sabbath's "Paranoid" and ZZ Top's 
 "La Grange." There are also newer songs like Slipknot's "Before I Forget." , Disturbed'sStricken, 
 also the hillarious Tenacious D with "The Metal" and many more. This third game is more difficult 
 than the last but just as fun. New features have been added like boss fights which are very fun. 
 Online is a good addition. This game is not the best in the graphics department but thats not even 
 important to this game. This game captures the feel of the last games while still being a game 
 of its own. I will be playing this game for a while to come. This game is the wannabe rockers dream. 
 For those about to rock I salute you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Deepblue
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I was once part of the crowd that exclaimed "Who would want to pay that much for a guitar game 
 when you can go learn real guitar." I now realize that is like saying "Why doesn't someone go planetoid 
 hopping instead of buying Super Mario Galaxy". The point is rather or not you know how to play 
 real guitar or not, is that you can still have an absolute blast with Guitar Hero III.
  
  The Guitar Hero series got its start on the Playstation 2. Guitar Hero II was released on the Playstation 
 2 and Xbox 360 and brought online game play to the series. Now finally, Nintendo fan-boys and fan-girls 
 can finally get their fingers on Guitar Hero III which is played with a sweet looking white, wireless 
 Gibson guitar. If you're wondering if the game somehow takes advantage of the Wii's technology, 
 the answer is yes, actually. In the back of the Guitar Controller is a lid that can be taken off. 
 Inside the little space where the lid can be taken off is a little plug-in device that is similar 
 to the plug on the nun-chuck remote. The space is the exact size of the Wii-mote. You connect your 
 Wii-mote to the plug and sit it nicely inside the cozy little space. If you're playing a song and 
 you're really rocking out, hitting all the notes, you may get "star power." To activate "star power" 
 you must quickly raise and let down your guitar while holding it. There are other power ups you 
 can obtain as well that are activated by doing this. So while it's not much, it does use the Wii-mote's 
 sensor technology nicely. The guitar has buttons obviously. The buttons you use the most are the 
 note buttons. Each note button is distinctive by color. There are five of them, all are the same 
 distance between each other, and are mirrored to the notes that appear on your television screen 
 when playing a song. On the base of the guitar you have an analog button which can be used to scroll 
 through menus. You have a black little clicking bar button that is also used for menus and must 
 be used to play songs. Each time you hit a note you must hit the black bar simultaneously. Then 
 there are the plus and minus buttons. The plus button is used to pause the game, it acts as a start 
 button. The minus button can be used for power ups you don't feel like shaking your guitar. The 
 guitar feels very comfortable when holding in playing it. The design of the guitar itself is pretty 
 much flawless. 
  
  Guitar Hero III has a beefy track list. There are a lot of songs that dip into different genres 
 of rock (some more than others) . Personally I am not the biggest fan of the soundtrack. I am not 
 a huge fan of metal, 80's guitar solos, pop-rock, and songs where the singer sounds like he/she 
 is choking on something instead of singing. There are a lot of such songs on here, and I am very 
 peculiar when it comes to my music. However, I did find that playing these songs on a video game 
 were a lot of fun, and even ran across some guilty pleasures along the way. So if the soundtrack 
 seems to be in favor of your taste then good for you. To name some of the bands that are featured: 
 Guns N Roses, Kaiser Chiefs, Rolling Stones, Dead Kennedys, Slipknot, Lacuna Coil, Weezer, Santana, 
 Cream..... etc. As you can see the game dips into every decade where the electric guitar is the 
 premiere instrument in the rock genre, which is the 60s-present. If you judge Guitar Hero by its 
 looks you may be deceived. Graphics aren't impressive, but they're nice. You will play in different 
 settings along side your band (whom you can name, but that's all the customization you can put 
 in) . In settings such as a state prison, on the beach, in Japan, on a stage with a scary giant 
 puppet is doing things in the background. You will start off playing in places such as small beaches 
 and prisons in front of small crowds, but will eventually move your way up to rock stardom, playing 
 in huge stadiums in front of huge crowds. The game is divided into chapters. Each chapter contains 
 four songs or more and in order to advance to the next chapter of songs you must complete a certain 
 amount of songs in the current chapter. Completing a song doesn't primarily depend on how what 
 percentage of notes you strike correctly, but also on how many notes you hit in a row, or how long 
 you keep the crowd interested. There is a "rock meter" to the right of the screen that shows you 
 how much the crowd is into your music. If it's in green you're surely rocking out. In yellow you 
 could do better, but still survive through the show. If in red you are in danger of being booed 
 off stage and failing the song. You could be on a roll hitting all the right notes, but if you 
 mess up badly on a tricky guitar solo you could get booed off in a flash. Guitar Hero III is a 
 very difficult game. I am not sure how difficult the previous Guitar Hero games were, as I have 
 not played them, but this one is a challenge. You can play through career mode on easy, medium, 
 hard, or expert difficulty settings. If you're a beginner easy is the right mode for you. Once 
 you get the hang of things you may be ready to take the big jump to medium, and if you've become 
 a skilled legend you may can take on hard, and if you are like the Jimi Hendrix of Guitar Hero 
 you may be able to handle some of expert. The difference between the difficulty settings are the 
 number of notes, the speed in which you have to hit them, and what note buttons are used. The songs 
 also become progressively difficult on each mode as you go along. Also in the career mode you must 
 play some boss battles in "battle mode". Battle mode can be quite annoying. You and your opponent 
 must play guitar solos against each other. If you hit the right notes you can get an attack that 
 can mess your opponent up. Some attacks can make the solo more difficult for your opponent, cause 
 your opponent to have a broken string, or to completely cause his side of the screen to become 
 unplayable. Your opponent and you will be able to recover from attacks by hitting certain buttons 
 or moving the whammy bar. The screen will specifically tell you how to get rid of the attack. The 
 goal is to have the rock meter on your side at the end of the song... or at least I thought that 
 was the goal. It seems to be a bit unfair though. Against the A. I., when the song is finished, 
 your opponent will break out into a guitar solo that is seemingly endless while you are not able 
 to do anything at all. The only thing you can do is watch him control the stage until your meter 
 drops to the point that you lose the battle. So really the goal to stay ahead of your opponent 
 hitting crazy 
  guitar solos, and find a way to tactically use your attacks to completely mess up your opponent. 
 It gives the computer an unfair advantage for sure.
  
  If you have a buddy with another Guitar Controller and Wii-mote you can play through Co-op career 
 mode or battle each other. The game does feature online, and you're able to play songs cooperatively 
 or battle each other via Nintendo Wi-Fi. You can also play a game mode online called "face-off". 
 In order to win the face-off, you must hit as many notes as possible, most unlikely more than your 
 opponent, and impress the crowd with star power notes as well. Usually the person who does that 
 wins the game. There is a rock meter in the middle of the screen in face-off mode. If you're the 
 player on the left you will want the hand on the meter to be tilted in your favor. Whoever has 
 the hand on the meter tilted in their direction at the end of the song, wins the match. Each game 
 mode online can be played and decided by one song, or best of 3 songs, or best of 7 songs. You 
 and your opponent will get to choose whatever songs you like, and each song will be played if necessary. 
 You can create a match for strangers to come and play you, or you can randomly enter a stranger's 
 match. As for your friends, by using friend codes you can find your friends online at any time 
 and enter into whatever match you want to play with them. So far I have not seen the game freeze 
 up or lag at all, so it's safe to say that online play is a fun smooth ride that. When it comes 
 down to it Guitar Hero III is a game that anyone can have fun with regardless of music taste, how 
 good you are with real guitar, or how biased you are against rhythm games. The game can be terrifyingly 
 difficult on every mode except easy, especially on a console targeted towards "non-gamers." But 
 regardless of console, if you're able to pick this one up, you should definitely give Guitar Hero 
 III a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrogdorComes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Ive played the others at friends houses, but i was horrible at them. I played on easy back then. 
 But then the 3rd one was supposed to come out for the wii. I didnt have anything but a wii. I went 
 for really fast. I eventually got good at hard. It is very addictive, and i played for 5 hours 
 a day when it came out. All the other versions ecxept Ps2 have downloadeable stuff though. The 
 wii can connect to the intenet, so why dont we have downloadable stuff? If the wii had better online, 
 it might be close to perfect. Velvet Revolver is in downloadable content. They are one of my favorite 
 bands, like most of the bands on GH. GNR is good, Poison, Foghat, sry not metallica that much, 
 the Stones, all the 60s thru 80s. Some new stuff like Priestess is amazing too. I wish they sold 
 separate controller right now. They dont come out till January, i think.*Sigh* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsonsfan2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Good: 
  
  Lots of songs
  Tons of things to do
  
  Bad:
  
  There is A LOT of advertising, and most of it isn't even related to music.
  
  Guitar Hero III 
 Legends Of Rock for the Wii is a great game to play by yourself, or with others.
  
  The graphics look great, and every thing like the crowd, the band, and the stage look great.
 
  
  The sound is great. There's a lot of good songs in Guitar Hero III Legends Of Rock like Miss Murder 
 by AFI (A Fire Inside) and Cherub Rock by the Smashing Pumpkins. 
  
  Guitar Hero III Legends Of Rock is a lot of fun to play with others or yourself, and never seems 
 to get old. If you've never played a Guitar Hero game before, you should probably play the first 
 game in the series first. If you start to play even easy, it might be hard.
  
  In conclusion, Guitar Hero III Legends Of Rock is a great Guitar Hero game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldemort8989
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  It's Christmas Eve so I'll keep it short. What can I say? Guitar Hero III Legends of Rock has you 
 using a mini guitar with green, red, yellow, blue, and orange buttons on it to rock out to different 
 songs. 
  
  I have to be honest. When I started to play, I wasn't to familiar with the songs. Oh but that changed. 
 This game is raising a generation of kids on 80's rock music. It'll really expand your music horizen. 
 Some of my personal favorite songs are Paint it Black, My name is Jonas, Through the Fire and Flames, 
 Story of my Life, and Miss Murder.
  
  You start your career as a backyard band playing for a small crowd of drunk college students. But 
 as you work your way up and start playing more and more songs, your popularity increases. You earn 
 cash to spend at Guitar Center, which is half the fun. Songs, guitars, finishes, stuff like that. 
 The game also makes great use of Wi-Fi as well.
  
  And maybe even a couple rock legends will appear too...
  That one guy from Guns n' Roses perhaps? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is the 4th Guitar Hero game in the series including Rocks the 
 80s. This is also the first Guitar Hero on a Nintendo console and thankfully, they didn't change 
 the game to suit the Wii's audience. The game is all about hitting a bunch of notes at the correct 
 time and you'll be following the guitar in the game. So all you rock fans out there will definitely 
 love this game. Not much of a story in the game but it's not important anyway since all you're 
 gonna care about is playing the songs.
  
  Graphics in this game could've been better. The vocalist looks flat out ugly. The drummer is very 
 stiff in terms of animation. The guitarists don't even touch the guitar when they strum sometimes. 
 All in all, a bad job in the graphics department. Although sometimes, there will be some parts 
 wherein the game looks really good but that doesn't happen too often. Either way, the graphics 
 really don't matter in a rhythm game so I wouldn't worry too much about it.
  
  Sound is obviously the best part of the game. The songs are great! I like it better than the songs 
 in Guitar Hero II. The sound effects are great, although the sound when you hit the wrong note 
 does get annoying after a while but it's alright. It's not that big of a problem. The sound also 
 comes out of the Wii remote so it really makes you feel like you're playing a real guitar. That 
 neat little feature is Wii exclusive
  
  For $90, it's worth it. The only problem is the Wii version doesn't have Downloadable Content. 
 Though not to worry, RedOctane have stated that it will come early 2008. Still, $90 is pretty big 
 so I suggest you watch some videos of the game first or try it at a friends house if they have 
 it and se if you like it. It's got a lot of replayability with online so if you're a fan of rhythm 
 games, it's worth it.
  
  All in all, I love the game. It's addictive, it's fun, it's great multiplayer, it's got good online 
 and it's got good music. I will be playing this game for a long time. The Guitar Hero series is 
 definitely one of the best console rhythm games and Guitar Hero III is a fantastic sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrupted19
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 has always been a highly rated game with no real competition. Now that the new game 
 Rock Band is out, it has some. Even with rock band, I think that guitar hero 3 blows it out of 
 the water. First of all it costs half as much money, second you dont have to buy expansion packs 
 just to get the songs you like, and third, its more fun. Don't get me wrong I am pretty sure that 
 Rock Band is a good game, but a little to complicated if you ask me. And now everyone is talking 
 about how the guitar looks like the real thing. Who cares? honestly. Video games are about having 
 fun, and this game definantly knows how to have fun. With more song choices than ever this game 
 is truly incredible. One last thing is that this game challenges you. Not a lot of game do that 
 anymore because the makers want everyone to win. No....... Only the true experts are going to win 
 this game. A must have for any musician or wii fan. Soo much fun!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyalva222000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  The guitar hero game was a cool game to start with. But now the 3rd has taken the game to a whole 
 new level. The sound is terrific. The songs are fantastic. And the feeling of the game sucks u 
 in. It isnt the best in its series to start on. THe easy level isnt as easy as the easy level in 
 guitar hero 2. And expert is close to impossible. The Wii might not be the best platform to play 
 it on but its still awesome, because the guitar rumbles on star power. It's ovisly wireless and 
 the buttons arent as hard as the ones on the ps2. Its a really fun game and it should be a no brainer 
 to buy it. But, if u havent played the game before u sould still try it out for the hell of it. 
 Now in the boss battles u can throw attacks. It may be different but it sint such an advantence 
 to you because it throws off ur timing and everything. But if u wait till the rite time to use 
 ur attacks urll be winnign all ur boss battles. Its awesome at partys. Everybody likes the game. 
 BUY IT!!!!! iT ROCKS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArfenZard15
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero I was good, though the songs often made me feel sick as they were so badly covered.
 
  
  Guitar Hero II was harder, had better covered songs but still lacked something, it seemed hollow.
 
  
  I won't mention GHII: Encore because it was a general waste of money.
  
  But from these somewhat not-so-great games spawned another iteration, the name? Guitar Hero III: 
 Legends of Rock. And also a legend of a game!
  
  GRAPHICS:
  For a Wii game, I think they could do better, I think game designers don't push the Wii to it's 
 full, it looks like a polished PS2 game. This isn't a bad thing, far from it, I think it looks 
 lovely though I just think it could be better. The main bug with me is the fact the guitars are 
 seperate to the characters, so they don't move at the same time, or in the same direction at all 
 times. I don't really hold much againt this, as it IS only in menus. New character designs see 
 them becoming slowly more realistic from the original game, providing a more realsitic emulation 
 feel, rather than it being blatant from the visuals it's meant to look like a game, if you know 
 what I mean. Overall, nicey nice graphics, and the male singers mouth is HUGE, however it does 
 move perfectly in time with the words.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  I won't beat around the bush, you know the drill, hit the button on the guitar and strum according 
 to what you see on screen. I will however focus on the difficulty aspect of the game, in short, 
 it's been cranked up SEVERAL notches and can seem impossible in places, but I don't see this as 
 a hindrance as I think it adds extra replay value to work on your skills to finish the game rather 
 than GH I which required little work to master. New aspects to the gameplay is a Co-Op career, 
 which being a lovely and welcome addition lacks online capabilities in the area, so you need a 
 mate with a guitar to come over to play which is annoying. Speaking of online play, that for me 
 is a huge selling point of the game, and I can't imagine the game without it. The online mode offers 
 an all new battle mode (where you attack each other with rubbish "weapons") , face off, pro face 
 off and co-op. All modes work flawlessly, with no slowdown and also in co-operation with Guitarhero. com 
 online play is simply a must. It adds unlimited fun to the game and replay value shoots through 
 the roof. Many options of online play for example a totally random match or joining a friend after 
 exchanging friend codes also make the replay value even longer. Overall, this Guitar Hero offers 
 substantially more in terms of gameplay and the quality is much higher than previous titles.
  
  SOUND:
  So good it actually makes me cringe at the likes of GH II and Boogie that don't use 
 any licensed tracks. The licensed tracks are just superb, and makes the whole experience more enjoyable. 
 They have also bucked up the quality of the covered songs, and in some cases I seriously find it 
 difficult to distinguish between the master tracks and the covers. As sound is a large part of 
 the game, this beautiful change is extremely welcome. Also, the tracklist is much more impressive, 
 with a nice mixture of classic rock songs to modern day hits from Bloc Party and The Killers. This 
 wil surely make the game appeal to a wider audience and give a better flavour of the rock world.
 
  
  CONTROLS:
  What can I say. They stuck with the same mehod, but if they changed it, it would probably be rubbish. 
 No need to change a classic. 5 coloured fret buttons, one stummer bar and a whammy bar, simple.
 
  
  OVERALL:
  Having gotten rid of all 3 of the previous versions due to boredom I was sceptical about getting 
 this, however I'm glad I did. They've almost improved it in every way, the only downfall is the 
 display whilst playing a song, as the note streak is hard to see. The online play is a must though, 
 I don't think it would be half as entertaining without it. This game is definately a must have 
 for the Wii and a superb party game. An instant classic.
  
  SUMMED UP IN 4 WORDS:
  Best Guitar Hero Yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnDW
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is the franchises first outing on the Wii, and nothing has really changed. You 
 have a guitar controller with 5 buttons. 3 are used in easy, 4 in medium and 5 in hard and expert 
 difficulties. The 'notes' come toward you on the screen. You then hold down the coloured buttons 
 and pick the note with the little strum bar. Some can be longer notes or chords. There is also 
 a whammy bar so you can make long notes sound horrible.
  
  The gameplay is solid. Difficulty is very hard. It is much harder than the other two games in the 
 series, mainly because of the songs. Songs like Raining Blood, Through the fire and the flames 
 and One are all fast metal songs and you will probably get really frustrated attempting to play 
 'Mosh 1' and 'Fast solo A' over and over. It is probably harder for me being a guitar player, because 
 I know how to play some of the songs in the game on a real guitar. Sometimes (at least on easy, 
 medium and hard) the picking is different than on real guitar (it will leave out a note or two 
 so its easier) and I mess up. But once you manage to nail that one song you always have trouble 
 with, you can go back and say 'THAT was hard?'. You can be helped along by star power which you 
 can tilt the guitar upward to activate. Some notes in the song are replaced by star power notes 
 where you can collect it. Once you've lit up 3 tubes you can activate it. This multiplies your 
 multiplier by 2 so you can get more points. This helps you not fail during hard solos etc.
  
  There is a new 'battle mode' that can be played online and this is actually pretty good. Basically, 
 star power is replaced by a bunch of powerups which you throw at the enemy by tilting the guitar. 
 You have to make your opponent fail to win. It is over pretty quickly, especially online where 
 you pretty much need to get 3 powerups, hit the guy with them on a fairly hard spot and then hope 
 they fail, all within the first minute of the song. In the career mode, theres 3 battles against 
 Tom Morello, Slash and the devil. The songlist is great, ranging from the Rolling Stones to Muse, 
 from Slayer to Santana, and it is obvious the developers have tried to appeal to everyone. As usual, 
 you will have some songs you know and some that you really really like but never knew about till 
 you played the game. The third installment in the series has more master tracks (the actual songs) 
 so it sounds a lot better. Unfortunately they covered another Black Sabbath song, and the voice 
 is almost as annoying as War Pigs in Guitar Hero II. Most covers are pretty good though - I didn't 
 realize some were covers until I saw the 'as made famous by' on a second or third playthrough.
 
  
  You can select just over 10 different characters. You can unlock some of those in the store. In 
 the store (GUITAR CENTER!!!!!!!) you can buy videos of behind the scenes footage, costumes for 
 your characters, different guitars and finishes, and bonus songs.
  
  Graphics are OK. The models all have good animations and the lighting effects are pretty good, 
 but the creators could have pumped a bit more out of the graphics. Mostly though, you will be looking 
 at the fretboard and won't see the little characters dancing. What is annoying is that occasionaly, 
 with some of the wierdly shaped guitars you can select, is that the neck of the guitar will be 
 a little bit under their hand, so it can look pretty glitchy. Also, the developers decided to give 
 every character telekenesis, because there is no strap on any guitar so it just hovers there. Come 
 on, a strap is not that hard to do!
  
  The game has an RRP of &pound;70. This is pretty steep but the game would be nothing without the 
 guitar controller.
  The guitar that you play with is a *BUYNOW*GIBSON*BUYNOW* LES PAUL *THE GREATEST GUITAR EVER*. 
 It is sturdy and you can now remove the neck to put it in a bag if you want to transport it. It 
 feels a little better than the SG controller from Guitar Hero II. You can get quite sweaty when 
 you are playing your Gibson (TM) Les Paul (TM) . I recommend Axe (C) (TM) deodorant to keep you fresh.
 
  
  Another peeve is that the game chucks advertisements at you. You pretty much have to play Gibson 
 guitars although there are a few from other companies too. You have to play in bars with 'Axe' 
 people dancing. Its pretty funny that they kept this brand in outside of America, because they 
 couldn't even be bothered to change it to the UK brand 'Lynx'. You must buy from Guitar Center, 
 too.
  
  Overall though, the game is great. The gameplay is addictive and although it is absolutely nothing 
 like real guitar, its still an excellent concept that is well executed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: movin_target
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Well since i've played Guitar Hero 3 long enough, I guess i'll review it now.
  *Review mode ON*
  
  Guitar Hero 3: Legends of Rock is the latest installment of the Guitar 
 Hero franchise and to me, and maybe many others it is the best one yet!
  
  Graphics:
  Well its Guitar Hero the graphics don't really matter in this game unless you want to see the Blue 
 Fret in HD. What really matters in this game is the framerate. Is it a solid 60 FPS? Yes it is 
 and it hardly has any slowdowns.
  But what I am disapointed at in the Wii version is, and this is just me nit-picking is that the 
 devs didn't put in the Shiny opening note, the Fingers on fire, and the Star Power Icons. I really 
 like those =\
  
  Gameplay:
  I won't go in deeply about how you play Guitar Hero but here a quick recap.
  You press a fret, 
 your strum a note on screen, you make music happen.
  So let me get into some of the new and improved stuff about Guitar Hero 3.
  They improved the 
 Hammer-On and Pull-Off system by opening the timing window, which makes them a bit easier. The 
 online play is a great addition because you take the replay value of the single player, add multiplayer, 
 and bam almost endless replay value. It is also great because say if you don't have any friends 
 that play Guitar Hero around where you live, so jump on Nintendo Wi-Fi and you can play anyone. 
 Also its almost lag free so no worries there. Also you have all of the local multiplayer modes 
 on online.
  
  Neversoft also increased the difficulty of the game so this isn't a great starter Guitar Hero, 
 but it is great for more experienced players.
  The new battle mode, im not gonna dig into this because it is simple to explain.
  Guitar Hero 
 + Mario Kart = Battle Mode
  But im a little pissed that there aren't any downloadble song at the moment.
  
  But overeall 
 the game is fun.
  
  Sound:
  The game has a great setlist. The best one in any Guitar Hero game yet.
  It has music from band 
 such as The Who, Metallica, Iron Maiden, Rolling Stones, and many more.
  Great thing about it is, atleast 70 percent of this game has the Orginal Recordings which is great 
 because I didn't like alot of the covers in Guitar Hero 2.
  There is a problem (which is being fixed) the game is in mono sound.
  I can't really complain 
 about this because I don't notice it, but if your the person that can notice it, its better than 
 no sound, right?
  
  Value:
  You do get the bang for the buck with this game.
  It comes with the wireless guitar controller and the game.
  70 great songs.
  Great replay value, 
 and the downloadble songs that are coming some time in the future.
  
  Well there is my review overall score:
  9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakikiu
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  the only thing that isn't good about this game is the fact that all the good metal and hard rock 
 song appear too late in the game. Still missing standard protest the hero. rise against was a good 
 choice for a bonus song artist. But honestly there needs to be wolfmother in this game. but overall 
 I liked the song selection and the songs are actualy the real ones so it gives a good sound to 
 the songs that need the actual lead singers voice. strumming and sound are almost flawless on 
 medium. whats good about guitar here is almost nothing its just addictive like runescape so dont 
 buy it (just kidding) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5Winston5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock for the Wii is just awesome. A benefit for getting Guitar Hero 
 III for the Wii is the Wii remote in the controller lets there be a rumble feature. Also with the 
 unique speakers of the Wii remote you can hear a guitar mess up from the controller. Some bad things 
 for the Wii version are the graphics are bad and you can't download new songs from Wii shop channel, 
 but you can download them with the Xbox Live. The graphics for this game are really awful. Almost 
 everything in the background is bad looking. One thing in paticular is the drummer is always shaking 
 and his arms are always going through each other. The difficulty has gone up from last time which 
 can be considered good or bad. Its good for fans of the series who have played the game before 
 and enjoy it, but if someone plays this one as their first then they could find it way too difficult 
 to beat. Something else that is awesome for this game is it has online multiplayer which is a great 
 feature they added. Another new thing is the battle modes. You play battle modes in career mode 
 or multiplayer. The battle modes are fun in career mode, but in multiplayer mode they tend to go 
 by fast. All in all Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is an awesome addition to the series and I 
 give it a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MageofBlood391
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Face it, you want to be a rock star. Everybody does. If you haven't spent at least a few minutes 
 of your life jammin' on the air guitar with Free Bird blaring in the background, then this is not 
 the game for you. But if you have, then you can finally see your dreams come to life  all on the 
 small screen.
  
  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is the third installment in the critically acclaimed and fan-loved 
 Guitar Hero series. Once you're all done naming your band, picking your character, and choosing 
 your axe, you take on the roll of the guitarist (or bassist, in Co-op mode) in your band. You start 
 out small, with little funds and no contract. You'll soon work your way up to the big time. You'll 
 be a legend of rock. And with over seventy songs at your choosing - everything from Foghat's "Slow 
 Ride" to Metallica's "One" to Scorpion's "Rock You Like a Hurricane"  you will be spending a good 
 deal of time shredding. 
  
  Oh, speaking of music, there is a little trouble with the sound on the Wii version. It seems that 
 management screwed up a bit when making the Wii game, and accidentally took out the Stereo sound, 
 so we're stuck with Mono. In all honesty, it's not an absolutely huge deal, but it's annoying nonetheless. 
 Though, unless you have some ridiculous, five thousand dollar sound system (in which case you'd 
 probably be considering buying this on your fancy, new Play Station 3) , you probably won't even 
 notice the difference. Just know that it's there. Of course, you'll more than likely be so engaged 
 in playing the song; you won't even remember that you're confined to Mono. 
  
  Then again, it's really rather boring at the start. You'll be playing simple songs, "Slow Ride," 
 "Rock and Roll All Nite," "Talk Dirty to Me," among others. Not exactly the most challenging melodies 
 to ever be called Rock, but still fun nonetheless Except for in Easy mode. It's absolutely tedious, 
 to put it politely. You'll be playing one note every second and a half if you're lucky, and it 
 only utilizes three of the five fret buttons. Definitely start out on Medium mode if you're a beginner, 
 it's a thousand times more entertaining (it'll help strengthen your pinky fingers too, which makes 
 harder difficulties all the more easier) . I don't know what exactly happened in production this 
 time around, maybe it's the fact that Legends of Rock was mainly produced by a different company, 
 but Easy mode just seems like flat-out torture this time around.
  
  On the brighter side, Guitar Hero III is (generally speaking, there are always exceptions) more 
 difficult on the higher difficulties than ever in the previous two games. You'll find need for 
 using those useful hammer-ons, wanting to break your whammy bar if it might give you some more 
 star power, and you might even learn a new technique or two along the way. I still find myself 
 cussing at my TV screen every time I see those bright red, capital letters that spell out the bane 
 of guitar heroes everywhere  "SONG FAILED." Though it's not very often that a player will see 
 that once they've gotten better, some songs are damn-near impossible to play regardless of your 
 skill level - if you've already read about or found out about this game, you're probably able to 
 tell what song I'm talking about. If you haven't done your research, it's called "Through the Fire 
 and Flames", and it's by a band called "Dragonforce". 
  
  The Wii Les Paul Controller (commonly called the "Wiitar" by fans) is really quite sharp looking. 
 You're probably able to figure out that it's based on Gibson's most-famous guitar, the Les Paul. 
 It comes standard with a white face plate (unique to the Wii version, the other games get black 
 face plates) and a detachable neck for easy storage and traveling. The strum bar is a little loose 
 compared to the 360, PS3, and PS2 versions, but that's not exactly a bad thing. It's also made 
 up for in the fact that the Wiitar is powered by the Wiimote (which just plugs into the guitar 
 the same way that a Nunchuck plugs into the Wiimote) , so the guitar itself never needs replacement 
 batteries. That saves on money in the long scheme of things, but you do have to buy the Wiimote 
 in the first place. Also on the topic of saving money, the Wii version of Guitar Hero III costs 
 ten dollars less than its competition, because of the Wiimote already having wireless capabilities, 
 so they don't have to be programmed into the guitar. Yay for cheaper!
  
  It almost goes without saying that a current generation Guitar Hero game would be online, but I 
 suppose it's worth pointing out anyway. You're finally free to crank up the volume and rock out 
 with your friends via Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. Now, for all of you who find yourselves groaning 
 when seeing that and thinking about Friend Codes, there is light in the darkness. The player is 
 fully free to choose between Friend Codes and random matches, though, admittedly, there is no ranking 
 system. Still, can't complain when you're shredding the crap out of your friend online. 
  
  Of course, competitive matches to see who can get the highest score aren't exactly all that there 
 is to do with a friend, Legends of Rock opened up a whole new world of fun to the guitarist. Battle 
 Mode. Yeah, you heard me right. Battle Mode. In a guitar game. Never would have seen that coming, 
 would you? For the first time ever, two players can compete not to see who rocks the hardest, but 
 to see who can last the longest without failing. If you're first reaction to that was wondering 
 what happens when two gods at this game play, and neither would fail, then you don't need to worry. 
 That's all been worked out. Replacing Star Power, which is normally used to win the crowd back 
 over when you're failing, is Battle Power, which gives you certain bonuses that you can use to 
 make your opponent screw up. Successfully hitting a series of notes with Battle Power in them will 
 net you one of those bonus  everything from breaking one of their strings temporarily to increasing 
 the difficulty that they're playing on. It's an interesting game mode, to say the least. And, of 
 course, this mode is online. The one problem with online Battle Mode is that way too many people 
 play on Medium so that their opponents bonuses don't do much to hurt them.
  
  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is one of the small number of great Wii titles that are currently 
 out. If you own a Wii, it's definitely worth picking this up, despite the hefty ninety-dollar price. 
 Even if you don't have a Wii, and you're just checking out the reviews, I'd recommend picking this 
 up on another console  it's available on all of the current generation ones, plus the PS2. Along 
 with Super Mario Galaxy, Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn, and a select couple of others, Guitar Hero 
 III is a must-have Wii game. Don't even bother renting it, there's too much fun to be gotten out 
 of it for a long time to come. And to those about to rock, I salute you. Rock on, young legend-in-training. 
 Rock on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minimattio5
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  This game has good sound, great music, and cool characters. Its very addictive no matter who you 
 are. Why play it, FUN!!! I say buy this game and give it a try. I have been playing it for a month 
 now and still haven't got bored. If you are doubting it before u buy it, see and friend and try 
 it. You won't be disappointed. The "easy" level is for definet beginners. The medium is for the 
 kids that have little but some experience. The hard is for the people who have a lot of peole who 
 have experience. The expert is for people who have play it a lot and can do it efficiently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bilich
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Being a guitarist myself I have always been stand-off-ish of how people have said 'you should see 
 my friend he is a guitar god on Guitar Hero'. I always just laughed it off and often times said 
 'come to me when you can play a real guitar and then we shall see who is a god'.
  
  I have had this game for a few weeks now and so far I am pretty impressed. I have never owned a 
 Guitar Hero game, so for now to be able to play it on my Wii it feels like I have finally jumped 
 into a community that has been buzzing for a while. I still woulden't say that it is anything really 
 like playing a real guitar, aside from the fact that you have to use both hands in unisen and at 
 least on the Wii version the mistake sounds come out of the guitar (thnx to the in Wii-Mote speaker) . 
 
  
  It's so weird that I find myself sometimes struggling with songs that I have played a hundred times 
 with my band. 
  
  They have made a great selection in songs on this game, pretty much all of them I don't mind hearing 
 again and again (for now) . The added boss battles are pretty entertaining with original content 
 written by some legends adds a freshness to it. 
  
  One thing that struck me as odd though is that it being titled "Legends" Of Rock , I am missing 
 some legends as an option. Someone like an Eddie Van Halen, Randy Rhodes, Zack Wylde, and hell even 
 Angus Young, Jimi Hendrix and Dave Mustaine should probably be in the legends category. Perhaps 
 there is only so much you can do with 5 buttons, so to try to incorporate the skill of these hero's 
 would be hard.
  
  Moving on...
  
  I definately am hooked on this game, it is so easy to just pick up for a few songs however so hard 
 to put down after just a few songs. When I explain it to friends the best way to sum it up is to 
 say "JUST ONE MORE SONG" it is very addictive and with the many levels of difficulty it definately 
 has a lot of replay value. The battle mode is an interesting feature, using attacks to mess up your 
 opponent is pretty funny. There is nothing like when you are about to be melted by Slash but you 
 hang on to a few attacks so when he begins the drainage you can take him down.
  
  I wish that some of the download-able content that has been available to the XBOX 360 would become 
 available to the Wii version, hopefully Red Octane will set something up. Adding new songs to download 
 into the mix woulden't be a bad idea, I can see how after a while I might get tired of the same 
 songs after half a year or something. 
  
  I have played a few times lag free on multi-player , it is really fun to just jump online, pick 
 your favorite tunes and seeing what you opponent is going to choose, hoping that they are songs 
 that you have worked on. I am waiting on some of my buddy's to pick up a copy of the game so that 
 I can try the coop mode, I am sure that will be entertaining. 
  
  Although I find myself struggling with this game sometimes I still have a good time and like working 
 to get better at it. I really enjoy watching others play it, especially first timers 'cause there 
 is that moment where they go from 'suck' to 'hey I am getting hang of this' and they seem to really 
 want to get better at it and play it more. 
  
  Another addicting and fun for everyone game for the Wii...
  
  Rock On!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkMaster7991
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is still great even though it's published by a new developer... Neversoft! Now the Wii 
 version is good but seems to get less. It's better than the Ps2 one but us wii owners get less. 
 We haven't gotten the downloadable content yet they said the Wii owners should get content some 
 time or another yet the 350 owners and i believie the PS3 got 2 new downloable packs. Plus PS3 
 and 360 ownders get the diffrent faceplates. The wii guitar had the ablity to change faceplates 
 but they haven't made any for the wii yet... which is the wii version doesn't hdissapointing. Also 
 ave as good graphics and you can see the diffrence between the 360 version and the wii one. Now 
 that is pretty much the negatives for having it for the Wii (So far... oh and plz notice that I 
 made this review Dec. 9.) The games really bad parts is that I found the soundtrack to be great 
 and amazing but it seemed to me GH2 had alittle better songs and more songs.... but thats about 
 the only negatives for me. Yes the game was more difficult but thats what hardcore guitar hero 
 fans were waiting for after mastering GH2. So pretty much if your new to the GH series you might 
 have a tougher time learning to play on harder difficulties. The songs good and the Hammer On and 
 Pull Offs are a nice addition. The gameplay or game is still addicting and fun. The guys at Gamespot 
 didn't like Battle Mode but I found it to be fun but yes it can very quickly. It's more fun playing 
 with other people on battle mode than on Career mode. Online pretty much has no lag for the wii 
 and is great. It's a shame you can't talk to people though and add them as friends.... (stupid friend 
 codes....) . Cooperative career was cool but it could have been cooler if it was just in Normal 
 career mode and not as a seperate mode. Oh and you can't play Co-Op carerr on Wi-Fi for thoese 
 who thought you could. To end this off... if you like the GH series you should get this game if 
 you don't already have it, and if you haven't experienced this game yet and have the Wii nows a 
 good chance to try it but I suggest that you like this type of games and can stand or tolerate 
 Rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meandmewii
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  I bought this game with the intention of it being sweet- and it is. All of the songs in the set 
 list are great rocks songs. The game play is very flowing and the graphics are pretty good. The 
 audio is good except for the fact that it is only in stereo. Throughout the game you are challenged 
 by guitar greats to a dual. They include Tom Morello, Slash, and Lou (The Devil) . This adds a nice 
 touch to the game- but nothing significant. Tons of unlockables- There are hundreds of guitars 
 and finishes to choose from. Bonus songs, videos, and characters can also be purchased at the store. 
 The characters are some what customizable (your can choose their outfits, styles, etc.) The only 
 down fall is the $90 price tag, but it dose include a sweet wireless Les Paul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWII-Guy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  the best guitar hero game ever!!... thats what my friends and i agreed on!! it has the best songs 
 on it and it has the best grapics!!!! i reocomed that everyone who has a wii sould get this!!!!! 
 it has songs such as: paint it black, reptillia, one, through the fire and flames, bulls on parade, welcome 
 to the jungle and more!!! the songs were so good i bought lots of the songs and put them on my 
 ipod!!!! again like i said the best guitar hero ever and i dont know how they could top this game... well 
 they did make rock band which was really enjoyable!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppelin1234
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is fun, but isnt for people who havent played the previous guitar hero games. Neversoft 
 did a good job of reusing things like characters, game modes ,and starpower but they also did good 
 on putting new things into the game. The boss battles were really fun to play and challenging people 
 over the internet is better. The Difficulty is much harder on hard and expert when playing songs 
 that are at the end of the campaign. Co Op gameplay is Rock Band just without the drums and microphone. 
 This game mode wasnt as great as I thought It would be, but when you complete a CO Op campaign 
 you get even more songs. Not only are the CO OP songs good, but in the regular campaign mode you 
 can rock out to great songs like Welcome To The Jungle, Rock You Like A Huricane, and Sunshine 
 of Your Love. Not only are there great classic rock bands, but there are also awsome present day 
 bands like Queens of the Stone Age, Muse, Dragonforce, and a new band called An Endless Sporadic 
 who wrote the song called Impulse which is now one of my favorites. The Guitar Controller for the 
 X360, PS3, and Wii versions of the game are Gibson Les Pauls, which I wish I had a real one of, 
 but not only is a Gibson Les Paul an awesome guitar but it is also an awsome guitar peripheral. 
 The new guitar controllers have a detatchable neck for traveling, are wireless, and have incredible 
 faceplates from different bands. With over 70 songs to play with a harder difficulty, youll never 
 get bored of Guitar Hero 3 Legends of Rock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easykill_astari
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing like a good music game , even when its made for a console as bad as the ps3 ( 
 HAHA ) 
  
  The game is called GHIII ( Guitar Hero 3 ) . You buy this big box , the bundle comes whit the game 
 ( Da .. ) and a Wireless Guitar controler ( YES YES ! IT IS WIRELESS ! ) The only problem we could 
 find out before the launch was : Is it going to suck cuz its been past on to Neversoft and the 
 answer is ! DRUMS : NO ! This game is by far ( And i mean it ) the best guitar hero game ever made 
 ( I would not say that rock band is better , and its not like if it matters , ROCKBAND ISINT ON 
 THE WII !
  
  The game is pretty easy for all the noobs out there , the easy and medium level are good for anyone 
 who as played between 10 minutes and 1 hour of guitar hero in the last week ( I dont know for you 
 guys , but if i only play 1 hour and i dont play for four days before playing again , I am going 
 to SUCK ) 
  
  When you go on to the hard and expert levels , its when you understand where Guitar Hero 3 isint 
 like ROCKBAND ( Put aside the fact that ROCKBAND is whit not only a guitar but also whit a drum 
 and a mic ) The hard and expert level whill you pulling your hair for weeks before you can actualy 
 get to the end of one of the songs ( for guys like me atleast ) .
  
  The game is realy good , it strikes you and keeps you playing for hours and hours , you might want 
 to miss a work day or a weading to play (These are some of the efects of playing guitar hero ) 
 
  
  I only play at my future shop right now , and i can tell i played at lest 20 hours ( i got kicked 
 out 2 times    
  Buy it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keymaster92
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Hey guys whats up this is my 5th review and this one is about GH3 and here is the review.
  
  Storyline- I love the cartoonlike cut scenes and the boss battles, it really made the game 
 alot better.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay looks like it has been improved alot better. It makes it really good this 
 way.
  
  Graphics- The visuals and atmosphere of the game is breathtaking and makes it look so real.
  
 
  Controls- The been the same for the past 3 games but the controls still rock.
  
  Overall-This game will Rock and Roll all nite with a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuramak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is kind of a simple idea , a "guitar karaoke ".
  And it is really great.
  One of the greats things about his game is the song trake , many great band, great song . So it 
 is really good to play, because you are playing good music .
  And this his a kind of game that you con throw a party with this game , and use it as ambient music 
 .
  The replay is almost eternal because there are so many song and the "hard gameis almost impossible.
 
  The song that you like moust you can always try to do it better, what make the game so addictive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii60_Link_Fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  Hey all this is Hylianhero1991. Im here to talk about Guitar Hero III Legends of Rock for the Wii (so 
 ya thiis ant for 360 or PS2 or PS3 GH3 owners)
  
  Guitar Hero III Legends of rock is the 2rd sequal of the Guitar Hero seris. It comes with a wireless 
 les paul guitar control with a detachable neck and detacable faceplate. If your a compleat n00b 
 about guitar hero plz read below if not skip the next paragraph
  
  Guitar is a rhyame based game with 5 colored buttons you use, they are Green, Red, Yellow, Blue, Orange 
 in that order. You also have a black strum bar on the body of your guitar you use it hit the notes. to 
 hit that note hold down the colore button you need to hold (shows on screen) and then hit the strum 
 bar to hit that note (timing is key) on long notes you hold down the colored button untill that note 
 is over. On the body of the guitar is a whammy bar. The whammy bar is used when you are in a long 
 note, you push the whammy bar down simulanisty untill the note is over, this helps you get more points, its 
 also used in battle mode (more bout that later) Sometimes you will see notes coming from your fret 
 board that are star shaped, if you hit all these notes you will sone get star power. Star power doubles 
 your multiplier and when you hit a note correctly the rock meter goes up higher then it would be 
 without SP
  Easy=Green Red Yellow
  Median=Green red Yellow Blue
  Hard-Green Red Yellow Blue Orange
  Expart-Green Red Yellow Blue Orange
  
  PROS:
  Guitar 
 has over 70 sound tracks,70% of them are orangial master tracks. Guitar Hero 3 comes with new mods 
 like
  Battle mode-where you can throw attacks at the other player, objecteve is to make him/her fail
 
  Wi-Fi-Rock out with people around the world
  and many other stuff
  Great songs and cxlassics like Welcome to the jungle, Rock you like a hurrican, Suck my kiss, paint 
 it blackrock and roll all night AND MUCH MORE
  
  CONS:
  no avalibal DLC on wii yet. i want some mario theme or zelda theme in GH3 for DLC and much other 
 stuff like Foo Fighters, ACDC, Led Zeplan
  Your fingures will be totally cramped half way through Expart and even hard
  big ass price
 
  
  Guitar Hero III Legends of rock is a MUST GET for anyone with a next gen consel
  My Score:9.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrp14
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Well first of all i'm portuguese and my english is not the best out there so... ok this was the 
 first time i've played an guitar hero and i'll will tell you this. THIS GAME IS SIMPLE AWSOME!!! 
 Excelent musics, a great gameplay a good sound. I can't stop playing, I love play guitar and this 
 game is excelent for everybody who loves music (and rock music too) . Well my advice for the people 
 who will read this opinion and doesn't have this game and is owner of any consoles who have this 
 game (or even the pc or mac) go buy it1 Realy is worth the money you will spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: george_is_link6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely mind blowing. Rock and Roll All Nite, party every day and never stop jamming. 
 Songs like Knights of Cydonia, Cliffs of Dover, and, like i said in my heading DRAGONFORCES THROUGH 
 FIRE AND FLAMES BABY!!!!! Sorry, i just had to get that out. To me, DrgonForce is reason enough 
 reason to by this game (since they fail to feature it in Rock Band even though both guitarists 
 are crazy, their drummer is insane and their singer actually sings, but whatever) . I think they 
 could've had the mario song of F-Zero son on it, but it's still fine without it.
  
  It is so much fun just rocking these songs, and I personally have not put the guitar down since 
 I got it. Also, the co-op carreer is a ton of fun, if you have a guitar and a brother that likes 
 to play bass (like me) If you don't read anything else from this review, at least read this- THIS 
 GAME IS A MUST BUY- so buy it now if you don't have it.
  
  Only two complaints- How the heck can you call a game legends of rock and not have a single ACDC 
 song or Led Zepplin song? I mean, i understand Led Zepplin gives their songs to noone, but ACDC 
 gives everyone their songs! I mean, they're songs are in practically every movie! Also, I wish 
 they had more than two legends in the game, like Herman Lee, Jimmie Page, or Angus Young, but Slash 
 is like three himself. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: walladude2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III, which came out on October 29, is one of the greatest games for the Wii out right 
 now. The game, which is the first installment to come to the Wii, combines the classic layout of 
 the older versions of the game, but adds new things. First, the song list is awesome, and will 
 never keep you bored. Practice really helps a lot as well. The online play, using Nintendo's WiFi 
 connectivity, is excellent, and adds a new kick to the game that will stop you from putting it 
 down. All in all, if you have a Wii, or any other console for that matter, and you like music, 
 you must have Guitar Hero III 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaelthas029
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  What a crappy idea. Guitar hero is really a poor conceptualized series. People spend hours doing 
 something that is worthless when they could learn the real thing. Not only that but this game just 
 isn't much fun and is not addictive. The graphics are alright but not amazing and the design for 
 the Guitar is pretty lousy. Its tedious and an uninspired design that makes some stuff very annoying 
 to play. The levels and stage really doesn't change based on what the song is which makes no sense. 
 A pretty useless game that shouldn't exist. Learn to play the guitar, its a much better use of 
 your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniper_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  Roughly seven months ago, I went out with my best friend's girlfriend and paid 50/50 to get him 
 the Guitar Hero 2 bundle for the PS2. We spent the majority of the summer rocking out and embarrassing 
 ourselves in public playing like a rock star on a little plastic guitar. Then we got another guitar 
 and played Co-op. I was hooked. I went home one night and looked at my Wii and asked it "Why can't 
 you do that? Why does the PS2 rock and you do not?" Two days later, almost to answer my question, 
 Guitar Hero 3 was announced for the Wii. After months of anticipation, I finally grabbed my Wii-taur 
 and popped the game in.
  
  I thought the neighbor's porcelain dolls all just exploded in a flurry of rock and roll. Yes, the 
 horns were immediately thrown up in the air.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 for the Wii is the only shot you've got at rock stardom for a Nintendo system (unless 
 you want to dance to DDR, which I hope you don't) , so for the Nintendo faithful who's always dreamed 
 of unleashing star power (the act of tilting your guitar straight up to double your multiplier 
 for a short time) , this is the only game in town. Now I know exactly what you're thinking. "Simply 
 because I own a Wii, they made the game dumber and less fun just to spite me, didn't they?" Fear 
 not, for Guitar Hero 3 rocks just as hard with no songs cut or made easier for Wii families. 
 
  
  As an added bonus, the guitar (which I will refer to as the Wii-taur) is arguably the best for 
 any system thanks to it's Wii specific functionality. Just plug the remote into the guitar and 
 you're good to go. The guitar uses the Wiimote's batteries, it's motion sensing capabilities for 
 deploying star power, and the rumble feature to shake your guitar to let you know you have star 
 power and to shake to the beat of the song during star power mode, a feature which is undeniably 
 cool.
  
  There are some negatives to the Wii version though. First of all, the tilt function of the guitar 
 is a little wonky. Sometimes it takes a second for it to recognize the tilt to deploy star power, 
 which can lead to a few missed notes. This is rare and only seems to happen when the battery is 
 particularly low, so keep them charged and you should be good to go. There's also the graphics. 
 Compared to the other next-gen consoles, this sticks out like a VERY sore thumb. Textures and jaggies 
 litter the stage and band members. If you really cared about graphics that much though, you probably 
 already bought it for the 360, so it's not that big of a deal. 
  
  There's also the issue with downloadable songs. For the Wii, there isn't any. Some people may see 
 a real downer here, but there are plenty of songs here to keep your attention long before you think 
 about slowing down, let alone crying for the Foo Fighters or Velvet Revolver song pack. Seriously, 
 if you want downloadable songs that badly, do like I did and download Frets on Fire for the PC.
 
  
  The positives here are great. For starters, The song selection is fantastic, especially since the 
 majority of the songs are the master copy, which means you'll be jamming to the actual song and 
 not a Guitar Hero band's cover for most of the game. Playing along to the actual guitar riffs of 
 "Paint it Black" by The Rolling Stones is beyond awesome. However, the covers stick out like a 
 sore thumb. Find the original version of Dead Kennedy's "Holiday in Cambodia" and you'll see what 
 I mean.
  
  The difficulty level, for better or worse, has definitely been bumped up for Guitar Hero 3. The 
 jump from Medium to Hard is like skiing down the bunny slope and immediately moving to Mount Killgore: 
 The Dream Smasher. Only those who are hardcore about their plastic guitar skills and welcome hand 
 cramps with very sore open arms should attempt it.
  
  Oh, and if your friends tell you to try Dragonforce's "Through the Fire and Flames" because it's 
 really easy on Expert, they are not your friends and are laughing AT you.
  
  This is the only Guitar Hero game for the Wii, and luckily it's one of the best. The small downgrade 
 in graphics from the other next-gen systems and the absence of downloadable songs is more than 
 made up for by the original song list and the unique capabilities for the Wii that are used here. 
 If you are a serious rock fan, buy this game and rock your Wii-taur into the Wii hours of the morning. 
 Just make sure to blame the neighbor's dog for the dolls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathwatch28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  If you love rock and want to emulate some of the best songs of the last 20 years then this is the 
 game for you. This game has several difficulty levels and acomprehensive practice mode where you 
 can play all or part of a song at various speeds. 
  
  The career mode gives you a choice of 5 out of 4 songs that you must play to complete each set 
 although the sound track is pretty great as there are lots of great bands like guns and roses, 
 smashing pumpkins, the killers as well as many others to trash to either on practice or career. 
 Each song played on career earns you cash where you can spend on new characters, costums, songs 
 or guitars, so plenty of customisation for your character. It can be differcult at first but you 
 will soon pick it up the more you play it. 
  
  Althought it may seem expensive at first you do get alot for your money, the wifi guitar (not strickly 
 wifi as you need to plug a controller into it) is awesome amd comes with a strap and comes apart 
 for when you want to store it, but is still sturdy enough for leaping aroung like a mad man.
  
  All in all i would recommend this game to any rock wannbe or someone who wants to leap aroud 
 with a guiter without having to learn to play the real thing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y0gi_bear
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  GHII songs have it over GHIII songs, and the $99 price for the XBOX 360 version adds a wireless 
 guitar, which broke after only a month of use (the green key started sticking) . The only area that 
 GHIII has it over GHII is the ability to identify hammer-on and hammer-off notes, which are almost 
 impossible to identify when playing GHII. Yet, GHIII is still addictive, and worth the investment 
 simply for the new songs. As for the increased difficulty incorporated into GHIII, I guess that 
 was because some people mastered GHII on Expert mode (whose difficulty was INSANE, and is even 
 more INSANE in GHIII. Anyway, practice does make perfect, and if you're willing to put in the time 
 to learn each song, you can begin posting 5 star songs, and even perfect (100%) songs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3AD-SH0T
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Rock on dudes! If you havent allready, totally try out this wicked awsome game. You just cant get 
 enough of it. It's got an okay story, but thats not what sucks you in, it's the gameplay man! And 
 if you've played the 1st or 2nd and thought it was awsome than this one will be outstanding. Its 
 got amazing bos battles, an amazing song list, and plenty of unlockables. Not to mention all the 
 characters and outfits. If youreven kinda intrested in guitar, wait even if your not you have got 
 to try this game out. Rock On dudes... Rock On! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTHAWx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  OK, so this game doesn't have very good sound quality and there seems to be no patch to fix it, 
 the graphics aren't quite as crisp as the 360, and the down-loadable content we were promised is 
 sadly lacking. But that doesn't mean this is a disastrous game. No indeed! 
  
  Guitar Hero 3 sounds fine on my TV. I don't have a awesome gaming set up, just a 17" flat screen 
 LCD, but the sound coming from it is pretty good, and it doesn't bother me too much while playing. 
 Therefore, I can't say too much to those with a better set up, just take care not to be disappointed 
 by shoddy sound (although this is a let down in a music orientated game) and try to enjoy the game 
 itself!
  
  The control system for GH3 is much the same as before. Hit the buttons and strum in time to the 
 icons on the screen. Not too hard you think. But the difficulty of many songs in the track listing 
 are incredibly hard compared to the previous versions. This is due to the high technicality of 
 the songs themselves and the games attempt to reflect this. Hence, the long finger tapped solo's 
 might seem impossible, but thats because they're difficult in real life. Get used to it. I should 
 know, I play guitar. But some songs in GH3 do seem insane, especially 'Through the fire and the 
 flames' by DragonForce. This is not fun. It is evil!
  
  But that aside the game is highly addictive. You find yourself drawn into retrying that song you 
 can't complete over and over, until you finally nail it. And what a sense of satisfaction you get. 
 Add to this an awesome set of tracks and bonus songs and you have a solid game. This is boosted 
 only slightly by the mulitplayer, because the guitar battles are hard to win unless you unleash 
 guitar hell upon your opponent from the get go, and use strings of power-ups one after another. 
 Once you been hit by a difficulty up, broken string, lefty reverse combo, you're just about ready 
 to cry. The co-op mode isn't much better. Unless you're quick with that green button, you're going 
 to get stuck playing bass for a long time. This isn't too hard, and just requires chugging way 
 at the same notes over and over, in order to supply star power to the guitarist, who is making 
 a hash of the actual song next to you. However, I've only explored the on-line stuff a little, 
 and I played a few matches and did enjoy some of it, so it's not all bad.
  
  Overall, GH3 is an addictive package, with a responsive control system that feels good in the hand. 
 It has some excellent and well known songs on as well as a good collection of lesser known, but 
 equally enjoyable tracks. The difficulty can get extreme for those with poor hand reflexes, but 
 the game design is in keeping with previous versions. Mulitplayer is a little disappointing, but 
 has some good points which can be exploited for some good old fashioned fun and extends the life 
 of the game. 
  
  If you're looking for looks and sound quality, go by it for the 360 or PS3. But if you're a Wii 
 diehard and love rock music then buy GH3 for its solid game-play, addictiveness and challenging 
 nature. That DragonForce song will keep you busy for weeks... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmaick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  This is a good game. The game is an addiction, if you dont have play any guitar hero before with 
 10 minutes you learn and you cant take away from it. The career is good but i think that its 
 to short, and also the songs are great but its still missing to many artists and songs. The Co-op 
 career is right if you have a bro or sis or cousin or anyone that want to play with you and not 
 against you. And a little detail is that if you are a lefty you have troubles to play with the 
 guitar because the guitar is design for right people, but also the option to change the guitar 
 side is good because I need to began to learn to play like a right and theres also many people 
 that have that problem 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcalkenobi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Finally a game that many Nintendo fans have been waiting for, Guitar Hero 3: Legends of rock. This 
 is the first Guitar Hero game on a Nintendo console and not only does it have one of the best soundtracks 
 so far, it has several original recordings, and has the online feature for the first time.
  
  Back when it was announced that Neversoft was going to produce the new Guitar Hero everyone 
 was skeptical, myself included. I was thinking that the franchise would change into a rip off franchise. 
 Then I started to hear good things such as the Wireless Guitar, the online, many of the original 
 tracks, and some great music at that. These things all add up to one of the best Guitar Hero games 
 made. I never had a PS2 so I didn't really have too much of a chance to play the first 2 (except 
 at parties and at friends house) . I loved the gameplay and was constantly wanting to play it on 
 my own console. I think that had GH3 stayed with Harmonix it would've been alot longer before a 
 GH game would make it to a Nintendo console. Because of the bigger budget that Neversoft and Activision 
 provided, there was more money to throw around, so they decided to go onto all next-gen consoles 
 which was great. They were also able to get better tracks, and the original recording for many 
 of them.
  
  The music in GH3 is simply better all around. The first 2 had their really awesome songs (Free Bird, 
 War Pigs, Smoke on the Water, Killer Queen) , but GH3 takes the cake with songs like "Welcome to 
 the Jungle", "Even Flow", "One" and "Number of the Beast". One of the best songs in the game is 
 the final boss battle with Lou when you play "The Devil Went Down to Georgia" redone for Guitar 
 Hero 3. All of the tracks I just listed are the original recordings other than the latter because 
 it had to be redone for the GH3 format, going from a fiddle to a Guitar. As far as tracks go GH3 
 is the best.
  
  The gameplay in GH3 really isn't any different from the first 2, which is good because that it 
 a great formula that is very addicting and extremely fun, so there was really no reason to change 
 it. There were some added modes that some like, and some don't. The biggest one being the battle 
 mode and the boss battles. I really like these and think that it adds to the intensity. There are 
 several people who don't like it though so if you don't like it, don't play it. The online was 
 another new aspect that I was very excited about especially since the Wii has few online games (there 
 are many coming and its starting to get better) . For the most part I have hardly any lag problems. 
 There have been a couple of time where that has happened, but the person was simply disconnected 
 and I was left to find another person to play. You can play with both friends and people from around 
 the globe. Both work and both are fun. In the end, the online is a really great addition to GH3 
 and I'm sure in the future it can only get better. 
  
  There are also some Wii exclusive features that both add and take away from the game. One great 
 addition is the Wii-mote being used in the guitar. IT does a couple of things that include use 
 of rumble and the speaker. I really like the sounds coming out of the guitar, it really adds to 
 the experience. It makes things more realistic and when playing the multiplayer, you can tell who 
 messed up and who is rockin the hardest. The wii-mote also adds rumble into the controller. This 
 makes things much easier for finding out when you have star power. When you aquire star power, 
 the Wii-mote vibrates and also makes the entire guitar vibrate. It also vibrates right on the beat 
 when in star mode. Its a couple of small additions like that that really make the Wii version the 
 better to own. There is 1 small thing that really keeps the Wii version from being the version 
 to own, and it is the lack of downloadable content. The Wii just doesn't have the memory to do it. 
 The problem is that there should be SD support, but theres not, and the responsibility doesn't 
 fall to the developer Neversoft, but to Nintendo. Nintendo didn't not work very well with the dev 
 in figuring out how it would be worked out. Nintendo needs to either figure out how to work with 
 the SD cards and make them anti-pirate, or they need to release a hard drive, that is one thing 
 that is really holding Nintendo back. 
  
  All I have to say about the graphics is who cares? I like pretty graphics with games like this, 
 but it really doesn't hurt the game at all. The graphics in GH3 are not the best. Neversoft tried 
 a new art style that was less than thrilling. This doesn't really bother me, but I didn't care 
 for the new style. Then the Wii version doesn't look anywhere close t where it needs to. It looked 
 like a lower end PS2 game. I wasn't very happy about that either, but again, I could care less 
 about what the game looks like, so the graphics don't hurt the score at all. I would like nice 
 graphics, but it really doesn't really hurt the game. 
  
  Overall GH3 is a great game with the best tracks in the series so far, same old addicting gameplay, 
 and some less than impressive graphics. The Wii version is the 2nd best version of the game, while 
 the 360 still comes out on top and this is only because of the lack of downloadable content. If 
 you don't own a 360, get the Wii version, the differences inbetween the versions are small and 
 subtle so it really shouldn't make you buy a console for it, but if you have both, I'd have to 
 say the 360 version of the game is just a little better, no much but a little. Overall a great 
 game and it should be a game that Wii owners should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machod_19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I always like the Guitar Hero games because its a lot of fun and keeps you playing it over and 
 over again, and is even more fun with other people. I love playing with other people because it 
 just gets more fun, and its way more competitive than any other wii game i have played.
  
  My favorite thing of all is the online because now my i don't have to beat my friends and other 
 people at my house. 
  
  Overall this game makes you want to play it and never stop playing it till you break your hand. 
 I played it for so long my hand started to hurt, and i had to quit to take a rest. I wish the songs 
 would of been better, and i hated the advertising in the game. But overall just great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The1BigBoss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is the newest in the series. It uses a guitar shaped controller (In this case the 
 Gibson Les Paul) to play songs. There are 5 fret buttons and a strum bar to strum for the notes. 
 As you work your way up the note paterns get more complex and faster. This addition adds a co op 
 career mode, boss battle mode and a new wireless guitar with removable neck. This version along 
 with the PS3 and 360 versions have online play. Although the Wii's online system isnt as great 
 as XBL it is still good and is a nice feature the PS2 version doesnt have. The Wii version does 
 not have DLC now but thier is a possibility that there will be. This may be the best is the series 
 but it depends on what game you think had the best songs. Even if you like 2 better this is still 
 one of the greatest games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blogthis
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  I love playing Guitar Hero 3. my family loves playing it me, my dad, my brother, my uncle, my aunt 
 and her boy friend, another one of my uncles. Its just a hit around America. I love playing these 
 songs Welcome to the jungle, Rock you like a hurricane, my name is Joanas and more... I already 
 beat it on easy, so itts kinda easy until the end. when you get to medium that when it kicks you 
 in the @$$ a little. when your done with the game you feel good about yourself. you can buy guitar 
 styles, guitars, characters, songs, and outfits. who evre is reading this and wants to play it. 
 PLAY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moosechild
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is good but you might wanna buy it for the 360 instead. the Wii version is pretty 
 glitchy. its annoying to put th Wii remote in the guitar. the graphics are disgraceful even for 
 the Wii. it's still a good though. it's got a BAD ASS sound track. the Guitar Battles are hard 
 but VERY fun. there is A LOT of extra songs which adds hours of more playtime. Like I said the 
 graphics are disgraceful it's like they didn't put in any effort at all towards the graphics part 
 on the Wii version. The gam e was good but it coulda been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfWatch
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the first guitar hero I've ever played. Excluding afew times in walmart before they kicked 
 me out. Anyways, read the review from a newbies standpoint.
  
  -My Story:
  I was an endless pit of eager, waiting to get this game. Burned my wallet for a near $100 cost.
 
  Coming home, late at night, plug the game in. I couldn't stop playing. It was so much fun. Wouldn't 
 have slept except that my neck and shoulder where starting to cramp. Fun fun fun. Good soundtrack. 
 Challenging and you keep coming back. Beat easy, Beat medium. Uh-oh. Cannot beat hard...
  I never really noticed or cared about the in-game advertisements.
  Graphics were fine. Sound 
 was great. Wii-mote in the guitar was fun.
  
  
  -My Review:
  Game is great for newbies and returning guru's
  Hard is too hard for newbies
  Quick online 
 multi-player
  Great to pick up and play
  
  Pros:
  Great soundtrack
  Great guitar
  Online is quick and usually lagless
  Feel like you really rock after some songs
  
  Cons:
 
  Online gameplay is flawed! Best case scenario, easy difficulty WILL beat any higher due to the 
 fact that you can get a larger streak and maintain it easier.
  No quickplay for multi-player
  Hard+ mode REQUIRES you to practice the song like a real guitarist, 
 but this is a game [May only apply to newbies]
  Cost's ALOT
  Cannot play boss songs in quickplay
  
  
  -Overal:
  Fun at first, Great for parties, Pick 
 it up anytime and have fun, Get prizes in online tournaments. Good for newbs or returning champions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waldenshimmy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  An amazing game. If you like music (especially rock) you'd LOVE this game. You go through songs 
 playing buttons on a guitar that correspond to what it says on the screen. I'd rather have the 
 characters and looks like Xbox 360 and PS3, but it's still fine the way it is. The Wiimote is a 
 pain to get in, but if you just keep it in it's fine. Overall, this is a very fun game. It's a 
 good game to play with friends, family, or even on your own. A must buy. Also, the game gets very 
 hard and is hard to not get addicted. Because it gets so hard, you must play a LOT to get to be 
 able to play on hard or even expert. even medium takes some practise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bnwchbammer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Like I always do, I'll start off with a summary. If you haven't played guitar hero, I have one 
 question for you: Why not? It's fun, quite challenging, and a great game to just pick up and play. 
 I'll break it down for the wii, without taking any of the other platforms into account.
  
  Gameplay: You know how it is. This gets a 10. Not only is career mode fun, but multiplayer is great 
 as well. Online plays great, of all of the games I've played, I have never gotten any lag. Another 
 great thing about multiplayer mode is that there's a new mode. If you've heard complaints about 
 Battle Mode, then it's just a matter of taste. Sure some people won't like it, but there are only 
 3 boss battles in career mode (2 of which you can skip) and it just adds something great to an 
 already great game.
  
  Graphics: Ehhhh, not horrible, just bad. I'll have to give this like a 6 or something, but all 
 you really need to see is the notes. I'll overlook that, since it's not the biggest part of the 
 game, though I am disapointed that they couldn't have done at least a little bit more.
  
  Audio/Songlist: I guess I have no choice but to give this a 10 as well. Great songs in this game. 
 They really took the time to pick some great songs, and that they did. It sounds really good too. 
 The "bl!@#p" thing when you miss a note doesn't really get in the way though it's there, and it 
 really gets you down when you hear it, which it should. 
  
  Value and the actual guitar: Great value. 90 bucks for a guitar that feels really great, and looks 
 pretty cool too. If you haven't seen it, its white with a wiimote thing to hook it up to. It sound's 
 weird, but it really fits in nicely.
  
  Overall, if you don't have it... well, you should probably get it. I've said all I need to, its 
 just a great game, and its just true fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warbirdii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  Bought this for my 8 year old son and he loves it. The graphics are not bad and movement looks 
 smooth. Again it's not XBox360 or PS3 but overall is a fun game to have if you own the Wii. I play 
 a real Guitar and this is a blast but nothing like a real guitar, so don't plan on becoming a real 
 rock star. The easy level is all I can handle currently with three colors coming at me, I've tried 
 four and fail every song I try so for now I'm sticking to easy. I've earned three to four stars 
 on the easy level and still have not advanced to new songs so I may go to the cheats.
  
  If you don't have any other versions of Guitar Hero then I would say go get it otherwise if you 
 do maybe you should consider a different game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFSspeeddemon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is one of the best if not the best rhythm game ever. Neversoft 
 took over and tried miserably to make a story line for Guitar Hero III. It's not that they did 
 a bad job it's just that it's quite hard to understand. After you progress to a new area (with 
 four new songs and one encore song, just like in Guitar Hero's I and II) they show a cut scene 
 involving your band. Most of them are hard to follow and pretty lame, but I found the second to 
 last one to be quite funny. Even though the cut scenes didn't work out too well Guitar Hero III 
 has delivered and is just as great as everyone was hyping it up to be. There is a significantly 
 bigger song list, and a few new modes. Personally I don't like all the songs, probably not even 
 half but they're all still fun to play. However there are some that are just amazing and extremely 
 fun to play, like Through Fire and Flames by Dragon Force, but more on that later. Some of the 
 new modes are pretty cool as well. There is a new Co-op career mode available, in which you and 
 a friend become the new guitarist and bassist in a band. The only frustrating part of this new 
 mode is that there are some songs that you can't unlock unless you play the co-op mode. Another 
 new mode is the Battle mode. This is one of the best parts to Guitar Hero III. In this mode you 
 literally have a guitar battle. As you play instead of getting star power you get items, like Mario 
 Kart. If you tip your guitar up you launch the item at your opponent. Some of these items are extremely 
 creative and interesting. One of the many items is a broke string. Your opponent will have to rapidly 
 tap the button of the string you broke until before they can play that note. Another cool item 
 is amp overload. Personally I don't find it to be as effective as some other items but it still 
 gets the job done. It makes your opponents fret board and notes flash for about ten seconds so 
 they can't see the notes coming at them or when they need to hit them. The only downside to battle 
 mode is that you need to make your opponent fail to win. If they don't fail it goes in to sudden 
 death which isn't really fun at all. You can play this mode in multi-player as well as in single 
 player when a guitar boss challenges you. Another downside to Guitar Hero III is that all of the 
 difficulties have been bumped up a few notches. If you are used to playing on medium you will probably 
 have to start on easy. If you are used to playing on hard you'll probably have to play on medium 
 and so on and so forth. This makes it extremely difficult for someone who's never played the game 
 to start up. Also when you've beaten the game there is a credits song, which is Through Fire and 
 Flames by Dragon Force as mentioned previously in this review. It is unbelievably difficult. It's 
 like they're getting you ready for the next level up. On medium Through Fire and Flames is like 
 a hard song. On hard it's like and expert song. And so on and so forth. Thank goodness you can't 
 fail at it! Yet another downside to this game is the graphics. The graphics on Guitar Hero III 
 are something the N64 or DS are capable of. The first time you see the drummer playing on the screen 
 you'll crack up because it looks so incredibly stupid. However the graphics are much better on 
 the PS3 and Xbox 360. No of course I'm not trying to promote the PS3 or 360 it's just that if you 
 were wondering which next generation consul you wanted Guitar Hero III for, the extra ten bucks 
 are worth it. Basically if you have a PS3 or 360 already it would be smarter to get it for one 
 of them, otherwise it's still a great game on the wii. And on a rhythm game graphics don't matter 
 all that much. If you have a wii Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero is one of the most innovative games to come out in years, and Guitar Hero 3 is definitly 
 the best in the series. With about 70 great songs, and 4 different difficulties, this game will 
 have you playing for a long time. The best new addition to the series is definitly online play, 
 which offers a good competitive edge in which you can make your own matches or join others. You 
 can play co-op, face-off, pro face-off, and the new battle mode in online play, and regular multiplayer. 
 The new battle mode probably isn't as fun as face-off, but offers a new game in which you try and 
 make your oppenent mess up using items. The guitar control feels great, and just tops off the whole 
 experience greatly. Over-all, I would say if you like Guitar Hero games, definitly get this one, 
 and if you haven't played Guitar Hero before, still get this one and you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3LL_Hunter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  all the game levels should be brought down a notch, i mean easy is just to damn easy, its simple, 
 then comes medium, damn its hard, not medium, to big of a gap... any who... theres a delay between 
 pressing the button and it happening on the screen. also doesn't have all the features the 360 
 one has, i mean WTF huh? just couse were on the wii doesn't mean we don't want the same stuff! 
 all over all, totally worth the money, specially the fact that its cheaper than the 360 or PS3 
 one.
  
  if you have a 360 and a wii, to save money, buy the game for 360 then buy a guitar hero I or II 
 controller so its cheaper, plus you get achievements OWNAGE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K-Poulsen
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely the best so far, i have only beet it on eay and medium and also hard, i 
 would say it is about 2 to 3 times as hard as the first 2. i would recomend it for anyone who has 
 one of the first two. the wiimote in the guitar is a nice feature as well it adds the sound when 
 you screw up .this helps because in two players you know who screwed up. 
  
  i also like how you can change the faceplates even though i cannot find ewhere to get it. i would 
 really like to find one i think it will be alot nicer with a new one on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weisguy119
Rating: 5
Date: May 1, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  There's no surround sound, or stereo sound for that matter. There's no co-op quickplay. You can't 
 play the boss battle songs in quickplay after beating the boss. The co-op quickplay and boss battle 
 issues were patched in the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions. To this point, there's no way of patching 
 the Wii version. It's not even certain that there will ever be downloadable content, despite the 
 fact that the possibility of future downloadable content was used as a selling point for the Wii 
 version. Six of the songs can only be unlocked in co-op and they aren't selling extra guitars yet. 
 There's no official word on when they will become available. Well, there's no official word on 
 any of the issues at this point. The lack of surround sound, or even stereo sound, is unacceptable 
 in a music game. The other oversights combine to make it a frustrating experience for this Wii 
 GH3 owner. I'd love to score the game higher, as I like the game itself (minus the flaws) . Right 
 now, this just isn't the version to get. If you don't already have the game for the Wii, I'd hold 
 off on purchasing it until they resolve the many issues with the game.
  
  Update: I'm still waiting for my replacement disk. It's been about 2 months since I first began 
 the process. I did get the free faceplate. That's not much use without the game, though. I'll update 
 my review when I get the new disk. The replacement disk program is truly horrid, however.
  
  Update 2: I just got the game back today. The sound is better now. However, since it took them 
 close to THREE MONTHS to exchange my disk for the new one, my review stands at 5.0. That's some 
 of the crappiest customer "service" I've ever had to deal with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoho241
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  I've played easy mode, and beaten it, 5 stars on every song, well, except for Raining Blood anyways, 
 but once you beat all of those, you can jam to your hearts content on a harder difficulty, and 
 that's where all the fun is! I'd say you should definitely try this game, you don't have to buy 
 it, just go to a friend's house who has it, or to a best buy or something, and just try it out. 
 Not that I'm saying you should hog the demo at your local store, but if you watch someone else 
 play before you do, it'll be a little easier. I guarantee that once you get the hang of it, you 
 won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funnycowpie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  Its very similar to other guitar heroes, but is improved in almost every way. Guitar Hero 3 comes 
 out with improved graphics, new items to shop for in the store, new wireless guitars, new game 
 modes, online play and a whole new track of songs. GH3 has probably the best track list out of 
 the 3 guitar heroes. Although some songs are bad, they are still interesting because of the note 
 patterns which feel more fun than GH2. There is also two completly new things to the series: Battle 
 Mode and Boss Battles. Battle mode is like normal guitar hero but instead of getting star power, 
 you get battle powers (such as broken strings, amp overload, and increased difficulty) that mess 
 up your oppenent. Battle mode isn't a great addition but it was an ok idea. Boss Battles are fun 
 and played in career mode. After beating a boss, you get to buy him in the store. Along with new 
 characters in the store, you can also get new guitars, finishes, songs, and bonus videos. Online 
 play is very good, with little lag but the idea of friend codes is annoying (on the wii version) . 
 Its not a big deal unless your friends don't have a wii or guitar hero. Overall this is the best 
 guitar hero yet, with more of the addicting guitar play your used to. Wireless guitars are a great 
 addition and there is a new feel to the guitar. The game is fairly hard but if your new, you can 
 still play through easy and medium mode and you'll get better so no need to worry about hard and 
 expert being too difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarherolover
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  The Guitar Hero series is my favorite, but now it is being deveoped by Neversoft, of the Tony Hawk 
 series fame. So, usually, when a different developer takes over a great game, It totally sucks. 
 But the case with neversoft over harmonix on GH, it is NOT hat at all. Why in fact, this is brilliant, 
 and what neversoft has done Is just make another great GH game.
  
  THE NEW LES PAUL
  So, along with nearly every full GH installment comes a new guitar. This year Is the les paul. 
 Now, the les paul just right now, feels great. Unlike the SG or X-Ploer, the guitar has many diffirences. 
 First off, the faceplates, detachable and everything. Second off, the necks are actully detachable, 
 and easy to carry in backpacks and etc. Next off, because this is the Wii version, there has to 
 be some way you use the wii remote. And sure enough, there is. There is a socket of the guitar, 
 or just a big square. After you put your lovely Wii Remote in there, you can play the game. Also, 
 such as when you overstrum or miss a note, you know the "SQEACH" that you hear? That actully comes 
 through the wii remote. I find that just a neat feature. Also, for thoose wondering about waranty, 
 good news. The whole guitar is bassicly powered off the wii remote, so only if you kill your Wii-mote, 
 you can not play it. Otherwise, there is no way you can break it. Overall, the guitar is totally 
 solid, and even if you already have an X-Ploer for the 360 or something, DEFINETLY buy this also. 
 It is way better.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Now, I have to say, except that the new "Note Streak" thing and other tweaks, the basic gameplay 
 is the same, which is great. I would not excpect such a good game to be the game when something 
 else takes it over. The graphics are really just the most of the difference in gameplay, which 
 I mentioned, there is hardly any. So bassiclly, it is the same. I love that.
  
  BATTLE MODE
  One new addition to GH3 is battle mode. So, instead of SP, you get attacks, which 
 are Amp Overload, Double Note, Whammy, Broken String, Power Up Steal, Lefty Flip, and difficulty 
 up. Now, the mode sucks. It makes you a total loser, people will brag, and battles can last as 
 short as 10 seconds, when it takes longer to FIND an online match. Can you believe that? The same 
 thing is in carrer, against Tom Morello, Slash, and Lou, the devil. It is a LOT better, because 
 the fact that if all the notes are regular, no attacks, they will just hit all the notes. Not just 
 me, who is good on expert, against my friend, who is only on Lou medium. But otherwise, do NOT 
 do it by any means.
  
  CO-OP
  Now, while GH2 has Co-Op quick play, any difficulty, any time, this one has carrer. So if you do 
 Expert, Hard, then your other friend comes over and plays medium, time to start a whole new carrer. 
 Except bonus song. Once you get them in the store, they are avalible in everywhere. Not just is 
 this bad, it sucks. Well kinda. But whatever. Also, the 6 encores in the carrer are co-op only, 
 and when you get them, they can only be played in quick play. Overall, co-op is decent.
  
  ONLINE
  Now, unlike the other installments, this one has online. Online is great, just join a 
 match, do it, and have fun. You can usually find a match pretty qucikly for the most part, and 
 leadeboards also, and just find your friends friend code, and you can add him to the list, so you 
 can invite him to your games. So overall, IT ROCKS.
  
  SONGS
  The best song list in GH yet. Metallica, Iron Maiden, Living Colour, Stevie Ray Vaughn, and more 
 in ONE GAME? That is excellent. And dragonforce? Yea, it is the best song ever. The set list is 
 awesome, and neverosft and redoctane did an amazing job deciding what songs to put in the game. 
 OH YEA.
  
  DIFFICULTY
  Now, I am a good GH player for the most part. But with such hard song, ecspecially raining blood, 
 I might never 5-Star every song. And I could go on forever about TTFATF.. the chart is simply 
 too insane to be in the game, and I have never seen something so hars in my life. Whoever made 
 the notechart must be a lunatic who loves his mommy yet hired by neversoft.
  
  OVERALL
  GH3 is amazing game, just simply brilliant. For anybody out there, this is a must buy, if you have 
 ever played Guitar Hero or not.
  
  THE END
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smasher_crazy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  this is a really goood game, but if ur a begginer at gh like me, the medium level is hard enough, 
 i didn't even last 10 seconds in expert (tried it for fun) . but then again if ur good at this game, 
 it's no prob for u. but it's totally worth the money. u shud get it.... yea. lkvj jrrgjirigj rk 
 ij jeew ij gi i r ri r r n r ir r rgiewrgjfjjff msfd gn kldfgnkdfgn akslnks akl klsdfagn sansdkn 
 sksn skn ssa s skfda jdng j jfd f ndfj fd jfd f rfj gd fd f f fn ndfk dkf kndffkg dfg df fg d ad 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffemt215
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III on the Wii is just as good as GH3 on any other system. The Great success that GH3 
 had on the Wii will hopefully encourage third party game developers to make games for the wii. 
 this guitar hero has an awesome song list including Mettalica One and Paint it black. the battles 
 are kinda gay but fun in thier own way. if you have ben unsure if the game would work on the wii 
 and been holding off getting it, well your wight is over go and pick it up. i hope the success 
 of GH3 makes rock band come to Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 1:07 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero is a game series that is almost endlessly addicting. It takes a few songs for it to 
 get to you but you won't want to put the controller down. This is all thanks to the amazingly innovative 
 gameplay. Activision has somehow managed to improve the gameplay by making the notes fly at you 
 faster, and give you a split second more time to hit a note. That might sound like it's ruining 
 the series in making it way too easy, but in actuality it's probably the hardest one yet. Just 
 wait till you play. Another good thing Activision did was stretch out the difficulties. Easy is 
 now easier and Expert is now expert... er. If you will.. 
  
  But as mentioned before, they have also made a lot of bad design decisions. Menus take more time 
 to navigate through, you can only play co-op quickplay on the difficulty you played in career, 
 battle mode (isn't that great) and there's annoying in-game-advertising. The Store is basically 
 Guitar Center, and there's a ton of AXE deoderant crap in game. And does anybody else not really 
 like the redesign of Axel Steel? No Grim Ripper? Eddie Knox? Pandora? Clive? Whatever... I was 
 really amused by the incredible amount of cool guitars in the game though and the cool addition 
 of "Styles" which are basically different shades , or colors of the outfits. It's really cool , 
 the've got fiery ones, ghostlike, etc..
  
  The songs of Guitar Hero III definitely live up to the guitar hero name. They are arguably the 
 best in series, which is saying alot. Some of my favorite would have to be Rock you like a hurricane, 
 the metal, knights of cydonia, bulls on parade, number of the beast and paint it black. The bonus 
 songs are never really great, but I still don't think they quite live up to GHII's bonus songs. 
 Through the Fire and Flames by Dragonforce is definitely the big song here and probably the hardest 
 song in the entire series. Some would say Jordan, but I'd have to disagree. And then there's also 
 a few songs that you can only play in co-op. It's cool I guess that you get a bonus for playing 
 2 player, but I really think it would be cool if they just let you have them for single player 
 2. They're some of the best songs in the game. 
  
  And finally I get to the online part. I was initially surprised at how well they made online for 
 this. It's a great early online wii game. Sure it doesn't have all the niceties of xbox live (messaging, 
 not having to each have others friend code to play a friend) but it's fun nevertheless. I hope 
 we can someday get a hardrive for wii to make it possible to get downloaded songs as well. That's 
 a really missed feature. 
  
  All in all GHIII has the markings to be the best in the series, but it fails because of some design 
 flaws. And sure battle mode isn't that fun, but still.. you get to play as Tom Morello and Slash 
 and the D..... (spoiler) They make up for the lost characters. Oh and so does Midori, the japanese 
 girl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazewind191
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is an awesome game that I believe was worth the wait. I've been playing for days 
 on end, totally addicted to it. During that time, I found some flaws along with good qualities.
 
  
  Some of the flaws are some of the songs in the tracklist. As people, we all have our different 
 opinions and different tastes for music, so whichever track that is unfavorable can be seen as 
 one flaw.
  
  The battle mode addition was an interesting idea, but it just doesn't last. It can be fun watching 
 your opponent squel and suffer, but that moment of accomplishment doesn't last for long. Matches 
 may not seem to last for even a minute; the result depends all on the recovery rate of the players. 
 It is either one can pull himself/ herself together in time to get the next powerup to throw at 
 THEIR opponent. An interesting addition, but it doesn't have a reasonable length of playtime.
 
  
  Co-op mode seems to only be playable as a career, not as a multiplayer option. In addition, some 
 tracks MUST be unlocked only through co-op mode. So if you don't have a friend who can come over 
 everyday or play for an hour or two, you will never be able to obtain those co-op exclusive tracks.
 
  
  There is also no equal value among the different versions of GH3:
  PS2 - nothing
  PS3 - online play but cannot battle against your friends, graphics
  Wii - online play and you 
 can battle against your friends
  X360 - downloadable content, more characters, graphics, online play simliar to the Wii, several 
 updates, etc.
  
  As for the good, the tracks are great - some even familiar, hammer-ons and pull-offs have seemed 
 to have been improved, online play is enjoyable, and characters have a better look - besides the 
 singer...
  
  Overall, the game is great. I still enjoy this game ever since I got it on the day it came out. 
 This game is definitely worth a purchase. Play this game at a party, and you'll surely have loads 
 of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lizzz160
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  So, last weekend I played Guitar Hero Three on the Wii. I think Guitar Hero was amazing. It had 
 good songs, challenged me a bit, and I thought it was just great. The only thing I did not like 
 had nothing to do with the actual game. The thing I didn't like was the fact of it being on the 
 Wii. If you mess up the sound comes from the guitar and it tends to be really loud. This can be 
 annoying if you you screw up a lot. It also tended to be delayed because of the wireless, but I 
 got used to that after playing for a while. I normally play Guitar Hero on the Xbox 360. I think 
 it is much better when played on the 360. The only reason I did not give it a perfect score of 
 10 is because I played it on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rbk87
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  Well thisgame is still a hell of alot of fun and thre are some ups and downssome of the songs can 
 be difficult but also fun. there are alot of great features like battle mode and my favirote online 
 play the guitar it self its so cool and alot better than the xplorer and the gibson sg but i would 
 recomend this game to any 1 who has played guitar hero before. But some of the things that make 
 it so great is the gameplay, the songs , and all the new features on the guitar make it a whole 
 lot of fun and great experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EndorusBolero
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Yeah. I only buy Nintendo systems, so I won't be buying PS2 or Xbox360 for a long time. Thank goodness 
 they released it for the Wii! Anyway... this game is awesome, almost all of the songs are decent. 
 Some of my favorite songs include 3's and 7's, Holiday in Cambodia, Through Fire and Flames, and 
 Guitar Battle vs. the Devil. Good thing they give you something to do during the credits, that 
 is, play Through Fire and Flames. The best part about that is that you can't fail. I have beaten 
 Easy and Medium, and I am on Hard, which is too difficult for me. I am not in that league at all. 
 But I can five-star most of the songs on Medium. If you will buy or have bought this game, have 
 fun rockin'! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broncosfan375
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  What can i say this is guitar hero. This one is the best by far though with many new additions.
 
  The Positives
  1. Online Mode
  2. Battle Mode
  3. Boss Battles
  4. over 70 songs best songlist yet
  5. great career and new coop career and even little stylized 
 cutscenes
  6. same great guitar hero formula
  7. New wireless controllers
  The Negatives'
  1. Extremely hard its to a point where your limbs will fall off duing expert career
 
  2 bad graphics on wii
  3 sensitivity can sometimes suck
  4 cutscenes could be animated better
  5 no star power animations
  
  Overall this is the best 
 guitar hero game so far at times it can be laggy but overall the best so far or until the next 
 one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  It is always a mice thing when South Park can do a parody of a cultural symbol and their recent 
 episode has to speak to the success of the Guitar Hero series. Well, GH III does not disappoint 
 with the continuation of its successful structure and solid song list. There are some new tweeks 
 that make the game even more exciting and others that will need work for the next installment.
 
  
  The career mode follows the same format as the previous games. Players choose a difficulty and 
 try to beat 3-4 songs per category to unlock the encore song and move onto the next venue. The 
 difference this time is that there are 3 boss battles. With each boss battle, you take turns sounding 
 off on parts of a song related to the character you are up against. Tom Morello, Slash, and Lou 
 the devil all provide an interesting dimension to the new element, but with only 3 battles and 
 the low reply value for battling on single player, this is an element that will need to be address 
 in potential sequels.
  
  Beyond the regular career mode is a co-op career, where two players can match up to go through 
 a similar progression of venues. The co-op includes 6 songs that cannot be opened during single 
 player career, forcing you to find someone else with a guitar or purchase a second one.
  
  The best addition to the game is the online mode. You can log in and match up against anyone on 
 the web or wifi network. If you go into a ranked match, you are battling for supremecy in either 
 face-off, pro face-off, or battle matches. If you choose to play for fun and go unranked, you have 
 an additional option to play co-op and at least play the tracks you may not have yet unlocked. 
 The leaderboard keeps track of the number of wins you acquire so that you can track your progress.
 
  
  With the song list, I personally think that GH II still just barely beats out GH III with songs 
 like Sweet Child o' Mine, Freebird, Killing in the Name, and Carry on my Wayward Son. This is not 
 to say that GH III doesn't have a solid track list. Included in the game's tracks are:
  
  Guns 'n Roses - Welcome to the Jungle 
  Rage Against the Machine - Bulls on Parade 
  The Killers 
 - When You Were Young 
  Black Sabbath - Paranoid 
  Kiss - Rock and Roll All Night 
  Foghat - Slow Ride 
  The Who - The Seeker 
  Tenacious D - The Metal 
  Weezer - My Name is 
 Jonas 
  Santana - Black Magic Woman 
  Dragonforce - Through the Fire and Flames 
  
  There are of course many more, but I will leave that for you the find.
  
  The visuals are stunning, 
 the character models are crisp and follow to the beat and sound of the songs. The one problem I 
 would highlight would be the crowd. They are more defined in this game compared to the others, 
 but that also gives way to noticing that it is the same character model in the same motion and 
 not even staggered. It looked nicer when they were just blurred out and more random. Even so, the 
 panning throughout the band as each member has a solo is also a nice touch.
  
  Controls are bascially the same as the previous installments. The Hammer-Ons and Pull-Offs are 
 even easier to manage and you will need to master them for some of the tracks that come up in the 
 game, i. e. Slayer - Raining Blood. That brings up an interesting point. The game's difficulty has 
 definitely gone up. The distance between medium, hard, and expert is vastly greater than previous 
 games. Even the bass parts for some songs have become difficult to play during co-op.
  
  This is a must buy for the Wii, but be warned that the other next-gens have the advantage of downloading 
 additional tracks while the Wii does not at this point. Maybe we will see that in the near future, 
 or at least another GH game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:41 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is a game I originally wanted to play on the xbox 360 but it was 
 my brother who wanted me to get it on this. (review for the xbox 360 version, TBA) This game looked 
 good for a Wii game. It basically looks like Playstation 2 because the Wii isn't techinically a 
 next-gen console but a pickup of the gamecube. Anyway, let's talk about the game. It's a cool game 
 with plenty of cool new songs, original and remade. some songs will once again bring back memories 
 of older people with classic bands and titles like Heart's Barracuda, Rock and Roll All Nite "as 
 made famous by KISS, songs like that. Not to mention Paint it Black by Rolling Stones. Things I 
 thought were cool were the guitar battles with 2 real guitarists like Tom Morello and Slash, and 
 the not-so-great-on-Nintendo Wi-Fi online play. More great songs to play and more challenging expert 
 gameplay and even a new guitar controller that feels great. The Gibson LesPaul controller... Based 
 on the Gibson LesPaul guitar. A guitar that Slash uses. I thought it was cool to see him in the 
 game because I heard a lot of great things about him, like he's a guitar legend, he shreds and 
 because my brother says Slash is his hero. Songs like Rock You Like a Hurricane, The Metal, Through 
 the Fire and Flames which is the hardest song ever made in expert, and not to mention One by Metallica. 
 Better songs than in the first 2 Guitar Heros and who'd ever think that Disturbed's Stricken or 
 Slipknot's Before I Forget would be in GHIII? All the metal songs are usually the hardest songs 
 in expert. Other than that, this game was still good but I would'be preferred it on the xbox 360. 
 FYI, I'm getting it on that console soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellhammer_2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the guitar hero series and never get tired of playing them. It is one of the 
 few video games that takes out all other elements and lets only skill and practice take over. I 
 know, this relates to real guitar too, but think of this as a substitute for those who are not 
 willing to take massive amounts of time to learn how to play songs they like poorly. In addition, 
 it is a great way to discover new music.
  
  As I am person who has 5 starred all of expert on gh2, the majority of the game is easier overall. 
 But the songs that are harder really kick it up a notch. Since I got the game I have not been able 
 to put it down, which is amazing because I got it on day 1. The online play is fantastic and lag 
 free, extending the life of this game by a ton. One of my only complaints is that very few people 
 my skill level play online. For the average person however, it should not matter. The other complaint 
 is that the signal from the remote seems to be blocked by my hand sometimes, resulting in me missing 
 notes. This only occurs in about 1 song in 50 or so, but it is frustrating when it happens.
  
  Essentially, this is currently in my opinion the second best game on wii right now next to 
 Zelda and a must-buy for those who listen to real music (ie. not rap) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neoprime33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  YES! I can rock out on my Nintendo Wii! I have been waiting for GH to make it on a Nintendo product 
 and here it is. I was close in buying GH for PS2; however, when I heard GH3 was coming out for 
 the Wii, I waited.
  Since I don't have anything else to compare it too, this game rocks in my book. The only complaint...
 
  
  NO! I can't download new tracks like my peers on 360 and PS3 ... not yet anyway.
  
  Oh well. I am hoping GH3 will do well enough for Activision to re-release GA1, GA2 and GA 80's 
 for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nekootoko
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  The good:
  Introduces gamers to the goods and greats of the oldies; the soundtrack is composed primarily of 
 classic rock, which is something that gamers need to listen to.
  
  Fun! This game has some great pick up and play value.
  
  Great party game, if you can actually 
 get two Wiitars.
  
  Infinite replayability: The saving grace of GHIII. If someone gets truly addicted, this can be 
 a great game.
  
  The bad:
  Time-waster. Finishing the game does not feel like an accomplishment, and neither does completing 
 a song. I know that games are supposed to be a waste of time, but when something that involves 
 no strategy actually makes it feel like you're wasting your day, it's not worth playing.
  
  Expensive. The WiiTar might be pretty, but $90 for the game and controller is insane.
  
  Advertising-packed. 
 Granted, it's for guitar companies, but it's still incredibly annoying.
  
  Too challenging: Repeating a song over and over again to learn it is not fun. Yes, I know that's 
 how you do it on real guitar, but Guitar Hero is not real guitar, it's a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmypop_04
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  So GH3 finally came out, and lo and behold it is on the Wii. Now I rented it on the PS2 before 
 my roommates actually bought it for the Wii so this is a combination of the two platforms. Don't 
 get me wrong GH3 is a good game that is worth the money. It is also decidedly harder than past 
 GHs but that is a good thing because that is how a series should progress. I have two qualms about 
 this game and one is an overall thing and one is a Wii specific issue.
  
  1. It doesn't feel like GH.
  2. (Wii) Notes don't always hit.
  
  For the first issue I guess 
 that is a personal thing. I just don't feel like I am actually at a rock show. It doesn't feel 
 as if I am a rock legend. It doesn't get me going like GH2 or GH1 ever did. It just feels off, 
 a little bit.
  
  For the latter it could be just a bad controller connection, but some will say it is just me being 
 bad, I claim it is a programming thing. But I know there are sometimes when in the PS2 version 
 I would hit a note but in the Wii version it doesn't recognize it. Constant play with the Wii version 
 with definitely decide whether or not this is really an issue, a bad connection, or me just being 
 bad.
  
  There you have it, the Wii version of GH3 is a solid entry into the series, it just lacks that 
 GH feeling that its predecessors had, but it has the mechanics still in place to make it a fun 
 game. The track list is pretty sweet, and the Les Paul controller feels great, other than maybe 
 weak connections. You will be happy if you buy this game no matter your history with GH, but I 
 do not find it to the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcocacolax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  It was a preety fun when i got this i couldent get it open i got so mad so i got my dad to open 
 it LOL but overall the game is Pro! love it .It has a great slection of new and old songs like 
 (i wanna rock and roll all night and party everyday by: Kiss) (slowride By: Fogot) and acourse one 
 of my favorites (welcome to the jungle by: guns and roses. On the wii tho i beleive it is better 
 then the ps3 version and the xbox360 cause you dont half to pay to go online :P although the ps3 
 dosent support the online feature but putting your wii remote into your guitar rocks!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  P. S BUY ITTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT PEOPLE DONT WAIT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoozwah
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Well. I'm gonna start off by saying I'm a big Guitar Hero fan. I've got all the previous releases 
 for PS2. I play them all and I love them all... on PS2. I decided to get GH3 for Wii this time around 
 though. There are a few reasons why the Wii is my platform of choice this time around for Guitar 
 Hero.
  
  1. The Wiimote acts as the tilt sensor.
  2. The Wiimote speaker plays all the error noises
  3. The Wiimote rumbles when you get star power.
 
  4. The Wii features online play.
  5. Easier lag calibration routine
  
  The first reason was the main selling point for the Wii version as opposed to the PS2 version. 
 As some of you may or may not have experienced in the past, the tilt sensor in the red octane SG 
 controller tends to fail over time, making it nigh impossible to activate star power outside of 
 using the select button. This quabble has been squashed by utilizing the wiimote as the tilt sensor. 
 The second two reasons are really more niceties than selling points but niceties they are and I 
 won't neglect to mention them.
  
  The final reason, online play is something that I've never really been into. I see online play 
 in a rhythm as being hit or miss. Lag must NEVER be an issue and from what I've seen so far, it 
 isn't. The matches play as if there was another person in the room with me. That's a big plus.
 
  
  The final compliment I have for the game is the inclusion of the option to put in a manual lag 
 offset in the calibration menu. Previous games would have you strum when the targets were lined 
 up. That is present here as well but now you can go back and tweak that initial configuration down 
 to the millisecond to get the lag spot on with whatever setup you happen to be playing on. Good 
 stuff.
  
  The cons to this game are as follows:
  
  1. Approximately half the songs in the game are junk.
  2. Disgusting corporate advertisements
 
  3. Strum bar sensitivity
  4. Boss battles... really?
  
  The main beef I have with this game is that there is just too many crappy songs in it. I would 
 estimate at least half the songs (including bonus songs) are utter garbage. Granted there are some 
 great tunes in there like Impulse by An Endless Sporadic and Evenflow by Pearl Jam but do you mean 
 to tell me that I unlocked 20 emo/punk tunes that I'll only play once?
  
  The game's next flaw is one that is more of an ominous foreshadowing as we now are hit with AXE 
 and Pontiac advertisements at our every turn. I know I'm not the only one who will not be playing 
 on the Making the video stage nor will I be buying the AXE body spray guitar out of sheer principle. 
 The sad part is, I know that the money gained from putting those ads in the game went to buying 
 the rights to that boring Metallica tune. I don't even like that song so why should I have to look 
 at the ads that paid for its presence in the game?
  
  The third flaw is present across all versions of the game and that is the strum bar sensitivity. 
 I have played all previous iterations of Guitar Hero with a pick. I play guitar and that's what 
 feels normal to me. Imagine my surprise when I get home with the game and fail Talk Dirty to Me 
 multiple times. I spent nearly 45 minutes adjusting the lag settings thinking that there was something 
 amiss there. Then I played it without a pick. Viola! I passed it. Apparently the sensitivity of 
 the strum bar has been programmed in such a way that it registers as another strum when the pick 
 slides off the end of it, creating a short upward movement. This put me at a severe handicap as 
 I CANNOT play guitar hero without a pick. BOGUS TO THE NTH DEGREE!!
  
  My final complaint with Guitar Hero 3 is the inclusion of boss battles. They're not fun. They're 
 not cool. They're not innovative. They're luck-based and I'm glad there's only 3 of them in the 
 game. I will not be playing battle mode either.
  
  I give this game a 7.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLaskowski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I would be what one might call a beginner at Guitar Hero. My wife and I played Guitar Hero 2 (I 
 think) at a friends house and she immediately looked at me and said we need to get this game. We 
 bought it on release day and absolutely love it. We both have careers and she plays every night 
 that I play.
  
  Graphics: I have to be honest, it took me a while to even pay attention to what the graphics look 
 like. You are staring at the middle of the screen when you play, I know Slash looks like Slash 
 and Morello looks like Morello, It is the Wii so I didn't expect them to be phenomenal, but they 
 are pretty good.
  
  Gameplay: Easy to pick up and play, hard enough to take time to master. It is a very simple game 
 to play, with no real learning curve. That being said, it is difficult enough to keep you playing.
 
  
  Sound: I love the soundtrack, they have songs that stick in your head. Most of the songs I know, 
 with a few of the exceptions, from the 42 or so that you have to play, I recognize about 35 of 
 them. They are really fun songs. Anyone can complain about not having this or that, but be serious. 
 Difficulty: Like I said before, I am a true beginner. I started my career on easy and laughed at 
 it about 10 songs into it, and went to medium. It was more challenging, but I finished in about 
 4 days. I did play a fair amount on Saturday, but not excessive. I would not consider myself a 
 good guitar hero either. I went to hard and have made it though about 10 songs, while beating Morello. 
 Hard is hard, but if I can get though songs, it is about the level it should be. Through Fire and 
 Flames??? that might be a joke by the game company, man! Difficulty is spot on. The names are accurate.
 
  
  Online play: Doesn't this add so much to replay value. You can always find a match, it is awesome. 
 I have not had too much trouble with it, only played maybe 20 matches online, but it works pretty 
 seamless.
  
  I give it a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BTWilliam04
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I had originally been one of the guys that thought these games were for the real nerds of video 
 games... until i played for the first time. Guitar Hero is an addictive series that is a lot of 
 fun, especially in groups. The great thing about this game in my mind though, is that you don't 
 have to like video games to play it. My girlfriend originally laughed at me but after watching 
 me play for half an hour, she asked, do i get a turn? Now she has her own career mode going, albeit 
 on the easy level. As much as has been said on how great this song list is compared to the previous, 
 i actually have to disagree. Three definitely has a larger mix of songs though so more people may 
 be able to find something they like, however I think two actually had a more fun list to play. 
 The other thing i want to mention is that they almost made this game too hard. I can barely get 
 by hard songs in this one and I havent attempted expert. It almost seems to hard to be fun. But 
 in the meantime, there is no end to the enjoyment in playing online. Even though gamespot says 
 that they shouldnt have put in the battle modes, I actually have a lot of fun with it. The one 
 thing I would like to see changed for the next game is to be able to customize your player to look 
 like you so you truly can become the guitar hero. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyFanatic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  GH1 through GH80's were all amazingly fun and (at times) rather difficult. Many of the less recent 
 additions to the GH fanbase (like myself) will remember some of the best moments in the older games 
 they had (your first 5-star, your move up to Hard, your move to Expert, the first time you beat 
 Bark At the Moon/ Freebird/ Play With Me on Expert, the accomplishment of Jordan) and realise how 
 much nostalgia a good game creates. A game that creates nostalgia is a game that will make you 
 feel especially happy if you don't touch it for years and come back to it and find how amazing 
 and funner it feels then the last one you played. The Guitar Hero series is an amazing expection 
 to this rule, because it is the first series I have ever played where the old one is nostalgic 
 and yet the new one is more enjoyable. If you were there when Harmonix and RedOctane seperated, 
 than you probably know how it felt. You almost certainly thought that the GH series would be no 
 more, as far as quality went, because as it seemed in those days, neither company could be truly 
 successful without the other. This feeling probably became even bigger once you saw RO's new project. 
 It looked then as though the name GH was lost to despicable cash-ins, horrible graphics, a slaughtered 
 interface, and a horrible setlist. Or, at least, this was what I thought before the demo. But, 
 as I'm sure I've found at many times before, I have an inaccurate perception about these things. 
 Soon after you buy this game, you will discover just how inaccurate my prediction was. Neversoft 
 has shown an amazing ability that has never been seen before to take a perfect series that really 
 didn't seem like it could get any better, and do exactly that. Soon after you begin to bite into 
 the setlist, you will discover the amazing AAA tracks that make this such a wonderful sequel. And 
 although the interface looks terrible, it's actually way better than the past games. The cash-ins 
 are still here, but they don't hinder the fun at all. And the graphics are beautiful, although 
 the singer is. But I think the 2 things that make this the best GH are how difficult it is, so 
 that it keeps veterans happy, and just how fun it is. Never before have I played such a well-done 
 remake of something already wonderful done by a totally new developer. Congrats to Neversoft and 
 anyone who has the joy of playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilmaycryrulz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  If you love guitar hero this is surely the right game for you. With the diffculities you will be 
 playing for months. The songs are better then the songs in 1,2, and 80s. I suggest though if you 
 are a begginer you should start off with rock the 80s of guitarhero 2. Medium and easy have gotten 
 harder. Back to guitar hero3 though. The game offers many song, many guitars that aren't gibson 
 or of this world for that matter. There are charcters customizations and cool new charcters like 
 metalhead. The battles in the game are extremly hard and your fingers will bleed. All and all great 
 guitarhero. It challenges you and it comes with excellent songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RevolutionLink
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  When Red Octane and Harmonix went their different ways many though what would become of the Guitar 
 Hero franchise. As Harmonix went on to produce Rock Band, Neversoft would end up taking the reins 
 of the Guitar Hero franchise. They basically ran with the same formula which turned out well. However 
 a new competition was born between Rock Band and Guitar Hero. It was basically a battle between 
 the two, to see who could get the best songs. Guitar Hero I believe came out on top with some great 
 songs such as "My Name is Jonas", "The Metal", "Knights of Cydonia", "One" and so forth. Guitar 
 Hero 3 definitely has the best tracklist of any of the Guitar Hero games which is a pretty big 
 statement.
  Legend of Rock is still the same formula as previous Guitar Hero games not without its few quirks. 
 The addition of the new battle mode is implemented into the game. You can battle your friends but 
 instead of star power you get battle power which are power ups such as whammy bar, broken string, 
 difficulty up etc. Some of these power ups are total garbage such as lefty flip, because any right 
 handed Guitar Hero player will probably have no idea what to do. The battle mode is not the greatest 
 because it is all based on chance and depending on the power up the battle is usually over pretty 
 quickly. This battle mode is implemented into the career in the form of boss battles. Throughout 
 the career you will face three boss battles two of them being rock icons, Tom Morello and Slash, 
 which is amazing that they could be that involved in the game and the final battle being Lou. Once 
 again the battles are really easy, in the exception of Lou who as you can imagine is cheap and 
 the entire battle is based on chance.
  Some other changes to the game are that Pandora, Clive and Eddie are taken out of the game. Pandora 
 and Clive were basically not needed and implemented into other characters. and Eddie was replaced 
 with some loser named Elroy. They also have added a new girl name Midori who is a fun Asian school 
 girl. Also depending on the version of the game your playing there are also the God of Rock and 
 Metalhead. There's also a greater amount of guitars, skins, outfit styles and more.
  In all of the versions the graphics have improved. The 360 and PS3 are ten dollars more meaning 
 they have slightly better graphics over the Wii. Some of the earlier stages aren't amazing but 
 as you progress further and start playing in venues such as the Desert Rock Tour and Live in Japan, 
 than you can see the amount of detail that went into the later stages. Also the rock meter and 
 star power meter have been upgraded but other than the more polished look not much was done on 
 the graphical side.
  Once again its not about the graphics or the gameplay which if they didn't change at all people 
 would still buy the game, its all about the songs. Guitar Hero 3 comes in at about 78 songs, eight 
 groups in the career which each feature an encore and six of which feature a co-op encore. Many 
 of the songs are the original song and not covers which is great. Also some bands such as Living 
 Color came in and rerecorded their songs to add solos just to move their songs into the more difficult 
 groups Also there are the bonus songs which are all from within the last three years or so, basically 
 to promote new bands. Some of which are even in different languages to promote foreign bands. And 
 of course there's "Through the Fire and Flames" by Dragonforce.
  And finally there is online play for all the versions except the PS2. I've only tried the Wii version 
 but there is no lag or glitches that one might expect. You can face off against opponent in battle 
 or just normal proface off. There is also downloadable content however its not included in the 
 Wii version.
  Overall Legends of Rock is a great game, it doesn't really take the franchise in any new crazy 
 direction but instead just sticks with the formula and add the greatest tracklist to date. Hopefully 
 this competition between Harmonix and Red Octane can live on to produce more great titles such 
 as Guitar Hero 3. Maybe Guitar Hero 4 can see Xanadu? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoUDarthBob
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  After immediately starting the game, the noticeable difference between Neversoft and Harmonix was 
 present. I have Guitar Hero 2 for the PS2 and love it to death, but that same love isn't as full 
 for its sequel.
  
  The largest differences between the Wii version and others are graphics and slight online changes. 
 The graphics were unsettling at first, but they are actually an aspect that grows on you with more 
 play. The characters look a little choppy, but nothing too bad, well except for the band's singer 
 who might just unintentionally be the ugliest character in recent video game history. The fret 
 boards look better than the PS2's GH2, which is of course the central focus, but the backdrops 
 have less than appealing crowds despite being more exotic and creative than before. The online 
 play is plagued by Nintendo's friend codes. While only a slight annoying hindrance, it prevented 
 a great possibility of cross-platform multiplayer, although the guitarhero. com community website 
 exists to ammend that problem.
  
  On to the main game itself, I found most problems to be with the song and character selection. 
 Gameplay is very similar to Guitar Hero 2 despite being recoded entirely, but a few aspects are 
 less than satisfactory. The hit-or-miss window for each note is a little different than before, 
 but a player can adjust to it after a few games. Star power riffs were made longer and make the 
 game more difficult, but also more frustrated for those who are good at the game on hard and expert 
 modes, but not quite outstanding. The new battle mode feels pointless in single player and online, 
 but can provide for some wacky fun fighting a friend at home. Online play adds a lot of replay 
 value, but the game setup could have been made a bit more efficient.
  
  Huge mistakes were made when Neversoft redesigned the characters. Anyone a fan of Pandora, Clive 
 Winston or Eddie Knox? Well, sorry they've been erased from existence while lame characters like 
 Casey Lynch remain. Johnny Napalm has been made considerably uglier and less cool. Axel Steel, 
 Izzy Sparks and Lars Umlaut were not changed too much, but were made a bit more realistic and lost 
 a bit of personality as a result. Xavier Stone actually looks better with his new Hendrix style. 
 The Grim Ripper has been replaced for the Wii with Metalhead the robot who is pretty funny. Wii 
 also sports another hilarious character in Elroy Budvis, a fat elvis impersonator. Slash and Tom 
 Morello feel out of place next to the cartoonish characters, but even on the relatively inferior 
 graphics of the Wii, they look a lot like their real-life counterparts. My biggest grip is with 
 the treatment that they made Judy Nails undergo. She is my absolute favorite from Guitar Hero 2. 
 She embodied a style that was a little punk, but also trendy. The new Judy doesn't resemble the 
 old at all. At first I thought she was taken out entirely and was shocked to discover her new incarnation. 
 The new default character Midori perhaps offsets the more realistic characters, but her animations 
 seem more robotic despite her flamboyant dress. All characters seem to have been made more generic 
 and the star power animations are not interesting or amusing to say the least. These new changes 
 reflect Neversoft's decisions to make take itself more seriously which is not cool. Guitar Hero 
 2 had a great sense of humor, but the third edition tries too hard to rock out and suffers as a 
 result. The song selection is impressive because of its number of master recordings, but few of 
 the songs deserve multiple plays. Neversoft seems to have pandered to the public to include such 
 bands as Metallica, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Disturbed, AFI and Slipknot, but there are some excellent 
 gems from Iron Maiden, Santana, The Scorpions, ZZ Top and the Rolling Stones. The original Slash 
 and Morello compositions are neat instrumentals, but don't offer too much. The most fun song to 
 play in my opinion is Welcome to the Jungle which is made a lot more exciting than the previous 
 Guns n' Roses song by being a master track. Six songs are only unlockable in Co-op (aside from 
 online mode) which is quite annoying. The bonus songs are lacking, with one exception. Don't expect 
 to find an unexpected masterpiece such as Jordan, comedic bits like Trogdor or Thunderhorse, or 
 strangely addicting tunes like Less Talk More Rokk. Through the Fire and the Flames is the Jordan 
 of this game, but as would be expected, is nothing like a Buckethead song. Dragonforce's Herman 
 Li is an incredibly fast player, and the song is a great challenge, but it's also quite dry and 
 uninspirational. Playing it doesn't give the same sense of accomplishment as Jordan does. Game 
 presentation has suffered. GH3's menus are boring, and the sound effects are rather obviously less 
 polished than GH2's blurbs. The long serious of lame introductions upon loading the game is an 
 indicator of a change for the worse. The absolute most appalling quirk in the game is the blatant 
 advertising for AXE deodorant. Anyone who would dare use the AXE branded guitars from The Store 
 deserves to smash his console with a wet noodle until it fails to boot and be banned from the gaming 
 community indefinitely. A stark contrast to the AXE guitars is the great decision to include the 
 GH controllers as guitars in the game. That's the clever sort of humor that Harmonix just seemed 
 to use a lot more in its games.
  
  All in all, there is little wrong with Guitar Hero III, but there is also little to make the game 
 seem more than tedious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  It has finally arrived people! I've only played through about the first three tiers and well, I 
 figure I have enough insight into the game to spit out some kind of immediate review. Let me just 
 lay this on the table; I am a very average player. I haven't really tipped to far into hard yet 
 and basically just stayed with the higher medium tiers with GH2. So this review will be from the 
 perspective of the average player.
  
  Secondly, I want to point out the obvious! This game is basically the same as GH2. It almost seems 
 like a gimmick idea to have released this and to some, it has met a lot of criticism because it 
 is so similar. I knew this before hand and was still pumped to get it first thing this morning.
 
  
  So, that is enough ranting. So lets get into it. Right off the bat, this game is more graphically 
 enhanced. It just looks so amazing right from the intro video right into the game play concert. 
 This, in my opinion, is a small improvement, but an extremely vital one for this game. It is the 
 first great move they have done. Secondly, the song list is MUCH better in my opinion again. Although 
 I thought it was weird to be playing songs by The Killers and AFI since this is a Legends of Rock 
 title, but whatever, these songs are still solid and fun to play.
  
  I now want to talk about my favorite feature that I have seen so far. On the second tier, just 
 before you play the encore, you are challenged to a duel. First off, the concept of dueling and 
 battle points instead of start power is amazing. It just adds a great element to the game. So you 
 face off against his guy playing not a song, but just kind of random frets and solos and what not. 
 Just a really great element to the game. Once you beat him, guess what? You get the opportunity 
 to play the encore song with him. Just a fun idea!
  
  Another huge plus for this game is the new controller. That is, at least on the 360, is the new 
 controller. This thing just feels SO nice. First off, it is wireless and lots so sweet. The feel 
 of this controller however is the best part. I do not know what it is, but the weight and feel 
 of this baby is just right.
  
  Although I have yet to experience the online capabilities and thus, can not really talk to much 
 about them; what I can say is that they are there and well, it is going to be another big plus 
 for this game.
  
  Really, my only criticism up to this point is the new start powers. I was always a big fan of the 
 fantastic super human beings the characters became once you activated that star power in GH2. They 
 seemed to have killed this feature and just made it really shinny and what not. No more crazy powers 
 for our characters, so it would seem.
  
  Ending comments, well, it is a great game. If you enjoyed GH2, well, how could you not pick it 
 up. And well, the guitar/game package is the way to go for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iovyrq
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Wow. I have been waiting soooo long for this game, and it's finally out!
  
  Music/Songs: The new song collection just blows me away. GH3 have many really awesome songs that 
 just makes you wanna move your body and head bang to the music. Graphics:
  The graphics on the previous GH games have never been better. Not a whole lot, but at least it's 
 better. Even though the drummer is a little stiff and the fire is weird, it's still great. Games 
 like GH doesn't really depend on the graphics much, only the game play.
  
  Modes:
  Career- This is just like all the GH games. You go through a bunch of songs, and sometimes you 
 can get an encore. Other times other guitarists come and have a battle with you. The only way to 
 win a battle is to make the other guy fail before the song ends. To do that, you will get skills 
 through the song, just like star power, and activated like star power. Theres left switch, whammy, 
 and more.
  Multiplayer-It's just really fun to play against a friend with the multiplayer modes. Face off, 
 Pro Face off, battle and more.
  Co-op- it's even better to play co-op with your friends.
  Online- This is the one that got everyone talking. In the online mode, you can play against a friend 
 that you have on your friend list, play a complete stranger or host a game. It's just great experience.
 
  
  Level of Hardness:
  Easy- This is really good mode for beginners, since there's only three buttons to push and at a 
 nice and easy tempo.
  Medium- This mode adds on the 4th button which is the blue for the more advanced people
  Hard- 
 this adds the last button, the orange, and it really challenges the players hand moving techniques
 
  Expert- For those really crazy players. There are sooo many notes in a little section, and the 
 tempo is crazy fast. It's really even because the modes allow you to play well on them, and learn 
 fast also. It also isn't too easy so the players won't get bored easily.
  
  Overall, I loved this game. You MUST get it of you're a GH fan, and if you are new to GH, you can 
 rent it first, or play it at a friends house before you consider buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordLanz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I must say am not a huge music lover, and I have never played a Guitar Hero game at all, but I 
 was out on Sunday night at Walmart and it the last one, now I would normally not fork out $100 
 bucks at one time, but my wife asked if I wanted it, so I thought might keep me busy until Mario 
 Galaxy Comes out. So she bought it for me. Now Like I said I have never played a GH game ever, 
 so my Hand Eye Coord. 1s off lol. It took me a while to get the hang of it, I have been playing 
 on Easy to get used to it, and now I have hit about 95 percent of the notes on easy, so am going 
 to go up a level to medium in a few days at a little more practice. But, I must say the song list 
 is great, am not aa huge Rock Fan, and wow, I knew about 80% of the songs lol. Great game overall, 
 dont listen to Gamespot. There review sucks. This is a great game, and the Wii makes it better. 
 And the Good thing it only need the batteries in ur Wiimote. Hands Free Is Great, for a Novice 
 like me it was easy to play. I would recommend this game fo anyone, looking to kill sometime and 
 looking for a Rush. 5 Stars out of 5 Stars. Great Match for the Wii. Graphics aren't to bad either. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicNinja911
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  This is great game the only problem is it is hard and when you think you were good and could play 
 on expert then on this at the end you have to play on hard I say it the best game of them all it 
 got great song list my favorite is Paint It Black by the Rolling Stones. The game problem is that 
 it is hard so when if it is the 1st time you play it then you will have problems but i say that 
 a good thing so you get better faster but if you are not good enough to handle it then you have 
 problem that the only reason why i didn't give it a ten 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papermariorulz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is just incredible! Great song list, new modes, co-op career, and best of all... ONLINE!!!!!!!!!! 
 The Battle Mode is a great new addition even if some matches last only 30 seconds. My one new problem 
 is the whammy bar. Mine currently is not working, and nothing has happened to to guitar to cause 
 it. But overall a really great game, and anyone who wants to ROCK should get this game. I play 
 the real guitar and I think think this will help both on the game and on the real guitar! Rock 
 On, and let's hope we get a bass attachment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiLoveMatt
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero done it again but this time its for the Wii! With new songs by Senses Fail, Black Sabath, 
 The Sleeping and so much more this game is sick. I bought it the first hour it came out and i like 
 it alot. The only thing about it is you have to put the wii controller in the guitar but who cares 
 its also $10 cheaper! Over 70 Rocking Tracks you'll stay hooked on this game for awhile. People 
 been saying they have had problems with the whammy bar but i had that once out of the 6 days ive 
 been playing and i turned it off changed controllers and it worked again. This game is worth buying 
 so I Hope to see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinkyimp
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  ok listen it has to be said ... i have not played a Guitar hero game in my life so going into this 
 game i knew i was gonna suck!
  
  i started out just playing in the quick play knowing that the only option i had was to just play 
 on easy mode.. i start out and find out that the game is really assessable to people who are new 
 to the franchise hell my brother is playing right now as i type... easy of course! the game as 
 i think 4 game modes career, coop, multi, and a practice mode the career and multi play are the 
 most enjoyable out of the whole game and alone make this game worth buying i had picked up a nintendo 
 wifi adapter for my computer to play the game online ( il put my wii friend code on my blog page 
 soon) the career i haven't got into yet but it looks as if it will get progressively harder as 
 you move on.....
  
  out of cockiness i try expert mode knowing im going WAY in over my head i press the green fret 
 and try my best
  
  20 seconds later i see a big fat YOU FAIL on the screen i mean i sucked but at least i tried... 
 i need more practice
  
  over all this game is a great party game to play with family or yourself i am having a wonderful 
 time with and so should you
  
  PS. i like the ps3 guitar better... i dont like the milky white to much! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saradashi
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Theres no II, without an EXELENT III This game is a very good asset to the guitar hero
  series, and it gives only good things to talk
  with the legendary slash in it. The number of 
 songs is the
  only thing i would loved to be more in quantity.
  
  But for the quality, almost it doesen't matter. The gameplay
  has always been very creative, 
 and talking in wii termns, the
  inalambric guitar, and with the wii controler plugged inside, make to have a los of fun moves without 
 having to worry if you bother someone
  or dont have space to manover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: use_da_schwartz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why this game got lower ratings than the other two. Honestly, online play in a great 
 multiplayer game like this is what I've dreamed of. I think a lot of people would agree with me. 
 Maybe it got lower ratings because it's a three-quel. That seems to be the trend. Maybe the concept 
 is old, but Neversoft and all the people behind it took everything awesome about Guitar Hero and 
 made it better. Except for the graphics which bring this game down.
  
  Gameplay: 30/30 Do I need to say anything? We get to play our favorite songs with a guitar for 
 a controller! Sometimes I think about playing real guitar, but then I remember that I have this. 
 I probably won't end up playing real guitar, but this'll make me feel like I do 
 
   it 
 
  Moving on! I will say that this game is a lot harder than GH2. That's not a bad thing, though. 
 It's still enjoyable. And the online multiplayer, not to mention the new mode of multiplayer, makes 
 this game that much more awesome. The boss battles are intense. (Slash's is my favorite, but Lou 
 is definitely the hardest, which goes without saying. Tom Morello's is just weird. Yes I have heard 
 RATM before.) It's fun. It's addicting. It's awesome.
  
  Graphics: 10.5/15 Now for the part that isn't great. Everything that happens on the stage in a 
 performance seems so awkward. I can see that the bodies aren't as human-looking as they should 
 be. The polygons blatantly stand out. Even the notes in the note charts don't look completely circular. 
 I can see pixels or polygons or whatever they are on the individual notes. The notes especially 
 look awful when I'm holding a note and I start to use the whammy bar. Another especially goes to 
 when I'm whammying on a star power note. In GH2, they made a smooth, gradual transition from whatever 
 color they were to light blue. In this game, when I whammy a star power note, it simply changes 
 from one color to light blue instantaneously. It looks terrible.
  
  Sound: 9/10 In a game like this, the music would generally be one of the most important aspects 
 of the game. However, according to the old rating system, this is the least important aspect of 
 any game. Anyway. Most of the music featured in here is pretty awesome. Most of them a great in 
 general, or good but really fun to play. But then you get the few that just suck majorically. There 
 are a few songs that I don't get what people see in them. Paint it Black is the same verse repeated 
 about 5 times. 3's and 7's is just plain weird. And Bulls on Parade is just about as repetitve 
 as Killing in the Name. I think my favoite one to insult that people love is Rock and Roll All 
 Nite. It's not that bad of a song. But the Chorus is so amazingly stupid. At first, I thought that 
 was the best part of the song. Then I heard it. And found out that there was a solo!? Weird. However, 
 let's not leave out the awesomeness that is Cult of Personality, One, Even Flow, Stricken, Avalancha, 
 and many others. The good definitely outweighs the bad in this game.
  
  Value: 15/15 Again. This is really thanks to the online play made available. You can play people 
 all over the place. Multiplayer has been made so much better because of this. Not to mention, combined 
 with the overall level of addiction this game has, this can last a very long time. I think $90 
 is a very good price for this game.
  
  Tilt: 27/30 This game has only been made more awesome with the new additions such as battles and 
 online play. The music is great. You can really only spit on the graphics. But it's for the Wii. 
 I'll bet that the Xbox360, PS3, and maybe even the PS2 make the Wii's graphics look like a joke. 
 But I've heard that the Wii is capable of much better graphics than it displays. So why doesn't 
 it? I mean, look at Metroid Prime 3's graphics. I don't need to say anymore.
  
  Overall: 91.5/100 = 9.15/10 = 9.0/10
  
  Huh? That's werid. I think my rating is better for 
 GH2 than it is for this one. I guess I gave perfect ratings in the same spots that GH3 was better 
 in. Don't let ratings fool you. This is the better game. Besides. It's the graphics anyway. They 
 brought this game down. If this were on the 360, it would've gotten a much better rating because 
 the 360 does have better graphics. (usually) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jyc7792
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3, as most people know the hit music game, its the revolutionary and fun way to feel 
 like playing a guitar, without actually playing one. In the third game, In my opinion, its still 
 just as fun and of course a great party game if youve got two guitars. Gameplay: hit the notes 
 and rock out! Guitar hero 3 still plays like 2 even theres been a switch to Neversoft. You might 
 feel the smallest difference in the gap of hitting the notes, as it is a bit longer, but you get 
 used to it quick.
  The hammer-ons and pulloffs do feel easier also and there is quite a bit in GH3. I say its harder 
 then GT2 and 1 but it isnt frustratingly difficult. If this is your first GH, you might be in for 
 a little practice before playing the harder tracks on hard right away though. **new modes: battle 
 mode, where you gain powerups and mess up the other player in hopes that they fail before you do. 
 I thought that this mode would be really great and all, but it doesnt live up to the hype that 
 was in me. Usually, the song would end (against a human) and nobody would have lost by then, and 
 then you would have to go to Sudden Death every round. Against AI however, it was a bit more fun 
 to me.
  
  **new interface/hud/screen: the circles are sharp, and the counter is good.
  I like the new strum ticker as it keeps track of how many notes youve it in a row.
  
  Sound: 
 great sound, has to be. Good track list, over 70 songs.. etc. To the point, really really great 
 songs and audio also.
  
  Graphics/Looks: this game looks.... well... at least GH3 isnt made for its looks. The models were 
 pretty bad in the WII version. Im sure that it looks at least a bit better in the new HD consoles 
 like the Xbox and PS, but Wii wise, its terrible. The Male singer especially looks like a gorilla. 
 Animation wise, it doesnt look much different from the ps2 versions, but the Drummer is just plain 
 Chucky Cheese's robot! He doesnt drum to the music like how the guitarest try to, or how the singer 
 moves their mouths. the Audience was terrible also with probably 1 or 2 people just duplicated 
 20 times. If you cant make it look good on the Wii they probably should have just make everybody 
 but the guitarest that your playing blurry and moving like in GH2 on the PS2 so that it feels like 
 people are still there but its all about you. (the guitarist) I know that the graphics stink but 
 it is , however, a music game and i didnt count much towards this.
  
  Online/Community: on the wii, online was pretty solid. The first day that i set up my GH3 for the 
 wii, i wasnt matched up against anybody for a good 15 mins and i got frustrated, but then all of 
 the sudden it worked fine and i was playing with people in a couple of minutes from then on. the 
 GH3 community is great, as you can have your scores counted, get ''groupies'', i think you can 
 even have ranks. The website for GH is great also and you can even sign up for tournaments. You 
 can play with strangers on all modes or with a Wii friend.
  **In GH3 for the wii online, I havent noticed any sort of lag that would make this game any worse. 
 It still hits your notes, they come at the same time as the song, and thats a really important 
 note. NO LAG! good job.
  
  Bonus/Unlockables/extras: the extras and unlockables are ok, but it could use more clothing or 
 something. Songs to unlock are nice though.
  
  THE BAD: the only bad i can think of are the graphics and that this game has quite the advertising 
 in it. Pontiac truck as a playable stage? cmon! i want a real stage! Also, an Axe guitar? Bum Chica 
 Wah Wah guitars? hah, that kinda crossed the line for me. It isnt too bad, and if you want you 
 can use that guitar as a joke with your friends.
  
  SUM UP: Great game, i can tell that online will definatly be great too. Buy it now if you haven't 
 already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zallo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  dont get me wrong i love this game and its the first game of the guitar hero franchise that i have 
 owned and i love it but they should put a warning label on the box like may cause carpel tunnel 
 desiese or your arms may fall off in the prosses of playing the game on expert I finnaly got through 
 the fire and the flames unlocked so i tried it on expert and after i failed it my hands were so 
 swollen i had to ice then well i guess it is all worth it anyway i highly recommend this game but 
 BE CAREFULL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trinitylover
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  ive played every one of the guitar hero games as it was released, this is by far the best. i will 
 give in and say that the boss battles are not good. theyre just way to easy to beat. i was so excited 
 to be playing against slash, but i beat him after the third power up. i even played him on expert, 
 and i still beat him way too fast. the difficulty is the other major concern. i could almost beat 
 guitar hero 2 on expert, i even got 68% on jordan on expert. but to this time, i still cant beat 
 hard. raining blood by slayer kills me every time. i understand being harder, but this is insane. 
 i have to go down to medium to unlock all the songs, thats just so stupid. other than these two 
 problems, theres nothing wrong with the game. the tracklist is amazing, the guitar is much improved, 
 hammer ons are much easier, multiplayer is great, and finally i can battle other people over the 
 wi-fi. its about time. all of my friends suck and i cream them every time. now i finally have some 
 challenge. and the visuals are pretty bad, but u didnt buy this game for the visuals. so dont worry 
 about that at all. besides, if u were all about the visuals u would have it for the 360. overall 
 most addictive and fun game ive ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Legends of Rock is the first Guitar Hero game for a Nintendo console, and Wii owners are in 
 for a treat.
  The sweet-looking Gibson Les Paul replica guitar has a white faceplate exclusive to the Wii version. 
 And the Wiimote nestles into the guitar to make it wireless. Better yet, the Wiimote's speaker 
 plays sour notes when you mess up and rumbles when you tilt the guitar to activate Star Power - 
 the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 guitars can't do that. Theres even a knob on the guitar for moving 
 the cursor, so youre able to navigate the Wii Channels menu to start the game.
  This rebuilt-from-scratch Guitar Hero sequel is the first in the series with online play, and 
 Wii owners havent been left behind.
  Unlike most online Wii games, the so-called Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection multiplayer works perfectly 
 for this game, with many modes for jamming against or with online opponents.
  Wanna-be rock stars can create an online profile to keep track of their progress at GuitarHero. com. 
 After linking it to your Wii profile, the game automatically updates your personalized Web page 
 with the songs you've played, your stats and achievements.
  But its a big bummer that the Wii isnt capable of downloading new songs like the other consoles.
 
  This is the first Guitar Hero game with bosses  Slash of Guns N Roses and Velvet Revolver 
 as well as Tom Morello of Rage Against the Machine and Audioslave. Both recorded original tracks 
 for head-to-head jam battles. The Sex Pistols also re-recorded Anarchy in the U. K. specifically 
 for the game, as did Living Colour with Cult of Personality.
  In fact, many of the 71 playable songs aren't covers like in past Guitar Hero games - they're 
 actually great-sounding re-masters of orginal recordings. Youll know its a cover when you see 
 made famous by.
  The games menus and cutscene movies have a unique, amusing art style  everything looks like a 
 cross between coffee house indie and anime.
  In the graphics department, the big knock on the Wii has been its lesser processing capabilities 
 compared to the powerful PS3 and 360. However, in Guitar Hero, the graphics merely serve as a 
 backdrop to your shredding. The series has always been about how it plays, not how it looks - which 
 happens to be the Wii's mantra. Its a perfect fit for Nintendos quirky console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Purarnick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Hello!! Guitar Hero 3 Legend of Rock for the Wii is awesome!! I've had it for like 4 hours and 
 i've been playing it non-stop!! All the new songs (which won't be listed considering i don't want 
 to spoil it for people) are awesome!! The career mode has been changed a bit but not too much although 
 i have only got to a little bit past the easy!! The bonus songs sound like hard-core rock!! I am 
 sad this is the last Guitar Hero though!! Overall a great way to end the series of games!! Great 
 job to everyone who was part of making Guitar Hero 3!! Go get this game people!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wantawii
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  When i first bought my Wii, one thing i was worried about, was ''Is guitar hero coming out for 
 it?''. And luckily ( and somewhat surprisingly) it did come out. And it didnt dissappoint. First 
 of all, the song list is incredible. All the best songs ever recorded, are on this game, which 
 makes it all the more exciting to unlock more and more songs. The thing i liked about Guitar Hero 
 III was the story line. I just kinda liked the little videos that played every time you completed 
 a Set. They showed your band progressing from backyard parties, to Sold-out stadiums. The Graphics 
 weren't to special from other games ive seen, but that doesnt ruin the gameplay at all.. The only 
 thing that really bothered me about the graphics was the drummer... He seemed to always be out of 
 sync and kinda robotronic. But other than that the graphics were fine. The new guitar battle mode 
 is really neat. There is sometihng about guitar dueling that i just find.. fun. haha. The new Les 
 Paul controller is great and relativley comfortable.. unless you like sitting down and playing. 
 If you want to sit down with it, it gets a little awkward. This game is must have for anyone who 
 has played the previous guitar hero games. And if you have never played Guitar Hero, this one will 
 definitly get you hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gonjulas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero 3 is a game that would be enjoyed by nearly ANY music lover. It's really confusing 
 actually, I really don't understand why Guitar Hero is fun, but I guess that I just have to accept 
 the fact that it is. Something that I really like about Guitar Hero is the fact that the difficulty 
 ranges from easy as could be, to seemingly impossible. A new feature that I like in Guitar Hero 
 3, (I at least think it's a new feature) , is that there is now online play, now I haven't even 
 played p2p yet because I'm afraid I'm not good enough yet but I'm sure I'll try sometime soon. 
 I would feel safe saying that Guitar Hero 3 is SO FAR the best game that I have purchased for the 
 Wii, but I'm sure that will change once Super Smash Brothers Brawl or maybe Medal of Honor 2 Heroes 
 is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahahaG
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this since may of this year, and i can say, wait well worth it. The soundtrack 
 to this game is spectacular. Also the graphics aren't bad on the Wii's version, but i guess i have 
 only played w/ the componet cables on a HDTV. The character selection is alright , but i wish Clive 
 was still on there. The battle modes that were added are pretty fun, and a challenge to play sometimes 
 against the bosses. They are a great addition to story mode, which is also better this time around. 
 The new clips that you get on story mode are pretty funny, and a nice add in to the game. As for 
 the song playability, the easy songs r at beginning, and the more difficult are at the end so it 
 fits. Online was something i was very iffy about when i heard about it, but i must say it works 
 nicely, except for a few lags every now and then if some1 doesn't have a good connection. The miss 
 noise that comes out of the wii remote is better to hear out of it, then the TV, in my mind. The 
 rumble when you use star power is also a nice feature to the wii's version. So if you like music 
 games and are up for a challenge, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariamunchkin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I rented Guitar Hero II for the Xbox 360, since my brother has one, and literally played it for 
 hours on end, without getting tired of it. Guitar Hero III? Not so much. I was extremely excited 
 that what became one of my favorite games was coming out for my system, and in that respect I was 
 not disappointed. The guitar plugs into the Wii remote just like the nunchuck, then you secure 
 the remote in the guitar itself so that you can still use the buttons. It comes with stickers, 
 if you like them, and unlike I was led to believe by some reviews, there ARE customizable faceplates 
 you can purchase for the Wii Guitar, if your basic white-on-black doesn't quite get you in the 
 rockin' mood. As for the game itself, it is pretty much the same as the previous games. Buttons 
 all work the same, the whammy bar seems a little more stable (but maybe that's just because I'm 
 used to playing on rental or really old guitars!) , otherwise it plays pretty normally. Having played 
 through half of the Easy tour, and completed the Medium tour already, I can say that for me, it 
 feels a little easier than Guitar Hero II. The tracks are a little more straightforward. And that 
 is the weakest point I think. Aside from some gems like School's Out , Rock and Roll All Nite , 
 and Devil Went Down to Georgia , the third installment of the game is severely lacking in songs 
 that anyone who isn't a diehard metal or punk rock fan will recognize. Admittedly, the songs are 
 all pretty good - but coming from GHII; which had tracks like Freebird , Sweet Child of Mine and 
 You Really Got Me to name a few; the setlist of the third installment simply doesn't hold up. For 
 people owning a PS2 or X360, it's no big deal, because the previous games are still available for 
 those systems, but Wii owners can only hope that there is more in store for our fingertips.
  
  On the positive side, the cutscenes are now animated (and very originally!) and quite fun to 
 watch. There is a great deal more customization available as far as the characters and their outfits, 
 which is excellent because the in-game animation is also improved.
  
  The big positive change for GHIII is the multi-player and battle modes. In career mode, you have 
 three battle challenges, which resemble the existing challenge mode, but you now have battle tokens 
 instead of star power, which will do different things to the opponent's fret board to mess them 
 up. I haven't been able to try out the multiplayer modes because I only have one guitar at the 
 moment, but I'm really looking foward to checking out the Co-op Career mode, where you work together 
 as Lead and Rhythm or Bass guitarists to help your band reach stardom.
  
  Overall, it's still a great game - and if you've never played it, you definitely should. However, 
 if you're a long time follower of the series, don't expect glorious new things - just more of the 
 same good stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meetuatdepub
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the best games I own, and one of the best gaming purchases I have ever 
 bought. This beats the first two guitar hero games for sure. The selection of music and difficulty 
 will make you keep coming back for more, I just played it from 2:00pm to 9:00pm and wow, you'll 
 never want to stop playing and unlocking.
  
  The graphics: meh. You didn't really buy this for graphics, did you? The only people watching the 
 graphics are the losers who aren't playing and having the time of their virtual rock star lives. 
 The battle modes are a welcome edition to the game play. Reminds me of amplitude allot. The last 
 battle against Lou is INSANE on most levels of difficulty. This should keep you playing for a really 
 long time.
  
  As a first time guitar hero player and buyer I give it a 10/10. The ONLY downside is that the wii 
 version doesnt get God of Rock and the Grim Reaper, which are really cool, but you get a Robot 
 instead.
  
  BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTRGRZA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, welcome to rock and roll hell!!... in a good way. Guitar Hero 
 III: Legends of Rock is the first entry of the franchise to come to the wii, and it hits the ground 
 running. The gameplay first of all is relatively unchanged. This is the same style we experienced 
 back in '05, which isn't a bad thing. Seriously. 
  The tracklist is obviously the star of the game, and this one is the best so far. Featuring artists 
 like Rolling Stones, Heart, Rage Against the Machine, Foghat, Metallica, and lots more. A lot of 
 these tracks are master tracks. You won't be listening to some cheap Axl Rose imitator here. Activision 
 even had Sex Pistols rerecod Anarchy in the UK. Nice! I wish they had Pride and Joy as a master 
 track. The Stevie Ray Vaughan imitator is terrible. The only prolem with the tracklist is that 
 the difficulty has been revamped plenty. A lot of the songs may improve your skills, but some are 
 so difficult, you'll feel like your fingers are falling off when you finish expert career. The 
 bonus tracks are also disapointing. Only a few are really appealing like Ruby by Kaiser Chiefs, 
 Prayer of the Refugee by Rise Against and naturally Through the Fire and Flames by Dragonforce. 
 
  Not much change has been done to change the single player. Neversoft has added in between cinematics 
 higlighting how your band goes from rocking small to big time. The crew of rockers from the previous 
 games are back. You got your punk rocker, your 80's glam rocker, your European metal god, etc. Some 
 new faces include a Japanese schoolgirl, a Hendrix lookalike, and of course, Slash and Tom Morello. 
 These two appear throught the career to test your skills through original recordings created by 
 them exclusively for this game and ultimately appear as playable characters. 
  The multiplayer is the biggest change. Now available is a co-op career, your standard vs or co-op 
 mode, online multiplayer and leaderboards (uses friend codes. sorry, but when that's out of the 
 way, it's fun) and the brand new battle mode. Using mario kart like power ups, you must send your 
 opponent into submission. The problem with this is that the powers you receive are random and some 
 of them are a lot more powerful than others, making your chances to win the battle part skill and 
 part luck. A perfect example is your final battle against Lou (the devil) with a metal cover of 
 The Devil Went Down to Georgia, which is awesome. You must gather your powers and exxecute them 
 at the right time. Hwat I'd say? Luck.
  At the end of the day, despite all its flaws, you'll have a fantastic rhythm game with a killer 
 soundtrack and good multiplayer. It'll be hard to put down and will have you rocking till the late 
 hours of the night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongebob4Prez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  First, I applaud Activision for staying true to the Guitar Hero formula masterminded by Harmonix. 
 The game is good, with a great soundtrack (although, Jimi Hendrix is kind of the ultimate guitar 
 hero, he should be in here rather than Lou ) . Graphics could be better, but they're equal with 
 the ps2, so people who've played from the very beginning won't mind. The only real problem in the 
 game is the guitar. There are improvements, but once in a while, it has some problems with notes, 
 and the totally different feel compared to the old SG's on ps2 will throw you off at first. Also, 
 the faceplate is tough to get off. Overall, a 9.3 of 10 (says 9.5, 9.3 not available on scale, so 
 ignore it) and a top 5 Wii game so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiination27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Neversoft did a great job picking up where Activision left off. The song 
 list is great. Its very diverse so whatever kind of music u like, you'll find it.. Also its filled 
 with classics
  
  The wii guitar has a nice feel to it and its covered with a nice white shiny plate where u insert 
 your wiimote which makes sounds when u miss strings..
  
  This has tons and tons of replay value.. Because theres 4 different difficulties to play on... 
 and tons of modes including online play which from what ive played seems nice
  
  Career mode is the main mode where you go through songs getting sponsers, earning new songs, battling 
 bosses, buying new items, or songs
  
  Basically the game is flawless.. The ONLY problem with the game is that.. it makes my fingers hurt 
 from playing so much =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaManAX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  So, Guitar Hero has finally hit the Wii, and it has both ups and downs. I'll try to start with 
 the good points.
  
  Music
  As expected from a GH game, the soundtrack is great. Although it's noticeably missing legends like 
 Jimi Hendrix, it's still got a great soundtrack. Although the first venue's songs aren't very good, 
 it improves very quickly.
  
  Gameplay
  Although arguably, the gameplay hasn't changed, tappable notes are much more noticeable. Star power 
 now drowns out all other parts of the song (vocals, drums, bass) so you can appreciate your own 
 playing. Or not.
  
  Online Play
  Nintendo finally has a game with a decent online system. You can go on Nintendo WFC and play against 
 friends, strangers, and get a code to put on the GH website and eventually join tournaments. You 
 can even invite friends to join games you're hosting. Although there are a few glitches, overall 
 it's a welcome addition.
  
  Graphics
  Now, the PS3 and 360 graphics have been seriously praised. However, if you looked at the Wii version, 
 you wouldn't be able to tell it was on Wii. You might think Dreamcast, but even that has better 
 graphics. The graphics are seriously awful, and character movements look very robotic. The Guitar 
 Hero 1 graphics on the PS2 are better than this. Good job Neversoft.
  
  Overall, the game hasn't changed much from it's predecessors, which isn't a bad thing. However, 
 the inexcusably bad graphics weigh this game down. Fun to play with a friend, but unfortunately, 
 seperate guitars won't come 'till February. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
