-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Happy Feet
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/adventure/happyfeet/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Belly-sledding levels have a decent sense of speed.
 May cure insomnia.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 It's the same three minigames, over and over again.
 The unlockable &quot;extras&quot; are a complete joke.
 There is no fun to be had, anywhere, in any form.
 Boring two-person multiplayer may turn friends into enemies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.7
Critic Score: 4.7, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 5.0, 121 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment
Developer: Artificial Mind
Genre: Adventure
Date: Nov 13, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even kids who loved the animated film won't find Happy Feet to be worth their time. 

  Games based on kid-friendly properties don't need to be inferior. It's a shocking sentiment, but 
 games like Cars and Barnyard prove that an animated film can produce more than a cheap cash-in. 
 It's too bad that Midway and Warner Brothers missed the memo and churned out another lame movie 
 game that sucks the happiness right out of Happy Feet. As a licensed product, it's mediocre, with 
 enough charming moments to rescue it from the immediate bargain-basement abyss. But as a game, 
 it's an absolute insult and more likely to put kids to sleep than it is to entertain them.  

          The most important lesson in Happy Feet is that people still make licensed garbage.  
    

  In Happy Feet, you guide film hero Mumble through a pared-down version of his animated adventure. 
 The emperor penguins value the "heartsong" over all other art forms and ostracize Mumble for his 
 total lack of vocal prowess but considerable dancing skills. Even worse, they blame him for the 
 disappearing fish population. Eventually, he finds a new family in a small flock of Hispanic penguins, 
 but he later returns to find his home endangered by human "aliens." You'll meet a number of enchanting 
 characters along the way: Ramon, the Taco Bell Chihuahua of the penguin world; Lovelace, an avian 
 spiritual leader with a plastic six-pack ring wrapped around his neck; and Mumble's father Memphis, 
 whose accent is more than a little inspired by Elvis Presley. Part  Bambi , part  The Lion King 
 , and part  Footloose , the game is noticeably lighter in mood than the movie. That's not bad, 
 considering how serious and dark the film often gets. However, aside from the tone, Happy Feet 
 retells the same basic story with a few clichd additions that provide an excuse for the gameplay. 

  But there is barely anything there to justify using the license for a game, as opposed to, say, 
 a pop-up book or a karaoke CD. Every level features only one of three basic minigames. Dancing 
 mode is the usual Dance Dance Revolution-type level, with three difficulty settings ranging from 
 easy to complete cakewalk. The songs aren't all featured on the film soundtrack, though, so fans 
 may be stymied by the appearance of artists like KC &amp; The Sunshine Band and Dee-Lite. There 
 are also some weird design choices in these segments. In the "Somebody to Love" level, the player 
 is required to tap out rhythms of two, even though the song beat is in three. In the same level, 
 the minigame ends and you exit the scene before the song is done, which is a letdown.  

  Both the swimming and belly-sledding levels take place on rails. Belly sledding is a tad superior 
 thanks to its sense of speed. In these stages, you maneuver Mumble through slippery courses of 
 ice and snow, sometimes collecting level-specific items or aiming for speed boosts that send you 
 hurtling through the air. Other games like last year's The Chronicles of Narnia feature similar 
 and superior scenes, but it's still mildly amusing in Happy Feet when soaring through the air after 
 a particularly strong boost. Things slow down to a dead halt in the swimming levels, where you 
 may be tasked with collecting "lovestones," chasing fish, or escaping sharks. The objectives differ 
 slightly every time, but the core gameplay is exactly the same: The level pulls Mumble along, and 
 you steer him to and fro. On the console version (and the PC, if you use a gamepad instead of the 
 arrow keys) , you maneuver with the analog stick. On the Wii, you tilt the remote. Any way you slice 
 it, it's far too simple to be any fun.  

  And sadly, that is all there is to it. 2004's Shark Tale featured many of the same modes but mixed 
 them up nicely with a series of objectives that made the levels interesting. The difference between 
 collecting hearts and collecting fish is negligible, though, which means that once you've played 
 for 10 minutes, you've seen everything Happy Feet has to offer, even if you play through all of 
 the game's three grueling hours. Granted, you earn medals in each level based on performance and 
 getting gold medals unlocks the supposed "extras." But the unlockables are the same scenes you 
 already saw in the dance levels, just without any gameplay. In other words, they're useless and 
 an affront to the intelligence of players of any age, which completely eliminates any reason to 
 collect gold medals in the first place.  

  But that's not the only insult Happy Feet has to offer. Including character Ramon and his heavy 
 Mexican accent is one thing, but phonetically spelling out the stereotypical speech in the subtitles 
 isn't amusing -- it's offensive. For example, "you" is sometimes spelled as "joo," and the fact that 
 it isn't consistent just draws more attention to it when the lines are presented in that manner. 

  In the unlikely event that these three minigames are your cup of tea and you want to involve a 
 friend -- or abuse an enemy -- you can ask another player to join you. In dance mode, this involves 
 competing for the best score. In belly sledding, one player steers Mumble while the other presses 
 button combinations (or flicks the Wii Remote) to smash obstacles in the way. Swimming involves 
 collecting more items than your opponent. It's an amazing display of design failure: including 
 a buddy doesn't make Happy Feet any more fun.  

          The film was pretty good. Too bad about the game.     

  Happy Feet isn't exactly ugly, 
 but it's got numerous graphical flaws that stand out. Some of the snowy environments are nice and 
 feature falling icicles and destructible objects. But there are obvious seams where some polygons 
 meet, as well as a ton of blurry textures to contend with. For a game based on an animated film, 
 the models move stiffly and the speech is poorly synced with the beak movements. The lack of transition 
 between the end of a level and the following cutscene is jarring -- it just cuts immediately without 
 so much as a fade. The PlayStation 2 and GameCube versions look identical to each other, while 
 the PC version features an "enhanced" engine, which adds bloom lighting but looks otherwise unremarkable. 
 The Wii version looks a little crisper than the other console versions, but not enough to make 
 it worth another $20 bucks. Thankfully, the sound surpasses the visuals, due to a strong voice 
 cast and John Powell's lovely orchestral score.  

  There's no reason to play Happy Feet. If you liked the film, buy another ticket and watch it again. 
 If you still can't get enough, buy a licensed mug or something. And if you're looking for a gift 
 to get your kids this holiday season, it's better to slip a lump of coal into their stockings than 
 to offend them with this kind of branded rubbish.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Petman1325
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 27, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Happy Feet the game is pretty basic. You go through this road full of games and things. The games 
 are catagorised into several catagories. You do dancing, which is Dance Dance Revolution with your 
 upper body, racing, where you hold the remote like a steering wheel and tilt the controller, swimming, 
 which is the same as racing, collection, where you have to collect items like hearts and shrimp, 
 and checkpoint, where you have to use power-boosts in order to get to a checkpoint in time. How 
 good you do can earn you medals. When you get certain number of gold metals, you get to see the 
 video clips of the dance routines without playing. The music in the game is pretty good, and it 
 fits in with the situation. For example, first level. When you play, the music plays Shake your 
 Booty. The graphics are decent, yet it looks like the Nintendo DS trying it's hardest. Audio is 
 sortta good, yet it is like the N64 with the expansion pack. So it is good, yet bad. You could 
 complete this game in an 2-3 hours if you want to rush through. 4 hours if you want to get all 
 gold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LCM6281
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. Firstly you have a dance lesson then progress into the main game. I've only 
 just got this game so I'm slowly progressing though. I'm now through to the swimming stages. Its 
 hard now but I'm sure to progress through. Its a funny game because with the wii remote you have 
 to turn the wii remote in different directions to play the game. In the swimming stages you need 
 a selected number of items to progress to the next stage. Using the wii remote is easy for this 
 game. I really like this game very much because I like action and adventure games and also I like 
 it because they are dancing stages. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
