-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/adventure/harrypotterphoenix/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Hogwarts is re-created in all its glory for you to explore.
 Minigames are a pleasant diversion.
 Voice acting and music are good.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The game is little more than a chore simulator.
 Endless backtracking makes the game even more dull.
 Cutscenes are glitchy and feel unfinished.
 Nearly everything about the game is tedious.
 Story is impossible to follow if you haven't read the book.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 7.1, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 721 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Jun 25, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The video game version of Order of the Phoenix captures none of the magic in the  Harry Potter  
 books or films. 

  The  Harry Potter  series of books has captured both the minds of children and adults alike. The 
 movies haven't disappointed either and are amongst the highest grossing films of all time. For 
 some reason, the video games that have been released haven't been able to reach the same level 
 of quality that the movies and books have achieved. The latest game, Harry Potter and the Order 
 of the Phoenix, continues that trend. There's a faithful re-creation of the Hogwarts campus to 
 explore, but once you've seen the sights, there's not much else to do. Even the most diehard Potter 
 fans will grow tired of seeing the grand staircase as they return from their umpteenth fetch quest. 

  Order of the Phoenix follows the story of the book and the movie of the same name. After narrowly 
 avoiding expulsion for using magic in front of a muggle, Harry finds that Hogwarts' new defense 
 against the dark arts teacher seems to have it out for him. To make matters worse, Voldemort is 
 threatening to rear his ugly mug again, and Harry fears that the school will be unable to defend 
 itself. With the help of Ron and Hermione, Harry rallies the students together to form Dumbledore's 
 Army in an effort to ready them for a fight against the dark lord. This all makes perfect sense 
 if you've read the book, but the story's exceedingly difficult to follow if you haven't read it 
 because vast segments are told via brief rendered video cutscenes and newspaper clippings. It's 
 easy to understand how a three-hour movie might have to leave bits and pieces out, but it's puzzling 
 that an eight-hour game can't tell even the most basic aspect of the story.  

           Who knew that Harry's life was so boring?      

  Though the game's box says you'll 
 get to play as Sirius Black and Dumbledore, you do so for less than five minutes, so you'll spend 
 nearly the entire game controlling Harry. Ron and Hermione will be by your side the whole time 
 offering hints on where to go or what to do next. You'll also encounter every recognizable character 
 from the  Harry Potter  universe along your journey. The game starts off with a tutorial where 
 you'll learn basic spells like wingardium leviosa (levitation) , reparo (repair an object) , accio 
 (pull an object toward you) , and depulso (push an object away) by helping people fix broken dishes, 
 pack their suitcases, and move furniture -- not exactly riveting stuff. On the PC, PlayStation 2, 
 PlayStation, 3, and Xbox 360, you cast spells by pressing a button to point your wand and moving 
 the right analog stick in a specific pattern. Rotating the stick clockwise will cast reparo, pressing 
 down twice will cast accio, and pushing forward twice will cast depulso. You can also use the keyboard 
 and mouse on the PC and this works fine. On the Wii, you'll hold the remote vertically then tilt 
 it forward to cast depulso. To perform wingardium leviosa, you'll raise both the Wii Remote and 
 the Nunchuk to lift the object then move the controllers around to maneuver the object. This works 
 surprisingly well, and it makes it feel as if you are actually casting spells, which goes a long 
 way toward making the game more enjoyable. The PS3 does use the Sixaxis' motion controls, but tilting 
 and twisting the controller as you hold it in your lap doesn't add much to the experience.  

  Later in the game, you'll learn combat spells. These are cast in the same way as noncombat spells 
 and mostly use the same patterns. But there will only be a few instances where you'll need to perform 
 these combat spells because there's hardly any dueling in the game. This is probably a good thing 
 because the combat isn't very good, and it's tough to tell if you're actually hitting someone. 
 Even during the last fight, you just stand there casting the same spell over and over, waiting 
 for a cutscene to signify the end of the battle.  

  Once you've learned some basic spells, it's off to Hogwarts, which is faithfully re-created in 
 a game for the first time. The Hogwarts campus is absolutely huge, which is both a blessing and 
 a curse. Fans should really get a kick out of seeing the grand staircase in motion and candles 
 floating above the tables in the great hall, as well as sneaking into Moaning Myrtle's bathroom. 
 But traversing back and forth across such a large area quickly becomes tiresome. Once you find 
 the proper passwords, you can use the passages behind paintings as shortcuts, but they don't cut 
 that much time off the journey. Another problem is the in-game navigation system. You're given 
 a map that lists all of the different areas on campus, as well as the location of each person you 
 need to find. Once you've highlighted the person or place you're looking for, footprints will appear 
 on the ground to lead the way. Unfortunately, the footprints are black, so they're difficult to 
 see; they don't appear far enough in front of you, so you're constantly forced to stop to wait 
 for them to appear; and the camera will often switch angles midstride, so you don't know which 
 way you're facing.  

           Exploring Hogwarts is interestingfor a while.      

  You've got a huge campus 
 and healthy number of spells at your disposal, so you'll no doubt be doing all sorts of awesome 
 things in incredible, mystical places, right? No. You spend most of the game running around trying 
 to inform everyone as to the whereabouts of the room of requirement. You'll pick a character on 
 the map, follow the footprints, and then tell people about the meeting place. In almost every single 
 case, they'll have a reason for why they can't go. Of course, you've got to help them. This means 
 you'll run all over Hogwarts collecting items, moving benches, fixing things, and helping people 
 with their homework. This is how you spend the entire game. It's literally one fetch quest after 
 another. Being able to pick the quest you want gives the illusion that you've got the freedom to 
 do what you want, but the game is extremely linear in that there's only one way to accomplish any 
 given objective. And sometimes you'll be performing the same exact task over again, such as when 
 you're helping to disable the school's intercom by moving benches then pouring a potion into the 
 speakers. You do this, not once, not twice, but five or six times; each time in a different room. 

  Performing one menial task after another would be bad enough on its own, but other issues conspire 
 to make it worse. The game does a decent job of showing you where people and places are, but once 
 you've met with someone, you're quite often on your own when it comes to figuring out how to help 
 him or her. For example, at one point in the game, you must help a kid find five talking gargoyles. 
 Now, you've encountered several talking gargoyles to this point, but for some reason, you can't 
 tell the kid this and you must find the gargoyles again. Not only are you doing something you've 
 already done, but the map doesn't show you where these gargoyles are, so you're forced to scour 
 the entire campus in an effort to locate them.  

  When you're not playing the role of messenger boy, you'll spend much of your time cleaning up Hogwarts 
 by putting statues, paintings, and urns back together. You can also search behind curtains for 
 giant chess pieces, move blocks to find hidden plaques, light torches, and even sweep floors. These 
 tasks are actually pleasant diversions for a short while, and you can unlock extras by performing 
 them. But the tasks speak poorly for the game as a whole when sweeping the floor is a highlight. 
 Another way to pass the time is to play chess, exploding snap, and gobstones. Gobstones (think 
 marbles) and exploding snap (pick out matching pairs of cards) are simple but fun. Chess plays 
 similar to Battle Chess and is actually quite engaging -- if you've played chess before. The game 
 will show you the moves that each piece can make, but there's no tutorial mode, which may leave 
 many younger players clueless.  

           Even though EA scanned the actors' noggins, the characters still look a bit off.      
 

  Visually, Order of the Phoenix is all over the place. Many areas of Hogwarts, such as the grand 
 staircase or great hall, look spectacular and are very detailed. However, many of the hallways 
 look the same and are largely empty. Combat spells look really cool when you cast them, but there 
 are so few duels that you'll rarely get to enjoy seeing the spells in action. At first glance, 
 character models look just like their movie counterparts and are quite nice. But once you see them 
 in motion, you'll notice that they all look kind of like zombies. Things are even worse in the 
 cutscenes that utilize the in-game engine. Characters stare blankly off into the distance, they 
 face the wrong way, their mouths often don't move when they talk, and they'll appear then disappear 
 from view for no apparent reason. The PS3, 360, and PC versions look the best. Other than lower 
 quality in-game cutscenes and some nasty aliasing, the PS2 and Wii versions hold their own, though 
 the PS2's frame rate is pretty iffy at times. Having the actors from the films voice their characters 
 in the game goes a long way toward immersing you in the experience, even with the shoddy cutscenes 
 and script. The familiar musical score is here and suits the game perfectly, which kind of makes 
 you wonder why it was used so little.  

  It's hard to imagine that the video game version of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix will 
 appeal to anyone. Older fans of Harry Potter will enjoy exploring Hogwarts for a while, but they'll 
 soon be bored to tears by the low level of difficulty and the tedious objectives. The younger set 
 will also get a kick out of seeing the sights and will appreciate the forgiving difficulty, as 
 well as the simplicity of the tasks at hand. But they'll quickly grow tired of using their favorite 
 character to perform a seemingly endless parade of chores. If being the most famous wizard in the 
 world were this boring, there wouldn't have been more than one book.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (52 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Igor_Lollipop
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 8, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Prisoner of Azkaban and Chamber of Secrets gave me some high expectations -- too high, I suppose, 
 for this game. All it does is follow the movie and cuts out some major parts where the player could 
 have a lot of fun. I, myself, enjoy long games. At least longer than this was. It could have had 
 more substance to take up some of the gaming hours. It's like the producers spent all of their 
 brains formatting it for the wii. (I've only played the wii version) . There's NOTHING in the game. 
 The only relatively cool thing is using the wii remote for spells. And that even gets tiresome. 
 Wizard's Chess is the only other thing that seems okay. At times the game's either very boring 
 or very annoying. No inbetween. Unlike the second and third games (as I haven't played the fourth) , 
 there are no cool puzzles that test your mind. And all of the dueling is short.
  So disappointing, don't waste your money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miicrox
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 10, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I've bought every Harry Potter game since I got Sorcerer's Stone for the GBA when I was eight years 
 old, and have thoroughly enjoyed each and every one of them, even though the objective was questionable 
 and the games were very straightforward and linear. But they were fun little gems. This one is 
 my only exception. The game somewhat follows the events of the movie, but not a whole lot, about 
 half was left out, and some things didn't even happen in the book OR the movie, which leads me 
 to believe that EA is just making up events on the spot. 
  
  You run around Hogwarts as Harry doing random stuff that EA made up (even though I can forgive 
 them somewhat, they had to put some kind of challenge into the game, but you have to draw the line 
 somewhere) , and some things from the movie until you do the final battle against none other than 
 Voldemort. However, the fight with Voldemort is simple and posed no challenge at all. Ironic how 
 the rest of the game is extremely frustrating.
  
  You use the Wiimote to cast spells and stuff, and the Nunchuk to move around. The controls are 
 awkward and don't feel right , you have to press Z and move in the direction you want to run (you 
 have to press a button to run! DO NOT WANT) . The Wiimote is unresponsive. You pretty much have 
 to be throwing your remote at your TV to get the game to recognize that you're casting a spell 
 and then decide to do it for you. There's a targeting system, but it's extremely sloppy, you just 
 move the Wiimote to who you want to target. Sound easy? It's not. If you're interacting with two 
 or three objects at a time, you're gonna have to target everything in sight before you can get 
 to what you want, and that makes the game a lot more frustrating. The other thing is the length 
 of the game. There's really no depth at all, except when you beat it, you start an Endless Day, 
 which means you can wander around and try to find everything if you want. I was at 51% when I beat 
 the game, but I wasn't motivated at all to try and find anything else. Now for my ratings.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 4/10
  
  There's no depth at all, you just run around Hogwarts doing stuff. Very 
 linear.
  
  
  STORY: 5/10
  
  
  The game loosely follows the events of the movie, which isn't bad, but they could've included a 
 little more
  
  
  CHARACTERS: 9/10
  
  Most of the characters in the game were voiced by the original actors (except Harry, he sounded 
 all weird) in the movie, and the characters are pretty realistic.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8.5/10 
  
  The graphics are actually not bad. They're not fantastic though. It's nothing a Gamecube or 
 a PS2 can't do, for example.
  
  And there you have it. All I can say is EA hasn't scored this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: audslovespugs
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 6, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Being the obsessive Harry Potter fan I am, I was overexcited when I found out OOTP was coming out 
 for the Wii. Why? Four words: Wii remote as wand. How cool! I could cast spells, and really feel 
 as if I were a witch. Unfortunately, this game wasn't as duel filled as I had hoped. Instead, I 
 ran around Hogwarts doing errands for various people. Since when does Harry find plants for other 
 people? NEVER. The few duels I did experience were fun, but were lacking. This would have been 
 so much better in first person! I mean really, you would feel as if you were actually Stupifying 
 Lucius Malfoy. And who doesn't want to to that? The controls were a bit messed up, Incendio was 
 a very awkward Wii remote movement. I ended up turning the remote on its side and shaking it then.
 
  
  If you're looking for a duel filled action game, leave this one one the shelf. If you want to explore 
 Hogwarts and cast some spells, pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent graphics (no major downgrading for Wii) ; John Williams music is at last incorporated, 
 making the best score yet; some voice actors are from the movies; Wii remote controls are overall 
 pretty good; dueling is fun; a couple cool extra features; Hogwarts is big and very interactive.
 
  
  The Bad: The characters move slowly, bringing down the pace of the game a lot; too many fetch quests; 
 there's still plenty of license left to use; the game feels like it has a ton more potential.
 
  
  Harry Potter has had a bumpy ride with the video game world, unlike in just about every other medium. 
 Harry is everywhere, and has made more money than any book series ever. The movies have raked in 
 billions, kids love the toys, and no matter what the quality of this game is, it'll sell millions 
 of units.
  
  Order of the Phoenix isn't awful, but it feels like it was so close to being a lot better than 
 it was.
  
  EA has been changing the scheme of the games for a long time. The first two were somewhat poor 
 rip-offs of Zelda. The third was similar, but incorporated better puzzle solving and all three 
 characters. The fourth was more of a beat-em-up, like Lord of the Rings, with way too much backtracking. 
 This one aims for, basically, Grand Theft Hogwarts.
  
  You'll be exploring every nook and cranny of the castle, yes, and everything around it. And it's 
 the real deal; the developers used the map of the actual castle to make this game model. So there's 
 plenty to search through for all the goods.
  
  This is probably the best idea for the Potter franchise yet, as the other genres it's tried out 
 didn't really fit. But despite all the wonderful ideas, it lacks a lot in execution.
  
  The graphics, for Wii, haven't been brought down any major notches, as should be done with all 
 games, and thus looks really nice. All the characters look a lot like their counterparts in the 
 movie, since their faces were mapped to the game. They do look a little chunky, but it's a much 
 improved attempt over the former games.
  
  The voice acting in the game is pretty good, as ever. And this time many of the voices are from 
 the movie. Unfortunately, Daniel Radcliffe and Emma Watson didn't lend their voices to Harry and 
 Hermione, among many others. You'll get the Weasley voices in particular, and Voldemort's, but 
 there's still plenty more use of the license to be had. As what was used turned out excellent.
 
  
  John Williams' theme is now in there too, which again proves that use of the license makes the 
 games way better. This is easily the best soundtrack yet because of it. There are still songs only 
 from the games, but this is another decent step toward the awesome Potter game we all want.
  
  This definitely isn't it though. The Wii remote work is actually pretty good, except for Reducto, 
 which just won't work. Other than that, it generally responds well.
  
  But that just proves my point. It sort of works. The characters move way, way too slow, and makes 
 the game way slower paced than it could've, and should've, been.
  
  It's plenty of fun exploring Hogwarts and using magic all over the place, but it's not so fun doing 
 fetch quests for the other characters. It seems the game is using these to make you explore, and 
 it's a shame that there wasn't better execution in this.
  
  Fighting off Slytherins in duels is good fun, and using magic is too, but everything in between 
 can drag a bit. The characters moving slowly doesn't seem like a big deal, but it is. And the game 
 acts like it can't think of anything better to do for you.
  
  Why not have you just face the things Harry faced in the books and movies? That's where the best 
 gameplay ever would come from. Focus on expanded, action-packed scenes based right off the books. 
 These games would sell like crazy if this was done. The engine off Order of the Phoenix, with characters 
 moving faster, plus that plan, would make an amazing Potter game.
  
  The game is reasonably long, but at the expense of destroying a lot of what it was going for. It 
 was a missed opportunity, truly, and could've been spectacular. There are some cool interviews 
 with the actors to be found, and if all the gameplay was as well executed as the dueling, this 
 would be one hell of a game.
  
  I can't stress that enough. If Half Blood Prince does just this and fixes the character movement, 
 fetch quests and maybe adds the right voice actors, you've got a Potter game that hardcore gamers 
 will swarm around.
  
  The game is sort of worth it, especially if you're a Potter fanatic, and there's fun to be had. 
 The magic, dueling, and extras are cool. But like two or three major flaws take away from what 
 could have been the first amazing Potter game.
  
  We can only hope this game will be repeated, without the flaws. For now this game isn't the best 
 in the series, but it has the best ideas. C'mon EA... You've almost got it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak4400
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  this is a pretty good fun game if your a harry potter fan. it's not perfect but it's worth your 
 money. there are new fun features that are just great. actual wizard chess is one awesome new feature. 
 you can really play chess with a computer player! the fun but challenging part is that the wii 
 mote and wii chuck have to do certain spell by moving them in a certain way! like for some spells 
 you have to spin the wii remote to cast the spell. but one thing i HATE in the game is that THERE 
 IS NO QUITTICH!!! in other harry potter games i had for the computer they all had quiitich where 
 you could play against another house team. but this one doesn't have it! but i saw a trailer on 
 harry potter and the half blood prince and it has quittich. so that means the video game should 
 have quittich. back to the game , it has duels with slytherrins. another flaw is it has no multi 
 player . i mean , wouldn't it be cool to duel your friends on it. i read all the books and the 
 5th game has a little more to do with the book than the 5th movie. book 6 is my favorite. that 
 will be an excellent game if it comes out. which im pretty sure they will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 29, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is not worth the suggested retail price and should be bought on sale or used. Not that 
 it is not fun, but it lacks the kind of depth similarly-priced games like Legend of Zelda - Twilight 
 Princess has. That game is worth every penny you paid, but the game-play in this one seems brief 
 in comparison.
  
  One of the things I did like was the beautiful and expansive terrain, with lots of items to find. 
 Controls for casting spells is better than in previous Harry Potter games, and some of the boss 
 battles can be challenging.
  
  I absolutely hated the aiming reticule, it can be very frustrating, as are attempts to move items 
 with magic. Like Metroid Prime: Corruption, this game's developer should have borrowed from Twilight 
 Princess, which has an easy-to-see targeting reticule. 
  Like Metroid, the targeting reticule can easily seem to disappear in the heat of battle. Some of 
 the mini battles (like with Slytherin enemies) are, because of a weak targeting system, almost 
 impossibly random. Just stand a fire away, hoping you hit someone. DUMB!
  
  But worst of all is the final boss battle with Voldemorte, which is beyond dumb and way too simple. 
 In fact, it is downright silly; shake the Wii remote up and down, now left and right, until he 
 is defeated. LAME, LAME, LAME!
  Overall, I was disappointed, and wished I had found this at a yard sale for half the price.
  
 
  My advice, wait for a yard sale! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fencingbean
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 27, 2008 12:33 am PT
Review:  This fun Wii game is yet another example of Gamespot's constatant persecution of reasonable Wii 
 games. Probably one of the better games in the Harry Potter series.
  
  Gamespot accuse this game of practically everything. One of these things is tedious objectives 
 and backtracking quests. What Gamespot seem to have forgotten is that some of the games they have 
 rated as the best game of all time have even more tedious objectives and backtracking game.
  
  You can explore Hogwarts and cast random spells on people so the duel you. Unfortunatly, when 
 you move the Wii remote correcty to cast a spell, it cast the wrong spell or doesn't bother to 
 cast anything at all. You can basically do what you like and some of he tasks are quite fun. So 
 I have to diasagree wit Gamespot on this one.
  
  Inj conclusion, I think Harry Potter and the Oreder of the Pheonix is an unappreciated fun wii 
 game which is good for anyone who enjoyed the books and the films.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bceagles358
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is an excellent game for Nintendo Wii. I would strongly 
 recommend it to anyone that is a fan of the Harry Potter series. Someone that has never read the 
 books or has never seen the movies may still have fun with the game  but not to the same degree 
 as a Harry Potter fanatic would. 
  
  First off, I must say  the entire castle and grounds are absolutely beautiful. You can spend hours 
 just wandering around and admiring Hogwarts. The cool thing about this game is that you can actually 
 do that. You have tasks to do, but you can pretty much get them done whenever you feel like it. 
 I think they refer to these types of games as "sandbox" games. 
  
  I've read some horrible reviews about this game. If you're a diehard Harry Potter fan, ignore those 
 reviews  you will love this game. The frame rate is fine, I know a lot of critics and players 
 have had issues with that. 
  
  There are a few problems that I have with the game, but they are not really that big of a deal. 
 First off, the motion controls are not always the best. Sometimes I'll do one spell and it'll do 
 a different one (whichever is best for the object) . For example, if you need to 'Reparo' something 
 and do the spell for 'Reducto' instead  it will, most of the time, 'Reparo' that object. Another 
 small problem I have is that, for whatever reason, it has a hard time picking up the 'Stupefy' 
 spell. To do the spell, you are supposed to push both the Wii Remote and Nunchuk forward towards 
 the screen. Sometimes it works when I do that, other times it does not. That ends up not being 
 that big of a deal though, because there really aren't as many duels in the game as one would want/expect. 
 When there are duels, I usually just use the other spells, (especially 'Protego' to deflect a spell 
 back at the caster) and I'm fine. It also says in the game that if you hold 'B' while targeted 
 on a person, they will either run away or duel you. I've actually never encountered a time when 
 they challenged me to a duel  they always run away.
  
  Though Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix has a few flaws for Nintendo Wii, it is an amazing 
 game nonetheless. The pros that the game brings far outweigh the cons. If you are a Harry Potter 
 fan, or just enjoy games where you can wander around and do whatever you want  this game is a 
 must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kielmanowicz
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 9, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  The game presented some new movements and tried to inovate, but in the end control perseption is 
 horrible storyline is ridiculous repetitive objectives, a real shame to the other HP games who 
 were at least acceptable. The graphics could be better, the sound is not accurate. Ridiculous batles 
 and slow movement. it would be better if the game did'nt exist so that the famous HP name wouldn't 
 be stained. Anyway agood year for gaming might be a bad one for ilusioning. If you know what i 
 mean!!! This should be refered to as a joke not a game. limited actions made me want to trhow my 
 WII trhough the window. Let's hope the next HP game is tolerable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galadreil782
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Have you ever sat down and said to yourself , I'd like to be at hogwarts? Or said , I wonder what 
 it's like to really use a wand ? Well, if you get this game... both of those questions will be answered 
 in a jiffy! In this version of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, you actually use the 
 Wii remote as a wand ! And for the first time ever, the castle is the exact same size as the set 
 for all of the Harry Potter movies ! Well , lets move on to the review.
  
  Game Play -- &gt; 9/10 This time around , its not do this , then go directly and do this its kinda 
 when you feel like it , go and do this . By this I mean, you do everything in your own time. Some 
 people are calling this HP game a GTA type game. Meaning that there is incredible free roam. Go 
 anywhere anytime you want in the HUGE castle. Also, this time there is a streaming environment. 
 Which means.... NO LOAD TIMES ! Also , almost everything is fully interact-able. So, if you see 
 a bench in the courtyard you dont like, Wingardium Leviosa it over into the Great Hall. The game 
 play is the best the series has ever had, but its only drawback is the length of the game itself. 
 I beat the main story in 3 days.
  
  Music -- &gt; 10/10 The music in this game is incredible! EA managed to get the ability to use Hedwigs 
 Theme from the movies in this game. The music is great, sometime I just left the game on to listen 
 to Hedwigs theme and the other great music's of this game. The music was very very well done on 
 this game. Controls -- &gt; 19/10 If you were planning on getting this game for any other system 
 other than the wii, I bet you would be drawn back last minute to purchase this version just for 
 the controls. No longer is it Press x to cast wingardium leviosa now its list the wii remote up 
 to cast wingardium leviosa . This is great because sometimes you really feel like a wizard. Only 
 down side is, the controls can sometimes be unresponsive. Even the wii remote feels like a wand 
 because of its shape and the movements that you make to cast the spells. I think the controls would 
 be the main selling point for this version of the game. Graphics -- &gt;10/10 Now, I bet I am going 
 to get some disagreements from some people on this next one. Alot of people are saying that this 
 game is nothing in graphics compared to Ps3 Xbox360 version. And, I bet they are right. But, with 
 the Wii's graphics processors and the wii's standard of games this game is a master piece indeed. 
 The castle looks great especially from the outside. When you are going up the Main Staircase and 
 see all the paintings on the walls you can really compare it to great master-pieces that are already 
 on the Wii such as The Legend Of Zelda: Twilight Princess which was regarded for its graphics. 
 My personal opinion is that this game's graphics are the best on the Wii. Thats right, better than 
 any other game.
  
  So, were you going to the store to buy this game, but you suddenly had second thoughts? Maybe you 
 thought it would be horrible? Gimmicky? As some gamers put it another movie game that trys to milk 
 its franchise for all its worth ? Well its not, this game is a game of all games. A master piece 
 to be thought of in years to come. Yes, that is how good this game really is. So if you see this 
 game in a store, pull out your Wii Remote and say ACCIO ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RHCPfan24
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game; I did. Despite reading rather sub-par reviews, I decided to 
 land $50 on this game and I felt disappointed with my purchase. This will appeal to Potter fans 
 (like me) , but not really anyone else. On the positive side, Hogwarts is rendered beautifully, 
 even for the Wii, and it is all explorable. Unfortunately, this is why the game fails as well. 
 The NPCs task you to run around the whole school dozens of time throughout the course of the game 
 finding stupid items and doing middling tasks. The controls in this game are also unresponsive. 
 Having both a Wii and 360, I chose to buy this version because of the promise of "cool" motion-control. 
 Maybe I should have bought the Xbox version. Placing paintings on walls and moving cogs around 
 in a clock are damn near stress and explicit inducing when moving the remotes a half-inch the wrong 
 way sends the pieces flying across the room, being followed by a sometimes nausea-inducing camera 
 that will spin in circles if you remote is moved a different way. 
  
  I am giving this game a rather high score, but that is just because I am Potter fan and love the 
 representation of Hogwarts (why can't I walk around in Ministry of Magic?) . Otherwise, this review 
 would have been done around a full point. The control is just annoying and the gameplay is the 
 same thing over and over again. Only serious Potter fans apply here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenaciousAds
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter order of the phoenix is ok but it is annoying with all the different hand movements. 
 The game is frustrating when it doesn'tknow your hand movements the story is dull, Actually half 
 the game is doing chores for the D. A Very disapointing although classes can be enjoyable and the 
 graphics are outstanding. I completed the story within two days finding the passwords can be fun, 
 If you get this for the wii it is a good choice theres just to much faults if they would have spent 
 a month longer creating it it would be near perfect. Rent it first before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuck1234526
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  I can't beleive that EA took a perfectly good oppertunity with the wii remote as a magic wand and 
 threw it in the dirt. Then again, I'm not new to gaming. From a newbie's perspective, the game 
 is a great start to the gaming world. Like what any developer would do with harry potter and the 
 wii, you use the nunchuck's analog stick to move harry, and the wii remote to cast different spells. 
 
  
  Having played the game for a while, I've actually found that the motions are quite unresponsive. 
 Accio is sometimes mistaken for that other pushing spell (those names are so hard to remember) 
 and stupefy with expelliamus. 
  
  Comparing to other games on the Wii, the graphics aren't so good looking either. Harry and the 
 gang almost look 8-bit in 3-D. 
  
  I know I'm insulting the best part of Harry Potter games, but Hogwarts is so huge that it is almost 
 impossible to navigate. The secret passages help a little, but they tend to lead you to someplace 
 where you don't even know where you are, let alone being close to where you need to be to complete 
 the multiple annoying fetch quests in the game. 
  
  Like I said before, I am extremely dissapointed in the way EA treated this movie. Horrible. Just 
 horrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zofc
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 3, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  I have seen all the previous movies, but not this one. I am not a HUGE fan of Harry Potter but 
 I don't despise it. I'm pretty neutral on it. Unbiased. Anyway, I thought the movies were gorgeous, 
 yet couldn't get into the books. And I have never bought/played any of the Harry Potter games. 
 But I was at my local EB store and asked the salesperson (who just so happens to be my good friend) 
 How is this game? He said was really good and convinced me to buy it. I hate this game. The controls 
 seem unresponsive quite a lot, I have no idea what's going on in the story line. And I'm quite 
 tired of running around the school looking for things I have no clue where they would be. The game 
 is very frustrating to me. So I got to thinking. My friend really likes this game, I know other 
 people who like this game. But guess what? All the people I know that love the game, are also big 
 Harry Potter fans. I am not. People either love it, or hate it I have found.
  
  Love it= Harry Potter fan
  Hate it= Not a Harry Potter fan
  
  So if you are not a Harry Potter 
 fan, I highly recommend that you DON T buy this game. You should rent it first. But if you are 
 a Harry Potter fan, this is a great game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schwass
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 12, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  This game is dreadful and I own this because I had all shooting or gore games and my mum told me 
 to get a nice one with the Wii (I intend to trde Harry Potter in quick.
  
  The faces of the characters look nothing like their movie counterparts which is just silly. Most 
 of the missions that you have to accomplish aren't in the movie and are very irritating and dull.
 
  Controls can be infuriating as the remote doesn't detect if you are doing a movement rapidly (back 
 and forth quickly) as this is required in missions so this leads to doing the same thing for around 
 5 minutes.
  In fact the controls are so bad if you were playing on medium its like playing on hard. 
  
 
  Yes Hogwarts may be a big environment but the rooms, hallways and building in general are extremely 
 repetitive so this creates confusion and become lost very often.
  
  The spells are pretty weak and fighting scenes are very slow and don't pump the adrenaline as much 
 as they could.
  
  Ron and Hermione are extremely irrating and will repeat your objects without ever lending a hand 
 and you'll end up screaming at your telly telling them to shut up.
  
  The map isn't very useful because while its shows where the person/place is it doesn't tell you 
 HOW to get there so this sometimes gets annoying.
  
  There are about 12 or so spells in total but they are divided into combat and non-combat spells 
 which is one of the only good features as you dont have to remember how to cast them all. 
  
  The story is a absolute mess and if you haven't read the book for all we know it could've been 
 about aliens invading iraq.
  
  Overall this game ISN'T worth a purchase as you'll be just shaking your head in disappointment. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3zoozM
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  ok now before i start talking about this game, i want to tell you that if you dont like Harry Potter, 
 you probably wont like the game. I love all Harry Potter books and movies, and thats why i bought 
 this game. So EA Games finally made a free-roam Harry Potter. in this one, you control Harry (obviously) 
 but you control a couple of the other characters for a couple of minutes (Dumbledore, Serius, and 
 the Weasly twins) . EA truely worked hard n this one, as they made a blueprint of Hogwarts which 
 they collected from ALL 5 MOVIES AND BOOKS, so might find things that were not in the movies, that 
 i loved a lot. for example, when harry first meets Cho Chang in this part, Ron makes a comment 
 about her Tornados quidditch team badge. Moving on to gameplay, i thought that the gameplay was 
 the games weakspot, Ron and Hermione keep getting in your way and the spells movement is waaay 
 off, you try to cast an Expelliarmus but he casts a Protego instead. and levitating objects with 
 the Wingardium Leviosa is very annoying. And the footsteps that lead you to your distenation sometimes 
 suddenly stops on the grand staircase, which is very annoying. Storyline was great, scripts were 
 ok as well. The game isn't very long, you finish it pretty fast so the fun dies quickly, but you 
 can keep playing it after you finish it to explore the school and get 100% discovery points, and 
 all other mini games. In the end, and like i said, its a matter of taste, if ur a real harry potter 
 fan, you would love the game and those things wont matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malxmusician212
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The beginning was incredible but then at about 55% you fight voldemort! Kinda out of order but 
 great game!!! I found that some of the wii motions were inaccurate sometimes, and there were only 
 10 spells/curses that you could cast. You can't play quittich, and you can't use the broom at all. 
 This game however does deserve an 8 rating instead of the 5 rating that gamespot give Harry Potter: 
 and the Order of the Phoenix. Like all book/movie video games Harry Potter 5 the game doesn't follow 
 the book much, i haven't seen the movie so i cna't say if it does or doesn't follow the movie. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattz07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I think this is on of the best games I have played yea there is a lot of running back and forth 
 people who think that is boring is just a lazzy son of a B**** lol I love it I'am not a huge fan 
 I have seen all 5 movies and read 3 of the books so far lol but anyways I love it and about the 
 graphics who cares its the Wii as long as the game has fun gameplay and remote movement I think 
 we should be happy I love it. anyways its a game that true harry potter fans would like 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link2193
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 8, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix on Wii is the best Hogwarts adventure that has been created! 
 In my opinion the best movie tie in of the year is without doubt the best Potter adventure! You 
 have to say it doesn't have much to live up to with the mediocre Goblet of Fire and the on par 
 Prizoner of Azkaban and Chamber of Secrets! Plus it was to be the first Harry Potter Wii game which 
 could only mean one thing, the Wii Remote being your wand! To cast different spells you must perform 
 different motions with the Wii Remote and Nunchuk! You have to lock onto the person or object with 
 the B button and complete the motion! It really is that easy and suprsingly works amazingly well!
 
  
  Some of you Potter fans may be looking to the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions which without doubt have 
 better graphics! But the Wii also displays Hogwarts suprisingly well! It is much better than the 
 PS2 graphics and runs in fluid motions! Plus the actors from the movies have donated their voices! 
 Harry, Ron, Ginny, Neville, Fred, George, Cho all have their actors voices! This adds to the atmosphere 
 greatly and just polishes the game off! For the first time ever you can explore the massive Hogwarts 
 without any load times! Hogwarts is magnificent and includes all those little details that the 
 fans will know, recognise and love, like the Library, Myrtle's bathroom etc. You can explore it 
 all at your own will while recruiting members of the DA by completing tasks!
  
  Describing the genre of this game is also interestingly difficult! I think I would describe it 
 as a adventure-action-collect 'em up and it combines well! Overall Order of the Phoenix on Wii 
 is the best offering of the game because of the innovative controls and great presentation of Hogwarts! 
 Well done EA!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justiceboy13
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 6, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Well, this has truely been the summer of Potter. The 5th movie in the series and the final book 
 came out within weeks of each other, bringing the Harry Potter phenomenon to a whole new level. 
 But how is the game?
  
  Not bad, not bad at all.
  
  First of all I am a devout Harry Potter fan, I have read every book many times and seen all the 
 movies multiple times as well. They are amazing. And if you like the books or the movies (or both, 
 which is pretty common these days) there is alot to enjoy here. Tons of nods to previous entries 
 in the series, both the books and movies. As all of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry 
 is available for exploration, you will run across many familar locales, such as Hagrid's Hut, Myrtle's 
 Bathroom, the Clock Tower, Prefect's Bathroom, Dungeons, and many other places. Hogwarts is beautifully 
 and faithfully represented, and if you've ever had a childish fantasy about being a student at 
 Hogwarts this is as close as it gets, sadly. The whole school, and I mean the WHOLE school is open, 
 in this sand-box style Potter game. If you're a hardcore Potter fan like me, you will be thrilled 
 by how accurate and amazingly Hogwarts is brought to screen. Everything is open to you, it's spectacular. 
 There are even nods to latter entries in the series (spoilers for Half-Blood Prince and Deathly 
 Hallows follow)
  
  [spoilers] There is a scene in this game where you must clean Grimmauld Place with Ginny. You come 
 across a golden locket that won't open. It's Slytherin's Locket, AKA a horcrux taken by Sirius' 
 brother Regulus. It's suprising that this is featured because the movie and game of Order of the 
 Phoenix came out a couple of weeks before Deathly Hallows, where it is explained that Kreacher 
 and Regulus took the locket. Very nice nod, as a Potter fan I was tickled. Also, the fact that 
 this is even in the game means that Rowling must have had some co-operation with the movie-makers 
 about the importance of the Locket, who then passed that info down to EA, or she talked directly 
 to EA. It adds to the authenticity a great deal. [/spoilers]
  
  The gameplay in here, although solid, is flawed. The dueling controlls are a bit awkward and sluggish 
 at times, which can be frustrating. Gesture controlls work fine for non-combat gameplay, but it 
 is at times non-responsive when dueling, especially with multiple enemies. The lock-on controlls 
 will confuse you for a while, though you'll eventually get used to it and wonder why you found 
 it so difficult before. That's why I said this game as a 1-2 hour learning curve. What would have 
 been better for combat, however is making a waving motion with the remote and maybe holding down 
 buttons simultaneously. Regardless, it is pretty fun, if at times awkward. The motion controlls 
 are very natural feeling for some things, such as Wingardium Leviosa , the lifting spell. The rest 
 of the game controlls fine, combat aside. Overall, combat takes a backseat to exploration, love 
 it or hate it. I can't speak for everyone, but I loved it, though at times fetch quests and similar 
 things get tedius. As I said earlier, all of Hogwarts is explorable, along with most of Grimmauld 
 Place and a few other random locations. There are tons of sidequests and secondary missions to 
 do, along with several mini-games. I was impressed. There is alot to do. You even get to play as 
 the Weasley twins, Sirius, and Dumbeldore. Ron and Hermoine are of course always there to give 
 you a hand, and some other members of Dumbeldore's Army give you support once and a while.
  
  The graphics are over-all very good. They are quite impressive, and not just for a Wii game. 
 It looks about as good as it's 360 and PS3 counterparts, in all honesty. However there are some 
 minor bugs and frame rate issues at times. All the characters are brought to life very faithfully 
 and nicely, though they can look a bit robotic at times. The textures are very good, and the castle 
 looks very nice. There are quite a few very nice looking places in the castle, due to realistic 
 lighting and shading effects. So on a whole, this game is very good looking, all minor beefs aside.
 
  
  The sound is this game's highpoint. About 20 of the actors lend their vocal talents to this game, 
 including Rupert Grint (Ron) , Ralph Fiennes (Voldemort) , Tom Felton (Malfoy) , and most all of Ron's 
 family. The rest of the characters are all voiced by very convincing sound-a-likes. The main theme 
 from the movies is also used for the first time in the series; no more generic knock-offs and sound-a-likes. 
 The NPCs sound pretty good too. The sound is overall spectacular, and makes this game what it is; 
 the most authentic Potter experience to date.
  
  The value is tricky. If you're a very big fan of Harry like me; it's well worth $50 as you'll want 
 to wring this baby dry, and explore Hogwarts inside and out. Everyone else may want to think twice, 
 however. If you're not a completionist and not a very big Potter fan; this would serve as a very 
 good rent. This should go without saying but: if you don't like Potter, skip it. There are about 
 10-20 hours of gameplay here (I don't know for sure, as there is no timer that appears by your 
 save file or anything like that) . But if you are a fan this will last you at least a week playing 
 1 or 2 hours at a time, about as much time as it takes to read the Order of the Phoenix book at 
 a pretty fast pace, really.
  
  Now let it be known, this is without a doubt the most authentic Potter video game to date. The 
 motion controlls that mimic spell casting, phenomenal voice acting and music, stunning graphics, 
 and overall obsessive attention to detail that has been put into this game make it that way. The 
 room of rewards which contains a few nice little easter eggs is fun too. Although it sort of rushes 
 through the story at times, it does include a few things from the book that the movie left out, 
 which is nice. Once again, all of Hogwarts is explorable, which is honestly the thing that makes 
 this game worth owning. The colorful characters of Rowling's masterpiece are brought to life lovingly 
 here, along with Hogwarts itself. You might also want to note that characters from past Potter 
 movies and books that don't appear in Order of the Phoenix show up around here occasionally. Potter 
 fans will love the references to earlier Potter movies/books, and along with the few hints at what 
 is to come. Once you get past this game's flaws: fetch quests, character models that are so much 
 like their on-screen counterparts it's creepy, lack of combat (though I didn't mind it, some certainly 
 will) , minor frame-rate issues, and a few other frivolous things, there is alot to enjoy and the 
 positives outweigh the negatives by a long shot if you're a Potter fan. After playing this I am 
 very excited to see with EA does with the Half-Blood Prince and Deathly Hallows video games we're 
 sure to see sometime soon. This is a great stepping stone for other entries in the series, and 
 would be a very good example for the next games to build off of.
  
  So, to put it short, this is a must play if you like Harry Potter at all, whether you rent it or 
 buy it is up to you. I cannot remember enjoying a movie license game so much since The Lord of 
 the Rings: the Return of the King and Spider-man 2 . Overall, I liked this game alot, and chances 
 are you will to if you're a fan of Harry Potter. Aveda Kedavra! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoho241
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  While the spells, visual effects, and storyline COULD have been amazing, subtle things such as 
 giving no real freedom concerning what you do or where you go, along with zombie-like movement 
 and difficult to control spells have earned my disinterest. I thought the ability to cast spells 
 would be wonderful, while the truth isn't exactly *magical*. The spells, such as Windgardian Leviousa 
 and Stupefy, are difficult to control or don't have a long-enough range. Concerning the storyline, 
 when I tried to go a different direction than one of the DA members during that quest, I was actually 
 reprimanded by Hermione for being off-task! I just wanted to get some more points to unlock more 
 stuff!!! How life-like is that?!?! I couldn't even jinx her if I wanted to ( which I did!) The 
 invisibility cloak was annoying because Ron and Hermione would protest whenever I touched something... even 
 when they told me to do it!!! All in all, not all it was cracked up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billy2by4
Rating: 4.7
Date: Aug 5, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  Both the movie and the book were amazing and exciting, but the game just ruined it. First of all, 
 they skip through so much in the story. They give you no dialouge. Ex. In the beginning of the 
 game your on the swing set and all of a sudden after 3 sentences right after another, your chasing 
 him into a tunnel when its randomly begins a thuder storm while pouring down on you. 3 more sentences 
 and you have cast a spell. After a scene your with Black in the order. You don't even meet Tonks 
 in the game. Another reason is that you have to go back and forth so many times it's soon not even 
 worth playing. Go to the Portrait, find a gryffindor, back to the portrait, in the common room, 
 go to class, find someone outside, go to Umbridge, and it goes on and on and on. After I beat the 
 game I was like its finally done, lets now go to something else. After you beat the story the game 
 has no reason any more. A good game needs side quests to keep the game fun and interesting. The 
 minigames get boring and won't cut it to keep it going and interesting.
  
  So, if you have not read the book than don't get it. The movie does not give you enough of an idea 
 to whats going on because of the offtracking of the game. And if you have read the book recently 
 or not, I still suggest not to get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kieranm2005
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 4, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  This game could have been so much more if EA had worked a little more on it, it's still not all 
 bad tho.
  
  The story of the game like the film is too short, the film misses loads out and the game misses 
 even more out, leaving you with a very short story. It's so short that it's only 50% of the game, 
 the other half is running around doing all the mini games and finding all the passwords etc. The 
 game's story would have been alot better with just afew cinematics. The tasks in the game are not 
 fun at all, at least in the earyer games for PS2 (books 2 and 3's games) you had to do tasks in 
 class and go through a level to learn new spells or get ingreients for Snape's home work. Not in 
 this one, you don't even need to go to class, you just run around all the time doing things for 
 the DA. Harry and Ron don't even play quidditch once in the game or use a broom for that matter.
 
  
  The best thing about the game would have to be fighting Slytherin around the school, you can attack 
 a group of them at anytime. The spellcasting using the wii remotes it alot of fun and noting is 
 more fun then a big wand fight. So overall an ok game, just lacking in content and thus fun. If 
 your a Harry Potter fan then this game is for you, if you are just a normal wii gamer, pass this 
 one by until it is under &pound;20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunner602
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Graphics are not the main grapple for the Wii, from your first glance at Hogwarts, you can tell 
 this is the case for Harry Potter. Expect pixelated characters with jagged edges, aliasing is extremely 
 noticeable, I played it on a 50 Plasma at 480p WS, the best the Wii can put out. It will look better 
 on your standard 27 CRT, because the aliasing will be less noticeable.
  
  One good and bad thing about this game is there are no loading screens except for when you first 
 start it up. That might seem good, but because the Wii has to constantly stream data everywhere 
 you go, framerate drops are evident. Despite the graphics and framerate the game offers hours on 
 end of discoveries and exploration. There is tons to do, but be wary, the experienced Harry Potter 
 veteran will make short work of this game, I beat it and uncovered 82% in around 10 hours. While 
 there are various mini-games you could spend additonal time on, such as Wizard Chess, Gobstones, 
 and Exploding Snaps which are fairly amusing. Once a majority of your environment is explored, 
 there is hardly much there to entertain you.
  
  And don't expect the core of the game to help you either, often you are sent from one point in 
 Hogwarts to another on very repetitive fetch tasks.
  
  Duels are rare (4-6 in the whole game) , and when they do happen, they were a let down to me, the 
 Wii remote is sensitive, but I feel the spells take to much time to initiate. Often when you try 
 puting up a defensive block, your character stands idle for a good 1-1.5 seconds after you wave 
 your arm to commence the spell. Duels more often then not boil down to waving your Wii remote repeatedly 
 in directions you remember for one or two spells.
  
  The spell where you thrust both the nunchuck and wiimote forward hits the enemy very rarely on 
 higher levels, the developers honestly must not have test-ran this game very extensively. Because 
 that spell arcs towards the enemy and flys over them 9/10 times. On low levels it works fine because 
 only one beam is shot, but on higher levels, it gets more beams and makes a star shaped arc toward 
 the enemy, if only it would hit them...
  
  I played on normal, and never lost a duel, I don't even think you can lose in duels, and I rarely 
 came out of one feeling I hit the enemy more than they hit me. Another gripe I have is the targeting 
 system, what were they thinking? Often when you are trying to target one thing, your character 
 keeps targeting another thing. Sometimes doing 180 turns almost purposely to ignore the object 
 your trying to target. In duels, targeting is useless, you hit it to lock onto an enemy, do a couple 
 spells, and then when you get hit and go to your knees, there not targeted anymore. And sometimes 
 when you try to retarget that same enemy, Harry puts away his wand, because put away wand and target 
 are the same button. So only if the game sees another object/person to target, it will unequip 
 your wand... yes this does happen in dueling.
  
  One thing I found amusing, was that your spells are upgraded when you find more discoveries, well, 
 that is all and good, but when you spend hours finding discoveries, and only fight in a few minute 
 long duels with your upgraded spells, whoop-di-do. And like the spell I mentioned above, sometimes 
 upgrading the spell cripples it.
  
  When they first announced this game, and some of its features, I imagined running loose around 
 Hogwarts getting into duels with Slytherins and jinxing them and starting big fights. Unfortunately, 
 the only area I found where you can use those spells you duel with, are in the Slytherin dungeons. 
 That is all fine, but when you attack a Slytherin, you expect them to fight back... no, they just 
 run away, and because the dungeon is so small, almost every time you try to fight someone, Snape 
 catches you and puts you in detention. What is wrong with this picture? Did the developers seriously 
 try to make this game only for the explorers and not the duelers? Apparently so, a huge let down 
 for me. While I enjoyed exploring the game and its huge environement, that is only half of the 
 what Harry Potter is all about to me. I want to be able to fight other students, or why give me 
 5 spells only allowed in dueling and then a few duels to fight with them in?
  
  There was so much I feel they could have done, such as making a specified dueling arena, multiplayer 
 perhaps? Put back in the collectable cards that were in the last games. Faster spell response to 
 wiimote movements. Addition of Anti-aliasing would have helped out loads on the visual side. Removal 
 of Hermione/Ron everywhere you go, they do more to block you then help you.
  
  This game could have been great, and maybe is to some, but I considered it disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalisticpain
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 2, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  First Impression? Mine was a wtf moment. Now from trying other harry potter games believe me I 
 didnt come into this one with any expectations but this was like... yeah.
  
  So to begin, using Gamespot old rating system Ill hit straight to my main problem area for this 
 game.... Graphics!. basically the Wii is more powerful then the graphics shown in this game thats 
 for sure... infact i believe the N64 is more powerful and could reproduce the Absolutely horrendous 
 character models!! They are sooooo stiff its unbelieveable. Its like... they look liek their movie 
 counterparts... only as if they have been frozen in a snapshot and only their mouths can move (an 
 their mouths dont move much) . Moving about is jerky and it all looks extreemly clunky.
  
  Gameplay... I didnt stand the game long enough to tell you indepth, however there was one aspect 
 which i though was handles extreemly well and that was the Wingardium Leviosa Spell. You basically 
 used nunchuk and wiimote lifted the target into the air and by tilting directed where you wanted 
 to go. it was really quite a neat way to do the spell. The others were... meh... the levitations 
 pell ws the only one that really had something going for it. Targeting.... you pressed B to switch 
 targets, however i couldnt actually tell what i was targeting in the first place as i couldnt see 
 a reticle or anything soo..
  
  Sound: not to bad overall, i didnt play very long but the voice acting was preety good, shame that 
 they projected from cardboard cutouts... Music was ok nothing flahs from what i heard
  
  Story: I shuddered when Sirius told harry that he could use magic in grimuald place because of 
 (half baked reason i stopped listening by this point) I mean really! he cant use magic outside 
 of school! why botch such a simple idea? doesnt create confidence in the rest of the story... I 
 wouldnt have cared if the whole intor untill you got to hogwarts was a cinematic... as long as 
 it followed the story.
  
  Valye: in AUS i think it came out for a week before it was reduced to half price... Honestly I 
 hired it for $3 and i considered that to be a waste of a valuable $3, maybe i should have tried 
 a bit harder? but honestly the animations were like stick figures and the story terrible.
  
  Im sooo frustrated!!! why cant JK actually over see these games and watch them as they completely 
 destroy everyone!!!! cant we gte ! game that has been in developmeny for ages and had everying 
 perfected andpolished? its the biggest selling series in the whole world for gods sake, but noo 
 lets just make a quick buck and stuff the poor consumer (prob parents who dont look at games before 
 they buy)
  
  ps. sorry fo spelling mistakes i think faster then i type 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLL2K5
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  This game is NOT that good. Buy it, you might enjoy it - if you're in to doing the same thing about 
 10 times. It's OK. The Wiimote is used as a wand which makes the game slightly better, but it takes 
 like 5 seconds for the spells to work. PLUS the spells don't always work and there isn't many spells 
 in the game. The book is better by far... than the Film and the game. Give it a shot. Good spells 
 but not many. I thought it would be better, but it is VERY repetitive. Good Graphics and sound but 
 it is a shame that you have to do the same thing a few times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAMEZNOW23
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in this game is very much the same that it has been in previous Harry Potter games. 
 The basis is basically run around doing almost dumb tasks for extras, and gradually getting an 
 extremely bad interpretation of the movies/books (books especially) through cut scenes and lame 
 tasks. The fights in the game are hard, and yet easy to get through. This is based solely on the 
 fact that the Wii remote controllers are quite useless. The controls are mainly tilt the controllers 
 up, or revolve them, or even tilt them down. It feels nothing like a wand would actually feel, 
 which defeats the entire purpose of having the task of waving your arms around while playing the 
 game. You, of course, use the nunchuck attachment to control Harry, and moving in this game is 
 something you really would like to avoid. I'm assuming they wanted movements to be realistic maybe, 
 but it didn't work out, it's so hard to control Harry and get around, and to move at any reasonable 
 speed you must press and hold a button which sometimes likes to not work. When that happens your 
 forced to walk at speeds that will force you to pull the hair from your head. The game in the very 
 beginning gives you a room for all of your extras, which include videos of producers and cast, 
 and other small things. You unlock these by gaining points, these are gained by doing various chores 
 around the castle, everything from repairing a statue to putting paintings on a wall that had fallen 
 to the floor. You gain them, and earn levels as you progress. You will end up dreading gaining 
 these levels because an annoying and very slow moving moaning myrtle will come down to let you 
 know there are new extras to enjoy in the secret room! Oh joy, now let me continue with the game, 
 and at least give the option to skip the scene. The puzzles are very easy to get through, and really 
 offer nothing entertaining. The duels you find around the castle are of course made extremely easy 
 by the creators due to the annoying controls which present a challenge to use.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are, well, really bad. The Wii of course doesn't really exist to give 
 a great visual experience, but you have to expect more then this from next generation games. Harry's 
 character model, from a distance, looks pretty good, but in cut scenes the characters really do 
 hurt to look at. The castle is definitely beautiful though, absolutely gorgeous. It's very big 
 with somewhere to always go. Overall it's not great, but not horrible.
  
  Sound:
  The game uses the soundtrack from the movies, which is stellar to say the least. There really isn't 
 much more to say on the music, it's not that bad on the ears. It can get repetitive I suppose, 
 but all adventure games just loop the same song over and over again, so it truly isn't anything 
 new to have a problem with.
  
  Value:
  The game offers little to no value for most people. The reward room really isn't worth getting 
 everything for, mainly because the rewards are pretty much a waste of time. The story of the game 
 is not very long lived and extremely boring for most. Die hard Harry Potter fans will probably 
 get a few good hours out of this game, but most probably will end up bored extremely fast. So I'd 
 say it's a rental possibly if you're into Harry Potter outside of the games, but if you don't read 
 the books or movies then you will be bored extremely quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the order of the phoenix
  
  I saw the movie three times because it was so good and I rent the game. But I was surprised! The 
 game is really good. I don't think that the game would be good on Ps2 or wathever but on Wii... the 
 gameplay is great.
  The graphics are good but there's some glithes when there's cutscenes than can bother you. The 
 sounds are good too but sometimes the voices can be mixed with other caracters.
  Like I said I really liked the gameplay because you can make some magic... with the nunchuk and 
 wii remote. Really fun doing some magic If I would be at you're places, I would rent it and it's 
 fun you buy it because it's REALLY FUN!
  
  What I like in the game is that you can use the Marauder's Map so you can't be lost in Hogarts 
 by following I'm with some weard foot prints. There a lot of mini things to do: repairing things, 
 place things and discover some stuffs. There's a lot of unlockables: videogame making, interviews 
 upgrades and many other things.
  The story (of the game) is well done, weard but well done (by the film, not the book) .
  
  So 
 like I said before rent it but only if you like to do some magic tricks with you're two controllers. 
 Me, I'll go buy it next week because it's really FUN and because I will do after a new game but 
 this time in hard mode.
  
  Thanks for read!
  
  P. S. Emma Watson is really really beautiful ( In the real, not the videogame! ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK-47-M4
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is the fifth installment in the seven part phenomenon. 
 Now Hogwarts has been recreated using blueprints from the film sets and drawings from J. K. Rowling 
 herself. If you are looking to explore Hogwart's this game will be perfect for you. However if 
 you aren't the gameplay may get tedious.
  
  Hogwarts is HUGE, fortunately you can use the Maurauder's Map to guide you to where you want to 
 go. Unfortunately it leads you there with black footsteps. These are hard to see and sometimes 
 stop for no reason. They are only one or two footsteps ahead of you so you will end up going the 
 wrong way because you can't see where it is leading you.
  
  As for gameplay you mostly walk around and do quests. Some people will love this others, quite 
 the opposite, I really didn't like you recruit members of the D. A., a secret illegal club Harry 
 sets up to teach Defensive Magic, most of the game. Then ALL 25 of them have some whiney story 
 about why they won't or can't go. Some of them are stupid like: I need to find Gargoyles and But 
 that owl stole my package. But you get through them. And there is probably nothing more fun on 
 the Wii right now than to play as Dumbledore against Voldemort. Unfortunately, while you can go 
 back to Hogwarts once you beat the game, you can't replay your favorite parts, The Occlumency lesson's 
 controls are probably the most unresponsive of all the games on the Wii now. And you have to do 
 them FOUR times. However that wonderful fight between Voldemort and Dumbledore saved that part.
 
  
  This game is one of the most detailed titles available on Wii. Coming in the normal 16:9 widescreen 
 presentation and 480p. Very good graphics.
  
  The actual actors from the movies voice their respective characters which is wonderful. I HATE 
 sound a likes. Cool sound effects add to this already authentic experience.
  
  This game is worth the money depending on whether are not you like the quests, since they are the 
 bulk of the game.
  
  All in all I really like this game. Of course I'm a Harry Potter Fanatic but I would like to thank 
 EA for making the controls for this game on Wii GREAT instead of tacked on. Thank's EA.
  
  My advice: If you like the movies or the books, it's at least worth a rental. If you hate Harry 
 Potter, it's at least worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkiirraa99
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I think that this game is an okay game it is not bad but it is not great game either. As you can 
 see i gave this game a 7 which stands for a good game. Some bad things were the camera veiw, and 
 some good things are the gameplay.
  
  The bad things about this game are actually the best feature which is the spell casting system 
 because sometimes you get the wrong effect for your motions like when you are trying to cast wingardium 
 leviosa it casts accio instead. Another bad thing about this game is the camera view because when 
 you are trying to look at something the camera is in a weird angle so you can't see clearly what 
 you are doing. Another bad thing is the size of hogwarts it is kind of hard to find your way around 
 because it is so big but that problem is sort of solved by the navigating system with the foot 
 prints.
  
  The good things about this game are the spell casting because it is very fun to use and it is very 
 unique by instead of pressing a button you actually do the movements. Another plus about this game 
 are the graphics the graphics were very good on this game. Another good thing is that it is a free 
 roaming game with no loading screens you can do what ever you want you don't even have to do the 
 set tasks. Another good point is the duels they in my opinion are the best thing about the game 
 because they are very action packed and fun.
  
  So as you can see this game is an okay game that has it's good oints and sadly to say it's bad 
 points to especially with a game with so much potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingmickey2
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, this game looks absulutly AMAZING on the back cover, but really it is a short, shortly 
 enjoyable, and overall frustrating. Unless you are a hardcore fan of the Harry Potter series, than 
 it is worth playing... oh, 1 MORE TIME!
  
  Ok, Hogwarts is maybe the biggest design yet., and all the rooms are not made up. Luckly, you have 
 the Maurdurs (or whatevers) Map that guides you throughout the game. When I was younger, I had 
 the experence getting the 1st and 2nd one on the PC. Trust me, those ones were more engaging than 
 a next-gen game. Good times, good times. The graphics are exceptional, with minimal effort. Even 
 with EA's attempt to scan the actor's heads, they didn't do much. The only realistic thing in there 
 is the Grand Starcase. Miss Granger still needs to straighten her hair, as you can see her hair 
 strands making sudden bends. The music is next to outstanding, but the character dialouge is repetitive 
 and annoying. In an interview on G4, they said that they used over 20 actor voices, while you reilize 
 that you can only remember about 5 of the characters. Overall, the game is fun for about 3-4 hours, 
 then it gets repetitive. I reccomend that you rent this or get it at a bargain price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerFangRed
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Harry Potter has seen his fair share of a lot of television screens. Each movie has been equally 
 matched with a videogame tie-in, for just about every console. The past Harry Potter games have 
 mostly been boring platformers with minor puzzle elements, but this game shines through and rips 
 apart that mold. However ambitious this game, it just didn't quite destroy that mold. But one thing 
 is clear, this game is a fresh step in the right direction, and it held amazing potential that 
 hopefully will be harnessed in the next iteration of the series.
  
  In the Wii version of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, the fifth book in the series, 
 Harry Potter sees himself yet again at Hogwarts. However, this time, Voldermort is back and Harry 
 struggles to find people to believe him. The story is amazing, the only problem is, this game is 
 horrible at following the book or the movie at all. People who have yet to read the book or see 
 the movie will be scratching their heads trying to figure out what's going on. It's dissapointing 
 too, because the Order of the Phoenix has one of the most engaging stories of the series and it 
 could've been told very well in this game.
  
  The Wii version also features motion controls for both combat and other spells. First, is the normal 
 spells you use for everyday tasks. These spells follow a logical way of casting them, as depulso (the 
 spell that pushes things) is cast by flinging the Wiimote quickly forward. Wingardrium Leviosa (the 
 levitation spell) is performed by quickly moving both the Wiimote and Nunchuk vertically. There 
 are a variety of other spells including the popular Reparo and Incendio. Now we come to the combat. 
 The combat has a variety of spells to use also, but considering there are only a handful of duels 
 in the entire game, you won't be set much on fighting. Also, the fighting is unnecessarily clumsy 
 and spells are harder to perform. Also, while the missions seemed varied, they are mostly a bunch 
 of fetch-quests and will annoy most people (despite Potter fans, who will be more than happy to 
 help Luna find her lost belongings) .
  
  The graphics are some of the best seen on the Wii at this point. At least the enviromental graphics. 
 Buildings look absolutely stunning outside, and most areas inside look beautiful too. The grand 
 staircase will have fans drooling at seeing it for the first time recreated well in a videogame. 
 However, where the game slacked off is in the character models. They don't look nearly as pretty 
 as other versions, and it's sad considering how good the enviroment looks.
  
  The sound is exactly what you'd expect from a movie rendition of a game, especially Harry Potter. 
 With the licensing to the movie's music, you will hear all the scores from the films. However, 
 sound effects leave something to be desired and aren't rather well done.
  
  The game's worst point is its value. The story will not take most more than 10 hours which is a 
 rather short time. It does offer a minor bit of value in the form of discoveries, if you try and 
 get every last one. However, even then, it will most likely only add 3 more hours. After that, 
 there's really no reason to play it again or replay it for extra content because you can get it 
 in one play through.
  
  All in all, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is the best Harry Potter game in the series. 
 However, it still has it's share of flaws. Between the lackluster character models, the unwieldly 
 combat, and the not-so-well told story, this game represents something that most will not enjoy. 
 However, with that being said, the Order of the Phoenix will appeal to most Potter fans who have 
 read the books. At the very least, it's a rent for most Potter fans. It is most certainly a step 
 in the right direction for Potter games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  What is the problem with the Gamespot official reviewers and the Wii, they seem to hat everything 
 about it. 1) Graphics: They'll never be as good as the PS3 graphics because the hardware wont allow 
 it so GET OVER IT!! Gamespot - For a Wii game the graphics are excellent a 8/10. They hold a good 
 representation of the Hogwarts world and really push the console to its graphical limits, a testament 
 to the programmers who have made this possible. The characters even look like the movie ones adding 
 to the realism. 2) Sound: They get the original cast to voice act the game which is excellent. 
 More worryingly though is that their voice acting is actually much better here than in the actual 
 film and even the computer generated characters appear less wooden than they do in the movie (*cough 
 Hermione,*cough Weasley Twins.) . It adds greatly to the atmosphere of Hogwarts and makes the wolrd 
 ever more immersive. Sound 8/10
  
  3) Gameplay: The game is plagued by fetch quests? Have i heard this right Gamespot? You have marked 
 this game down for having fetch quests, you who have rated World of Warcraft the best game of all 
 time, which is formatively designed around the fetch quest ethos. Or is it that the fetch quests 
 here do not involve killing someone or something at the end of it? Could this be it? let me read 
 on..... oh not enough duels hey? So because the game does not involve enough killing it is only 
 worth a 50% score. THEY'RE FRICKEN SCHOOL CHILDREN GAMESPOT, WHAT SCHOOL DID YOU GO TO (WIZARD 
 OR NOT) HAD A DAILY ROUTINE OF FIRST YEAR GENOCIDE OR GANG WARFARE AMONGST THE PREFECTS? Constant 
 dueling would not fit into the story or the setting. The fact that there is little requirement 
 for killing things has meant i have found a game that all the family can enjoy. Gamespot as well 
 as many other gaming publishers have missed the point completely with the Wii and its games. It 
 is one of the first consoles that has made gaming a family activity. It has brought back playability 
 over pretty. This game is no exception. It allows you to explore Hogwarts and use the controller 
 like a wand. YOU CANT DO THAT WITH THE XBOX 360 OR PS3!! so why are they better, My girlfriend, 
 my parents my nieces and nephews don't give a monkeys about HDR effects or vertex shadings!! why? 
 Because they're too busy casting Wingarium Leviosa with their Wiimote!!!!!!!! Sorry, rant over. 
 Too the game play. The spell casting is excellent and you can practice it on many objects found 
 littered around Hogwarts which can make the journeys around Hogwarts more entertaining. There are 
 minigames like Wizard chess in various areas which i have found as engrossing as the whole game 
 itself. Fetch quests are completed by figuring out various puzzles, Although you are meant to get 
 help from Ron and Hermione, they are generally quite useless. Essentially there is no help and 
 it requires you to think a bit more than the Games i believe Gamespot are more used to, probably 
 another reason why they marked it down. The Mauraders map helps enormously to find the locations 
 you need to be at once you figure out how best to use it. The game play I would give 8/10
  
  In conclusion, This is a game accessible to everyone and can be enjoyed for the Hogwarts created 
 scenery and numerous puzzles as well as for the superb wand action. It creates an immersive world 
 that is the best effort yet of creating the Harry Potter universe in it's fullest glory. DO NOT 
 BELIEVE THE GAMESPOT REVIEW!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TillyMan88
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Although the HArry Potter series of video games havent beent he greatest i think they are way too 
 underated. The games offer hours of amusing things to do and the graphics and voice overs are excellent. 
 It may take a true harry potter fan to enjoy this game, but those of us that are, are not complaining.
 
  We have come to expect alot after reading the bestselling books and blockbuster movies, but in 
 all fairness its a decent game. As you travel through Hogwarts beautiful grounds for many diffferent 
 run and go quests you start to appreciate the simple beauty of living inside one of your favorite 
 stories. Learning to accept it as that will make the whole gaming experience more exciting and 
 fulfilling for you.
  
  Buy it, Rent it, you wont be too disappointed. I give Harry Potter AN 8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiscoJoy
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 15, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  One of the biggest complaints that film tie-ins and licensed games get is that they are cheap cash-ins 
 to not-so-cheap films. Typically, this is due to the games using existing engines and having a 
 few filmic elements stuck on top of them. This tends to be frustrating for gamers and fans alike, 
 the latter of whom relish the idea of being the character they have enjoyed so much in other mediums. 
 However, this is not the case with Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix for the Wii, a game 
 that not only lets you be Harry Potter, but fully draws you into its magical world.
  
  Loosely following the storyline of the film and the J. K. Rowling source material of the same name, 
 the game - after a brief training session in the secret Order of the Phoenix HQ - sticks you smack-bang 
 in the middle of Hogwarts. Your quest, for the most part, will be running a series of chores around 
 the place as you look for specific objects, people and ultimately build an army of young wizards 
 in the fight against the recently returned evil wizard Voldemort. However, you don't have to stick 
 strictly to the plot of the film, as the game allows you to run around and discover all the secrets 
 of Hogwarts, and that is half the fun right there. A secret room rewards your discoveries in the 
 form of interviews, magical items and other bits and pieces.
  
  The much talked about motion controls using the Wii-remote are possibly some of the most intuitive 
 to date. Just as The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess allowed players to literally take their 
 sword and shield in hand, the Wii-mote acts as a wand, with the nunchuck largely controlling direction 
 and speed (the 'Z' button lets you break into a run) . Most of the spells required in the game are 
 a simple flick of the wrist. For example, the Accio summoning spell is a simple pulling motion. 
 Reparo , the repairing spell, requires a circular motion. These are all very intuitive and actually 
 draw you that one step further into the Potter world. It won't be long before you are running down 
 the corridors, busting out spells on the fly. Occasionally, some of the controls are a little frustrating 
 (a levitation spell is often unwieldy to control once the object is airborne) , and when these require 
 putting an object in a certain spot it can cause the odd profanity to escape from your Wii-lips. 
 That said, this is one of the more impressive and clever uses of a Wii-mote to date, all the more 
 so because this is a mere film tie-in. Graphically, this is one of the more impressive Wii offerings. 
 The console, which is often accused on being a GameCube 2.0 (especially in the graphics stakes) , 
 has really started to come into its own in 2007 and there are some truly breathtaking vistas in 
 this game. While the corridors of Hogwarts can look a little samey, albeit broken up by a multitude 
 of portraits and characters roaming the grounds, it is the outdoors that really shines. The camera 
 pulls back to reveal a grandness not often seen on the Wii, and you get a real sense of the Hogwarts 
 grounds being an actual place and not a collection of building-shaped pixels. However, in an attempt 
 to have a seamless experience without pauses as the game loads a new room, the game often slows 
 down the frame-rate noticeably as the games loads as it goes . This means that you will often be 
 running along a corridor, or skipping through the fjords, only to be forced to slow down to a walk 
 as the game loads the path ahead. Further, the choppy nature of the cutscenes require that you've 
 either read the book or seen the movie to truly know what is going on. However, chances are that 
 if you've bought this game, you've already done both of those things. It's never too distracting, 
 but it is one of the small stones in the path to true authenticity. The sound is where the game 
 really shines though. It is obvious that the makers have gone to some effort to bring a full sonic 
 experience to the game, with the orchestral score ranging from subtle to epic. Chatter is heard 
 all through the corridors, and there is enough variation that you don't hear the same four lines 
 spoken by the AI over and over. Your almost constant companions of Hermione and Ron do offer similar 
 comments throughout their tenure, and Hermione can get a tad irritating at times (just like in 
 the books and films) ! That's great, Harry, she'll say Only four more to go . However, the makers 
 of the game have provided some levity in this repetition, especially with responses from Ron to 
 the effect of We may not be as clever as you are, but we can count . Harry Potter gets a bit meta! 
 Speaking of voices - and I intend every pun I make - the use of the actual actors from the films 
 for the most part brings additional authenticity to proceedings.
  
  This isn't exactly Grand Theft Auto: Hogwarts, as the endless running around and chore hunting 
 can often seem tedious and there is less variation than those famous Rockstar games would offer 
 a serious gamer. However, it does follow a similar formula that provides mini-games, rewards-based 
 chores and side-quests. Indeed, there is an Endless Day mode that allows you to do all those little 
 things you may have missed when the main story element is over. This is probably more rewarding 
 than following the main story, as it gives you the freedom that most film tie-ins don't It may 
 not be perfect, but it earns big points for being one of the most ambitious games for a film tie-in 
 to date. While the story element to the game is a little weak, and at worst it is too easy , it 
 does let you run around and do a whole heap of random mischievous stuff without consequence, and 
 if that isn't being Harry Potter, then I don't know what is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiisbetter
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 12, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Lets get the review started:
  Graphics: The graphics are great and the wand effects are really good!
  No Loading Time: Each time 
 you enter a new room or even go outside you will not experience even once loading time!
  Characters: You can play as Harry Potter but not as Ron or Hermione, I heard that you can play as 
 Dumbledore for a while but I haven't finished the game yet so I can't really tell.
  Hogwarts: You will be discovering new things like passage ways, secret places all the time, because 
 its so huge! You earn points every time you discover something new and you unlock videos where you 
 can see the movie actors!
  Controls: Very easy to learn and get use to! The remote makes you feel that you are really holding 
 a wand.
  Sounds: The sounds are very realistic and there is nothing to complain about.
  Map: With your map you can mark the place or the person you want to visit and you will see foot 
 prints showing you the way!
  Tasks: Your map helps you a lot by telling you what tasks are active, because you might get confused. What 
 do I mean? Well lets say you go to find someone then when you find him he tells you to do something 
 for him, while you do it you might be given tasks by someone else.
  In the game: You can do lots of other things like playing magic chess and other mini games.
  Game 
 Story: Many people complain that if you haven't read the book you will not understand what is going 
 on in the game, and I have to say that it is 50%true! Why 50%? Because... lets pick the scene when 
 Sirius Black head appears in the fire place. You will not understand how he got there because you 
 suddenly see his head and he talks to Harry but you will understand why he appeared in there! Maybe 
 thats because the movie isn't out yet and they didn't want to spoil anything. It doesn't matter 
 because you focus on the game play more rather than watching the short cut scenes!
  I highly recommend this game because of its unique game play and nice graphics! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkrocker616
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 10, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The fifth title in the Harry Potter series continues to bring something new. One thing to note, 
 is the ability to walk throughout the whole game (hogwarts) without any loading screens; and i 
 can say hogwarts is a very large place. I even found myself getting lost at times, but that shouldn't 
 be a problem because you're given a map, which is pretty much what the entire game is based upon. 
 The game has you running around Hogwarts completing tasks and every once in a while duels. In my 
 opinion i think the magic duels are the worst part of the game. They tend to be a bit tedious and 
 slow. Your friends (Ron, Hermonie, etc.) pretty much do all the work for you and casting spells 
 take a rather long time. Although they are pretty easy to cast. The wii remote makes for a brilliant 
 new concept. As you use the wii remote as a wand you can push, levitate, and even burn things (which 
 is pretty fun) . The spell that has you levitate things works very well. Almost everything in the 
 Hogwarts environment is interactive, so as you make new discoveries you get discovery points . 
 As you gain more discovery points you will unlock rewards in the room of rewards. These include 
 interviews with the cast, making of the game, trophies, and probably more that im still working 
 on finding. Aside from the main story plot part of the game, there's lots more to do. There are 
 a number of mini games including wizards chess, exploding snaps, and gobstones. You can compete 
 against each hogwarts house champion to finally play against the Hogwarts champion. This is a great 
 way to take a break from all the non stop fetching tasks. There are many highlights of the game, 
 one being a really fun flying scene with Fred and George and the final fight with lord voldemort.
 
  
  Now for the more visual part of the game. First off.. the graphics kinda suck. It's not that its 
 grainy or anything its just we've seen better on the wii. Though the environment is very detailed. 
 The sounds of hogwarts and voice overs are also very well done. The game can be compared a lot 
 more to the movie. So they brought in almost the whole cast to do voice overs. Exploring Hogwarts 
 is great, its probably my favorite part. As you run around you can see pictures moving and hear 
 people talking, it never stops. The environment is very much alive. You can talk to anyone in the 
 game or even start a fight with a slytherin. Also for once, you can take classes... isn't that kinda 
 the point of a school. Finally, when you complete the story part of the game, the day doesnt end. 
 You can continue to explore Hogwarts and unlock everything in the room of rewards.
  
  Now for the bad part... I already explained how the fighting sequences arent all that great, but 
 there's more. Ron and Hermoine follow you everywhere. EVERYWHERE. They often get in ur way or block 
 an entry way or dont shut up. It all gets a little annoying. The story of the game may be a little 
 hard to follow if you've never read the book, it kinda starts off with you wondering what the hell 
 is going on.. and now im suddenly cleaning and doing chores (the beginning is basically a tutorial 
 so just follow through and things will start to clear up.. hopefully) . Also there are some minor 
 camera problems. Since there aren't any loading screens there may be some occasional frame rate 
 problems. But aside from that, you cant really complain about anything else. In all, Harry Potter 
 and the Order of the Phoenix has its ups and downs but its a really great game.. at least once you 
 beat the game and can then explore hogwarts and unlock everything (which is all i really wanted 
 to do in the game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted the Wii Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix to be good.
  
  That's probably a bad approach to reviewing a video game, but the Harry Potter fan in me was giddy 
 at the thought of waving the Wii's wireless remote controller like a wand to cast spells.
  
  The problem is that spell-casting in the Wii version can be frustratingly hit or miss. Sometimes 
 your Wii-mote swirl or thrust motions are recognized and sometimes they aren't. This game clearly 
 was rushed to be released as part of the advertising blitz leading up to the July 11 movie.
  
  It's no surprise the Wii version's graphics aren't on par with the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 
 iterations. But ironically, the game still is one of the prettiest-looking for the Wii.
  
  As fans roam freely through the enormous castle grounds of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, 
 they will be delighted by what they see from the third-person perspective as The Boy Who Lived. 
 The attention to detail is phenomenal -- the Grand Staircase is a wonder to watch in motion as 
 you navigate the moving platforms -- and there are no load times while moving between huge areas.
 
  
  Even on the Wii, characters, especially faces, are rendered nicely. The interactive Marauder's 
 Map -- which provides footsteps showing where you need to go -- and in-game menus are slick.
  
  But it appears EA put more time into dressing up the visuals instead of refining the gameplay.
 
  
  In addition to the spell-casting woes, the game's camera is simply broken. Even holding the C button 
 on the nunchuk to center the view behind Harry doesn't improve awkward angles, which often hinder 
 simple tasks such as levitating and rearranging pictures on a wall.
  
  Simply getting around can be a pain, too. While running through Hogwarts, Harry constantly is slowed 
 down by bumping into sidekicks Ron and Hermione, as well as other students in the halls.
  
  And unfortunately, many of Harrys tasks are dreaded fetch quests -- talk to someone, go find an 
 item, repeat.
  
  At least the game sounds great -- solid voice acting is provided by the movie cast, Nicholas Hooper's 
 score is eloquent and sound effects are entertaining.
  
  But ultimately, the inconsistent spell-casting and maddening camera angles make the Wii version 
 as fun as doing chores at Aunt Petunia's house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: French023
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 12, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  The game starts out with a guy teaching you a few simple magic trick that you perform with the 
 wii remote. The game seems pretty cool even though the tricks are pretty hard to preform. You tell 
 yourself Self dont worry theres always a learning curve to games you get the tricks down in no 
 time Well self you were wrong.
  
  Well first off I will tell you how unimpressed i am with these graphics. This is the first game 
 i have bought on the wii. As i started off playing wii sports i laughed about the little figures 
 and saying oo well the wii will get better grapgics and get more advanced at some point. Well ill 
 tell u i almost threw up after seeing these graphics. I would have bet 30 bucks that it was a PS1 
 game. Next this game is all about doing pointless little chores. One guy wants you to find 5 gargowls 
 that are spead literly all around hogwarts. Another wants you to pick stuff up and move it for 
 them. You will be annoyed by how many times ron says hey lets have harry do it!
  
  Awwww the sound. Well its got to be the most repetitive game i have ever played. If you want to 
 maybe take a break on one of the million task you have to do you cant just quit the task. This 
 may not seem like a problem besides the fact that ron says every 5 seconds harry your going the 
 wrong way pause...... harry your going the wrong way enough said. Also the mouths seem to be a 
 little off with the dialogue. The only part of this game that keeps it sub par is the gameplay. 
 I mean who doesnt want to act out spells with your remote? Its cool doing it when they acualy work. 
 But all in all its pretty cool to pull out a legardeum leveosa.
  
  If you are a harry potter geek and just need to play this game i think you will be glad that you 
 rented it and not bought it. If you havent read the books do not touch this game with a 20 foot 
 pull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SleepingAurora
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok I understand people who haven't read the books and maybe aren't really into the movies. It's 
 hard to understand. But, for those who have read the books and are huge fans of the movies this 
 game is great. I have loved the books and movies for years and have played every game that has 
 come out. They get better and better each year. Now with the wand-like controller of the Wii remote, 
 it feels like you are a Hogwarts student walking around casting spells on unsuspecting pictures. 
 The best part of the game is the fact that you can just wonder around Hogwarts and see all the 
 neat things that lie around. Unlike the last game you were only allowed in certain areas. Now you 
 can see whatever and when you want to see them. I LOVE this game. It's Harry Potter what isn't 
 there to love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wise-guy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  great game w/ all of the realistic hogwarts rooms they have really outdone themselves! i liked 
 the way that they made the candles in the dinner hall. but the stairs just wanted to make me pull 
 my hair out trying to run up them overall a very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_152
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Harry is returning for his fifth year at Hogwarts in the video game partner to my favourite of 
 the Potter books and life isn't getting any easier for him. First off the graphics in this game 
 are very detailed even duting close-up cutscenes and the lighting is pretty good as well although 
 maybe a little overdone in the cinematics and camera angles may also become annoying in certain 
 areas but overall it really shows off the graphical capabilities of the Wii. In both a graphical 
 and gameplay extravaganza Hogwarts has also been faithfully recreated from the movies on a large 
 scale and you'll have full access to every part of the magical castle at almost all times without 
 load times. As for controls you'll find that out of combat all the Wii-Nunchuk movements work very 
 well but when it comes to dueling it's a completely different story, you'll only be able to dole 
 out your share of spells at a rather slow rate in a rather fast-paced duel, most of your friends 
 usually do all the work and the duel holds little challenge which leaves things a bit devoid of 
 meaning. You will also find the game is made up primarily of simply running from one person to 
 another in Umbridge foiling fashion and by the end of the game you'll of seen all you want to of 
 the grand staircase, although the game does provide a half-decent Marauder's Map to guide you through 
 the castle and a number of portraits will help you cut a few corners on your quests. It's a small 
 detail but your contantly being followed by Ron and Hermione who most of the time are more annoying 
 than helpful with their comments and seem to always know how to get in your way when you want to 
 pass back through a door, when combined with the dodgy camera angles you may become a little aggitated. 
 Fortunately the game picks back up again on the audio. EA have rounded up a whole host of actors 
 from the movies to lend their voice overs to the game and who have done quite a good job in doing 
 so. Sound effects also give you the sense of hustle and bustle around the school and are very atmospheric. 
 The game makers also managed to get their hands on the theme from the Harry Potter movies and have 
 put it to use in the game next to some original music and some old Harry Potter video game classics. 
 But let's remember what Order of the Pheonix is all about, the story... which the game manages 
 to absolutely slaughter its retelling of even in it's vague attempt, fans will be dissapointed 
 and people who have never read the book (or at least seen the movie) will be left wondering what 
 all those breif snippets of video that just flashed past meant. All in all much love has gone into 
 recreating a magical world to play out your Harry Potter adventure in and it's a marvel too behold, 
 if only what you were doing within the world was as interesting we may have had a superb game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PBRulez
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 4, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  I didn't think it was quite possible to make the fantastic world of Harry Potter, the mystical 
 environment and the colorful spells as well as the captivating story into a game that wasn't worth 
 the mere ten dollars I spent renting it. EVERYTHING about this game is flawed; the graphics are 
 buggy and all around bad. The Maurauder's Map that is supposed to guide you through the game is 
 hard to follow, and the annoying camera is a pain in the rear when attempting to do... anything. 
 While the Wii controls that are used for casting spells are very fun, you'll rarely use them to 
 do anything really interesting. The book's story is butchered beyond recognition. And the actor's 
 likeness and voices aren't a saving grace at all, to me anyway, because they don't affect the terrible 
 gameplay in any way (oh, other than Hermione and Ron who follow you around and get in your way 
 without helping at all. If you get a kick out of having gameplay interrupted so a badly animated 
 version of the movie actors can repeat one of two corny, annoying lines, then this is the game 
 for you!)
  
  Even if you're a die hard fan of the HP novels and movies, and the Wii controls and movie likenesses 
 are enough reason for you to play through an otherwise awful game, I would still recommend you 
 merely rent the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potterpipi
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off saying that I'm really disappointed in this game. Continue reading to find out why.
 
  
  Gameplay: You get to play as Harry Potter, and use your Wiimote as a wand. The story is eroded 
 in this game, you barely see tracks of it, the game feels like a task hunting game. Most of the 
 time in the game you are looking, backtracking, for students to help them with tasks, sometimes 
 you dont have a clue how to complete the task, and having an almost fully explorable Hogwarts is 
 satisfying if you want to look at it, but it makes it difficult to find the certain places for 
 the task items. But repairing and discovering things in Hogwarts is very fun and it gets you bonus 
 stuff like interviews and much more. One of the downsides is that the story of the game can be 
 easily cleared by a rookie in less than 4 days, took 2 days for me. Controls: Using the Wiimote 
 as a wand if pretty cool. But sometimes when you want to do a spell like Protego, it is unresponsive 
 or it just comes up with another spell. This doesn't happen most of the time, but it is frustrating 
 when it does.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in the game aren't top of the line, but they aren't so bad either. If you 
 are comparing this version of the game with the PS3 ver. the graphic difference is not so big, 
 it's just the facials and the shades.
  
  Sound: Great, the voice acting is perfect and so is the music. The effects are also well done. 
 Overral: Harry Potter Order of the Phoenix is really a well detailed game, with an almost full 
 explorable Hogwarts, but with a very short and casted aside storyline. The motion sensing in the 
 game is pretty cool, but can sometimes be unresponsive. The graphics are not a big deal, but on 
 the other side, the sound is at its best. Normal gamers will find this game very short and tasky, 
 but die hard Harry Potter fans will find this game as the best in the series and a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resuto
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  The game is relatively fun... but in my opinion lacks real solid gameplay. The game was short.. The 
 wii-mote provided issues using your wand especialy on the spell incindeo. Sometimes, it was hard 
 for me to cast spells. The game had some annoying glitches and some framerate issues, but hey I'm 
 naming all the bad things the game has to offer. I'm a hardcore Potterfan and I enjoyed the game. 
 The fact I could use my hand to cast spells really was FANTASTIC for me lol. I'm glad they made 
 the game the way the devs did, except they could of spent more time on the boring missions and 
 reptitive spellwork. This game is by far the best in the series of Potter games and was well-made 
 on account of it being based off a movie and book. Once again, I implore that the Potter-fans and 
 people who think it would be pretty cool to use your hand to cast spells to buy or preferably rent 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GonzoGuy
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  Liked: GTA style layout for Hogwarts with plenty of scope &amp; character, fun minigames (a must 
 buy for any battlechess fan) , and you finally get to use your wiimote as a wand.
  
  Didnt: Over before you can say Levicorpus, rewards for completing tasks are weak, and only one 
 (short) flying mission. If youre a fan of the Harry Potter books, youve probably gone to see 
 the movies and no matter how long they are you feel as though youre being rushed through the story 
 while your non book reading friends enjoy another blockbuster. Before you realize it, the climax 
 has passed, Dumbledores doing his d&eacute; nouement shtick, and youre wondering where half the 
 story went. Well, this game will make you feel the same way. While its certainly fun playing through 
 the missions, the minigames, and exploring the grounds you can go through it all way too quickly 
 and your rewards are well, unrewarding. There is a room of rewards which only fills up with trophies 
 and making-of video clips. And thats perfectly fine for devout Potterheads but anyone whos played 
 a GTA game will be disappointed by what you get for finding all the Twins hidden packages. I dont 
 expect a tank or a jet but a broom would be nice. Speaking of brooms, theres only one (brief) 
 part of the game where you fly around a couple of areas. Its immensely fun and leaves you wondering 
 why youre only teased with the gift of flight. It may seem like Im complaining allot but believe 
 it or not, I dont regret this purchase. Of course Im one of those people whos going to be out 
 for the midnight release of the 7th book (in case you are too, yes you find the locket in the game) 
 so ever since I started wielding a wiimote, Ive wanted to cast spells with it. And the game doesnt 
 disappoint in that department. The spells are intuitive and fun to use on random things and students 
 around the castle. Duels are engrossing and can be started pretty much whenever you feel like it. 
 The castle is vast, with plenty of things and students to talk to which is another reason it amazes 
 me in its briefness. Why did they put so much detail into a game that you finish in a few hours? 
 So like I said, if youre a real Potterhead like me, definitely pick this one up. Like the books, 
 youll probably find yourself going back to it on a rainy lazy Sunday. But if youre just looking 
 for something new and interesting to play on the Wii thats not completely made up of minigames, 
 definitely rent this one. Youll have fun, for a few days. Its definitely not a GTA game (what 
 I was hoping for) , but its probably the best damn movie game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hpfan32
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  This game is a game that Harry Potter fans should have. It looks amazing on the wii. I am really 
 psyched to get this game. To start this review off.... I have to say that the graphics look great 
 even on the wii. Its amazing that they got the same graphic for the wii game. But I really haven't 
 much to say about the graphic. The next part of my review is the game play. It looks like there 
 is lot of action in the game. You get to explore key location of hogwarts and it doesn't stray 
 from the story line from the books. You still can go to lessons, but it still goes off the linear 
 game play. The last part of my review is the non-combat spells and combative spells and the spell 
 casting system. This is where you must really learn how to cast spells. It makes you feel like 
 your the one learning to cast the spells and makes you feel like you casting the spells yourself 
 b/c it gives you a motion gesture system for spell casting. Finally, to end my review, I must say 
 that this game is the most realistic and intuitive Harry Potter EA Games has created to date and 
 is worth buying for every console although if you want to feel like you are really part of the 
 game and you want to feel like you are the one casting the spells, then I strongly recommend buying 
 this game on the Wii. It puts the Wiimote in your hands and makes you feel like you holding a real 
 wand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mclorku
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are not the main grapple for the Wii, from your first glance at Hogwarts, you can tell 
 this is the case for Harry Potter. Expect pixelated characters with jagged edges, aliasing is extremely 
 noticeable, I played it on a 50 Plasma at 480p WS, the best the Wii can put out. It will look better 
 on your standard 27 CRT, because the aliasing will be less noticeable.
  
  One good and bad thing about this game is there are no loading screens except for when you first 
 start it up. That might seem good, but because the Wii has to constantly stream data everywhere 
 you go, framerate drops are evident. Despite the graphics and framerate the game offers hours on 
 end of discoveries and exploration. There is tons to do, but be wary, the experienced Harry Potter 
 veteran will make short work of this game, I beat it and uncovered 82% in around 10 hours. While 
 there are various mini-games you could spend additonal time on, such as Wizard Chess, Gobstones, 
 and Exploding Snaps which are fairly amusing. Once a majority of your environment is explored, 
 there is hardly much there to entertain you.
  
  And don't expect the core of the game to help you either, often you are sent from one point in 
 Hogwarts to another on very repetitive fetch tasks.
  
  Duels are rare (4-6 in the whole game) , and when they do happen, they were a let down to me, the 
 Wii remote is sensitive, but I feel the spells take to much time to initiate. Often when you try 
 puting up a defensive block, your character stands idle for a good 1-1.5 seconds after you wave 
 your arm to commence the spell. Duels more often then not boil down to waving your Wii remote repeatedly 
 in directions you remember for one or two spells.
  
  The spell where you thrust both the nunchuck and wiimote forward hits the enemy very rarely on 
 higher levels, the developers honestly must not have test-ran this game very extensively. Because 
 that spell arcs towards the enemy and flys over them 9/10 times. On low levels it works fine because 
 only one beam is shot, but on higher levels, it gets more beams and makes a star shaped arc toward 
 the enemy, if only it would hit them...
  
  I played on normal, and never lost a duel, I don't even think you can lose in duels, and I rarely 
 came out of one feeling I hit the enemy more than they hit me. Another gripe I have is the targeting 
 system, what were they thinking? Often when you are trying to target one thing, your character 
 keeps targeting another thing. Sometimes doing 180 turns almost purposely to ignore the object 
 your trying to target. In duels, targeting is useless, you hit it to lock onto an enemy, do a couple 
 spells, and then when you get hit and go to your knees, there not targeted anymore. And sometimes 
 when you try to retarget that same enemy, Harry puts away his wand, because put away wand and target 
 are the same button. So only if the game sees another object/person to target, it will unequip 
 your wand... yes this does happen in dueling.
  
  One thing I found amusing, was that your spells are upgraded when you find more discoveries, well, 
 that is all and good, but when you spend hours finding discoveries, and only fight in a few minute 
 long duels with your upgraded spells, whoop-di-do. And like the spell I mentioned above, sometimes 
 upgrading the spell cripples it.
  
  When they first announced this game, and some of its features, I imagined running loose around 
 Hogwarts getting into duels with Slytherins and jinxing them and starting big fights. Unfortunately, 
 the only area I found where you can use those spells you duel with, are in the Slytherin dungeons. 
 That is all fine, but when you attack a Slytherin, you expect them to fight back... no, they just 
 run away, and because the dungeon is so small, almost every time you try to fight someone, Snape 
 catches you and puts you in detention. What is wrong with this picture? Did the developers seriously 
 try to make this game only for the explorers and not the duelers? Apparently so, a huge let down 
 for me. While I enjoyed exploring the game and its huge environement, that is only half of the 
 what Harry Potter is all about to me. I want to be able to fight other students, or why give me 
 5 spells only allowed in dueling and then a few duels to fight with them in?
  
  There was so much I feel they could have done, such as making a specified dueling arena, multiplayer 
 perhaps? Put back in the collectable cards that were in the last games. Faster spell response to 
 wiimote movements. Addition of Anti-aliasing would have helped out loads on the visual side. Removal 
 of Hermione/Ron everywhere you go, they do more to block you then help you.
  
  This game could have been great, and maybe is to some, but I considered it disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJTBoese
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  My First impressions of the new Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix were a bit Shaky at best. 
 The opening tends to skip you through the story line a bit fast with some minor hands on playing, 
 until you get to Hogwart's. That being said Hogwart's is where all the action happens in the novels 
 so I was willing to let that pass. The Graphics are nothing to write home about but has some nice 
 texture mapping on the walls and canvases. The new adaptation of the controls for the wii-mote 
 has been the real grab here. Who hasnt wanted to wave a wand and lift solid objects in the air, 
 or fix something with a simple gesture? The Controls are a bit touch and go until you get the hang 
 of things but when you do its well worth it! Game play is pretty smooth in transition with no real 
 noticeable loading times (big plus) , and story line is enough to keep one playing. I find that 
 the further I get the more consumed I get to reaching the next phase. I was a bit disappointed 
 to find that it was a one player game as it seemed to be a big secret right up to release date. 
 All and all I am happy with this game and Im glad I gave it time to grow on me. I would seriously 
 recommend it to all my fellow Potter fans out there! Have fun Guys and Gals! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FSUJD524
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This is a dream come true for all Harry Potter Fans. Become the wizard you always wanted to be 
 with your very own Wii wand. Whether you're a fan or not of the game series, movies, or books, 
 this particular game will make you a fan. You'll love it. The functionality of the Wii as your 
 wand is suprisingly well tuned. As expected there are a few problems with it but they aren't anything 
 that will hinder your game experience. It only takes about 10 minutes or so to get the full grasp 
 on the game controls. I'd have to say that this is now on the top 5 games that Wii has come out 
 for so far. Nice graphics, great Wiimote functionality, the Potter world is everything you envisioned 
 it to be, and suprisingly addicting. You'll love it whether you are a public Harry Potter fan or 
 just like it as a guilty pleasure. It's for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilianetty
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix it's fantastic!
  I buy the game yesterday (the day it came out in Puerto Rico) ,
  and have passed half the game. 
 I got 28/28 of the DA members. I have completed lot of the tasks as I go
  through the game. In the 6th floor, you can see all the
  things you got in the reward room. In 
 the 7th floor, you can play chess,
  and their is a game named SPIN, that is realy awesome.
  
  The castle of Hogwarts is really HUGE!!!!
  It is so real as in the movies, sometimes you 
 realy can get lost!
  The characters voices sounds so real, you think you are with Emma,
  Rupert or Dan (Im still thinking if Dan realy put his voice on him) .
  
  The spells you cast 
 on the Room of Requirment are excellent!
  You can train your DA members, and teach them Stupified,
  Petrificus Totalus, The Patronum Spell, 
 Wingardium Leviousa,
  etc, etc. In all the game, a character from the DA ask you for a training lesson on the 7th floor 
 corridor (on the Grand Staircase you can find it, but remember, for some secret passages, you need 
 to look for their passwords) .
  
  The teacher's give you mini-quests, and if you complete them, you have points as rewards (points 
 you need to open rewards at the 6th floor) .
  You can use the invisibility clock in the mission of:
  Ginny Weasley: Trouble with the Twins 
 Their are a lot of new spells
  as well in the game. The battle's between students it's brilliant!
  When I first fight with Crabe 
 and Goyle, their were a piece of cake
  (wondering how they will be on HARD mode, hehe) . Anyway, the kiss scene I found it very lovely (knowing 
 I hated to grab the present for her mom on
  a mission, part of the game, hehe) .
  
  The part I though that was super easy, was the one you use the Weasleys, to get out of Hogwarts. 
 It was very triky, you only use your control as a wand to open the boxes and let out their magic 
 at the school (what it is... I can't tell) .
  
  Beating Voldemort at the end was fantastic!!!! You use Dumbledore, (before that, your DA vanishe 
 in tin air, living you all alone before the eyes of Lucius and Bellatrix as well) the headmaster 
 of Hogwarts.
  
  I love this game so much, Im capable of telling ya all the secrets I alredy know, but If I tell 
 ya, it stop of being a suprise!
  
  ENJOY THIS WONDERFULL GAME FOR WII!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Velric
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 25, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Despite popular belief and speculation, Harry Potter: Order of the Phoenix is not Grand Theft Hogwarts. 
 You won't be jacking brooms and levicorpusing everyone that gets in your way. What the game will 
 let you do though is have complete and full access to Hogwarts from the beginning of the game through 
 to the end. Explore the library, hit the potions room in the dungeons, or race down to Hagrid's 
 house. All of the significant areas of Hogwarts, with very few exceptions, are visitable.
  
  Here is what the game will do for you in a nutshell. You will be playing as Harry Potter for 
 the vast majority of the game and have access to your wand and any spells you have discovered in 
 the game so far at all times. As you run around Hogwarts you could Accio some mysterious bricks 
 on the wall to reveal something hidden, Wingardium Levioso a mop to clean the floor, or Incendio 
 to light a torch. Where other games might give you coins and trinkets to find to keep you occupied 
 outside of the main game, Order of the Phoenix lets you clean up Hogwarts and uncover some of its 
 mysteries. All of these discoveries and achievements will also increase your spell power as you 
 gain enough spell essence from them. Gaining spell essence and increasing your power makes your 
 spells more powerful and opens up new content, interviews and such, in the Room of Rewards, which 
 is accessible from the beginning of the game.
  
  The bulk of the game involves talking to the various main students of Hogwarts that film goers 
 and book readers will be familiar with. They often task you with floating a few items, retrieving 
 homework, or helping them repair something. Although it tends to all be fairly simple and in the 
 end not that varied, the appeal lasts thanks to the changes in local, the mix up of spells, and 
 the Wii controls.
  
  For a game based on a movie series that does a rather good job of emulating the stories they are 
 based off of, despite making obvious changes to the plot to keep audiences interested, the game 
 has a distinct lack of story cohesion. Playing as Harry you'll be tossed from fighting off a pack 
 of dementors in that are attacking your cousin Dudley, to a few story flashes with little to no 
 narrative, thrust into Grimmauld place where you'll learn the basics of spellcasting, and finally 
 shunted to Hogwarts. All of this happens over roughly 5-15 minute time period at the beginning 
 of the game. You won't be given the reason for why you are in each area, you won't know why you 
 need to accomplish your goals, and generally you won't have any idea of what is happening in the 
 story at all. Throughout the game other than having the faint knowledge that Dolores Umbridge is 
 bad, Dumbledore is good, and that you need to stop Voldemort, you won't be shown anything more 
 than a snippet here and a snippet there to enlighten you. What this means is that if you haven't 
 read the book or haven't seen the movie yet (which no one has since it isn't out yet) that if you're 
 new the Harry Potter universe you might not know left from right.
  
  Despite the serious lack of story you won't lack direction. There will almost never be a task that 
 you aren't given very specific and blatant directions towards completing. This isn't a bad thing 
 though. With the size of Hogwarts and the fact that what or who you might be looking for could 
 be anywhere, having the game place markers on your map and lead you from area to area via footsteps 
 helps tremendously.
  
  The graphics in Harry Potter are easily some of the best on the system and nearly reach the mark 
 of Final Fantasy XII on the PS2 for quality. Despite the heavy jagged edges that are readily apparent, 
 the world is highly detailed and very vibrant. Hogwarts feels like a magical world with portrait 
 decorated halls, talkative students, and rattling suits of armor. The entire world of Order of 
 the Phoenix is also load free. You can roam from one end of Hogwarts to the other without seeing 
 a single load screen. Harry will occasionally stop running (you can hold a button to run) which 
 is a result of the game loading the area ahead of you (though this is seldom and there is no pop 
 up) . The camera can be very picky and will often give you horrible views of the items you need 
 to manipulate with your spells. This can be solved by reentering the area from a different angle 
 or cycling targets with a button press.
  
  Most of the sound in the game comes from the occasional orchestral burst or the shouts of your 
 characters as they cast their spells. A large portion of the actual movie cast lent their voices 
 to the game and the quality is apparent. Even in the cases where the actual actor wasn't used, 
 the voices tend to be fairly close (except for Snape and Hagrid, both of which sound a bit off) . 
 There are a few occasions where an odd sound will irritatingly loop as you cast a particular spell 
 or interact with a part of the environment. It isn't as rare as I would like it to be but it is 
 often solved by leaving the area.
  
  The Wii controls themselves are one of the greatest strengths and most frustrating points of the 
 game. Many times it will seem like the controllers in your hands are actual wands and every flick 
 of your wrist will bring forth powerful magic, while other times no matter how slowly, how quickly, 
 or how accurately you move your controllers you won't produce even a spark. I often found that 
 going for Levicorpus (combat) or Wingardium Levioso (Non-Combat) , which require you to flick both 
 controllers straight up, would result in Accio, the summoning charm, or Protego, the shield charm, 
 rather than their intended effect. This happen on occasion with the circular spells as well which 
 would occasionally produce the side to side spells or the up and down spells.
  
  Combat in the game as a whole can be frustrating if the controls are acting up. The game makes 
 it seem like every combat is life or death as magic flies crazily about you and at you. It keeps 
 you jangling the controllers around trying to fire off spells left and right when it is much wiser 
 to take your time and try to make sure you cast the spell you want correctly. As far as I could 
 tell you couldn't completely lose any combat in the game, duels or mental duels, though in the 
 combat at the very end I didn't attempt to lose.
  
  Overall, Order of the Phoenix is a mixed bag of tricks. Much like the Every Flavor Beans from the 
 novels, you don't always know what you're going to get. The game can clock in at 6-8 hours if you 
 focus mainly on the story, but even then you'll find a majority of the secrets as they are directly 
 on your path. The controls can be picky and the camera can be a pain. The story itself is also 
 a major concern for people new the Harry Potter world. The game does do many things right though, 
 giving you a beautiful and explorable Hogwarts, fun controls (when they work) , crisp graphics, 
 and extra reward content for nearly every action in the game that experiencing at least once, even 
 as a rental, is worth it.
  
  The game is fun and I recommend it as a rental to anyone interested in a great new Wii experience, 
 and I would recommend it as a purchase to any serious fans of Harry Potter. It is definitely the 
 best game in the series and gives a beautiful foundation for the future book six and seven games. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
