-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Harvest Moon: Tree of Tranquility
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/bokujomonogatari/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Core farming mechanics are still fun.
 Massive number of things to participate in and take care of.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frequent loading screens slow the pace.
 Motion controls are uninspired.
 Slowdown comes with every rainy day.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  6, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.8, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 315 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Natsume
Developer: Marvelous
Genre: Strategy
Date: Sep 30, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With only minimal improvements to a well-worn formula, the Harvest Moon series is starting to show 
 its age. 

  As part of its 10-year anniversary celebration, Natsume has released two new Harvest Moon games, 
 one for the Wii and another for the DS. The Wii game is the first for the console, and though the 
 subtitle implies that it is a new game, a number of issues -- recycled gameplay, low-quality sound 
 effects, poor camera control -- make it feel old. There's a lot of content here, but not much of 
 it is new.  

  The farmland in this Harvest Moon is Waffle Island, a cheerful place with a struggling economy. 
 Ever since the Goddess Tree died, things have gone down the tubes, and it's up to you to grow the 
 economy and restore the tree. Like every Harvest Moon game, taking care of the story isn't really 
 a top priority; there are plenty of activities to keep you busy outside of the main plotline. Should 
 you finish the story, you'll be given the option to restart the game as your offspring (if you 
 married and reproduced, that is) , with all of the items and cash from your first play-through. 
 It's a nice bonus for those who stick it out and finish the game.  

           Since all you have to do is endure a short working montage, part-time jobs are great ways 
 to earn easy money early in the game.      

  Finishing the game may seem like a daunting task early on. After a lengthy intro that holds your 
 hand like an episode of  Dora the Explorer , you're let loose without any real information. You'll 
 have to learn on your own, or ask the townsfolk for help if you want to start things on the right 
 foot. Initially, your only income will be from the crops you can afford to plant, but as you progress 
 you'll be able to mine for precious metals and gems, raise animals like chickens, cows, and ostriches, 
 and even take on a few part-time jobs. As your wealth increases, you can expand to other properties, 
 creating a farming monopoly of sorts.  

  There are an impressive number of things to do and responsibilities to assume, including monthly 
 festivals and community activities. You're almost never forced to do or complete anything if you 
 don't feel like it; you're only bound by your character's stamina, the day/night cycle, and your 
 patience for frequent load screens. This play-at-your-own-pace structure is what the Harvest Moon 
 series is known for, and 10 years later it still works, though it is starting to get stale.  

 
  Adding to that tired feeling are the controls, which serve as a perfect example of missed potential. 
 You might hope that a farming sim on the Wii would have some interesting controls -- maybe something 
 like thrusting the remote upward to pull up turnips, or slashing it across the screen to chop wood -- but 
 the motion controls feel generic and tacked on. Instead of offering unique motions for each chore, 
 the same upward flick can be used for almost everything. None of the uninspired motion controls 
 are mandatory; rather, they serve as substitutions for button presses, so you can play through 
 the game without them, or you can use the classic controller.  

  Speaking of tacked-on features, there are also a handful of multiplayer minigames to take part 
 in. Each game is inspired by something in the single-player campaign, like rock-skipping or mole-whacking. 
 These games aren't fun at all, and pale in comparison to other minigame collections on the Wii. 
 It takes so much time in the single-player game to unlock them all that you're better off just 
 playing something else.  

  Like the gameplay, the graphics in Tree of Tranquility match those of previous Harvest Moon installments. 
 Round, cartoony characters populate the world, and though they aren't equipped with the widest 
 range of animations, they are emotive and fun to interact with. The bright environments are bland, 
 boring, and lack detail, their only notable feature being the lifelike shadows that change as the 
 day progresses. The fixed camera gives an adequate view of your surroundings most times, but it 
 can make some activities harder than they should be. When the camera does shift for a better view, 
 the frame rate stutters, especially on rainy days. The frame rate hitches, coupled with constant 
 5- to 10-second load screens, really kill the pace of the game.  

           Later on you can raise and ride ostriches to help you zip between load screens faster. 

  The soundtrack consists of unobtrusive elevator music that blends in with the background and makes 
 the daily rigors of life on the farm pass smoothly. The sound effects and voice samples sound as 
 if they were recorded using the DS microphone in a crowded stadium. Their poor quality is a stark 
 contrast to the pleasing music.  

  It's been a decade, and the core farming mechanics of the Harvest Moon series are still fun, but 
 they are also unchanged. By combining bits and pieces of previous games, Tree of Tranquility is 
 the largest game in the series, offering dozens of hours of gameplay. Newcomers will find plenty 
 to keep them entertained, but if you've played even one game in the series before, this one may 
 feel a little too familiar.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lightsaber6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 10:06 am PT
Review:  well, its finally here harvest moon for wii!!. You start of in the game as a normal person going 
 to an unkown iland filled with people thanks to a brochuare. When you get there you find out most 
 of the people have moved away and they dont even have your house built! yet!! so you have to go 
 live at someone eleses house for 2day in the game. The tutorial took over an hour!! to do. The main 
 story is this the harvest godesses tree dies and you have to save it. There are these harvest sprite 
 that live under trees wich you have to make there wird rainbow recipes. But besides the story, there 
 are new animals in this game like orstichs silk worms and more. Oh and of course you get to get 
 marrid and have kids and since this is a wii game you get to use motion controls for farming like 
 useing the hoe you just move your wii remote down or you can use the normal plain buttons. Harvest 
 moon tree of tranqulity gets a 8.5 because there are a few downers like loading times. The loading 
 screen takes like 5min to load and if you go back to that same spot it takes just as long as it 
 did 2sec. ago its so anoying. But although it has the downers it is still the best harvest moon 
 game ever!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrett_duffman
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2009 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Harvest Moon: Tree of Tranquility is the first non-virtual console Harvest Moon release on the 
 Nintendo Wii. For those of you unfamiliar with the Harvest Moon name, here's a rundown of how the 
 games play. 
  
  You play as a farmer who moves into a new town via some differing circumstances throughout games. 
 You start out with virtually nothing, land and tools is about it, just enough to provide yourself 
 with ways to make money. You farm and mine and raise livestock, all while trying to woo the natives 
 into being your spouse and not becoming fatigued. The game ends after several years and you get 
 to repeat the process all over again! The games are notorious for their charm and simplistic freedom, 
 and Harvest Moon: Tree of Tranquility, maintains most of that charm.
  
  Tree of Tranquility begins with your nameless character being knocked out aboard a ship headed 
 for an unknown island. You wake up in a hotel to be welcomed by a few of the friendly yokels, for 
 what seems like forever. After a while of talking and random walking, you'll be put to work part-time 
 for another farm until you have your own housing situation. 
  
  Some distinct changes in Tree of Tranquility as opposed to previous harvest moon games are few. 
 Instead of releasing two versions of the game ( one boy and one girl version) Tree of Tranquility 
 allows for you to choose which gender you are at the beginning of the game, along with the gender 
 of your child later on. Another difference is the main menu, which now contains a portion called 
 "Mini-Games", which will be reviewed later on. 
  
  There are a few good things about this game that make it worth a play at least. The farming/life 
 simulation is as strong as ever, even down to the amount of work you can put in during a day. 
 
  
  In the game you are presented with a stamina bar, which, you got it, allows you to see how much 
 energy you have. When you start the game, using tools or doing just about anything will deplete 
 your stamina quickly. As you progress, though, you will become stronger, leveling up not only your 
 tools, but your skill towards them. While leveling up your tools costs money, it allows your tools 
 to use up less of your sweet stamina, which you'll need greatly. Leveling up your skill level allows 
 for you to use your tools more effectively, using up the same amount of energy.
  
  One of the strongest points in Tree of Tranquility is how customizable it is. you start out with 
 one house, and thats about it. You can choose to not buy a barn, or you can buy a barn, everything 
 is pretty much up to you, from the size of your house to the color of your shirt. You can deck 
 out your house with all different styles of furniture and carpets, even your cookware! This game 
 allows a lot of freedom, and thats a plus. 
  
  Dating/wooing remains relatively simple in the game. You pick a yokel, and bombard them with gifts, 
 figuring out what they like and do not like, then continue to give them gifts that they like, raising 
 their heart levels. It has been made a little more difficult though, solely because the amount 
 of hearts you can raise a person up to has been raised to ten, which doesn't make things harder, 
 just longer. 
  
  The entire point of the game is that the island is dying and SOMEBODY has to save it. guess what? 
 its you. you stumble upon various items that tell the story of the island and the harvest goddess. 
 You go from tree to tree, collecting items for the harvest sprites to revitalize the town, allowing 
 people to come into your town as rainbows are made. This is can be a pretty trying task, as there 
 are a lot of items that can only be obtained during certain seasons, so its good to keep one of 
 everything. 
  
  About 85% of the down points in this game are technical, and most of those are lag related. The 
 game slows down almost every time you get a strong rain, certain areas being worse than others. 
 this can be frustrating simply because its lag and thats what lag does best. 
  
  Another technical problem is the controls. They aren't that much of a problem, and you can get 
 used to them quickly, but its annoying that their are unused buttons on the controller and to open 
 up the main menu you have to hold the C button for several seconds. The Z button isn't even used, 
 theres no reason why it couldn't be there. Your character turns on a dime, which is more annoying 
 than anything, especially on specific parts where delicacy is required. 
  
  The Clock in the game moves way too fast for my taste. The ratio between our time and Harvest Moon 
 time is about 5 seconds for every ten minutes. This wouldn't be so bad if it didn't take so long 
 to get from place to place, even with a horse. I am constantly finding myself with either no time 
 to do anything, or too much time to do nothing. It's a strain. 
  
  Despite the flaws in this new installment of Harvest Moon, Tree of Tranquility holds strong to 
 the Harvest Moon name, and is still a fun and addicting title, if you can put up with a few flaws. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric813
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 1:45 pm PT
Review:  The harvest moon series is in need of fresh ideas and soon. The begining of this game is so boring, 
 the camera is horrible and the controls are loose. Harvest moon magical Melody will probally be 
 the last good Harvstmoon game out there if the developers continue to go in this direction. If 
 your going for a more realistic look for the series fo all out or nothing. Keep it cartoon or real 
 not in between. This is a very disapointing game and I could see only fans buying this for their 
 collection. The fact that this games bombed in my opinion is beacuse the people who used to be 
 on the Harvestmoon team switched over to work on Rune Factory, so for you fans of the original 
 Harvest moon games and were also disapointed by tree of tranquailty I suggest you look into that 
 series and if you dont like the idea of a more RPG like your going to get in Rune Factory play 
 through Magical Melody again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krazyguy569
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 6:14 am PT
Review:  My favorite things about it:
  - I love the graphics, theyre sharp and clear and easy to read and see, and well designed. Not 
 realistic, but if your aiming for a more cartoon-y feel, they're wonderful.
  - I like the dating aspect of the game, and the farming is just fun, and a lot of the things I 
 loved about Harvest Moon 64 are in it.
  - Riding the Ostrich is fun.
  - I'm glad I'm still allowed to name my animals and farm whatever crazy names I choose.
  - I 
 like the design of the town.
  - Rainbow recipes are like a treasure/scavenger hunt, which is a welcome addition.
  - Mining 
 is fun.
  - It's cool that you get to choose the plot of land you start on, and then you can create houses 
 on all the properties and take over the whole board like Monopoly.
  - House decorating is very entertaining.
  - Allowing the player to choose a gender makes the 
 game more accessible to girls.
  
  Things I dislike about it:
  - I hate that the camera doesn't rotate, come on, even on Harvest Moon 64 you could rotate it in 
 90 degree angles, why are we moving backwards?
  - The motion controls are boring, although it was generous of them to make fishing either pressing 
 a button repeatedly and hurting your finger, or just hold the wii remote upright for a while. Kind 
 of a drastic difference.
  - The days start to get repetetive and long and dull and almost like torture after playing for 
 a year or two.
  - Some weird issues with things that should have been fixed. 
  For example: rice says it grows multiple times. No it doesn't.
  Saury says it is found on the 
 Gull Islands. No it's not, its in the ocean below the town.
  - It very hard to make turtles and wild animals become pets, but maybe I'm just not trying hard 
 enough.
  - Town is hard to navigate around at first, until you get used to it.
  - You can't date the Mayor's daughter. Why not? Just because she's the mayor's daughter? Is she 
 too young? She looks as old as all the other girls.
  - Loading times are awful, especially if you go in an area, accidently go backward, and then have 
 to wait for it to load, then go back yet again. (I do that a lot.)
  -House decorating has too many red spots where you can't place objects for no discernable reason.
 
  
  Overall it's fun. It's too bad that it gets dull very quickly. I love collecting the rainbow ingredients, 
 I love the dating aspect, the farming is fun, getting rich is very rewarding. It's a great game, 
 but it can be hard, sometimes you don't get a lot of information on things randomly and you have 
 to figure out stuff for yourself.
  
  Still though, I don't regret buying it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madjik2k2
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2009 10:07 am PT
Review:  Minimal improvements? No, I completely disagree with the gamespot reviewer on this one. While at 
 first glance, the few changes that were made seem minimal, in my opinion they change things up 
 significantly enough to make the game accessible to anyone who's wanted to try a Harvest Moon game.
 
  
  ToT is in full 3D for one, not in a birds eye view like previous games. 
  
  Other changes include:
  
  Crops are laid down in a 1x6 lineup instead of the typical 3x3 square 
 surrounding your character. This is great because the tools level up in such a way so that when 
 you charge them up, less stamina, time, and water is wasted on empty squares.
  
  You can walk through your crops now meaning you no longer have to worry about formations.
  
 
  A hot spring that will raise your stamina back up to full once per a day.
  
  Your spouse AND child will help you out on the farm =)
  
  And of course the New Game + feature, 
 where you pass your rucksack down to your child, whom gains the benefits of your hard work the 
 first time through (you keep your money and items) and then you get to play as them. You play as 
 your child the second time through! How cool is that!
  
  I suppose it's true that the core of the game isn't much different, but it still works very well 
 as recorded by the average users score. It's a little easier then past games, and the way the story 
 line was set up makes me want to actually work on the story line throughout the game instead of 
 running off to do my own thing. Being a sandbox type of game, it is still very, very open to allowing 
 you to do your own thing, but the benefits of advancing the story keep me going back to it. It's 
 a fun game when you want something a little different, but being the type of game it is I have 
 to recommend that you rent it before you buy it. Not everyone likes games like this, it's not a 
 popular genre by any means, but it is worth a try. Anyone who likes harvest moon should like this 
 iteration, the changes made the game more fun and accessible to me. 
  
  I mean, the changes made to the game may seem minimal to some, but to me, it changed the gameplay 
 up enough to make it feel very new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shystr3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The game's overall idea hasn't changed: grow crops, sell crops, buy some more crops, or buy animals, 
 feed animals, milk/shave/sell animals, and so on and so forth. Which makes this such a great game, 
 not real complicated, you can spend hours upon hours playing it, don't pick it up for months and 
 start back where you left off. The graphics are nice looking, cartoonie, but yet pleasing to the 
 eye. Music is music, if you don't like it turn on your radio and turn down the TV volume. Although 
 the music is pretty basic, but its not annoying. Game play is excellent; whether you use Wii nunchuk 
 controller setup or the classic controller, its smooth and easy. The "side stuff" or missions are 
 not easily completed but yet they are nothing to pull your hair out over. Another words, the game 
 is easy for a child but yet is not overly stupefied for an adult. There's lots to do whether you're 
 up grading one of the many plots your able to purchase, to mining and creating items, getting to 
 know one of the girls and marrying them; all the way to actually completing the overall goal of 
 the game which is to find out what happened to the tree of tranquility, fix it (for a lack of better 
 words) and make the island [on which it takes place] successful again; and so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twerp_1994
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so this game was fun and all, I agree with the best in the series, but your guy is SO wimpy!!! 
 He picks up five weeds and is exhausted!!! I mean I could pick up weeds and go fishing and be maybe 
 a little tired, but this guy would be dead if he tried that. This makes it way more hard than Rune 
 Factory where I cleaned out my whole field in 2 days!!! Also weeds grow through my hoed fields 
 so that can get annoying when I just wanted to let my field be barren. But I have to say the time 
 is the most important problem, because it goes to quickly, especially on such a big map. It took 
 my guy THREE hours to get from my house, next to the port, to Waffle Town!!! Time goes twice as 
 fast in this game than in all the other HM games I've played. But, other than that, the game is 
 fun with new pets, more live stock and new loves, but no Ellie. :' ( Even with these pet peeves, 
 I still advise you too buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diana39P
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  With all the trailers and People talking. It made this game look great. But it wasn't all that amazing. Like 
 I heard some people saying. You have a bigger land and you can ride an ostrich. SO what about? This 
 game didn't really wow me. but I enjoyed a bit. not like other harvest moons. What I think they should 
 mix it up for a while. Every one knows you have to save the harvest Goddess. and save the Home land. Get 
 married Have kids. They could have done better. Who could forget the kids in the game! I don't find 
 it a Differ . You marry Jin the kid comes out with glasses. And the rest the only thing changes 
 is the kids moods. One is always happy and overjoyed .Also they could have added a Better church. 
 The Church In Tot looked like a rat hole to me. so little. I had Other Issues. Like the Calvin Glitch. 
 A lot of fans Including me. We mad, depressed. About that we couldn't marry Calvin. For me this game 
 deserves a 5.0 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kandy00345
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Harvest Moon ToT is the Absolute Best HM in my book, only closely followed by Rune Factory. I have 
 only praise for this game. The only tic-tac sized comment i have that is negative (kind of) is 
 that the map is HUGE (which isn't bad necessarily) and it takes a long time to get some places, 
 particularly the animal selling ranch, but i digress.
  This installment adds many new things that are actually good (unlike Island of Happiness where 
 the new additions were all annoying and boring) and make the game feel fresh. I have had the game 
 for 5 days and have been playing for 5-8 hour stretches two or three times a day because i can 
 hardly stand to put it down and go outside. It is THAT addictive. 
  A new additions is an actual storyline, besides the normal 'move to a town, start a family and 
 farm, possibly grow the town' (not including RF) . I won't expose the story line, but there is one. 
 
  Another addition that was particularly helpful to me is that you can walk on your plants. Maybe 
 it wasn't annoying to some people but i like the new system of growing much better.
  Other new things are that:
  1. Stamina can be increased. 
  2. Tools can be upgraded with metal, 
 not very rare and expensive wonderfuls. 
  3. You go on actual dates with the person you want to woo, and they give you the occasional present 
 too, so its not just the boring present/talk one sided affair every day until the proposal or the 
 meager heart events.
  4. House expansions aren't unbelievably expensive, and wood and stone are easy enough to obtain. 
 
  5. The farm is actually a good way to make money, unlike in other games where you make more from 
 mining or fishing. 
  6. Part time jobs are a good way to start out with money and they increase affection. 
  7. Rival 
 couples actually have events, marry, and have a kid. 
  8. There are now goats, ostriches, and silkworms added to the chicken, duck, cow and sheep lineup. 
 
  9. Mining is challenging, but less tedious because of smaller levels. 
  10. Characters are well developed and interesting enough. Have their own personality. 
  11. You 
 can change your clothes! You can also wear hats and jewelry.
  12. You can choose your own pets, from the normal dog or cat, to a penguin, panda, or monkey, and 
 many in between.
  13. Depending on who you marry, your child will come out different, both is appearance and mannerisms. 
 You can also pick its gender. 
  14. There is also special feature at the end of the game where you can start a new game with your 
 child as the protagonist, and it is basically the same game, same characters, same story, but your 
 child inherits all your items and your skill level for your tools up to 3. 
  
  As you can see, there are many good aspects of this game. Also, the Wii motion controllers can 
 be used like a Wii should be (ex. swinging the remote up and down for fishing, or back and forth 
 for watering) or if your feeling lazy you can hit A button for mostly every action. The classic 
 controller is also usable. 
  All in all, HM ToT is a very good game and worth every penny. You'll be skipping work or school 
 (or at least really want to skip) to play this game without a doubt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabitafm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  My first impression about Game Spot review makes me some questions about just like if this games 
 really worth me buying it, but later I assume I must played it, as well I've been playing HM since 
 SNES, just to try it as well as others.
  
  Well the first day I got it, it was a little annoying seeing that never-ending loading times almost 
 for everything, but really trust me if you like Harvest Moon, this thing goes to the least thing 
 you check later on the game (its like loading times in MHF2 for PSP, if you know what I mean, yes 
 it worth like in there)
  
  Your farming skills goes to 5 levels, as you can charge for more watering plots, you can chop trees 
 easily then without upgrades, but just as you use the tool, which seems to be for me surprisingly 
 nice.
  
  For storyline, I was surprised, from the beginning, you get along with some part of what happens 
 in the island, this makes me to have somewhere to go, not just as farming to farm, having an objective 
 is nice, it feels like you do everything for reasons, not just to earn 99,999 and well, then what?. 
 That's nice for me. 
  
  For planting crops, I like the way that the soild need to fertilize it in order to grow high quality 
 crops, lots of crops to watch on as well as either planting trees is funny, everyone's schedule 
 throughout the island is nice, they don't disappear from nothing like previous HM titles, you can 
 get friends both with bachelors and bachelorettes, plus to this, they thank you with gifts regarding 
 if you can marry them or not.
  
  Animals is an important part in this game, although time passes inside barns and coops, you can 
 deal with it according to times, dating, confessions, rival events, they are all nice.
  
  I almost forget, you can befriend wild animals (it reminds me a little like Rune Factory befriends) 
 and you can get them like pets that daily or almost give you something, that's quite nice and new. 
 Plus, the way you earn power berries is interesting, not just plain.
  
  And although this, you can have up to 4 houses, that is nice because you can sleep in all of them 
 too, you can decorate them separately as you wish, you can dress yourself as you like, you can 
 track people to know always where they are, you can travel through islands, you can have both a 
 girl or boy and new game+ them, what else you need?
  
  You should give a try at this title, I may not be wrong, this game really is one of the best in 
 a long time for Harvest Moon (and believe me, there are quite a lot) and for me that I've been 
 playing them, although some annoying glitches that comes with the game and ''surprisingly'' just 
 in US - thanks Natsume (Calvin, some names, weird %track%) this games deserves almost 10.
  
  The good:
  - Storyline, harvest, relationships, animals, dressing, time, travel, WII-remote 
 motions if you like hehe, TRACKING, well almost everything.
  
  The bad:
  - Loading times but you get along with them and awful - thanks Natsume - glitches for marrying 
 a bachelor and some little ones too; besides all this bad things, you can forget them and just 
 enjoying everything else.
  
  Overall: This game is the best in the Harvest Moon series, before this I thought Rune Factory was, 
 but this game, fills all of my expectations, besides both are awesome and different in some ways, 
 I can't compare them, get it, this games doesn't deserve a 6, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itsmephil
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  I love the nice and easy going nature of the game. I've had Harvest Moon
  games in previous consoles but this one is fantastic. Annoyingly addictive.
  I mean that. Once 
 I start to get bored, I stop playing. 5 minutes later I'm right back on it. I think about recipes 
 at work. Should I sell off the animals
  or more of them with no crops? I've only put in about 50 hours so far, so maybe it's spell over 
 me will wear off at some point, but for me, this game
  has paid for itself already. Now at less than a dollar per hour of entertainment, and getting cheaper 
 buy the hour. The only thing I've found so far that I would change would be that when I make the 
 same food item over and over, to just be able to hit my B button and skip the whole animation.
 
  Can't talk now... have to prep the land for spring crops.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyo_Luver110619
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I like this one. It's not immediately addictive, but it grows on you. The graphics are way better 
 than the others. Not my favorite in the series, but it's in the top five. The difficulty level 
 is definitely higher, but it's worth it. Odd choice of animals though. I mean, really people, how 
 many farmers do you know that keep silk worms? I like the new characters and their designs. The 
 plot line is also more in depth. The way they spread the plot events out keeps you interested and 
 intrigued. Also, the way the characters all get involved with the controversy within the game is 
 exciting. Of all the newer menu factors, I like the friendship menu the most. It's very convenient 
 to see how much all the villagers like your character. Unlike in the earlier games in the series 
 when you could only see how much your boy/girl-friend liked you, this is much easier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasonFahQ
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  I am another player that doesn't understand Gamespot's low rating. Let's put it this way, if you 
 like other Harvest Moon games, you may love this game. It is the biggest and best Harvest Moon 
 to date and I found myself at almost the end of year 2 in the game before I started to get a little 
 bored, but I am still playing. We're talking probably 75+ hours of game time. For my money it was 
 definitely worth the $50. For those who haven't played it's a game of social life similar to the 
 Animal Crossing games whoever this game focuses more on the idea of raising a farm and a family. 
 You grow crops, raise animals, sell animal products and produce, fish, mine, attend festivals and 
 create relationships with other island residents. The work can become somewhat repetitive but if 
 you are more goal oriented in the game it doesn't really bother you for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zynqu
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  this title is the best and will not disappiont anyone who plays it. (except for haters) anyone can 
 fully enjoy this title wether they are new players or not. Tree of Tranquility offers many new 
 aspects to the game series itself. it is amzing and memerable. this is truly a game that people 
 will remember.
  
  this game is awesome due to the fact that it offers you an adventure for a change, but at the same 
 time you must keep up your farming skills. though some titles before offered a story or a role 
 you must fuffill, (such as Save home Town) i think that this story is alot better because it is 
 quite longer. a game needs to be long enough for any player to enjoy. this title fully demonstrates 
 this.
  
  back on topic, this is a perfect game for a gift. anyone will enjoy it wether they are a gamer 
 or not.
  
  ---Thanks ---
  (i include this for those on the gamespot blog that got me to buy this title when others told me 
 not to)
  
  to all of those who told me to buy it, and that i will not regret it. Thanks! i did not regret it 
 and i dont think i ever will
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acidboom1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Natsume is a guineas starting these games and they have really gone far from the first game to 
 this. It has a good story and characters but takes awhile to understand how to make the rainbows. 
 I am shocked and appalled at the score Gamespot gave it, a 6.0, are you kidding me, it deserves 
 a 9.5 or maybe a 10.0, I must admit that I agree with some things they say like too many loading 
 screens but they need those loading because this game is so wonderful that it would surely freeze 
 up. The controls are nice and simple plus I like how you can interact by shaking the wii controller 
 and it gives you that little tutorial on how to pick weeds and use tools. I wish Gamespot would 
 change their score on this game but there isn't much I can do but this is one of the funnest games 
 I've ever played to date, besides Legend of Zelda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wahyudil
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  If you have ever played Harvest Moon before, there are nothing that I can say... all are the same 
 ... with lots of improvement
  
  the pros :
  - great graphics (one of the most beautiful WII game until now)
  - fast paced game (the game 
 has smooth and swift animation, good control and short cut, easy to play)
  - very relaxing and less frustating than any other Harvest Moon game ever ... (OMG, i really love 
 playing it)
  - cute and fun NPC ...
  - lots of improvement (including part time job and clothing your character)
  
  cons :
  - 
 slow loading screen (that is faster than any loading screen in any Harvest Moon games :D ... and 
 gamespot said this is slow .... duh) ... truly, the loading screen is very tolerable ...
  - not too friendly map system 
  - motion sensing control not too good (just use A button instead)
 
  - limited camera rotation (not 360 degree) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicBlueNinja
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I know many sites gave this game grief for having the same game play as in the past but i think 
 they have never been addicted to any of the games in the series. I will admit the 2d versions are 
 better to an extent but it makes up for anything it lacks which it really dose not lack much of. 
 One feature i would have like to see continued would have been the connection with the game boy 
 in the game. If you could transfer your money in the game over to the ds version it would be nice. 
 Speaking of money it is difficult at first to earn money in the game and just growing crops and 
 fishing and mining will not cut it you will want to establish farm animals as soon ass you can 
 because they do not require as much work as the crops or mining and bring in some nice income in 
 the game. Like the previous entry's you have to objective of marrying and having a kid and also 
 the main objective in this game is to help save the island by bringing back the harvest goddess 
 and its tied to a tree on the island called the tree of tranquility. the classic controller is 
 an option which is nice and it is a well rounded game. buy it if you have a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suplax
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  One more time the reviwers from gamespot show how capable of ruin a game they are. Harvest Moon 
 Tree of Tranquility is a great game. The visuals are beautiful and fun, cute and sometimes even 
 funny at the same time.
  Actually i cant give 10 because the sound, the sound is a little let down. But this is the only 
 weak point of the game. About the loadings... they are pretty normal, a lot of games have loading 
 between the levels, so what ? And the loadings are fast , i didn't understand why the reviewer's 
 complain about the loading, maybe they should check they console's to make sure they are working 
 well. Of course there are things there are some as preview Harvest Moon but there are a lot of 
 new things too. Please dont be a fool of believe in gamespot reviewer's. At least go and rent it 
 first to see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mik91
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  The harvest moon ToT in my opinion is great it may have some bad things about it like the loading 
 screens but that doesnt matter to me as long as i enjoy the game play which i do and its a great 
 game and a great way for new people who play this game to get use to it easy and quickly u got 
 to be pretty dull not to understand how to do anything in this game also the game has good functions 
 with working with the classical controller for wii if u dont like using the nunchuk. Te game is 
 awesome to me and i hope others would agree and have a great time being a framer and a rancher 
 in HARVEST MOON TREE OF TRANQUILITY :D
  Also i u need help with anything in the game email me at darkstar91@ymail. com ill help no questions 
 asked ^^ 
  
  The game is the best in the series and i can only hope you dont die in this game like the Gamecube 
 versions of harvest moon because that just sucked but it was still great to play ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  I've been a Harvest Moon fan for a long, long time. Like many fans of the series I hold Harvest 
 Moon 64 in the highest regards. A lot of the console games that have come out since then just have 
 never left that good of an impression on me. They often added little conventions to the game that 
 made it more complicated and so on. What I loved about Harvest Moon 64 is the fact that it was 
 simple, and Tree of Tranquility gets back to the simple roots of the series. 
  
  All the basic Harvest Moon gameplay elements are here. You farm, mine, fish, socialize, get married, 
 go to festivals, have a kid, ect. There's not a whole lot of different things going on compared 
 to other games but that's just what Harvest Moon games are known for, and the fans obviously still 
 eat it up. There is no "you need to unlock a bunch of sprites" in order to do things like getting 
 married. You just go from day to day trying to improve your farm making as much money as you can. 
 Keeping it plain and simple is one of ToT's strong points. 
  
  Negatives to the game are things like audio. All the audio except for the BGM is with out a doubt 
 flat out terrible, especially the voice clips. It sounds like it was recorded in some empty room 
 though a tin can. The graphics aren't anything to write home about and could have been improved 
 a bit more in comparison to Rune Factory for the Wii. It doesn't have true 16:9 support with black 
 bars surrounding the entire picture. The town's design is a little too spread out as well. In the 
 beginning it's hard to figure out just where you need to go and could end up getting turned around 
 at some points. 
  
  In the end, Tree of Tranquility is a return to the series simple roots, and I along with many fans 
 will love it. It's easily accessible to new comers with it's toned down difficulty unlike newer 
 games like Island of Happiness. So if you were curious about this addicting series, now would be 
 the time to get into it.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
