-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Harvey Birdman: Attorney at Law
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/adventure/harveybirdmanattorneyatlaw/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great storylines that fit nicely into the show's style of humor.
 Sharp graphics.
 Nearly all of the show's voice cast is on hand.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay barely exists, and what's there is forgettable.
 You can beat the whole thing in about four hours.
 No Stephen Colbert, and the soundalike actor sucks.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.1, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 100 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Developer: High Voltage Soft.
Genre: Adventure
Date: Jan 8, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It nails the show's insanely enjoyable brand of humor, but can't quite pull out a gameplay design 
 to match. 

  In Harvey Birdman: Attorney At Law for the Wii, PlayStation2, and PSP, the developers at High Voltage 
 Software didn't actually make a  Harvey Birdman  game; they made a  Harvey Birdman  DVD (and UMD) 
 episode collection that you have to constantly click through to progress in each story. Sure, there 
 are gameplay elements, but they're largely inconsequential, an itch in each of the game's five 
 episodes that you periodically notice long enough to scratch, yet often forget is even there as 
 you find yourself lulled into just clicking away to get to the next story bit. That might not sound 
 like much of a ringing endorsement, but although the gameplay may be in absentia, the comedy is 
 front and center. If you have any love of the Adult Swim cartoon on which the game is based, you'll 
 find the five episodes packed into this game to be as hilarious and absurd as many of the recent 
 episodes of the show.  

           The winged defense attorney and all his crazy compadres make their gaming debut in Harvey 
 Birdman: Attorney At Law.      

  There are five unique episodes in Attorney At Law, each covering a different case in the life of 
 superhero attorney Harvey Birdman. If you've never caught the show on Cartoon Network's Adult Swim 
 block, it's essentially an excuse to rope a bunch of old Hanna Barbara cartoon characters into 
 ludicrous law-breaking situations, and it's an exceptionally funny one at that. Attorney At Law 
 is solidly written and does a good job of emulating the style of rapid-fire random humor for which 
 the show is known. Cases range from your attempt to keep fellow attorney and serial womanizer Peter 
 Potamus from going to jail for setting Harvey's duplex on fire, to an all-out theft of Harvey's 
 office purportedly perpetrated by Secret Squirrel. The jokes are as bawdy and silly as any episode 
 of the show, and you even get some truly strange video game humor tossed in for good measure. Ever 
 wondered how many Street Fighter III jokes you can fit into one game? Here's your answer.  

  Many of the all-time favorite characters make appearances, from rival attorney Myron Reducto, 
 to judge Mentok the Mindtaker, to Harvey's inept stalker and archvillain X the Eliminator. Most 
 of the principal voice actors from the show are on hand to reprise their roles, including Gary 
 Cole ( Office Space ,  The Brady Bunch Movie ) , John Michael Higgins ( Best in Show ,  Blade: Trinity 
 ) and Peter MacNicol ( Ghostbusters II ,  Baby Geniuses ) . Unfortunately, Stephen Colbert, who 
 did the voices for Reducto as well as Harvey's boss, Phil Ken Sebben, isn't on hand (he left the 
 show some time ago) , so instead we get less-than-stellar soundalikes. The guy doing Reducto is 
 decent enough, but the actor portraying Phil Ken Sebben manages to get the notion of Sebben's dialogue 
 correct yet screws up the cadences and timing, which makes his lines decidedly less funny. Regardless, 
 that's a couple of figures out of a large and memorable cast of kooky characters, so it's not completely 
 detrimental.  

  The one wrinkle to all of this is the game's length. Obviously these aren't 11-minute episodes 
 like the TV show. Each of the five cases clocks in somewhere less than an hour, which means that 
 the whole game takes somewhere around four hours to complete. The added length is kind of a "darned 
 if you do, darned if you don't" situation. On the one hand, five less-than-an-hour episodes don't 
 add up to very long in game time, which makes the $40 price tag sort of dubious. At the same time, 
 the longer each episode goes, the less random and bananas it feels. Jokes don't fire at quite the 
 same machine-gun pace that they do on the TV show, so you're left with more leisurely paced moments, 
 which aren't really the strong suit of this material. This is probably the best middle ground the 
 writers could have achieved without making the episodes achingly long or completely shortchanging 
 people who drop their cash on this thing -- though you might still feel shortchanged, regardless. 

  Oh, and you do have to play this thing here and there -- kinda, sorta, anyway. Attorney At Law's 
 gameplay doesn't feel too far-flung from publisher Capcom's other legal eagle game franchise, Phoenix 
 Wright. Most of the gameplay revolves around investigation and trying cases. The investigation 
 portion is quite limited. You occasionally talk to other characters to find out information, and 
 sometimes have to examine environments for evidence, though it's not like you have to look hard 
 for any of this stuff. Each location has maybe five or six things, tops, that are highlightable, 
 and maybe a single person to talk to. You click on everything, go through all the necessary dialogue 
 sections (and even some of the unnecessary ones, if you want to see some hidden comedic gems) , 
 and then it's off to court.  

  The courtroom sequences are the most involved, though not necessarily for the right reasons. The 
 only thing you need to do is interrogate witnesses on the stand. Each witness gives testimony about 
 the current case, and through each piece of testimony, you can either press a witness on one of 
 his or her statements, or present him or her with evidence that refutes or backs up these statements. 
 Although some amusing stuff tends to come out of these courtroom proceedings, the actual game mechanics 
 aren't much fun. Each bout of witness testimony ultimately devolves into you hitting the "press" 
 selection for every piece of testimony, and then eventually picking out fairly obvious pieces of 
 evidence. The trick is that you must present only the evidence that relates to a specific section 
 of testimony. If you have the wrong bit of dialogue highlighted and present something, you lose 
 a crest. You get five crests for each court scene, and if you lose them all, the game is over. 
 Fortunately, the game is pretty good about saving right before each case, so you rarely have to 
 redo much. These courtroom pieces might be the most gamelike portions of Attorney At Law, but they're 
 also the least enjoyable.  

           You don't so much play Attorney At Law as you watch it while occasionally clicking on 
 stuff.      

  Attorney At Law impresses most with its visuals, and that's true across all three platforms. The 
 game emulates the art style of the show perfectly, though admittedly that hardly seems surprising 
 considering the bulk of the game is a lot of cutscenes tied together with intermittent bits of 
 interactivity. Nevertheless, those scenes look great. In fact, even outside of visuals, the differences 
 between versions are practically nonexistent. The Wii version uses Wii Remote pointer controls 
 for menu selections and such, and the PSP version is just a hair slower to load each scene than 
 the two console versions. (It's a difference you'll only notice if you compare them side-by-side 
 because it's really not all that bad.) Otherwise, any version of Attorney At Law is as good as 
 another.  

  Attorney At Law ultimately falls in line with what a  Harvey Birdman  game should be. After all, 
 if you're going to make a silly game about courtroom drama, there are limits to the number of ways 
 you can actually make that interesting. Regardless, even if it does conceptually hit the mark, 
 the execution of the rather sparse gameplay doesn't quite cut it. You'll actually forget you're 
 even playing a game for long stretches, which is kind of a double-edged sword. It's good in that 
 the hilarious storylines manage to hold your attention and keep you laughing all throughout. It's 
 bad in that the game mechanics are so unobtrusive as to be borderline unnecessary. Any way you 
 slice it, Attorney At Law probably isn't worth dropping $40 on, but it's an ideal rental for fans 
 of the show.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ATL14
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: More than half of the game is cutscenes. You find evidence, defend or prosecute in court, 
 watch cutscenes until you finish the episode.
  
  VOICE ACTING: Most of the show's original voice cast comes back which is a good thing. Bad thing 
 is Stephen Colbert doesnt come back as Phil and Reducto. The soundalike actors didn't do a bad 
 job but, Colbert does the voices right.
  
  SOUND: The music isn't anything big in this game but the investigating music is pretty catchy.
 
  
  CONTROLS: This game is a point and click game so there's really nothing to say about this part. 
 =\
  
  LENGTH:
  Main game: About 3  hours
  Unlockables: 7 minutes
  Entire game length: TOO SHORT!!!
  
  BOTTOM LINE: Birdman did an alright job of a video game, 
 but everything in the game will keep you busy for at least a week
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waffle_Fish
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 4, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Ahh Harvey Birdman, one of the most under appreciated adult swim shows. It made its debut back 
 when adult swim first aired, yet it has had only 4 seasons. The show ended in 2007, however Harvey 
 Birdman returns in the form of a point and click court game. While the return of Bridman is great, 
 the game... is not.
  
  In Harvey Bird Attorney at Law you follow five trails of Harvey Birdman at work and on the go. 
 Good enough plot, lets get on with the review!
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Harvey Birdman is said to play like Phoenix Wright, I would not know, because I have not played 
 a Phoenix Wright game. However capcom published the game, so It would make some sense if it did. 
 Anywhoo
  
  Harvey Birdman feels like a DVD extra rather than a full fledged game. You pretty much click on 
 some things, collecting evidence and other things that might be useful for the trial, using the 
 wiimote, watch animated cinimatic and then click and collect more things. 
  
  Then after you collect enough things, you go into court and either prosecute or Defend. In court, 
 someone is called up to the stand, they make a testimony and then you examine it and find holes 
 in it to win your case. 
  
  The gameplay works, it might not be that exciting at times but it is effective, I mean what else 
 are they going to do fir a Court based game. The best part of the game play is talking to these 
 unique and familiar characters and going to some entertaining locations and just sort of seeing 
 all the little things that have been put in the game. For example, there are many references to 
 Capcom games in here and it is always entertaining to stumble upon these and see the comment made 
 when examining them.
  
  However, there really isnt much of a game part of this game though. It feels like the wide majority, 
 more than half, is spent watching cinimatics and while thats great for those looking for an entertaining 
 way to return to the Bridman, those looking for a game will feel cheated. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Harvey Birdman is all animated all the time. It pretty much looks like the show, however in 
 a lower resolution. It pretty much looks like what the show would of looked like if it was made 
 in Macromedia flash. To compare it to some other animated games, it looks like a step bellow Warioware 
 Smooth moves. Characters can sometimes look blocky and their animations arent always as fluid as 
 they are in the show. Even with the flaws in the graphics, its still looks great, and it works 
 a lot better than it would of if they had transitioned this to 3D. 
  
  Sound:
  
  The game performs execllently in the sound department. All voice actors from the show make their 
 return to the game to present of all their funny and hilarious jokes. The sound effects are also 
 taken pretty much straight out of the show. Sound effects and voices for characters that werent 
 in the show make a seemless entry. The game also features all the swift and great music from the 
 show, including the opening.
  
  Value: 
  
  Harvey Bird man is an extremely short and fairly easy game. There are only 5 trials, each taking 
 around 30-45 minutes to complete, so your looking at a game thats only around 4 hours long, and 
 after you complete it, there is no real need to replay it unless you are one that enjoys watching 
 episodes of shows over and over again because thats what the game pretty much is, 5 interactive 
 episodes of the show. 
  
  The game is still $40, making it hard recommend for even Birdman fans. If you enjoy the show, go 
 out an rent it, otherwise why are you even considering this?
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Harvey Birdman Attorney at law is pretty much just a couple interactive episodes of the show (all 
 new of course) . While it captures the humor from the show, even fans of the series wont be able 
 to get past its short length and high price tag. If your looking for a real court game, go get 
 Phoenix Wright, I hear its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylerbbadd1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  While 'Harvey Birdman' certainly won't win over many fans with its gameplay, especially those who 
 have played the quirky 'Phoenix Wright' series on the DS, what the game does well is blend in its 
 unique style of comedy. 
  Sure, the gameplay isn't innovative. To be honest, for those looking for a simple game to laugh 
 at, the gameplay will even annoy you at certain points. But it was put together well enough so 
 that it will hold you over so that you can enjoy every last juicy moment of comedy that the game 
 brings to the table.
  For fans looking to enjoy their favorite mediocre superhero stepping up to the judicial plate, 
 this game will please them and blend in a small amount of gameplay to keep fans interested, and 
 most importantly, entertained. For a low price of only $40, this game is a fun buy, but when it 
 drops in price, and I assure you that with the fairly low amount of press it has gotten, it will 
 soon, this game is a must-play for all fans of the series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prof_Frink
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  The genre of the Adventure game is slowly dying. Every so often a new title immerges from the game 
 developers but the complication is that Adventure games are heavily story driven and it is difficult 
 to make them lengthy. The real complication is that it is neatly impossible to add replay value 
 to the game. [I] Harvey Birdman: Attorney at Law [/I] succumbs to both of these flaws. 
  
  For anyone out there familiar with the [adult swim] lineup on Cartoon Network, should have at least 
 heard of the [I] Harvey Birdman: Attorney at Law [/I] show. It was one of the launch shows of the 
 programming block. The show was recently canceled, but it had a great run and all of the show's 
 writers worked on the game script as one final hurrah. Plus, anyone who is a fan of the show should 
 really enjoy the humor and running gags that were present from episode to episode. Even for people 
 not familiar with the show will find a great deal of the jokes and gags very entertaining, but 
 it is adult-themed humor even though it is a cartoon.
  
  The actual game itself has a set-up very similar to [I] Phoenix Write: Ace Attorney [/I] . This is 
 not surprising since one of the production houses on the game is Capcom. In Phoenix Write, the 
 player has to find clues, interview witnesses and submit evidence to win court cases. In Harvey 
 Birdman, the player has to do the same thing. The difference is that in Phoenix Write the player 
 actually has to work to make progress through the game and it is very easy to make a mistake. Harvey 
 Birdman is a much more dumbed down version. The producers were more focused on progressing the 
 story and the jokes than actual game play.
  
  The actual story is great. In fact, it is pretty much all the game has to offer. The game looks 
 just like the cartoon show except some of the animation is stiff and sometimes abrupt. The problem 
 with the story is that all five episodes of the game feel like rehashed scripts from the show. 
 None of them were actually reruns from the show, but similar plots. The sad aspect is that Stephen 
 Colbert did not perform as Phil Sebben for the game. Fans of the show will notice the difference 
 in the replacement actor's performance. The humor keeps the gamer entertained. It has to be one 
 of the funniest games ever made, but humor is selective so not everyone will find the game funny.
 
  
  The games biggest flaw is its length. The game has five episodes, each with one unlockable movie. 
 One of the unlockable is a clip from volume three of the DVD collection; the other four are for 
 the game itself. To unlock a clip requires the player to find a Street Fighter III reference within 
 the game. All five episodes, including finding all of the hidden Street Fighter references can 
 be down in less than five hours. This extremely short length can make it painful for shelling out 
 the $40 sticker price of this game.
  
  In the end, the game is a great entertainment but it is STICKLY a rental title. 
  If the game 
 must be bought, it is not worth more than ten or fifteen dollars and even that is a stretch. This 
 is disappointing because the game itself is so clever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Wacky cast of characters featuring most of the original cast of the Cartoon Network Adult 
 Swim show, many downright hilarious moments, features many of the aspects that made the Phoenix 
 Wright DS games so good.
  
  The Bad: The gameplay isn't all it could have been, it can be beaten in 2-4 hours.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  As a hardcore fan of the Phoenix Wright games on the DS, I always thought that a game from that 
 series would work really well on the Nintendo Wii. I was excited when Capcom revealed it would 
 be bringing not Phoenix Wright, but caped courtroom crusader Harvey Birdman to the Wii with a very 
 similar gameplay consept. Unfortunately, Harvey Birdman: Attorney at Law lacks many of the gameplay 
 elements that make the Phoenix Wright games fun on the DS, is way to easy and is over not far after 
 it begins.
  
  You play as Harvey Birdman, an superhero who has abandoned his super heroics in favor of doning 
 a suit and becoming a hero of the courtroom. Accompanied by the wacky office staff of Stebben and 
 Stebben, Harvey will use his superhuman lawyer powers to fight injustice. Oh, and this is all based 
 on the Cartoon Network series on it's Adult Swim block.
  
  The game consists of 5 different cases. Each one is hillarious and offers plenty of laugh out loud 
 moments. Unfortunately, they are all very, very short and together, they last maybe 4 hours. Is 
 $40 worth paying for 4 hours of gameplay? Probably not. 
  
  Obviously, comparing this game to Phoenix Wright makes sence, right? Well, unfortunately, Harvey 
 Birdman lacks many of the aspects that made Phoenix Wright so good, in addition to being short. 
 One of the biggest letdowns is how easy this game is. Heck, they even tell you how to beat the 
 first case. The vast majority of the game is extremely straight forward and not too hard to figure 
 out. There were a few moments that I got stuck on for a short period of time, but they were few 
 and far between. I got through up to half of case 3 before the game gave me any trouble. Another 
 aspect that was missing was a lot of the CSI style crime scene mini games that took place. Granted, 
 Phoenix Wright was much more serious, and every trial in all three games was a murder trial, but 
 still, it would have been nice to see something besides just pointing and clicking on stuff the 
 entire time. 
  
  What makes Harvey Birdman worth playing is the sheer hilarity that takes place. It is a very funny 
 game. The cutscenes are designed to make you feel like you are playing an episode of the show. 
 Heck, there are even stupid credits at the end, just like with the show. The game's style and funny 
 moments make it worth trying, but the lack of depth and length keep it from being a worthy purchase. 
 Now don't get me wrong, if you like Phoenix Wright, you'll like the gameplay of Harvey Birdman, 
 but it still doesn't come close to our DS courtoom hero. There are bonus videos to be discovered 
 for doing various things during the gameplay, but this is not enough motivation to replay the game 
 again, unless you are a really hardcore fan of the show.
  
  All in all, Harvey Birdman: Attorney at Law is a funny and querky courtroom game that is a lot 
 of fun, but it's lack of depth and length hurt it in the long run. I'm still holding out for a 
 Wii version of Phoenix Wright, but this was a nice short, and enjoyable game to hold me over for 
 a few hours. 
  
  Gameplay: Point and click your way through hillarious courtoom antics, but the fun only last for 
 a couple hours.
  
  Graphics: Extremely cartoony, just like the show.
  
  Sound: The voice acting is excellent by most of the original show cast, and brings even more humor 
 to the game.
  
  Value: It's $40, which may seem like a good value, but if you are only getting 4 hours of gameplay, 
 it really isn't.
  
  Final Thoughts: "I'll take the case!" 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
