-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Heatseeker
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/heatseeker/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Controls are simple and work well.
 shooting down hundreds of planes is mindless fun.
 solid frame rate.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Little mission variety.
 graphics are ugly.
 voice acting is horrific.
 no multiplayer.
 $20 more than the PS2 version for no good reason.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.4
Critic Score: 6.4, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 308 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: IR Gurus
Genre: Jet Sim
Date: May 1, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Heatseeker isn't a good game, but it manages to be fun in spite of its many shortcomings. 

  Heatseeker is an arcade-style flying game from IR Gurus, the same developer behind 2005's Heroes 
 of the Pacific. Unlike Heroes, Heatseeker takes place in modern times and places you in the cockpit 
 of some of today's most well-known fighter jets. It's not a very deep game; it's kind of ugly, 
 and the voice acting is atrocious. But Heatseeker can be fun in small doses -- especially if you 
 don't mind taking down wave after wave of enemies, level after level.  

          The levels are ugly no matter how fast you go.     

  The campaign in Heatseeker spans 
 18 missions that take place in four locations. The first few missions have you protect an island 
 base and teach you the basic controls. From there, things escalate because you'll soon find yourself 
 on the lookout for nuclear weapons and later smack dab in the middle of an international crisis. 
 Before each mission, there's a short briefing that details the mission's scenario and your objectives. 
 The briefings are so poorly done that they're hard to take seriously. Your commander is constantly 
 yelling at you, even though you've done nothing wrong. He's also difficult to take seriously because 
 he sounds quite a bit like Stephen Colbert as Phil from  Harvey Birdman: Attorney At Law .  

  The good news is you don't need much of a story for what you're going to do in Heatseeker, which 
 is blow stuff up. Your choice in planes is limited at first, but you'll eventually get to fly a 
 number of real planes including: F/A-18 Hornet, F-15, F-16, MIG-31, SR-71 Blackbird, F-22 Raptor, 
 and many more. Each plane has unique ratings for speed, agility, and defense, as well as air-to-air 
 and air-to-ground ability. However, it's difficult to detect differences from plane to plane unless 
 the ratings are vastly different. There are two different control styles to choose from. "Arcade" 
 controls are simple and ensure your plane always rights itself, while "professional" controls are 
 slightly more complex and give you more control over the jet. No matter which setting you choose, 
 the controls are easy to learn, and other than it being difficult to target specific objects, the 
 planes are a breeze to control. Your heads-up display is well designed, and as long as the game's 
 obnoxious captions aren't obscuring a large, important part of your screen as they're prone to 
 do, it's easy to find any information you need at a moment's notice.  

  You'll use the Wii remote and the Nunchuk to control your plane in the Wii version of the game. 
 The analog stick on the Nunchuk controls your speed. You'll point the remote toward the screen 
 and move it up, down, left or right to control your plane's direction. If you use the "professional" 
 controls, you can twist the Wii Remote clockwise and counterclockwise to roll your plane. The controls 
 work surprisingly well, and as long as you're up high, it only takes a few minutes before you're 
 able to pilot your plane with ease. When you get down near the ground, the controls are just touchy 
 enough to cause problems.  

  As mentioned earlier, you'll spend nearly all of your time in Heatseeker blowing things up. You'll 
 use your unlimited ammo to shoot down hundreds of enemy planes, drop bombs on unsuspecting jeeps, 
 unleash torpedoes on ships, as well as take out antiaircraft guns, tanks, a fortress, and more. 
 You'll also be charged with protecting planes and ships, but to do so, you just blow up more bad 
 guys. Once in a while, you'll need to scan vessels to find out if they're up to no good, and if 
 they areyou guessed ityou blow them up. The biggest problem with Heatseeker is that 
 its gameplay is repetitive. It's also not particularly original either. The game's not terribly 
 difficult on the default setting, and there are plenty of checkpoints, so except for when enemy 
 planes repeatedly avoid your missiles by releasing flares, you'll rarely find yourself too frustrated. 
 There's no multiplayer to speak of, so once you've beaten the single-player campaign, you're doneunless 
 you want to go back to unlock some more planes.  

  Other than some nice-looking clouds and a solid frame rate, there isn't much to look at in Heatseeker. 
 The levels are large, but they're mostly empty, and what is there is ugly. Buildings are little 
 more than blocks, while the ground is an ugly, poorly textured mess. The planes look OK, but other 
 than your craft, you won't get much of a chance to look at them. Explosions aren't bad, but the 
 "impact cam" that shows them off via a quick movie-style replay after a hit gets annoying quickly. 
 Both the PlayStation 2 and Wii versions have a widescreen setting, but the Wii looks slightly better 
 thanks to some antialiasing and cleaner textures.  

          No time to celebrate, it's time to blow up some more dudes.     

  Heatseeker sounds 
 about as good as it looks. The voice acting is amateurish at best and horribly obnoxious at worst. 
 Even if the voice actors were good, it wouldn't have made it any more fun to get yelled at by your 
 commanding officer and wingmen all the time. The cheesy guitar rock that plays in the background 
 during each mission would have been perfectif this were 1985.  

  With no multiplayer, dated graphics, grating sound, and some unoriginal gameplay, Heatseeker has 
 a lot of things going against it. But in spite of all these issues, shooting wave after wave of 
 generic enemies can be fun in short spurts. If you're looking for some mindless fun, the game might 
 be worth the $30 price tag on the PS2, but it's in no way worth the $50 Codemasters is asking for 
 on the Wii.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (38 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: g_offbunny
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  The reviewers are starting to sound like a broken record here. Gamespot, as well as other "professional" 
 reviewers are throwing this one under the bus, but they're not the proper people to be playing 
 these games to begin with. The professional reviewers have so little experience with actual flight 
 games like Microsoft's flight sims, joystick-based computer action games like Secret weapons over 
 Normady, or realistic military jet sims like Janes, that they have no idea what the hell they're 
 really supposed to do with them. 
  
  I suspect that the readers who are giving this game high marks are the ones who actually know the 
 genre. Now, Heatseeker is not realistic. It's not even close to it. Unlimited weapons, low operational 
 ceilings, weapon behavior, radar, everything screams arcade. And that's OK. What Heatsekker does 
 offer is a control scheme that is second-to-none. Flying is incredibly enjoyable and intuitive. 
 Blowing bad guys out of the sky is rewarding and fun. 
  
  The professional reviewers love to harp on the game's graphical shortcomings, but in my opinion, 
 the game looks fine. It's not a powerhouse like some PS3 games, that's true. But the simple reality 
 is, the graphics look fine. You can see what you're doing, and understand what you're supposed 
 to be looking at. And really, when the impact cam switches on and you watch your missile (unrealistically) 
 slam into your target, you will get a rush of satisfaction. And that's really all that matters. 
 I would much rather enjoy my games and put up with slightly outdated (but not ugly) graphics than 
 hate the experience but have pretty shiny oh-so-real graphics. I don't know. Maybe Gamespot hires 
 raccoons to do their reviews. 
  
  The bottom line is, the Wii needs more games like this. The flying just FEELS right. It's a fun 
 and satisfying game in a genre that is too neglected, both by developers, and reviewers who have 
 no idea what to do with these kinds of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fencingbean
Rating: 7
Date: May 25, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Easy to pick - up controls.
  Killing hundreds of planes is fun.
  Variety of weapons and planes.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Graphics are a bit dodgy.
  Sounds effects 
 and voices are terrible.
  No multiplayer modes.
  
  Fly some of today's most advanced fighter jets and shoot down waves after waves of enemy aircraft. 
 Gamespot and other people say the levels are repetitive, which is true, but shooting down sucsessive 
 waves of enemies and hearing the appauling voice acting screaming, gives you a sense of satisfaction. 
 You don't need to think when you play this game.
  
  You can use the wii remote and the nunchuk to control this game, but it is easier just to use the 
 arcade control scheme and stick to the wii remote. This game is very easy to pick up because all 
 you have to do is fire missiles and drop bombs. Its a fun game, but it would be better with multiplayer.
 
  
  With rubbish sound, terrible voice acting and poor acting Heatseeker is not quite there, but it 
 is still a fun game anyone can enjoy. I would recommend this game to anyone like me, who doesn't 
 really care about sound and graphics and just buys games to have fun and blow things up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link_SLAUGHTERS
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Heatseeker is a great game and has much variety to it. You can be so many good fighter jets though 
 the defense/speed/ground/air ratings aren't that accurate. Though the graphics aren't the best 
 they could be they are somewhat okay. It isn't realistic that the jets have unlimited ammunition. 
 It is somewhat hard and is so much fun!! The jets are awesome and levels vary in difficulty so 
 it is challenging throughout the game. This game is fairly priced and would be a good choice if 
 you wanted a good, fun game that is not focused on the graphics. What they should make if they 
 were to make another game like that is they should get a multiplayer mode so that friends can choose 
 their planes, payload, and then blow each other out of the sky. It is a very fun game and though 
 it could get some better things done to it it still focuses on the main idea of video gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVHLP64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Now I will warn you, this game is a little hard in the beginning. For example, The controls are a 
 littile hard to get used to, but by the 3rd mission you should have them down.
  
  Heatseeker shows a variety of planes and weapon packs. Planes in the game you will probably be familiar 
 with would be the F-16, F-18, F22, sukoi family, ect.
  
  The graphics are probably what you would expect out of a Ps2 game but, if your like me, Graphics 
 dont mean ****.
  
  The gameplay is just mindless fun. shooting hundreds of planes, boats, and SAM sites. 
  
  Heatseeker 
 gives you a real sense of speed. While a lot of planes in heatseeker can break the soundbarrier, many 
 that normally can in real life, cant in this game. For example, The F-16, MIG-29, and F-18 cant go the 
 speed of sound.
  
  This game has a lot of replay value. But enough of reading my review, GO BUY THIS NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playjdknghtmstr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  (Please people, this is my first review, don't be too hard on it.)
  Heatseeker is an overall good game, I haven't played through the whole thing yet, but it is already 
 at the top of my list. 
  People say the graphics aren't as good as today's technology can make them. but I say they are 
 outstanding. If you look at the original Mario Bros. from Nintendo, you can tell how far graphics 
 have come in these few short years. 
  The controls are easy, took me ten minutes to get them down, although I learn fast. This game may 
 take up to 30-60 minutes to get the controls just right. There is one requirement though, Hand-Eye 
 Coordination is a defining factor in this game, if you have good Hand-Eye Coordination, you'll 
 succeed, If you don't have it, you'll probably just get blown to bits the first couple of times.
 
  Heatseeker runs smoothly, (what else would you expect from a console game?) and is fast paced, 
 high action fun. 
  The impact cam with the missiles adds a nice kick to watching your opponents disintegrate. Unfortunately, 
 there is no multiplayer, (who wouldn't want to blow their friends out of the air?) so that is one 
 of the negatives about the game.
  There are 4 different mission sets, 1 is set at "Lord Robbert's Island" where you defend the base 
 from rebel raids. I forget the name of the place of the 2nd set, but it's about taking down a psychotic 
 dictator, who, by the way, in one mission, fires freaking nuclear warheads at your fleet! I don't 
 know much about the 3rd and 4th mission sets, I know that the 3rd set is in Antarctica, I just 
 started this one. I think it's about you trying to stop a faction from holding an illegal blockade 
 in Antarctic waters. I have no idea what the 4th set entails.
  One thing I congratulate the company on is the fact that they HAVEN'T implemented cheats for this 
 game. Cheats would just ruin this game. No challenge would come of it. Challenge is what makes 
 this game fun... or frustrating, I know I've almost put a hole through the Television because of 
 this game.
  
  Buy/Rent this game if you want some Fast-Paced, High-Action fun, or if you just want to scrap some 
 NPC losers.
  
  I personally enjoy this game, and love blasting my enemies to scrap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcollector
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  *GAME PLAY*
  
  The best thing about this game is the wii controls. The controls are spot on. They may have screwed 
 everything else up, but they got this done right. The spot on wii controls make this worth a rental. 
 Everything else isn't even worth mentioning. 
  
  * GRAPHICS *
  
  It is simply amazing for ps1 standards in '96. The planes look good, like mediocre PS2 quality. 
 Everything else is mediocre or bad ps1 quality. For example, during one of the cut-scenes it shows 
 tanks and rocket launcher vehicles moving, but they look like sliding ice cubes with a blurry vehicle 
 texture wrapped around it. When you're in the air you wouldn't really care about it but the game 
 zooms into it for cut-scenes and you realize just how bad the graphics really are. They should 
 have used pre-rendered cut-scenes.
  
  * SOUND * 
  
  The music is generic rock stuff. I found it more enjoyable when I turned it off. The voice acting 
 is bad. It gets annoying when they repeatedly say your name DownTown a million times over. All 
 you hear is DownTown we're under attack, they're under attack, the next guy is under attack etc. 
 When you get hit by a few bullets you'll hear your wingman say "DownTown is Hit!, He is going down!" 
 even if it was just a little scratch on the paint. 
  
  * VALUE *
  
  The only good thing about this game is the spot on wii controls and that's it! It's worth a rent 
 if you're in the mood.
  
  * FINAL THOUGHTS *
  
  The sequel needs a complete overhaul. The graphics need to be updated. The sound needs to be better 
 composed. The story needs to be more engaging. And the biggest feature missing is online and or 
 offline multi-player. Codemasters has a lot of unrealized potential for this game. Whether or not 
 they realize that potential is another matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxA
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  There isn't much to say about the storyline besides the fact that it sucks. A group of terrorists 
 has attacked a training base, and it's up to you to stop them. Really stupid if you ask me. They 
 could've been more creative, and done something else other than a freaking TRAINING BASE. The developers 
 really don't do a great job of telling the story either. It isn't clear, it's just Go destroy those 
 planes, okay? and that's about it. So, if you're looking for a deep storyline, don't look here. 
 It won't satisfy your want for story.
  The controls are (in my opinion) the best aspect of this game. They are well done, except for the 
 fact that sometimes your view will jump around. You have two different control choices: arcade 
 or professional. Arcade controls are simpler, you point the Wiimote at the screen to position your 
 jet's nose. The only thing that is different is that you hold the Wiimote vertical -- like a joystick -- and 
 control your plane like so.
  The thing I was really upset about was no multiplayer. That in itself would have made the game 
 better and more replayable. I honestly would've enjoyed blasting my friends in a multiplayer mode. 
 The game is $20 more than the PS2 version for no good reason, except for the motion controls.
 
  In my opinion, stay away from this game. Wait for a better flying sim for Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aj567
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games that has been made on the Wii it combines a non stop action and some 
 high tech enviroments and realy good graphics. In your first mission you start off in a f-22 raptore 
 headed for a little island called lord robberts air base you fly for a bit. Then you are suddenly 
 thrown into action when a fellow pilot is being chased by 2 migs then when you get to the base 
 it is swarming with them. I won't spoil any more of the story you get to choose a variety of aircraft 
 from the F-16 to the Mig 31 and F-15 eagle. The graphics are amazing trees look real you can see 
 the sweat from pilots faces. So I think if you have a Wii or are getting one this is the game to 
 get it is fun yet difficult in some areas wich is good because it gives you a challenge so if you 
 are new to the Wii or a hardcore Wii person this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rex97213
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  this game is the most underated game i have ever played the graphics look great to me and controls 
 are realy good and people still rate it bad= (
  background is cool and lots of blowing stuff up. you scan objects and protect other aroplanes misions 
 are nice and long it gets harder witch is cool comanding your wingman is also cool. and a great 
 verioty of aircraft like the fa18 hornet f15 the mig 31and f35rapter and many more. dont believe 
 gs.
  this is a great game i havent beat it yet but im on the last level theres about eighteen levels 
 and four campaignes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sa_mccormick
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  I really cant understand why whenever a title is poor on the wii it is likened to a PS2 game. 
 This is one of those titles. From what I have seen so far, the wii appears to be graphically inferior 
 to the PS2  sometimes it feels like youre playing a PS1 game! Heatseeker is graphically embarrassing 
  not one to show off to the mates! The plane models arent too bad, but the environments are blocky 
 and unrealistic. Could it be that games designed for 480p do not have the detail of those designed 
 for PAL 576? The Ace Combat series on the PS2, despite being older and running on supposedly inferior 
 technology, leaves this standing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d-ray12
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 14, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  This game has it's pro's, but mostly is a ton of con's. The gameplay is fun just blowing up hundreds 
 of other jets. Also thier are alot of unlockable jets. Plusit does give you that sense of speed 
 you've always wanted from a jet game. But that's about it for the pro's, now for the con's. The 
 graphics aren't anything to drool about, actually their really bad. The blowing up the 100's of 
 jets gets old fast. This game might've been alot better if they had online multiplayer, but hey 
 they don't even have regular multiplayer. This game had alot of potential but the developers didn't 
 take advantage of the situation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 13, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  Heatseeker comes from a kind of new, UK-based development studio called Codemasters. Knowing this 
 before hand I was kind of expecting a weak game, but I was at least expecting maybe ... British 
 actors? On the contrary ... the actors are all Americans (or at least British giving decent American 
 accents) , but I found it unusually unclear on who's team I was fighting for, or who these bad guys 
 were ... so story wise, don't expect to be getting that much out of Heatseeker. Most of the story 
 is given to you by voice acting inbetween objectives during the missions, and pre-mission briefs.
 
  
  Heatseeker was also made with PS2 in mind. This is kind of a common thing for early development 
 studios -- you pick the most saturated game console in the market, and you make a game for it. 
 And that happens to be PS2. Unfortunately, porting games to Wii with PS2 level graphics is a SUREFIRE 
 way to collect a very substantial sized mob outside your door at night. People want Wii-level graphics 
 out of their Wii games, not junk level graphics. Its kind of forgiven if its from an old port, 
 but with Heatseeker being new, and made along side its PS2 counterpart ... there's really no excuse 
 for it.
  
  Heatseeker does include a 16:9 widescreen viewing ratio, but the blurry image and substantial amount 
 of jaggies on the models made me question whether or not the game actually supported 480p resolution.
 
  
  If your a sound buff ... Heatseeker will drive you nuts. You have the ability to vary the volume 
 of voice acting, sound effects, and music ... but they're so misleveled, that sometimes the voice 
 acting will be blaring over everything else ... so you adjust it .... but then you fire on your 
 afterburners and you can't hear a single thing anyone else is saying. It's quite frustrating.
 
  
  But as I said, the controls are very cool. The control stick on the nunchuck isn't used for much 
 movement ... you use it to activate your afterburners or slow down to landing speed, but other 
 than that, almost all your movement is controlled by how you're pointing the Wii remote. It feels 
 really fluid and pretty fun, but its myred by the sort of repetitiveness of the gameplay and increasing 
 level of difficulty.
  
  You play as some guy only referred to as Downtown , and you take on most of your missions with 
 your wingman Divot as you try and foil the plans of some stupid, however well supplied, pirates. 
 You'll be zooming throughout the skies in various different realistic models of jets, and each 
 time you complete a mission, you'll get a whole array of cool unlocks. This is one of the upsides 
 of the game -- everybody loves unlocks! And you really get the impression that the developers really 
 do love jets and flight sims. That being said, Heatseeker comes off as kind of a arcade air combat 
 sim for dummies , which may or may not be a good thing considering how use to air combat sims you 
 are.
  
  In the end, Heatseeker isn't really a bad game. It plays really well, even though its graphics 
 can make you cringe, the voice acting isn't of the highest quality, and the missions get a little 
 redundant. But if you see Heatseeker for Wii in your bargain bin, don't be afraid to pick it up! 
 I wouldn't buy it at full price, but for 20 bucks, sure, I'd add it to my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flipohippo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 11, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  good game flying round blowing up stuff some lvls are hard
  like defending a plane while blowing up over 70 planes
  if you do bonus missions you unlock new 
 planes the last plane to get is the blackbird also you get differnt wep packs it is an action packed 
 game the gameplay is great 3d i like the homing missles but there are some missles that reqiure 
 great accuracy not a 2 player game though witch
  is a bummer not really a family game there is a great selection of planes on it you start with 
 the standard plane as you go you unlock more i metioned this earlier there are differnt types to 
 a cetain plane so you a more of a choice.
  
  my 2nd review done by flipohippo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unbiasgamer
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- well you go around and shoot up planes, boats, jeeps, you name it. Some times youll forget 
 what your job is and all youll remember is blow stuff out of the sky . It is fun though. This game 
 has an akward control scheme. you move in the direction you point at with the wii-mote. You get 
 used to it fast, but I still find my self moving the control stick in an attempt to move my plane. 
 Graphics are nothing to write home about. The plane models look great, so do the explosions. The 
 water is cool looking, and the landscapes look really neat from above, like a 3-D map. Just dont 
 expect PS3 quality here. Anyone who gives the graphics a 4 or 3, is just hupping on the band wagon 
 and ragging on it for no reason.
  
  Sound- All good here, explosions missles, stuff..........., the Commodore in the game who tells 
 you your objective sounds gruff but commical, he does a good job.
  
  Tid Bits-
  
  1. Flying at top speed and rushing around the sky is really fun.
  2. A lot of planes.
  3. Air 
 to Air, Air to Ground and Air to Sea based combat.
  4. Lots of enemies.
  5. Overall good game.
  
  
  Last words: Overall, I think this game is A OK. If youre looking 
 for action, explosions, and speed, youll like this. If your looking for a graphical masterpiece, 
 go away.
  
  Over all score = 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonutTrooper
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  This game is HARD. Like John Travolta staring at an E-Meter hard. Oh, it starts out easy. You don't 
 even notice a health bar. Then WHAM! 50 freaking missiles are flying in your face! An entire FLEET 
 relies on YOU, and your wingman doesn't do ****! You have to shoot down every cruise missile on 
 planet earth, while trying to sink 3 missile subs that take 10 bombs each. And that's only like, 
 the 4th level. To tell you the truth, I've never bothered to get too far in the game, but I want 
 to do it, I want to beat the Nintendo. But the cold hard fact is, nobody cares but me.
  
  The voice acting and live acting sucks.
  
  Ok, now that I've gotten that out of my system, 
 can we talk about the graphics? When I saw the first cutscene, I threw up a little in my mouth. 
 It looks like the kind of thing you would see in a SegaCD game. The gameplay graphics are even 
 better than the cutscene! The voice acting and live acting really sucks.
  
  Now let's talk about the good. The control scheme is easy to pick up, and the Wiimote does great 
 in terms of innovation. Unfortunately, you have to point at the screen in the direction, as opposed 
 to an actual flightstick (vertical) . If you play a lot of Ace Combat, the controls may be a little 
 difficult, but it really is a fun game. Nothing says BOOM HEADSHOT like the killcam, which, when 
 holding down B (Missile fire button) after shooting a missile at a hostile aircraft, follows the 
 missile path and gives you the most satisfying, close up explosion EVER.
  
  The voice acting and live acting is ****ing terrible!
  
  But overall, a great game if you don't 
 care about fine tuned games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  flying games aren't games that i would normally play, either because i don't like the look of them 
 or because i am interested in other games. heatseeker is the sort of game that says I'm not trying 
 to impress the world with my fancy graphics or the latest technology , it is a very simple game 
 which has one main objective: shoot lots of things.
  
  this can sound boring to some but the good news is that shooting lots of thing never gets boring. 
 at all. never. there are other things to do like identifying transports, defending friendly planes 
 or clearing paths for an air strike, but most of these things hide a meaning which eventually becomes 
 clear: shoot lots of things. the gameplay is spot on and so well done that it feels great as you 
 fly around and blow up stuff. there are countermeasures to master, lots of missiles and bombs to 
 choose from, tons of planes to unlock and the incredible impact cam. every so often, instead of 
 just shooting planes, the game treats you to a close up dramatic view of your enemy's plane exploding 
 in full detail which is very nice indeed.
  
  the controls go well with the game and are not to sensitive or hard to master. you fire missiles 
 with B, you change target with A, your machine gun is Z, you control your speed with the analogue 
 stick, you point at the screen to direct where to go and you deploy countermeasures by flicking 
 the nunchuck in the right direction.
  
  this game is definitely worth it and a must for fans of any flying game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 41d3n
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 19, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  The good points:
  - Flying aircraft is always fun.
  - Has a good bit of aircraft variability and is not bias.
  - A good many variants on weapons.
 
  - Has no one aircraft that dominates all.
  - Every aircraft also comes with a 20mm cannon.
  - Impact cam is sometimes hilarious and awesome. gam
 
  
  The bad points:
  - Controls can sometimes be unresponsive. Especially when trying to dodge a missile.
  - Fails 
 to give you a viable means of fighting shipcraft until many levels after you begin to encounter 
 them.
  - impact cam can sometimes just be annoying.
  - Has a lot of protecting missions (I don't like them) .
  - Does not feature any European aircraft.
 
  - You cannot pilot any actual bombers.
  - You are often left alone or with a useless wing man to complete missions that would normally 
 require 5-6.
  - They often give you new objectives before you complete previous ones.
  
  However, the game is still very fun and you will likely find yourself playing it for days. Definately 
 one of the better Wii games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubble-wrap
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Let me first off say when i started playing this game i was not expected much but was a little 
 surprised. The first few mission are really boring and you might want to stop playing but they 
 get better. You will start to like the missions but then after about half way through once again 
 you will grow board with doing almost the same thing over and over again. You have a huge amount 
 of jets and weapons to choose from which is nice. The controllers work really good most of the 
 time. You will be able to fly your jet very easily beside the random time the game decided you 
 should be going down into the ocean with no chance to pull up. Like i said this random times of 
 bad controls will not happen very often but still will happen. When it is working fine it is a 
 pleasure. The graphics in this game are bad really bad. This is like low end ps2 stuff going on 
 here. The voice acting needs a little work to. There are a few people that don't have to bad of 
 voice acting but for the most part it is bad. In the end this is a good game to rent and play tell 
 you get board with it which you will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: expert-yeti
Rating: 4.1
Date: May 31, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Flying games seem like they would perform wonderfully on the Wii, but in the case of Heatseeker, 
 this idea is forced to eject. Heatseekers controls, which respond relatively well, are probably 
 the best part of the game; unfortunately, as with a lot of Wii games, if you accidentally move 
 your Wii-remote too quickly or zoom pass the sensor bar, your plane will violently spin out of 
 control into the ground. But after an hour of game-play, the controls seem virtually flawless, 
 if you keep your hand movements slow and steady. Frankly, the graphics on Heatseeker are horrendous. 
 This games graphics definitely (and hopefully) do not push the Wiis graphical abilities. The 
 landscapes are scarce, the water is flat, the vehicles are boxes, and you could kill somebody with 
 the points on the tops of the trees. Then you have the cut-scenes; not only are they painful to 
 sit through due to the lack of story and excitement the game exhibits, but the game is only worth 
 renting IF you skip these cut-scenes. Fortunately, the Impact Cam which follows your missiles 
 as they bombard enemies, is actually really cool as it blows apart planes in many different ways, 
 all the while still demonstrating the best graphics in the game.
  
  Throughout the game, I found that as my co-pilots yelled their continuous pleas for help, that 
 I would pause the game and turn down the volume; they would yell commands at me that I had already 
 accomplished- seeing as its not too difficult to figure out that youre supposed to shoot down 
 the bad guys. The sounds were ugly and raucous; definitely not attractive at all.
  
  Heatseekers story is a lackluster story that doesnt even fight for your attention: bunches of 
 dudes, which apparently hate you and want to blow you up, are flying their planes and sailing their 
 ships around you, your base, and your fleet. Basically, the games story is very weak, which I 
 find as a disappointment, seeing as a games story can make or break a game; in this case, the 
 story ultimately helps break the game even further.
  
  Finally, the biggest blow to Heatseeker is the lack of any multiplayer. Not only can you bore yourself 
 with the single-player campaign, you can also NOT play with friends; what options! Seriously, the 
 Wii is in need of some good multiplayer games, and this game probably would have been cool if multiplayer 
 was one of its components. Honestly, I had high hopes for Heatseeker, but unfortunately, it crashes 
 and burns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo1000
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 30, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  Controls work excellently, suits the Wii and feels as if youre actually the pilot, excellent detail 
 on aircraft, ImpactCam is a good addition, not a silly gimmick as we all thought it was when they 
 announced the game, wide variety of aircraft, objectives are ranged
  
  Bad:
  Criminally no multiplayer or co-op mode, certain objects lack decent graphics, not the longest 
 game ever, a bit tough too
  
  Heatseeker had the potential to be a great game; IR Gurus seem too had made a game which feels 
 uncompleted or too short and missing features. For example there is no multiplayer or co-op, yet 
 the game-play is thrilling and impressive. Don't expect to get a lot of praise these days as a 
 developer if you haven't included a multiplayer mode. There are some great elements in the game 
 though there are some which aren't so great. It really is like a see-saw of a game, some good bits, 
 and some bad.
  
  Graphics wise the game isn't bad, though I hope the graphics on Wii games aren't always of this 
 quality to the end of its lifetime, otherwise Nintendo will be a long way behind Xbox 360 &amp; 
 PS3 graphics-wise. The detail on all of the varieties of aircraft is brilliant. It leaves you wondering 
 why some ground objects aren't so beautiful afterall. Because the developer couldn't be bothered 
 perhaps? The explosions aren't bad either. ImpactCam isn't bad either, not perfect, but its good 
 enough to make your eyes bulge.
  
  The game-play is great, entertaining and thrilling all the way through the level, only if the game 
 was longer length wise. One of the reasons why the game-play is so immense is because of the Wii 
 controls. You have 2 control configurations, one is arcade and the other is Professional. In arcade 
 the plane just follows where the Wii-remote cursor is pointing to on the screen. In professional 
 mode youre able to tilt the plane while flying by tilting the Wii-remote left &amp; right. The 
 arcade configuration is probably easier, although the pro configuration lets you tilts the plane 
 upside etc. In short words your able to do more. But the Wii controls has proved that aircraft 
 combat games really do work on the Wii, I hope there is more aircraft games to appear on the Wii. 
 Because they really do work. The only reason why this game is getting a decent score is because 
 the game-play makes up for the missing features in the game.
  
  Theres not much I can say for the sound other than its OK, but doesn't make the game feel better 
 or worser. The voice-acting is OK, if a little Over the top sometimes.
  
  The game is pretty short, and without the multiplayer mode it feels even shorter. Its rather shameful 
 there is no multiplayer or co-op mode in the game. Because these days if you said that to a gamer 
 There isn't any multiplayer , you would just not get the game. Maybe IR Gurus have made a mistake 
 there. It isn't able to have another selling point other than it has a singleplayer mode. Its a 
 shame to say the least. There is bonus objectives which unlocks new planes and weapons packs. Though 
 the best ones are hard to get. See Codemasters like thieving money off you. You can ring up for 
 a bonus code to unlock new planes &amp; weapons. But the bonus objectives are tough to get because 
 there so difficult, very few will be able to get them. So they try and make it so impossible to 
 get them that in the end you'll ring up and buy the bonus to open up the new features because up 
 so desperate to complete the already short game.
  
  Overall its a great game-play game, but lacks elsewhere. The ordinary gamer who just likes playing 
 games and has no interest in checking the latest game news will enjoy this game. Though experienced 
 gamers might be disappointed. I just hope they make a sequel and rectify the problems in this game. 
 Its certainly better than many other combat sims out there other than Ace Combat. So a decent 
 buy. Whether the hefty price tag for a rather short game does it justice, Im not sure. I think 
 Ill just see on the fence and give it the benefit of the doubt this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostRider799
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 26, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  A great game. It makes you feel as if you are really flying, kicking the @$$ of some Rebels. The 
 explosions are amazing, and impact cam only makes it better. This game opened up my eyes to the 
 Plane Fighting genre. I'm definetly gonna get more like this game. Also, it barely took me any 
 time to learn. Its the kind of game that just about anyone can pick up nad play, and then you won't 
 stop playing. However, I understand how the tried to make the sound radio-like, but it could have 
 been a little clearer. But big props to Codemasters for a wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokemastercube
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Take burnout, replace the cars with fast jets and strap a few missiles to it and you have Heatseeker.
 
  This game is fast paced and realy fun to play. The controles may take a bit of time to get use 
 to but the game play is exiting. From the word: GO you are pratically placed right into the action. 
 And as the game progresses you can acess better jets and weapons as well as acess more advance 
 weapons while you cume across a very indeph story. The game also has plenty of replay action as 
 you try to unock everything. Can you get to the big one?.
  The only draw back it there is no multiplayer but the rest of the game is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doominatorx6
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 14, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I'm not really sure why people hate this game... i mean it averages around 5-6.5 on a review scale, 
 but its a great game that shouldn't be ignored.
  
  First off, the graphics aren't great, the aircraft all look good, but everything else reeks of 
 PSP. Fortunately the slightly dumbed down graphics allow for a perfect, never-stopping framerate.
 
  
  The sound is also pretty good too. The enemy screams as you blow them out of their planes is always 
 satisfying, and the music is alright, but not stand-out in any way. The Voice overs aren't bad 
 either, but once again, not amazing in any way,
  
  Gameplay wise, the game is phenomenal. Controls are perfect, with only minor wii movements, but 
 they work. Most of the buttons work fine, although zooming in by double tapping up on the remote 
 is just stupid and always throws off your aim. Also I still have no idea how to dodge incoming 
 missiles. It says to deploy flares, but the manual mentions this NO WHERE.
  
  Overall Heatseeker is a great game with a great pace, tons of action, and the feeling of total 
 destruction. However the difficulty ramps up from retard to insane in later levels, and there is 
 no multiplayer what-so-ever : ( , but this game far surpasses games of this genre for the wii, and 
 hopefully other dev's will use this as a benchmark for something even better in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huxx
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 14, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Well, how under-rated can a game be? Gamespot have been quite harsh in their recent review. Uncalled 
 for in my opinion. Heatseeker is a new, exciting and action filled game. Agreed, it can get annoying, 
 but in fairness only a few games are really constantly fun.
  
  **GAMEPLAY,,8/10**
  Gameplay is relatively well done. Apart from the 'over and over' scenario of the sky, planes and 
 missiles it is a refreshing and enthralling experience. Heatseeker has a few nice features, for 
 example the 'impact cam'. Now, I have heard a few criticisms of this but I have never found it 
 to be a problem. In short, the 'impact cam' allows you to see explosions of enemy jets up close 
 and in slow motion, great effects and (for the wii) graphics are used. This can make you momentarily 
 forget where you are in the air but you quickly regain control. Variety is important, despite first 
 impressions Heatseeker isn't as repetative as one may think. Plenty of missilies, bombs and planes 
 for you to master and fly. At the beginning, unlocking planes is quite easy but as you progress 
 it gets harder and harder. Heatseeker doesn't just rely on you flying your plane well, but choosing 
 planes is important, for example, there isn't much point in choosing a heavily armed assault plane 
 for a stealth mission now is there? Overall, a good refreshing experience in this department. Admittedly, 
 It gets frustrating, but, what game doesn't?
  
  **GRAPHICS,,7/10**
  This is a tricky on. Graphics are hard to get right in a Plane game, but heatseeker has done a 
 decent job, nothing more. The planes, upon accelerating, can look like a simple grey 'plane shaped' 
 object. The sky, however is well done. Performing a nose dive through the clouds with a nice, red 
 and orange sunset in the distance never gets old, not does flying watching the near by islands 
 blur past while going well over the speed of sound. The 'Impact cam' is the most impressive feat, 
 the explosions look realistic and are certainly not over the top. Usually in games you could shoot 
 a car tyre and the car is engulfed in flames, Heatseeker provides a realistic and close-up view 
 of your carnage. Nice!
  
  **SOUND,,9/10**
  Well, the music is aptly choosen. Getting into combat ques a more energetic and lively guitar based 
 song, while cruising through the skies is, a nice relaxing experience. The voice overs are quite 
 well done, I noticed that Gamespot picked up on this and claimed it was badly done! This may sound 
 awful of me, but the voice overs are stereotypically what I would expect American pilots to sound 
 like. Names are choosen well, nicknames or codenames vary from pilot to technician. You, as it 
 happens, take control of a young up-and-coming pilot called 'Downtown'. Your wingmates whistle, 
 shout and cheer when you complete an objective and make you feel very good. Plummeting to the ground 
 (Nosedive) causes a realistic 'plummeting-to-the-ground' type of sound, hard to explain you see!
 
  
  **CONTROLS,,9/10**
  The Wii-remote is utilised extremely well. There are two control schemes, one for the beginner 
 and one for the more experienced player. To be honest, as soon as i booted the game up i chose 
 the more experienced option and have never looked back. The beginner version, however, lets your 
 treat either the Nunchuck/Wii-remote like a joystick, depending which you hold forward. The more 
 experienced option is simple yet realistic, The Wii-remote is the control for this and a lift upward 
 will send your plane upward, downward - sends your plane downward and rotation to either side will 
 send your plane to the relative side. This allows easy and quick manouverability.
  
  **GENERAL**
  The storyline is basic but, the game doesn't require you to know much about it. 
 Graphics are decent, relative to other Wii games. Sound is good and it utilises the Wii remote 
 well! A good game, unfortunately it isn't very well recognised. Well worth a buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex_THVK
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 9, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  So most likely you're planning to pick this one up because 'cause you need some mindless explosions 
 on the Wii.
  Now, Burnout on the Sky is a little far fetched, though. The game takes some time to take off.
 
  Lets make it short.
  
  The GAMEPLAY is nothing really new, tho the Wii controller does adds some new flavor to the average 
 Flight/Combat simulator formula. Even on Expert setting (more control over the plane) is surprisingly 
 easy to pick up. Campaign mode has you going trough objectives that range from Blow up ships to 
 Blow up fighters to Blow up enemy base . Believe it or not, it is fun, albeit not too challenging, 
 unless you play in Ace difficulty. Picking the right plane AND the right weapon set for each mission 
 are also key, though that only becomes aviable after a few 30 minutes playing.
  
  The GRAPHICS are nothing special. Even for the PS2, let alone for the Wii. The water, the buildings, 
 the trees... there's nothing particularly pretty to look at. Not that you're going to be sightseeing 
 while blowing up F-14s, but you just KNOW they could have done at least a little better. The Impact 
 Cam and guided missile's cam are novel ideas, but the mostly serve to remind you of how past-gen 
 the graphics are.
  
  If it could be divided into Sound FX and Music , then the SOUND could be fairly a hit-and-miss. 
 The explosions, the afterburners, the wind as you descend and the sonic booms are all impresive, 
 but the music even when it tries doesnt help speed up the gameplay. You'd expect this game to use 
 the SD Card feature to play with your own music (Come on, TELL ME you WOULDN'T download The Danger 
 Zone theme just to play it with this game) but thats not the case. The voices are your average, 
 not trying to hard but not unconvincing either.
  
  For $30, the game's value would be fine. For $50, -the Wii version's price- you either trade some 
 unused games or wait for a used copy unless you're a true fan of flight combat, or simply if you're 
 looking for something new on your Wii. I'd pick this up over Blazing Angels or Wing Island any 
 day.
  
  Good luck on your first fifty tries landing on a carrier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acidriegn
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 8, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Yet another Wii title that got a terrible rating, despite being an amazingly fun and addictive 
 game. That's Heatseeker for you.
  
  Now let me throw this out right now. If you are a fan of the arcade flight sim genre, and are looking 
 for something that's just a blast to play, heatseeker is for you. If you are looking for realism, 
 depth, or especially multiplayer, look for Heatseeker in your bargain bin or rental store.
  
  That being said, I love this game. It's not the game of the year by far, but it's an intense 
 thrill ride that seems to be a perfect fit for the Wii. This genre is definitely made for playing 
 on the Wii I can tell you that right now.
  
  I'm basically going to say why I think the rating this game received was right/wrong in any way.
 
  
  Gameplay: Original gameplay, not really. It has a very similar feel to Crimson Skies. But that 
 is why the gameplay is fantastic. The controls are, dare I say, perfect and the style is a great 
 adrenaline rush that leaves little to be desired.
  
  Graphics: Honestly, this is what made me angry. All I keep hearing from multiple reviewers is how 
 the graphics look like bad PSP renders. WHAT?!? Are you kidding me people? This game is beautiful! 
 Vibrant colors, impressive battle animations, and pretty landscapes. The only thing that I desired 
 was more detail in the water, which was a bit of a problem since almost every map 90 percent water. 
 It was very bland, like something out of a N64 game. No waves, no swell, not even any reflection. 
 This made it exceedingly difficult to tell whether or not you were getting too close to the water 
 or not. Other than that, this is a very pretty game.
  
  Sound: I'll give them this, there are times when the sound flat out sucks. I don't know why this 
 is such a problem. You would think that in todays game programming world there would be decent 
 afterburner and missile sound effects that don't cut out whenever someone wants to yell at you 
 for not shooting that plane you flew by. For the most part it was okay, but once in a while the 
 sound just hits a brick wall. If you lay on the afterburners for a while, you have a great acceleration 
 and sonic boom into supersonic travel, and you begin to have tunnel vision. Great effects, until 
 something else happens and the sound cuts out. Ruins the immersion. I'll be roaring across the 
 sky, chasing after a cargo plane and then all of the sound disappears as my commander tells me 
 to get a move on. Completely ruins the moment.
  
  Value: Again, I'll give them this one. No multiplayer KILLS this title. This would have been amazingly 
 fun with two player dogfights or, god forbid, some missions that you could set up like survival 
 or a race mode. Come on people. There is no excuse for this crap anymore. If a game deserves multiplayer, 
 then by god you give it some freaking multiplayer. Atop of this, the game is relatively short, 
 but replay value is there, especially the bonus planes and weapons they give you a chance to get 
 by finding secret objectives in each mission.
  
  So far I have had a blast with this game, and it seems like sometimes the critics are a bit too 
 critical. If anything, give Heatseeker a try with a few nights of rental. It's at the very least 
 worth that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidwwone
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 7, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  This game is superb, its my favourite wii game at the minute! the game play is action packed there 
 is always new objectives to complete from dog fighting above a huge naval fleet to bombing target 
 on land to destroying fleets of enemy boats. The later missions are epic you think your done then 
 some crazy dictator will throw something new at you, most likely a hanger built into the side of 
 a mountain but this all just adds to the fun of the game. There are plenty of different planes 
 to keep you occupied in this game which you unlock as you go along 20 in all. I have probably played 
 about 4 hours and have unlocked about 7 of them. Also there are different weapons and plane kits 
 that you also unlock as you progress though the game.
  
  The control system works really well most of the time. you point with the wii mote to move your 
 plane about the screen, to use the main weapons you use the B button as well as the D pad to change 
 weapon and zoom, you also use the nunchuk as the throttle and machine gun. as I said they mostly 
 work fine but sometimes they do fail and you go nose first into the sea which in a long mission 
 is annoying.
  
  The graphics look good when your flying around you get a blurring effect that works really well, 
 shadows are cast across your plane and when you use the afterburner the entire screen bends around 
 the edges of the screen which looks really cool when you use it. I get what people are saying with 
 the cut scenes they wouldnt look out of place on a early ps2 game but there only cut scenes at 
 the end of the day I mostly skip them anyway.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone with a Wii even if you rent it. your missing out if you give 
 this one a miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hebes
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This is another game that I have been waiting for. And again, Gamespots review gave it a bad score. 
 And again, Im here to prove them wrong. Well, here we go!:
  
   Gameplay:
  
  As mentioned earlier, you'll spend nearly all of your time in Heatseeker blowing things up. You'll 
 use your unlimited ammo to shoot down hundreds of enemy planes, drop bombs on unsuspecting jeeps, 
 unleash torpedoes on ships, as well as take out antiaircraft guns, tanks, a fortress, and more. 
 You'll also be charged with protecting planes and ships, but to do so, you just blow up more bad 
 guys. Once in a while, you'll need to scan vessels to find out if they're up to no good, and if 
 they areyou guessed ityou blow them up. The biggest problem with Heatseeker is that its gameplay 
 is repetitive. It's also not particularly original either.
  
  Your enemies are a bunch of well supplied, well trained terrorists bent on world domination! How 
 else are you supposed to stop them? Sure, it is a little repetitive, but at least they have a purpose 
 for all of the destruction. At least its not mindless bloodshed. Whats also amazing is that they 
 actually liked the controls! Oh, wait:
  
  When you get down near the ground, the controls are just touchy enough to cause problems.
  
 
  In a real plane, when you get close to the ground the controls are just touchy enough to cause 
 problems.
  
   Graphics:
  
  Ugh, here we go:
  
  Other than some nice-looking clouds and a solid frame rate, there isn't much to look at in Heatseeker. 
 The levels are large, but they're mostly empty, and what is there is ugly. Buildings are little 
 more than blocks, while the ground is an ugly, poorly textured mess. The planes look OK, but other 
 than your craft, you won't get much of a chance to look at them. Explosions aren't bad, but the 
 impact cam that shows them off via a quick movie-style replay after a hit gets annoying quickly. 
 Both the PlayStation 2 and Wii versions have a widescreen setting, but the Wii looks slightly better 
 thanks to some antialiasing and cleaner textures.
  
  I have to agree, the ground looks really bad. But the planes, explosions, and effects look great! 
 And besides, you shouldnt be looking at the ground while there are planes trying to shoot you 
 down. The PS3 this ain't, so the graphics are not going to be amazing anyway.
  
   Sound:
  
  Heatseeker sounds about as good as it looks. The voice acting is amateurish at 
 best and horribly obnoxious at worst. Even if the voice actors were good, it wouldn't have made 
 it any more fun to get yelled at by your commanding officer and wingmen all the time. The cheesy 
 guitar rock that plays in the background during each mission would have been perfectif this were 
 1985.
  
  The voice acting is bad, and your CO does sound like Stephen Colbert, but the explosions, jets, 
 and other sound effects are, again, about as good as you can get. And the music, well, the guitar 
 rock, however cheesy, does go well with the action, and fits the game well. And if you really dont 
 like it, you can mute it!
  
   Overall:
  
  This is a better game than they give it credit for. Despite its repetitiveness, the game is still 
 very fun to play. The graphics could have been better, but its not too bad. And despite some bad 
 voice acting, the sound effects and music are great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo_fan135
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 4, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  I would describe this game as Burnout in the sky. Great fast arcade style action with an Impact 
 Cam to enhance everything already there. The graphics are about a small amount worse than Blazing 
 Angels Squadrons of WW2 on Xbox 360. The controls are easy to pick up an play. Definitely for those 
 people that can't seem to use controllers. Some multi player would have been great but what's there 
 is already wonderful. Audio can be either and issue or not depending on your taste. For me, the 
 over the top, some would say cheesy, voice acting really gets my adrenaline pumping and makes me 
 feel like I'm in an action film. Price is, however, a problem. 50$ for the Wii version seems more 
 like the price for a game in a popular long running series than a brand new idea for a game. Story 
 is not bad. It's mostly pointless but it does do justice for anyone that actually wants a story 
 to go with a mindless action game. In the end, this game is great for gamers with a Wii looking 
 for Burnout like arcade speed and lot's of action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnforcerWRX
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 6, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I don't like to beat around the bush, talking about things that don't really matter, so lets get 
 right down to it.
  
  Overview:
  Heatseeker is most definitely an arcade type flighter sim. Right from the get-go you can tell that 
 realism takes a back seat to the fast and furious action. Your missiles simply recharge, you have 
 no fuel to worry about and the action is always right in front of you (as opposed to miles away) . 
 You may want to spend a few moments deciding on a control scheme to use. Fans of other arcade flight 
 sims (similar to Ace Combat) will probably want to set the game to professional mode and use the 
 nunchuk to fly. I find it the most practical control scheme but I am sure you can figure out what 
 you like on your own.
  
  Regardless of the control set up you choose make no mistake about it, from
  the action to the 
 weapons this is by far an arcade flight shooter. You will often find yourself facing wave after 
 wave of enemy fighters and boats, while defending your own targets. You also have wingmen at your 
 disposal but I found that they don't do much so I typically left them alone to do their own thing. 
 The game is very fun to play but has a few issues you should probably be aware of before picking 
 it up. Lets look at the categories...
  
  Gameplay (8/10)
  The game does play well. The control schemes all work well with any set up you choose. GIve yourself 
 a couple of missions to pick a control scheme and you'll be flying barrel rolls in no time. The 
 action never lets up and the game has a great variety of aircraft and weapons. The missions are 
 varied. Some have you defending, some attacking, some both. The gameplay takes a hit on some missions 
 though, as your objectives can sometimes become lost in the confusion and sometimes you can't find 
 what you were supposed to be doing. The action plays out well in the sky but the avoid missile 
 system can become bothersome. You can't just avoid the missile, you have to do what the game wants. 
 Overall the gameplay is done well and presents itself well.
  
  Graphics (6/10)
  You can't hide it. The ground, water, boat, and building textures are terrible. I can't understand 
 why they didn't spend additional time on the Wii version to improve the graphics. The planes all 
 look good, but everything else is sub par.
  
  Sound (7/10)
  How much can you say about sound? The jet engines sound like jet engines, the machine guns sound 
 like machine guns, etc. The cheesy rock music isn't all that great but its bearable. The sound 
 is decent for the most part. They could of spent some more time here but its not a big deal.
  
  Value (7/10)
  If you like arcade flight sims then this game presents a lot of value. You 
 are encouraged to play through multiple times and there is enough to unlock to keep you busy. If 
 you don't like flight games then I can't this game offering much to you. Conclusion:
  Heatseeker is a good game. You can't deny that. But its not the best game and probably won't be 
 the best game for some people. The graphics are an issue, but the gameplay saves it. The actions 
 is well done and really saves this game from instantly being written off because of the muddy textures. 
 If you like this genre and have a Wii, then this game is worth a purchase.
  
  Happy Hunting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ajspeed_1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those Wii games you just have to get its everything the current Wii fighter games 
 wanted to be there are heaps of thing to do in this game like unlocking new Planes, Weapons and 
 missions replaying over for the bonus content and just because some of the levels in this game 
 are great.
  
  Some minor yet still sort of noticeable flaws in the game are the textures of the land they look 
 rather detailed land like in B&amp; W2 but up close they sort of skimped on the land and building 
 but this game is still great besides most the time you are going to be bombing them to smithereens 
 and just to busy flying around blowing the enemy away.
  
  One of the really great thing in this game is the Impact cam which looks great in three instances 
 when you get a really great kill the impact cam activates and you see an extremely sweet but if 
 you want to see you missile fly towards to the enemy plane and see if it either hits it or fly 
 by it an misses the same goes for bombing runs, the last one is when you missile alert sign flashes 
 you have to take evasive moves like break the plain in certain directions to avoid missiles but 
 at times you may have to release counter measures to avoid death but if you pull off one of these 
 successfully pull one of the impact cam will activate to show how nice it looks.
  
  So to sum all this up you all should just buy this games because so far your probably not going 
 to get anything better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bellytops123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  I first heard about this game in the Official nintendo magazine, i thought it looked great so i 
 went to my local games store and picked it up for a reasonable 34.99. I got home turned on the 
 Wii and got slightly frustrated with the controls but after about an hour found they were pretty 
 darn cool.
  
  The Graphics on this game are okay considering the Wii weaker processing power as apposed to the 
 X360 or PS3. The story gets very involving (sort of) but once you finish it theres not much to 
 do.
  There is a great selection of planes too.
  
  Only letdown is lack of multiplayer because a 2 to 4 player dogfight would be cool...
  
  Great 
 fun for fans of flight sims and even if you're not into them its worth a try.
  
  Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reece_Boosh
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 14, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Good games often fall into one of three categories. Fun, innovative, party games like (Wii sports) 
 Arty games (Okami) or the more traditional filmic and arcade games. Broad though these groups 
 maybe, they are useful when describing what the Wii is lacking. By which I mean, anything from 
 the last two. When Heatseeker soared into my Wii, launching missiles - and the odd flare - with 
 wanton aplomb, its not surprising I raised an eyebrow with suspicion. It has been a doubt in many 
 gamers minds - mine included - that the Wii could ever stand shoulder to shoulder with its home 
 bound console brethren , with superior graphics, enemy numbers and all the other potentials offered 
 by the PS3 and 360s raw power. And dont get your hopes up. Its with a heavy Nintendo loving 
 heart that I write for the sheer thrill of pure action, the big boys will always come out on top. 
 But the emergence of Heatseeker heralds nothing but good news for those lacking in funds to afford 
 the astronomical prices banded about by the heavy pixel pushing alternatives. Whilst a real pain 
 to begin with, Heatseeker controls are simply (with the correct configuration) sublime. You twist 
 and tilt the nunchuk to manoeuvre your plane and buttons take care of the rest of the normal requirements 
 - guns, targeting, weapon cycling and camera. Dead simple it would seem, but in fact youll be 
 spinning all over the screen trying to locate the ever elusive bandits. It takes a good few missions 
 before you able to fly in an acceptable manner, making your order-able wingman (divot) s comments 
 of ooh scratch one and you make it look easy painfully ironic. Progress in the game is very 
 linear. You simply complete objectives to complete a mission, which unlocks the next mission with 
 its own objectives to complete, until you eventually complete the game. In addition, you have the 
 option to hunt out bonus objectives for each mission. By completing bonus objectives you unlock 
 faster, stronger ships capable of carrying more advanced weapons, and weapon packs (different combinations 
 of the numerous missiles rockets and bombs) . In addition, which bonus objectives you get is dependent 
 on the difficulty you are playing, so to get the best combinations of plane and weapon packs, you 
 need to replay missions on harder difficulties. Towards the end of the campaign, it becomes imperative 
 that you unlock the best ships you can to deal with the task at hand, as even with great skill 
 you need the more powerful weapons to take out the never ending stream of boats, planes, tanks 
 and what not. Although this system is effective, it may have been better if you gained experience 
 and cash to unlock and buy weapons, jets and upgrades for each. As it stands, you dont gain any 
 great pull to any of the ships in your arsenal, as modified versions are constantly being made 
 available. Gradually the game begins to push forward manoeuvres to dodge missiles, which are 
 performed by moving the nunchuk in one of 5 ways. By the climax of the game, your abilities will 
 have risen to such a level that youll be dodging missiles with less than a seconds warning, and 
 launching volleys of bullets as you do so. Visually Heatseeker has some great touches. When breaking 
 the sound barrier, the camera shudders and blurs, a great crack of lightning booms out of the speakers 
 and the whole screen is streaked with blue. This effect is particularly impressive when flying 
 through clouds in the rain. Air craft models are also nicely detailed and along with impressive 
 explosions and smoke trails the game has some very pleasing scenes all enhanced fantastically by 
 the impact cam (similar to ones from the burnout series) . Sadly the lack of multiplayer (online 
 or locally) shortens any lasting appeal the game could have offered. In addition, the game glitches 
 quite frequently, with sounds cutting out or your countermeasure gestures going un-noticed. In 
 addition, the palette is often drab and a bit muddy, and clouds have a shocking draw distance. 
 All problems that would not pervade more graphically capable consoles. That said, Heatseeker has 
 some wonderful action sequences to offer, and the varied missions help flesh out the campaign, 
 as replays become a pleasure rather than a chore. Heatseeker is by no means a reason to by a Wii 
 on its own, but its a welcome addition to our blue eyed friends library, and comes highly recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_haves
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 13, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  Yeah, it's pretty sick, the graphics are not anything fantastic, especially the trees in the first 
 cut scene of the game, however it doesn't really matter when your breaking the sound barrier every 
 5 seconds lol! However, even though this is obviously slightly rushed, most of the games so far 
 have been (red steel, especially although i loved that 2) , sort it out!!! However, its a GREAT 
 game, worth every penny, my 2nd favorite Wii game so far. It's definately worth a look even if 
 you rent it for a few days, but considering the bonus' you'll probably buy it anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiml
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 10, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I've always loved any game that involves flying (and this is my first review) , so I may be a bit 
 biased.
  I love the graphics, wherever they're a little poor you're usually going too fast to notice. Speaking 
 of when going fast, you can see and hear the speed very effectively. The planes all look great, 
 and some have great paint jobs (SU-47 Bekut v2) .
  There is a great variety of weapons, some of them work very strangely (Skeetr) but most have there 
 uses. The two annoying weapons are bombs because you can't watch the damage (unless you use the 
 impact cam which takes ages) because there so slow, and active radar homing missiles because you 
 have to keep the target in a circle on the HUD so you can't go off and kill other things.
  The impact cam is well worth leaving on to see your destructiveness close up and personal. Though 
 it will sometimes make you miss a good shot (though rarely (if ever) crash) . If you're stuck on 
 a difficult level you could turn it of in the options so you don't miss those vital seconds. The 
 controls are very intuitive and responsive. There are three different set ups to suit different 
 gamers (I use default, my brother uses alternative 3) just use what you find it easiest to get 
 used to.
  There are two annoying things that make surviving difficult at some points; 1, to deploy countermeasures 
 (against incoming missiles) you must shake the nunchaku in various ways. Sometimes this does not 
 work, or works too late, as you have to shake the nunchaku quite forcefully. 2, Some times after 
 dieing or cut-scenes you are put back so you only have time to panic before crashing into a mountain, 
 iceberg, building or ship. Usually you survive because you seem to be invincible for a few seconds 
 after restarting, but it still throws you off a bit and sometimes you end up hitting something 
 else fatally. The most annoying thing about this is if you die again you go right back where you 
 were the last time, so you have to work out a way to survive every time you're back there.
  If you do buy this game (which I would advise) good luck unlocking the secret weapon (I haven't 
 yet) but until then I'm sure you'll love the berkut and the raptor (V3 of each) . Don't forget you 
 can choose the plain and weapon pack from your unlocked items and use the c button to see what 
 enemies you'll come up against so you aren't stuck with a poor or ill adapted weapon set. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trinitytx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I've not played this all the way through but it's a great little game and there are also alternative 
 control schemes which let you fly with the nunchuck acting as a yoke of sorts. Well cool and a 
 lot less frantic than the arcade controls point and fly, which also works well. It's worth pointing 
 out that the graphics slowdown is non-existant, this could be down to the land being so simple, 
 but the overall impression visually works well and doesn't heavily detract from the game at all. 
 Great fun with a fairly involving set of missions that do actually vary well too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GumbieuK
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good, action packed and exciting game. It has an arcade feel using the arcade control 
 scheme it's pure endless fun! It's simple to play, the controls are extremely responsive and the 
 fun never ends!
  
  The professional control scheme is also very good and extremely responsive, although it's alot 
 more difficult than the arcade scheme, it still provides endless fun and really does bring the 
 best out of the game.
  
  The graphics are fairly good and the controls are easy to adapt too, makes great use of the wiimote 
 and numchuck. The map's are large and there's plenty of space to maneuver and move around. So far 
 from what i have played there is never a dull spot in the game, there's always something fireing 
 at you or something you need to destroy, there's never a case of being sat there waiting for something 
 to happen.
  
  There's also a large number of plans avaliable and quite a few upgrades to unlock, there is some 
 real depth to the game in terms of unlocks and planes avaliable.
  
  All in all a very good game and a nice addition to any Wii collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 4, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  Well, heatseeker looked promising from the day it was announced, the graphics looked nice, gameplay 
 looked FUN and the variety of planes was nice aswell, after buying this game i am glad all the 
 stuff they said about it in previews ect. wasnt a load of ****.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  - The aircraft designs are just amazing! they might not look like GoW, but for a Wii game, WOW...
 
  - The detail in the sky is also very nice, nothings better than blowing up enemy fighter jets 
 when the sun is rising :D
  - Impact cam can sometimes get in the way, but it makes the game look and feel different, and is 
 a worthy add-on. (you shouldnt crash after a Impact cam view, just keep you cursor centered on screen)
 
  - Explosions are VERY nice, very varied.
  - Unfortunatly, the land/island graphics... arent as good, a bit jagged in places and look similar 
 in some levels...
  - Ground based troops like tanks and buildings also look rather... rushed
  
  SOUND
  
  - 
 The sound in this game is amazing, it has great sound effects, background music, explosions sound 
 nice aswell.
  - In impact cam, the explosions can sound a bit crap if its is FULL slow mo, apart from that its 
 ok, as there isnt many full slo mo impact cam showings.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  - The single player game spans over 4 campagins, and lasts about 10-15 hours, on Rookie difficulty 
 level, using the Arcade controls.
  - Game can last alot longer as there are bonus objectives on EVERY level, and if you want to unlock 
 the ULTIMATE WEAPON and the top secret jet (you will no it once u see it) , you need to finish the 
 game on every difficulty, (theres 3) and this may sound boring, but it isnt, rookie is very limited 
 on combat, but try Pro, you have no mercy lol.
  - Unfortunatly there is no multiplayer, this could have been one hell of a game if they had added 
 it in.
  
  OVERALL
  
  With the dodgey land unit anf building graphics, and lack of multiplayer, this still is a great 
 game that should definatly be considered for any Wii owner, im sure that many of you are looking 
 for a game that actually has a story and not all these mini game based games :) (not that i dont 
 luv wario ware and wii sports) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
