-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: History Channel: Battle for the Pacific
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/historychannelbattleforthepacific/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Occasionally entertaining firefights.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Hideous, blurry visuals that make it hard to see your enemies.
 The AI blatantly cheats.
 Horrendous motion controls.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  9, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 3.2, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 4.7, 82 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Dec 4, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dreadful graphics and worse controls make this a battle to avoid. 

  Unlike the Xbox 360 version of the game, the Wii version of Battle for the Pacific showed a lot 
 of promise. Rather than following around a brain-dead soldier on a series of stand-alone missions, 
 you actually play out a real story in some interesting jungle environments. The problem with Battle 
 for the Pacific isn't in the design, though, but in the execution. Terrible controls, dumb artificial 
 intelligence, and god-awful visuals get in the way of the game's potential, and keep this war from 
 being one worth fighting.  

           Green is the new black.      

  There's a little bit of narrative here to tie things together. As Jonathan Farrell, you'll fight 
 Japanese soldiers across 12 missions, most of which take place in jungle environments. Scrolling 
 text and a competent voice-over fill you in on your objectives, and occasionally, a yawn-inducing 
 History Channel segment will pop up to give you some historical perspective on the proceedings. 
 None of it's very good -- there are weird grammatical errors in the script, for example, which makes 
 you wonder if the actor playing Farrell ever thought to mention anything -- but it glues things together 
 enough to keep you playing through the three-hour campaign.  

  The first thing you'll notice about Battle for the Pacific is that it's incredibly ugly. The game 
 drowns you in a mess of muddy greens and browns, and textures are so blurry and unsightly that 
 it's hard to make out anything from a distance. And for some reason, the game performs horribly, 
 with the frame rate dipping noticeably when there is dense foliage on the screen. When things cut 
 away for an in-engine cutscene, the whole thing becomes a nausea-inducing slideshow. There's also 
 a thin, permanent tear that separates the left side from the right side of the screen. Additionally, 
 like in the 360 version, there is an effect that blurs your view when you reload your weapon, though 
 in this case, it obscures things to the point that you can make out absolutely nothing in the distance. 
 All of this gets in the way of the gameplay, since you'll often be under attack by enemies that 
 you simply can't see.  

  Yet somehow, even if you can't see them at all, your enemies can spot you from a mile away. The 
 cheating AI is possibly the most frustrating aspect of Battle for the Pacific, because even when 
 you can't see your pixelated enemies at all through the jungle flora, they can spot you through 
 rocks and buildings, and their magic bullets seem to hit their target every time. In fact, AI soldiers 
 are so talented, their guns will continue to shoot at you even when they are doubled over in pain, 
 or after you have killed them and they are falling to the ground.  

  You can shoot back, obviously, though doing so is a pain, thanks to the terrible, noncustomizable 
 controls. Like other shooters on the Wii, you use the remote both to turn and to aim the targeting 
 reticle. Yet the scheme lacks sensitivity and precision, so the centering your crosshairs on your 
 target isn't always as simple as it should be. Looking down your sights makes things even worse, 
 because it's literally impossible to use the imprecise motion controls to aim directly at your 
 enemy. As a result, you'll be taking down many of your nigh-invisible foes with the age-old technique 
 of simply shooting when your crosshairs turn red. Thankfully, aside from their X-ray vision, enemy 
 soldiers can be pretty moronic, often not reacting to being shot or running up to you to perform 
 a melee attack for no apparent reason.  

           You can't always see your enemies... but they can always see you.      

  It's too bad 
 that all these problems are so blatant, because there are moments when you realize that had it 
 been executed better, Battle for the Pacific could have been a decent game. You'll take down camouflaged 
 soldiers hiding in trees, find alternate routes and secret ammo stashes, and hear your foes shout 
 in Japanese. The missions are linear, to be sure, but there's enough freedom of movement to take 
 cover behind rocks, flank your foes, or hide in buildings and take potshots through windows. There 
 are even instances where the music and sound effects can get your blood pumping a bit. Standard 
 stuff, to be sure, but there are brief moments of entertainment amid the ugliness.  

  There are no multiplayer options, so unless you want to go back and gun for faster mission completion, 
 find more hidden objectives, or earn better shooting accuracy, you're done when the end credits 
 roll. It's too bad that all these major issues had to get in the way, because it could have been 
 an interesting way of brushing up on your World War II history. In reality, however, you'd be better 
 off taking night classes and leaving this history lesson buried in the bargain bin.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ww2gamereviewer
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Battle for the pacfic. First thing that comes to mind means a bad game casue its made by history 
 channel which is known for it s bad games. Why do think this game is hard to find, i wonder why. 
 Cause it just sucks. Dont get a live through the pain like i did.
  
  The good: there isnt much here but there are some. Weapon models are actually quite good. And there 
 is some good music playin. Also u shoot japs not nazis, which is rare and good for a change. But 
 thats it.
  
  
  The bad: Boy, is there a lot to talk about. First f the AI. This is really bad. And worst of all 
 history channel made it so bad casue the game is so easy. The enemy will spotu miles away and hit 
 u with excellent accuracy and u cant find them. Next off the bad controls. There not that bad , 
 but bad ernough to drive u crazy. Next weapon accuracy. Yes u can look down the sights but it wont 
 help u. Your best off just shooting when crosshairs go red. Next color and texture. Enemys are 
 about the same color and texture of the enviroment and from a distance, make u shoot wats not there. 
 Another thing is u always fight alone, which really ticks me off. Also u use a limited amount of 
 weapons unlike Moh's rising sun and pacifc assualt. And the wii verison is very different from 
 the 360 version. oh 1 more thing, there isnt any wi-fi. I would like this game a lot more if it 
 did have wi-fi, but it doesnt. There is more but i cant think of any more.
  
  So lets wrap this up. Battle for pacfic. Dont get it ,casue it sucks. I will b sellin this game 
 at my nearst gamespot soon. Thats how bad it is. i beat it in 1 day, in like 5 hrs. so short gameplay 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimybrit
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Well, yesterday I rented this game to see what a History Channel game was like. Well guess what? 
 It was one of the worst games I've ever played. Everything about it is dreadful!
  
  Story- This story wasn't much of a story. It wasn't even close to average. There was horrible storyline 
 and the script made me want to die!!!
  
  Sound/FX- The voice-acting was completely horrible! The soun was crap and wasn't even close to 
 realistic sounding. Not to mention the horrible music.
  
  Graphics- Bassically worse than Dreamcast! The models sucked. The enviorments were poorly made. 
 Just a disaster!
  
  Gameplay- The game wasn't fun. Maybe if it had a good story and good music. Even maybe decent graphics 
 it might've been fun. But NOOO!
  
  Controls- Unresponsive tacked on controls that barely ever work.
  
  Overall- Overall this was 
 one of the worst games I've ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supuhpapuhmario
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 11, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot gives this game a 4.0. I got this game for as a late christmas present (plz dont ask WHY 
 i got THIS for a present...) and played it. It wasn't too bad... The graphics are very clear, and 
 the controls are somewhat stiff but it isn't un-playable. From time to time it gives you exciting 
 blasts from your guns and sometimes, just for the heck of it, its fun to shoot your gun at absolutely 
 nothing. It gives the feeling of having a REAL gun in your hand. As you would feeling in Metroid, 
 blasting away at your enemies, you get a somewhat familiar feeling. Doesn't exactly COMPLETELY 
 satisfy but it's somewhat pleasing. Sure, this game is educational (sorta) and it puts you in the 
 position of a soldier, re-enacting things that actually happened. 
  
  When I saw Gamespot's rating, I thought the game should gotten a little bit better score than a 
 4.
  
  OVERALL I wouldn't buy this for myself (or a kid hehehe) unless they have a history test on war. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amvis
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 25, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  First off the only disappointing thing that I have encountered with this game is it's controls. 
 The control setup is so bad that it detracts massively from the game. Your shots register alright, 
 but the control setup is the killer. You can not even adjust the sensitivity of the Wiimote. This 
 game is definately not worth 40$. It is entertaining, but very disappointing. If the game developers 
 had taken a little bit more time then the game would be up there with Call of Duty 3. If you can 
 get past controls with no problem then I am sure you would enjoy this game. Buy it used though, 
 so as to not spend so much money on it. I have said all that needs to be said.
  
  God speed.
  
  Amvis 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
