-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ice Age 2: The Meltdown
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/iceage2themeltdown/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Solid platforming gameplay with decent Wii controls and some clever jump puzzles.
 nice graphics.
 voice acting from the celebrity cast of the film.
 Scrat is an adorable platformer hero.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 You'll be done with this game in just a few short hours.
 camera can be kind of annoying.
 not much time spent playing as the main characters from the movie.
 it's $20 more than the other console versions of the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 14, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.5, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 82 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Vivendi Games
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Dec 6, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The motion controls don't fundamentally change this movie-licensed platformer, but they don't get 
 in the way either, and the adventure is still a breezily fun one. 

   Ice Age  was one of the more-successful attempts to emulate the success of Pixar's seemingly never-ending 
 string of computer-animated family films by another studio (in this case, 20th Century Fox) . Telling 
 the story of a trio of celebrity voice-acted prehistoric creatures on a mission to deliver a lost 
 human baby to his human tribe, the film received both critical and fan acclaim. So, it's with no 
 measure of shock that a sequel would be in the cards.  Ice Age 2: The Meltdown  hit theaters early 
 this year, and as tends to be the case with many animated films, there was a video game tie-in 
 to go right alongside its release. But unlike most film-to-game tie-ins, Ice Age 2 is more than 
 just a hacked-together platformer, built exclusively to make more money for the license. Ice Age 
 2 is fun practically from beginning to end and includes solid gameplay, great production values, 
 and even the celebrity voice cast from the film. Now, months later, Ice Age 2 is available for 
 the Wii, and very little about it has changed, except that it has a steeper price and some new 
 motion sensing controls. These new controls aren't half bad, but they don't quite justify the $50 
 price, especially because the game can be beaten in just a short few hours.  

          Help Scrat hoard thousands and thousands of nuts by jumping around a variety of environments 
 in Ice Age 2.     

  The three principal characters of both  Ice Age  flicks, Manfred the mammoth, Sid the sloth, and 
 Diego the saber-toothed tiger, are all on hand in the Ice Age 2 game. In fact, actors Ray Romano, 
 John Leguizamo, and Dennis Leary are on hand as well, and they turn in capable performances for 
 each character (although Romano does sound a bit bored, even more than usual) . However, none of 
 the primary trio is the star of this game. Rather, the character you'll spend the bulk of your 
 time with is Scrat, the nervous, twitchy muskrat-looking... thing that fans of the first film will 
 remember as the star of the hilarious introductory sequence. Scrat isn't the main character in 
 the  Ice Age 2  film, and his adventures in this game seem like something of a silly side story 
 to the main plot, which is told mainly through scattered narration sequences by Romano's Manfred. 
 So, while there are a few details of the film's plot in the game that might be spoiled if you haven't 
 seen the movie, they're nothing major, and most of the game's events are purely ancillary to the 
 main film storyline.  

  That turns out for the better in Ice Age 2. Scrat is an endearing character, and spending the bulk 
 of your time with him is far from a detriment. His twitchy mannerisms and goofy snarls and screeches 
 are pretty cute, and the developers did a great job of giving him moves and abilities that don't 
 seem out of place for a prehistoric rodent. Like the protagonist in any platformer, Scrat can jump 
 and double jump via the Wii Remote's A button, as well as pull off some basic attacks that mostly 
 involve stomping and swiping with his tail. These attacks are mapped to the remote's motion controls, 
 so if you merely swat the controller in one direction or another, Scrat will do his most basic 
 attacks. But when you combine attacks with jumping, you'll be able to pull off a roll or a stomp 
 attack. The one trick here is that sometimes the game thinks you're trying to do a roll when you 
 actually want to do a stomp. But that doesn't get in the way too often because combat in the game 
 is more of a secondary task -- most enemies can't be killed, just knocked out. Mostly, the game is 
 about solving various jump puzzles and collecting scads of nuts.  

  The whole hook with Scrat's character is that he's constantly in search of nuts to hoard and bury. 
 So it's appropriate that you spend the bulk of the game collecting more nuts than you could possibly 
 imagine. Again, this is a platformer, so it's hardly shocking that the game is something of a collection-fest, 
 but there are  thousands  of nuts scattered throughout the game. The jump puzzles in Ice Age 2 
 are fairly run of the mill for the genre, but they're more challenging and rewarding than your 
 average kid-oriented game. Young children ought not to have too much trouble with the game, but 
 even players from older audiences should be able to appreciate much of what the game does, even 
 if it doesn't present an awful lot of difficulty. The control is typically tight, the puzzles are 
 generally clever, and the levels are open-ended and provide a decent bit of exploration. The one 
 thing that does make Ice Age 2 on the Wii a bit more troublesome than it was on other platforms 
 is the camera control. The camera is mapped to the D pad, which makes it less convenient to move 
 the camera around than it was with the analog stick control in the other versions. Still, it's 
 not bad -- just a bit awkward.  

  Diego and Sid do find their way into the game eventually, although purely in a second-banana capacity. 
 The game features a series of minigames, including a whack-a-mole (or whack-a-possum, in this case) 
 game starring Diego and a hybrid of a slalom and a rhythm game with Sid. There are also a number 
 of target-shooting and item-collection minigames with Scrat. All these games are pretty decent, 
 and fortunately, there's not much repetition or recycling of the games throughout the adventure. 
 Additionally, each of these games takes advantage of the Wii Remote technology in some capacity 
 or another, so you'll be aiming with the remote in the target-shooting game or moving the remote 
 around to perform tricks during the slalom game. Oddly, Manfred never becomes playable via these 
 minigames. While that might be a bit disappointing for a big fan of the film, his presence is felt 
 enough through the game that it never seems as if he's been cut out of the equation.  

          The added Wii control support neither interferes nor helps the game. It's just kind of 
 there.     

  Ice Age 2 was a surprisingly great-looking game during its initial run on consoles back in March, 
 and it still looks very good on the Wii. There's a nice amount of detail in the characters and 
 level designs -- the kind of detail you don't tend to see in licensed games like this. Scrat looks 
 just as snarlingly cute as he does in the movies, with his bug eyes and puffy tail. The same goes 
 for Manfred, Diego, and Sid. The quality of the character models is well above average. The environments 
 are bright, colorful, and heavily populated with enemies, side characters, and various collectibles. 
 Everything animates nice and smoothly, too. Frame-rate drop almost never occurs, no matter how 
 much action is going on onscreen. In terms of direct comparisons, the Wii version looks closest 
 to the Xbox version of the game, but it's not quite as sharp as that version. It's definitely a 
 step up from what the GameCube version offered -- just not by a wide margin.  

  All told, Ice Age 2: The Meltdown is a fun, engaging platformer that ought to appeal to multiple 
 audiences. The gameplay is enjoyable, the characters are well represented, and the graphics are 
 quite pleasing for this sort of game. So, what keeps it from greatness? The one, fatal flaw that 
 holds Ice Age 2 back is its brevity. This game won't take more than a few hours of play to complete, 
 except perhaps in the case of the youngest of younger audiences. It's over practically before it 
 starts, and the scant bits of bonus content aren't enough to justify paying $50 for a four-hour 
 game -- especially  because the Xbox, PlayStation 2, and GameCube versions of Ice Age 2 currently 
 retail for $30. If you liked the film, Ice Age 2 is a game well worth playing. But before you run 
 out and pay full price for it, be aware that it won't last you very long, and the Wii version's 
 new controls aren't necessarily worth the higher price.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wastedyuthe74
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  After medeocre reviews of this game, I bought it cheap from Ebay (I wasn't in a rental club at 
 the time like I am now) , and am glad I did. To be honest I can see it not taking much to complete, 
 hence I am not sure I can recommend it at full price. However, it is very good fun to play while 
 it is lasting. If it wasn't already on another platform, I could have sworn it was made for the 
 Wii, the controls are so well done. For instance, if you press A to jump, then A again to double 
 jump, you can then swing your remote down for Scrat to stomp, breaking loose ice underneath him- 
 it feels great. Also there are mini games- one of which is where you shoot at monkeys with stones 
 so they can release a nut. Of course, you don't use your analogue stick to control the target like 
 other consoles, you point at the screen with the remote, and it works just as well as Wii Play. 
 It can also be funny, even when not watching the cut scenes. You normally have to hit a bear several 
 times to knock him out- but it's always best to creep up behind them and constantly whack their 
 behinds with you tail. They jump up each time you do and it looks hilarious. Overall, it's a simple, 
 easy platform game which is a lot of fun and good to play when you need a break from all the hectic 
 or violent games. If your a pro gamer, rent it as it won't take you long to complete. For kids 
 it's worth buying at full price so long as they like the Ice Age films (obviously) . For everyone 
 else, see if you can get it cheap if you are going to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 16, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  To begin things off with Ice Age 2 for the WII.. you play as Scrat the cute and loveable character 
 from both Ice Age films. The whole goal is to collect a lot of nuts, duh. He loves nuts and is 
 always after the one golden nut. You have to complete several min games with in the story line 
 to continue. To move right along lets get right into the GOOD..... things in the game. A lot of 
 people probably wonder how can you play a game like this on the wii, but its actually simple. You 
 will use both the wii remote and the nunchuck. You use the analog stick on the nunchuck to move 
 around and it's pretty simple. THe game is cute and childish, but don't let that stop you from 
 playing it because its really fun. You will love all the characters that you meet from the films 
 and may meet new ones as well. Its not a mind racking game that takes fro ever , its just plain 
 fun. One thing that I found that I liked in combat you have to use the wii remote and shake it 
 to attack enemies or to fight them off. Which makes it more inivative. BAD things.... The game 
 is short and can be beaten quickly. There is not that many extras and not a whole lot of replay 
 to it, unless you have small kids. Maybe a little over priced since not much replay value.
  All in all , I enjoyed the game and had a great time playing it and would recommend to all, but 
 if you don't have small kids then try renting it instead of buying. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
