-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Iron Man
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/ironman/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Flying at high speeds.
 Mowing down soldiers with your Gatling gun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dull, unengaging combat.
 Blurry, sad visuals.
 Makes being a wealthy playboy genius in a superpowered flight suit seem boring.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 16, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 4.5, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 284 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Artificial Mind
Genre: Action
Date: May 2, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Iron Man dons the cliched suit of lackluster, uninspired movie tie-in games. 

  Held captive in a cave by soldiers armed to the teeth with weapons of his own design, Tony Stark 
 ponders his fate. Faced with the ugly truth about the world he has helped create, he resolves to 
 turn his genius to other purposes. Stark constructs a high-tech suit of armor and becomes Iron 
 Man, embarking on a quest to ferret out the evil fueled by his creations and salvage his shameful 
 family legacy. Iron Man, a game recently released in conjunction with the feature film, parallels 
 Tony Stark's plight. Born in the dark, dismal cave of movie-based video games, Iron Man tries to 
 construct an armored suit of exciting third-person action that will capture the speed and power 
 of being Iron Man. Unfortunately, it's all the game can do to muster a few low-altitude thrills 
 over the course of this ho-hum adventure.  

  Iron Man begins in the cave where Tony Stark constructs the rudimentary rough draft of what will 
 evolve into the iconic hot-rod red and gold suit. After his escape, the plot diverges from that 
 of the movie, following similar themes while pitting Iron Man against a host of enemies that fans 
 may recognize from the comics. Levels are bookended by cinematic cutscenes that generally show 
 a little bit of character interaction and then a lot of Iron Man flying hither and yon. Only Robert 
 Downey Jr. and Terrence Howard have lent their voices and likenesses to the game, and their performances, 
 like the cutscenes themselves, are adequate.  

           The blue afterburners signal trouble for everyone on that aircraft carrier.      

 
  Actual combat is a different story. Iron Man's foes, though quite numerous, are not very mobile, 
 skilled, or motivated. Soldiers, trucks, tanks, and helicopters alike are quite content to hang 
 out in one spot while shooting at you until you've got a moment to pop over and blast them. Your 
 repulsors and rockets will get you through most of the game, but you'll want to bust out your Gatling 
 gun on any and all soldiers and mow them down while resisting the urge to cackle with glee. On 
 the few occasions that you do succumb to enemy fire, you'll have the chance to self-defibrillate 
 with a brief, timed button-press challenge. If you succeed, you're back in the battle with no consequence; 
 if you fail, you'll lose one backup power cell. Losing all your backup cells will result in failure 
 of the mission, but Iron Man is so hardy and the self-defibrillation is so easy that you'll have 
 a tough time dying.  

  If your foes begin to get the best of you, you can always reroute auxiliary suit power to your 
 armor to toughen up. Rerouting to weapons will change your repulsor attack to the Unibeam, a powerful 
 laser that takes a few seconds to charge up. It's fun to bust out on occasion, but the slow charge 
 time will keep it from being your go-to gun. You can also boost your propulsion system, which will 
 ramp up your flight speed significantly. Boosted flight is one of the more entertaining endeavors 
 in Iron Man, and steering by pointing the Wii Remote is responsive and fun. Unlike its Xbox 360 
 and PlayStation 3 counterparts, the Wii version of Iron Man (along with the similar PSP and PlayStation 
 2 versions) does not feature very many wide-open spaces, and a good portion of the game unfolds 
 in indoor spaces where your afterburners are disabled. This increased linearity actually works 
 in Iron Man's favor because levels feel more varied and less repetitive than in other versions. 
 Iron Man is as much a superhero inside a building as outdoors, after all.  

  Unfortunately, indoors or out, Iron Man is not a pretty game. Enemy models and explosions are a 
 half step above two-dimensional, and draw distances for bigger environments are woefully short. 
 More attention was paid to Iron Man's various suits, but even those efforts were not very successful. 
 The graphics are most effective when you're flying at high speeds, largely because that's the one 
 time that the pervasive blurriness is actually a positive thing. It's hard to feel like much of 
 a superhero with such lackluster visuals.  

           Homing missles are a superhero's best friend.      

  One thing Iron Man does do well 
 is implement motion controls sparingly. You swing the remote for melee attacks and flick the Nunchuk 
 to dodge, but both of the actions are infrequent enough that it doesn't become tiresome. Melee 
 attacking certain vehicles will let you trigger a grapple attack, which rewards your Nunchuk shaking 
 and well-timed button press with an amusingly destructive animation. This is fun to pull off a 
 few times, but you'll soon slide back into halfheartedly dispatching foes with your projectile 
 weaponry while they halfheartedly return fire.  

  Halfhearted pretty much sums up this version of Iron Man. Enough effort was put into the gameplay 
 and graphical design to keep it from crashing and burning, but not enough to inject it with any 
 sort of life or appeal. Superheroes are meant to inspire you to do great things, but Iron Man will 
 barely inspire you to finish the game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: acfjosh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 10:34 am PT
Review:  Now if youve seen the film you'll know the plot and substance of this game. Others it may be confusing 
 to get the whole filmy experiance. But this is a pure game with many attractive bits to keep you 
 playing.
  
  For one the missions are lenghty and not too hard which acts in its favour.
  It have a neat weapon and armour upgrading system. Like improving repulsor rays and missile launchers, new 
 moves for flight and melee combat all done in a ratchet and clank style level up.
  There are different suits of armour from the classic red and gold to the shiny steel.
  
  The 
 graphics are pretty neat and tidy although iron man stands out brilliantly in his shiny suit.
 
  But this game isnt without its flaws but theres not enough for you to not see the real game under 
 its iron shell
  
  PLUS this cost me a crazy 5!
  
  So yes i would recommend this but please take note of the flaws if your a real gamer looking for 
 a hardcore superhero game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keza13
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 16, 2009 5:04 pm PT
Review:  A pretty good game, but after a while it gets a little bit repetitive.
  
  The levels are well thought out, I think, especially the flying fortress level, that was very cool, 
 I mean, in how many games do you get shot at and, to avoid getting shot, you can jump over the 
 edge of something that's flying hundreds of feet in the air! :) 
  
  The bosses were a nice touch aswell. Especially MODOK, if it is actually him, and even though he 
 wasn't in the film it was good to see a familiar 'face', (forgive the pun but I couldn't help it 
 =D )
  
  It could maybe do with a free roam mode, like Spiderman 3, but maybe not as rushed as that was. 
 (ie: awful voiceovers, and very repetitive at times)
  
  If they did put one in the sequel, and I hope there will be a sequel, along with some other minor 
 improvements, such as more diverse missions and more unlockable content, then I would definitely 
 rush out to buy it when it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jovis14
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Iron Man is a cool game that will keep you amused for a while until another game comes along. The 
 graphics are pretty good for a Wii game and the Sound does justice the only thing you should be 
 worried about is waiting to see if there is an Iron Man 2. For his weapons the more you use them 
 in the mission the more fun u will get with the upgrade after that mission. You will also control 
 the flight of Iron Man in various suits. The cut scenes are still the same as the other marvel 
 games in the sort of half cartoony way. The movement of which you control him is fairly good but 
 I wouldn't have the Wii remote on to sensitive otherwise when you try to make him fly unless you 
 live in the arctic you are unable to keep that still for him not to go all over the place. Bring 
 all the elements together and you have a fabulous game that almost anyone will love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Primus9999
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  After play the game on the Wii, I wondered whether I made the right choice in spending 50 dollars 
 on this game, the story is okay........ But everything else was only "half mediocre". The graphics 
 were bad, but that is to be expected for the Wii, and because of the limitations, the cut scenes 
 are awkwardly played, with people moving their lips "haphazardly" when talking, but aside of these 
 superficial flaws, the story is actually good, if you liked the movie, you'll like the storyline. 
 
  
  The controls for the game are adequately placed, the learning time is probably only 5 to 10 minutes, 
 and you will be able to move with the pointer on the wii-mote. Even if you did fail because of 
 the controls, the games actually does not immediately penalize you for failing, only after an intolerable 
 amount of time will iron man actually die. There is a limitation to the controls though, the melee 
 button, it does not exist. I being one of those gamers who hate to move my limbs to achieve a knockout 
 punch to titanium man, find this trouble some.
  
  Another aspect that could either make or brake your interest in the game is the iron man suit modes, 
 they are, weapon, armor, propulsion, and even. Now, the Armor, and propulsion modes are fine, but 
 the weapons mode is poorly thought out, the Uni-beam (standard weapon in weapon mode, it's the 
 big white dot on the torso) , on Tony Stark's chest can fire a powerful beam of light towards a 
 target, but the trade of is that you must stay immobile for it to charge and fire, this is bad 
 for trying to kill a tank or helicopter, and extremely in inefficient at killing individual soldiers. 
 You might die from the multiple rockets and shells that will be thrown at you between charges, 
 and it drains the power source pretty quick. The even mode is much better, but not perfect for 
 anything, the biggest drawback is the less armor that will be able to protect you and the twin 
 hand beams (which are less efficient at killing tanks) that will quickly drain your power and leaves 
 you vulnerable from attack for a minute. When playing the game, I recommend the armor mode. Because 
 even though you will only be able to use only one hand beam, the other weaponry you carry should 
 be able to make up for the loss. 
  
  I recommend renting it first, and try to rent it cheap.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: residentevil47
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  After the long streak of bad video games based on movies (Spider Man 3) , I was a little worried 
 when I was about to pick this up. The movie was awesome and the trailers for the game looked decent 
 so I decided to get it.
  
  When I started the game I realized the graphics weren't great except for the suit itself which 
 was decently put together but for the environment itself the graphics weren't good.
  
  The controls were surprisingly good on the Wii and fairly easy to get used too. The game was linear 
 but stuck to the story fairly well while adding a few extra missions and bosses to add gameplay 
 time I'm guessing.
  
  There is an upgradeable weapon feature in the game and instead of sticking with the traditional 
 make money and buy upgrades the weapons are upgrade from experience and the amount of time and 
 enemies you kill with them. Each upgrade make a considerable difference in either range, power, 
 or increased ammo.
  
  Overall, Iron Man can be seen as a crappy game with bad controls and a short story, or it can be 
 known as an advancement in Movie Video Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quiksilver311
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 1, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  first of all i love this movie. i love iron man in general, aways have. Ultimate alliance and hulk: ultimate 
 destruction were great game. and i usually play these games and enjoyed the movie enough that i 
 find some sort of enjoyment in them. i liked the fantastic four game just fine. but this, this 
 was awful. having the same control stick you look around with do melee attacks was difficult even 
 if they weren't really necessary. shooting was kinda fun for a bit, but got repetitive. flying 
 also was mildly entertaining but still, no fun after a while. even the boss fights weren't that 
 great, basically shoot and dodge till they die, nothing much to it and it didn' t look that cool. 
 overall i'd say don't buy, and if your on some plan where you can get it for really cheap or free 
 try a rental but otherwise don't bother. hopefully they will come out with another iron man game 
 worth playing soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiCoLaOs_BR
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  A really great game, nice fun, perfect visual and really easy to control!!!! This game is good 
 and give us a nice idea of the hole Iron Man comics and movie world, the game has a good base and 
 a nice way to control, it explores everything that you can do with the Wii Remote together with 
 the Nunchuck. Better than the PS3 version and really funner than the Xbox 360 (wich is really dificult 
 to control because of the deformative of the joystick) the wii version is the better and the funnier, 
 I really think that evevryone should buy it and play, even if u don' like the movie!!! I have to 
 put 800 characters in this freaking topik, so now i'm goig to talk about nothing, so for your good, 
 stop reading!!! Nothing is like God, everyone belives it, but it doesn' exist!!!! so please stop 
 reading all this **** becouse you are going to get nervous!!! I love Italian, my country but I 
 would like to be born in American!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futuramafan101
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  This was a good game with it been based on the movie and I really enjoyed the game but the only 
 problem I had was it was too short which could have been a bit longer and it was to easy to beat. 
 The gameplay graphics were really good for the wii and the cutscenes were great to. The controls 
 were great and makes the gameplay even more fun to play the game. The voice over by the actors 
 was good and they did a good job. The missions that you do are too easy to beat which they are 
 not really long and would take you long to do either and you do get to upgrades your weapons after 
 every mission you do and you fight villains from the comics which they were easy to beat as well. 
 I thought this was a good game to play but really too short and too easy and if you are an iron 
 man fan you will like the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drewquinn2
Rating: 1
Date: May 12, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  I hate it... im sorry to all the fans of the game right now but it was horrible! I loved the movie 
 so i tried the game but it sucked... its not even worth renteng unless you totally love iron man 
 and are obbsesed with it and you cant get away from the movies and the comic book or even the t. v 
 cartoon... but even then i dont think you would enjoy this ubberlly horrible interpreitation of 
 iron man. No body should buy it. It is not even in the same league as the movie... not even in the 
 same universe.... i love the movie and was totally let down by it... it is the worst video game based 
 on a movie based on a Stan Lee comic book... I hated playing it so i didnt even finish it.... i playe 
 for about 5 hours and almost fell asleep playing it... so i returned it early...
  
  BOTTEM LINE: HORRIBLE! DONT BUY IT I DONT EVEN THINK ITS WORTH RENTING! I AM SORRY IRON MAN FANS 
 BUT IT REALLY DOES SUCK HORRIBLE BAD!! IT DESURVES THE 1/10 IM GIVING IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! POOR 
 IRON MAN.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragunov_273
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  Iron Man for the Wii is the third person action game from Sega, based on the film of the same name.
 
  
  This is a game that has very simplistic core gameplay, fly to your objective, destroy bad guys 
 along the way until you finally reach the objective. Then also do battle with the odd end of mission 
 boss battle, most of which are inspired by actual villains from the comic book. Each of these bosses 
 follow a simple pattern and it won't take the average gamer long to work out that pattern and beat 
 the wind out of their opponent. 
  
  To defeat each of your opponents you have a nice array of weapons at your disposal, ranging from 
 Iron Man's trademark palm repulsor rays to micro missiles. Each have their preferred use; missiles 
 for heavily armoured targets, gatling gun for regular infantry and repulsors make a good overall 
 weapon that can deal with most situations.
  
  The game's graphics are nothing to be amazed at, but they are not graphics that you can't bear 
 to look at either. However in order to display the mass amounts of carnage that happens on screen 
 most of the time you have to have graphics like this without having some slow down. Which is very 
 nice, especially in this game.
  
  Everytime you complete a mission you can unlock new upgrades for your weapons; make them more powerful, 
 more accurate, increase range etc. the normal biz you'd expect from an action game. The freedom 
 of choice for upgrades here is pretty cool at first, but eventually it all boils down to using 
 a certain weapon so many times in order to unlock the best possible upgrade for it. There are no 
 upgrades that have an advantage over the other so you can't pick out different upgrades for different 
 situation, it just involves you getting the best upgrade possible.
  
  Control wise Iron Man succeeds, to a point. The controls are simple to grasp, flick the wii-mote 
 to melee attack, aim with the wii-mote to shoot, shake the nunchuk to dodge whilst moving in a 
 direction. However though, this happens sometimes even if you move the nunchuk in the slightest, 
 which can become quite an annoyance after a while. One pretty neat addition though, is that if 
 you get killed in action, you get the oppurtunity to 'restart' your heart, by pressing the corresponding 
 buttons at the right time. Though, this only happens more often later in the game, so you may not 
 have quite grasped on how to use it by then. The game is not too long either, you could probably 
 breeze through the game in about ten hours maximum. Then afterwards, if you really want, search 
 out the Stark weapon crates to unlock various artworks from game development.
  
  I would like to recommend this game, however I cannot, since the simple design decisions made by 
 the developers will scare away those who were expecting a much more fleshed out game. Also the 
 game is too short, unless you really like Iron Man I would recommend at least trying it before 
 to see what you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazewind191
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 2, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  The controls for Wii are very bad. The Wii remote often causes the camera to go haywire at times. 
 Attacking is based on the flick of the wrist. However, the attack system for this game is very 
 bad; your wrist may get exhausted or strained from the continuous non-contact attacks. That, right, 
 the attacks don't even hit the enemy at times.
  
  The gameplay graphics are mediocre - on the Wii version at least. In addition, the sound isn't 
 all the great either. The time spent during missions may seem to drag on and on with dull action. 
 The music doesn't help much either. It's a very slipshod game...
  
  There is no free roam. I repeat, NO FREE ROAM. You are limited to where you can go. Moreover, the 
 flying isn't all that's it's cracked up to be. In fact, you can't even fly fast.
  
  This is a waste of money if you ask me. A total waste. I'm not sure if this game even worth it 
 as a rental.
  
  The game's pace is very tedious. You often end up doing the same thing repeatedly while constantly 
 being hit by missles that come out of nowhere.
  
  This is not worth it. But I DID learn a valuable lesson from actually buying this game. SEGA SUCKS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darksider13
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  Iron Man for all systems is a great game. But for Wii... That's a whole new experience! Wii's remote 
 movements required in the game make you feel like YOU ARE IRON MAN! It's awesome how they were 
 able to make a game involving large areas of free-roam play, flying combat, and amazing battles=Infinite 
 Fun! There is nothing not to like about this game. The story is stuck to the story of the movie, 
 even though there are few parts added into the games story, almost everything stays the same within 
 the movie and the game, story wise. The upgradeable suits are great! They can change from things 
 to suits from the comics to suits that haven't been seen before! Upgrades to each armor are available 
 too! From weapons to shielding and mobility! This game has all the parts a gamer would love in 
 a superhero game! 
  
  
  Iron Man receives a 10 of 10!
  
  So, go out and buy IRON MAN! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
