-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Iron Chef America: Supreme Cuisine
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/ironchef/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Alton Brown delivers interesting facts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 None of the appeal of the television show.
 Character avatars are ugly and poorly animated.
 Minigames are dull.
 Boiling liquid is hard.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 28, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2
Critic Score: 4.5, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 3.1, 50 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Destineer
Developer: Black Lantern
Genre: Action
Date: Nov 25, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Iron Chef America: Supreme Cuisine is a disgracefully bad attempt to capitalize on the popularity 
 of  Iron Chef . 

  In the  Iron Chef America  TV show, a kitchen hums with activity as two elite teams chop, blend, 
 and boil to create delicious dishes in order to outdo each other and win culinary supremacy. In 
 Iron Chef America: Supreme Cusine, an animatronic ghoul locks you alone in a kitchen filled with 
 faulty appliances. Ingredients from dishes you vaguely remember choosing appear in front of you, 
 and the ghoul orders you to perform a simple action, praising you afterward regardless of your 
 performance. Your only other company is the disembodied head of Alton Brown, who spews forth a 
 constant stream of interesting facts and goofball quips, presumably unable to stop because of the 
 traumatic burn accidents he has clearly suffered. Eventually, you are freed from your prison and 
 judged by a panel of ghouls who reveal the grim truth: You have been pitted against another ghoul 
 in culinary minigame combat, and you, yourself, are a ghoul too. This is what it feels like to 
 play Iron Chef America: Supreme Cuisine. That's a bit overdramatized, sure, but Supreme Cuisine 
 is so lifeless, so lackluster, and so out-and-out lame that it's not far from the truth.  

           Cleaning actual shellfish would probably be more fun. And also, youd have actual shellfish. 

  Your Iron Chef America career takes you through a tournament ladder, starting with one-star chefs 
 and working up to actual Iron Chefs like Mario Batali, Cat Cora, and Masaharu Morimoto. The chairman 
 and Alton Brown oversee every match, and all of these folks lend their voices to their characters. 
 Alton Brown is the lone bright spot, as his commentary includes some genuinely interesting facts, 
 but for the most part the voice acting can't distract you from the fact that the character avatars 
 are pathethically ugly. Choppy "animation" and weak visual effects worsen the already terrible 
 cutscenes, and overall the presentation fails miserably to convey any of the drama or excitement 
 of Kitchen Stadium.  

  Once the chairman reveals the special ingredient and you select which of the nine possible dishes 
 you want to prepare, it's off to the minigames. There are a handful of simple motions that cover 
 actions like slicing, chopping, mixing, and grating. These controls work fine and these actions 
 are easy to complete. Other actions, like tracing a pie crust or dipping chunks of meat, are annoyingly 
 finicky but are still doable. Ironically, the hardest thing to do in Supreme Cuisine is boil liquid. 
 Unlike when boiling in real life (turn knob, wait) , you have to actively waggle the knob back and 
 forth or your concoction will boil over. It's aggravating and stupid, but fortunately other tasks 
 offer some comic relief. When you sprinkle or spread a topping, all you have to do is wave your 
 cursor over the item to magically reveal the hidden topping image, just like you're scratching 
 off a lottery ticket. Drawing silly or vulgar shapes on your lasagna may not make it taste better, 
 but at least you'll get a chuckle.  

  As long as you complete these games reasonably quickly (which is usually very easy) , there's no 
 way for you to run out of time. At the end of a competition you'll plate your dishes, which consists 
 of nothing more than grabbing an item from the top of your screen and snapping it into place on 
 the plate. Once all the required items are plated, you can add garnishes freely and it won't affect 
 your score (another opportunity for silliness) . In fact, the only thing that does affect your score 
 is how quickly you perform each minigame -- something that is particularly baffling when you see 
 that you are graded on originality, among other things. Beating all the Iron Chefs isn't tough, 
 providing you can get the hang of boiling, and victory isn't very sweet. You can replay any task 
 or recipe in the School mode, or hit up Quick Play to face off against another player or to team 
 up with that player against two CPU chefs. But more of a bad game is still bad.  

           It takes a special game to make boiling water difficult.      

  And make no mistake, 
 Iron Chef America: Supreme Cuisine is a bad game. Most of the time you just play dull, simple minigames 
 and have no idea what you are preparing. Not only does it fail to capture any of the excitement 
 or intensity of the television show, but it botches even the basic premise. Supreme Cuisine has 
 no charm and no challenge, and it's not engaging in any way. There are far better cooking games 
 available for the Wii, and even diehard  Iron Chef America  fans will be sickened by this rotten 
 dish.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sweetwater94
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2009 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I do not know why everybody hates this game, granted, its not the best, but it is fun, especially 
 to play with others! I've only played it a few times and some of the tasks are a bit tedious but 
 overall it is a pretty solid game. I got this as a gift, and it was a mistake really since I watch 
 Top Chef and the person who bought it for me thought I watched Iron Chef, which I've only seen 
 once or twice and don't really care for. So I really didn't compare this to the show or expect 
 much but I was actually surprised at how fun this game is, although it really has no depth. The 
 basic idea is that you get given a chef to compete against and must make around 3-4 dishes using 
 one main ingredient (i. e. zucchini or beef, etc.) and some of the tasks are actually quite a lot 
 of fun, like chopping! I thought this was actually better than Cooking Mama, with the cartoonish 
 graphics working a lot better than Cooking Mama's iPhonish quality graphics. Don't expect much 
 from this game, which is safe to say with a lot of Wii titles actually, and just play to have fun 
 really. 
  
  Graphics: 7.0 The graphics were pretty good for Wii and I thought the cartoonish aesthetic worked 
 better than if they had attempted a more 3D look (considering Wii graphics capabilities)
  
  Gameplay: 7.0 The gameplay while certainly not revolutionary is pretty fun and keeps your interest 
 for a good amount of time.
  
  Replayability 7.0 Although I certainly don't rush to play this game I think it is fun to play from 
 time to time especially when friends are around. 
  
  Overall (Not an average of above scores) : 7.0 This game is not the greatest, but it certainly is 
 not terrible like they make it out to be and if you just play it for fun it will be fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bark00000
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2009 10:34 am PT
Review:  I have to fill 100 words here so im just going to say whats on my mind...
  
  You may not believe this based on this piece of crap... but this game went through all the paces 
 that any top quality game would:
  
  - real game designers worked on this
  - A company decided to publish this
  - Thousands of copies were made at the expense of someone 
 with hopes of hitting it big
  - enough people (whos jobs btw consists of picking out good videogames) thought this was good enough 
 to say "Alright, this is great! lets move forward"
  
  
  Now i dont know a whole lot about the videogame industry, but i know enough to fairly say this:
 
  HOW DID THIS HAPPEN? 
  Truly bad games (like iron chef) being released defies all logic! 
  There is a long and drawn out process in place that should ideally allow enough time for SOMEONE 
 to finally say "WTF ARE WE DOING HERE? this is an epic failure!"
  
  
  That being said... buy it. 
  The only way to stop this trend is to buy buy buy! then once the 
 companies producing this crap finally achive a monopoly on the game industry, stop... 
  one of two things would happen:
  1. The industry would be forced to improve the quality of their 
 products (as they are the only ones making them)
  2. The industry would collapse forever and finally rid us of the perpetual mass ripoff that is 
 the modern game industy
  
  
  either way games like this will have no place and will be where they belong... the landfill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiwiiyo
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Iron chef fans, brace yourselves for a very cheesy game. The hit food network television series 
 has now released an unusual game.
  The game comes out for Nintendo Wii, so you would expect some bad graphics. You don't know bad 
 graphics until you play this game. As the chairmen, Alton Brown, and other food network stars talk, 
 their lips won't move. It's more of a computer animated frame by frame thing. It seems like the 
 only thing Iron Chef America worked on when it comes to the graphics is the food.
  The game has judges, just like in the show. At times you will get the same judges a couple battles 
 in a row. Instead of judging all six meals, they will only judge two of your six. Most likely they 
 will say something really mean about your courses, but they don't mean it. you can get a perfect 
 score on your taste, and one will say ''You gave this meal the wrong name. It should be called 
 'slop'."
  Making the courses can be fun, but slicing, dicing, and chopping can get old after a while. The 
 cooking and the hour speed up while making the dishes, which is nice because you wouldn't want 
 to sit there and cook things virtually for an hour. Each time you do a different activity while 
 cooking, you will have to listen to Alton Brown's floating head, telling you safety tips, history, 
 and the things you would usually hear from him. This can get annoying because you can't go onto 
 the next activity until he is done talking.
  In career mode, you create a chef and battle different talented chefs. it's very simple. You just 
 work your way up the ladder until you beat the final chef. The only downside to this mode is that 
 when you create your chef, you can't get very creative. All you do is select the gender and give 
 him/her a name.
  Quickplay can be a very fun mode. You can either play against a computer, face a friend, or team 
 up with a friend and face the computers in a team battle. This is a very simple, fun mode that 
 is most fun when you play against a friend. 
  
  
  
  The good
  fun
  a game that is fun to play with a friend
  good music
  epic enough to laugh at
  exciting enough 
 at the end to make your heart rate rise
  
  The bad
  graphics are bad enough to blind you
  shallow
  once you finish career mode, it gets boring
 
  
  
  score
  6.4 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: efusco
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This was a gift for my 9 year old. Most of the cooking tasks are quite easy to master, but a few 
 require some really careful technique. One or two we've yet to figure out (sealing?) .
  
  This is not a game that's going to hold the attention of an adult for long, but for my son it is 
 much more intuitive and interesting that Cooking Mama which we also have but all find frustrating 
 to navigate and use. Iron Chef, OTOH, makes sense right up front. It would be nice to be able to 
 customize your avatar/character with more detail, but it's not to be.
  
  The characters are fairly true to the reals show, though everything is pretty much pre-programmed 
 and not really relevant to anything the player is doing.
  
  We'll play it out through a career, but I suspect replay value will decrease dramatically after 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willam13_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Iron Chef: Supreme Cuisine is a good game. Alton Brown informs you about things during the game! 
 You buy a game like this and you get what you thought. Obviously they couldn't make it like Iron 
 Chef exactly. I've seen some bad reviews and to them I say NAY! This is a Wii game that is delivered 
 as such. Fun! Cartoony! Laughable! I am a chef and I think this game is quite fun... for the purpose 
 of fun of course not for expanding your culinary mind. I think that children would have fun playing 
 this with adults. The narrarator informs everyone about the secret ingredient. It is a very fun 
 game but I imagine that it might get old. Apparently I need to give more of a review. There is 
 a limit to review space... a minimum of 800 words! Who knew?! You know I haven't played Cooking 
 Mama but it looks fun too. Is it similar or no? I would guess no... I bet Cooking Mama is more fun 
 because of the family atmosphere. This game is still fun though. I promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hphatecraft
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 9, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game at the request of my father. He's a big cooking fan, and he enjoys gaming 
 from time to time. While I had my reservations as to whether or not a game based on virtual cooking 
 could actually be fun, I was willing to give it a go.
  
  The general premise of the game, while reasonably entertaining, offers none of the creative pleasures 
 you might imagine a game based off of a creativity-based cooking gameshow might contain. The gameplay 
 is essentially a gratuitous misuse of the wii-mote, and you end up spending all of your time waiving 
 the controller in various repetitive motions for short bursts of time. Activities such as chopping 
 or slicing components, stirring, pouring, folding, stretching, and etc are all represented by their 
 own motions. You do these motions until the task is complete or a timer runs out. It's mildly entertaining, 
 but involves very little thought or skill. Ultimately, the successive mini-games might come off 
 a little more successful had the rest of the game been made with a little more love.
  
  Anyone who has actually seen the show knows why doing all of these pointless mini-games is necessary. 
 Iron Chef is a timed cooking competition between a challenging chef and an Iron Chef (a master-chef 
 who represents the show) . Upon establishing the match-up between the two chefs, the host unveils 
 one main ingredient with which all of the dishes made during the competition must feature. This 
 aspect of the game is where it really fails. First off, there are only 15 main ingredients that 
 can appear in a competition, and this leaves very little replay value since a match-up lasts only 
 about 15 minutes. Second, you, as the challenging chef, do not actually get any real control over 
 what you make with the main ingredient. You simply have the option to choose 3-7 of the 7-9 predetermined 
 dishes programmed into the game. I understand that it might be a technical nightmare to allow a 
 player to truly design their own dishes, but a little more flexibility and decision making would 
 have made the game a lot more fun. Discovering or learning good flavor profiles and combinations 
 should have been the main focus of the game. This is especially true since the announcer of the 
 show/game continuously tries to educate the viewer/player about the various elements of cooking. 
 Finally, once you've gone through all the wii-mote flailing, the judging phase of your food gives 
 you absolutely no feedback as to what you did wrong. So, if you got poor scores for taste, creativity, 
 or presentation then you have no idea how to improve upon your errors next round.
  
  Even with all of my frustrations about the actual gameplay, my biggest complaint about this game 
 is its offensive lack of polish. There are many cut scenes of the chefs, the judges, the host, 
 and the announcer talking. None of these scenes contain any real animation. The characters only 
 move by way of flipping through 3-5 still images over the course of several seconds worth of screen 
 time. It's truly unfortunate too because the voice acting is actually done really well, and features 
 the actual voices of the TV show personalities.
  
  In the end, the game just feels incomplete and unsatisfying. I wouldn't feel so robbed if it were 
 sitting in the bargain bin for $10, but the $40 price tag it carries might as well come with a 
 stiff kick to your junk. With all that said, I'm sure that some gamers will find this game to be 
 a nice change of pace from more conventional games, but if I want a nice change of pace I'll just 
 pop Tiger Woods Golf in the Wii instead. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
