-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Jenga World Tour
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/jenga/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The graphics and audio aren't awful.
 There's at least a decent number of rule variants to be had.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Blocks like to get stuck inside the stack and refuse to come out.
 Wii Remote controls are imprecise and annoying.
 All the specialized &quot;world tour&quot; stages are either slightly irritating or aggressively terrible.
 AI is either a lightning-quick genius or completely moronic, depending on the scenario.
 Costs twice as much as real Jenga.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 11, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2
Critic Score: 3.1, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 3.4, 129 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Atomic Planet Ent.
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Dec 7, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Horrid AI, broken physics, and terrible game design conspire to topple Jenga World Tour. 

  The real game of Jenga is a love/hate kind of thing. The actual act of playing this game of block 
 removal and stacking is pretty fun, but goodness knows it's a pain to stack those things up again 
 after the tower comes tumbling down. Jenga World Tour attempts to remedy that admittedly small 
 annoyance by bringing the game of Jenga to the Wii. No cumbersome blocks to stack here; all you 
 have to do is slide out and stack virtual blocks using the Wii Remote. That all sounds good in 
 theory, except that Jenga World Tour also happens to be functionally broken. The game's physics 
 are wonky as all get out, the artificial-intelligence opponents are either overpowered or brain-dead 
 depending on the situation, and many of the goofily themed stages the developers tossed in to give 
 the game a bit of a wacky flavor are so reliant on random chance that they cease to be fun instantly. 
 Couple all of this with the fact that World Tour costs twice as much as the real game of Jenga, 
 and this stacks up as a pretty terrible deal.  

           Putting Jenga underwater does not make it worth twice the cost of regular Jenga.      
 

  As you would with the real game, you play Jenga World Tour by picking out one of the rectangular 
 blocks that sit in the stack, do your best to pull it out without knocking over the entire structure, 
 and set the removed block on the top of the stack. The players take turns until one sends the whole 
 thing toppling over with an ill-conceived block removal, at which point the game ends. On paper, 
 Jenga World Tour seems as if it should have the goods to deliver a solid interpretation of the 
 game. The Wii controls let you pull at the blocks by holding A and moving the Wii Remote, tap them 
 using the B button to push them out ever so slightly and get a better grip on them, and even pin 
 down a couple of other nearby blocks to keep them from jostling around.  

  That all sounds like a good scheme, except that it doesn't actually work very well. Moving blocks 
 is an extremely hit-or-miss process. When you've got one in your hand, it's impossible to position 
 the block on the top of the stack with any precision. The game's sense of depth perception seems 
 more than a little faulty, and as a result, you'll often overshoot or undershoot your target multiple 
 times before finally getting even close to where you want to go. Of course, all of this assumes 
 you can even get a block out of the stack. There are times when you'll be able to yank a block 
 out with quick and unobstructed ease, and there are times when you'll be stuck spending minutes 
 trying to inch one block out because it's apparently jammed in there super tight. The amount of 
 yanking you have to do when you get pieces stuck like this is just ridiculous, and sometimes leads 
 to you accidentally knocking other blocks around and toppling the whole thing, which you really 
 shouldn't have had to do.  

  The frustration of being unable to easily remove certain blocks is compounded by the relative ease 
 with which computer opponents can move the same blocks. The AI can take a turn in less than five 
 seconds flat, and often does. The only time it takes longer is at the very end, when playable blocks 
 are at a premium and the whole stack is teetering like crazy, or if you happen to place a block 
 on the top of the stack in such a way that the AI can't figure out how to place its piece correctly. 
 The only time you can do this is if you're placing the second block on the three-block row, so 
 basically every other row. When you do, try to drop the piece a little bit off from wherever the 
 first piece was placed, so that it's not quite in the middle, but not quite all the way to the 
 opposite end, either. The AI becomes lobotomized at this point and fumbles for minutes at a time 
 trying to place its block down in a suitable fashion. We actually had one instance in which the 
 AI got stuck doing this for upwards of 10 minutes. It's initially high comedy to watch this happen, 
 but it's also rather boring by about the fourth or fifth time.  

  The weirdness of the AI and the sometimes-stubborn block physics really compound into a painfully 
 frustrating experience in the world tour mode, a worldwide jaunt across multiple continents (and, 
 for some reason, multiple time periods) to play Jenga with a bunch of silly themes. Apart from 
 the obvious aesthetic differences of playing Jenga in a pit of molten lava, medieval England, underwater, 
 and in the middle of a dinosaur-filled jungle, there are some gameplay differences to these stages 
 as well. For instance, when you're playing atop a frosty Himalayan mountain, some of the blocks 
 on your stack will actually freeze from turn to turn. Likewise, when you're playing in the lava, 
 the blocks are so hot that you can hold them for only a limited amount of time. (The meter depicting 
 the heat drops every time you set the block down, though, including if you temporarily release 
 it when it's balanced sticking partially out of the stack, so it's not exactly any more of a challenge.) 

           Short of tying a tow chain around that puppy and hooking it up to your buddy's Jeep, that 
 block isn't coming out any time soon.      

  These wrinkles in the formula aren't much of a big deal, but some of the other factors wreck the 
 game even further by turning the experience into a complete game of chance. In the dinosaur level, 
 the stomping of the nearby dinos will cause your stack to sway a bit; consequently, sometimes you 
 won't even have touched the stack yet on your turn, yet the whole thing will come crashing down 
 just because of some random background element you had no control over. The same goes for the medieval 
 England level, where catapults constantly assail the stack. No single hit actually does much damage, 
 but as the game goes on, they push and push and push until eventually the same sort of random knockdown 
 happens. This level is even worse because all of the catapulting kills the frame rate, which turns 
 the gameplay into a chugging mess. Naturally, a chugging game also slows down your ability to pull 
 out blocks. At some point you'll be sitting there, dumbfounded, watching the game run at around 
 five frames a second while you're endlessly tugging away at some block that just won't budge, and 
 realize right then and there with startling clarity what a colossal mistake this purchase was. 

  There are other features in Jenga World Tour, but given how utterly inept the core gameplay is, 
 they're basically irrelevant. It doesn't matter if the game has middling visuals and a mostly forgettable 
 soundtrack. You don't need to care about the additional arcade mode (which keeps you playing one 
 long, continuous Jenga game and throws random rule variations at you from row to row) . And though 
 playing in multiplayer does indeed alleviate some of the AI troubles, none of this can correct 
 the fact that the act of playing Jenga in Jenga World Tour is no fun at all. The crazy rule variants 
 certainly do their part to stomp out whatever fun this game might have had, but even simply playing 
 a normal, vanilla game of Jenga feels screwed up because of the shoddy controls and physics. An 
 actual game of Jenga, unbroken in every way, costs $15 at most retail outlets. Jenga World Tour, 
 which is thoroughly busted in a number of bizarre ways, costs $30 at all retail outlets. Do the 
 math and stay away.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
