-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Kororinpa: Marble Mania
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/kororinpa/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Handles well with the Wii Remote's tilt-sensing abilities.
 charming, though very basic visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Doesn't have widescreen or progressive-scan support.
 not enough levels or modes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 7.0, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 217 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Hudson
Genre: Action
Date: Mar 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Kororinpa: Marble Mania gets challenging too late and doesn't have enough levels to hold your interest 
 for long. 

  Kororinpa is a marble-in-a-maze game that requires you to tilt the world around with the Wii Remote 
 to move a marble around, collecting gems as you make your way to the exit. It feels like a stripped-down 
 take on Sega's Super Monkey Ball series, with simple and pleasing graphics but not a lot of variety. 
 While players with steady hands might enjoy what Kororinpa has to offer, it doesn't offer enough 
 of it, making it feel as if it's about half a game.  

          Different sets of levels have different visual themes to go along with them.     

  
 Your goal in every level is to collect all of the gems on that level and then find the exit. The 
 action starts out slowly, with plenty of very basic levels stacked up at the front of the game. 
 But as you proceed, you'll tilt the Wii Remote to roll your marble across conveyor belts or have 
 to quickly rotate the entire level and get the marble to hop from one area to another. The only 
 penalty for falling off of the level is that you're reset back to the start of the level, though 
 the timer keeps running.  

  You'll have finished 15 or 20 levels before you feel like you're really being challenged, and there 
 aren't many levels in the game. You can unlock a mirror mode and play the levels in reverse, if 
 you like, and you can also unlock secret stages by collecting special gems in the levels. But overall, 
 Kororinpa is a little too short and a little too plain to hold your interest for long. There's 
 a two-player split-screen mode, and you can go back through stages if you'd like to get a faster 
 time, but neither option is especially appealing.  

  Graphically, Kororinpa is a plain-looking game that doesn't support widescreen or 480p. But the 
 different marbles you can choose from look nice, and the levels look OK as well. The level themes 
 change after a handful of levels, taking you through a candy world, a city-themed area, and so 
 on. As you unlock levels and new marbles, you'll also get to choose new music. The sound effects 
 aren't exciting, but some of the cuter, animal-shaped marbles make animal noises through the Wii 
 Remote's speaker, which at least gives the game a little personality.  

  Kororinpa: Marble Mania would make a good $20 budget game. It's little and it has a bit of charm, 
 but it's all too basic for a full-priced game. Unfortunately, the game's $40 price tag is too steep 
 for the amount of gameplay you'll find on the disc.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dark_knight87
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  We've all heard of these sorts of games before, roll a ball to the end of a maze like level to 
 win. But Kororinpa gives a different take to this formula, adding 360 degree rotation to the levels, 
 so what was originally a wall, will now become the floor.
  
  The premise is pretty straightforward, you roll a ball along increasingly challenging levels until 
 you reach the goal. Along the way, you have to collect red gems in order for the goal to open up. 
 This is where one problem lies. If you miss a gem that's near the start of a stage, but you're 
 right at the end, you pretty much have to fall off the edge and start at the beginning of the level 
 again. Thankfully there are unlimited lives in this game, and levels are pretty much based on how 
 quickly you can complete them. There are also green crystals hidden in each level, which when collected 
 unlock bonus levels for you to try. These are usually in very hard to reach places, and require 
 all the patience of a saint to retrieve.
  
  The motion controls to begin with work really well. The ball responds accurately to the way your 
 wiimote is pointed, and it's not too slippery. However, as you get on to the more challenging levels, 
 you'll find you're having to bed your wrists into places you thought were impossible to do. My 
 wrist actually started aching from doing this too much, and when you're having to constantly rotate 
 the wiimote, the ball suddenly becomes unresponsive, and you might even end up falling off the 
 stage because of it. This becomes annoying very quickly. The camera doesn't help much either. Sometimes, 
 a part of the scenery will obscure your vision, meaning you'll most likely fall off. This doesn't 
 seem to happen all too often though.
  
  The graphics in the game are good, but nothing special. Everything is detailed enough, but there 
 isn't really anything that stands out that makes you say "wow!" The sound, also is pretty average. 
 There's really no memorable tunes to think of, although they do try to set the mood of relaxation 
 and calmness to the game, which does work.
  
  The biggest downfall of Kororinpa is that it is an incredibly short game. You could easily breeze 
 through all the standard stages in the game in one sitting. Sure, there's a mirror mode upon completion, 
 but that's basically something the developers slap on to increase longevity to a game, which I 
 personally don't like. There are a number of different balls to choose from. Some are slower and 
 easier to control, while others are heavier and move faster. But really, play a stage with one 
 ball, and you've played it with all of them. The only reason you'll want to replay the stages is 
 to obtain the green crystal if you haven't already, or to try to beat your fastest time. Naturally, 
 this can become repetitive pretty quickly.
  
  In short bursts, Kororinpa is an enjoyable game, but thanks to awkward controls later on, and the 
 shortness of it all, you'll most likely be looking elsewhere for fun sooner or later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super-wario-bro
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Kororinpa, Super Monkeyball Banana blitz, and Mercury Meltdown all had a similar release date but 
 which one would you buy?
  It is not really fair to judge all three games against each other as they are all different from 
 their control methods to the level lay out and they all have a completely different reason for 
 rolling a ball around a maze. But while Kororinpa has the most basic controls and the most basic 
 gaming experience, it is the most charming out of the three.
  Rather than rolling the ball around, you actually tilt the table. There are several different locations 
 for the levels (which mean different obsticles) including day and night and there is even a mirror 
 mode for once you finish the game.
  The game graphics are simple but nice, and it is some feat that the ball and camera never get stuck 
 behind another piece of the level. Equally impressive are the controls which almost makes the game 
 easier because of how acurate the Wii motion sensing really is (especially compared to MM and SMBBB) .
 
  
  THE SUMMARY
  If you are looking for a simple pick up and play game for sessions inbetween playing Zelda or Resident 
 Evil 4, then this is worth picking up.
  Oh and yes it is better than the other two games mentioned above. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homeyc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  How many times have you picked up a controller and gone around shooting people? Or, how many times, 
 have you played a strategy game such as Warhammer or Starcraft. In fact, aside from a few other 
 genres, I can't think of many other types of games. This is what sets MarbleMania aside from all 
 other games. Combined with the interactive Wii controller, this game makes you actually believe 
 that you are balancing a marble across various problematic puzzles stacked with obstacles and pitfalls. 
 While the game lacks variety and loses momentum quite quickly, the concept is unique. 
  
  I had a lot of fun playing this game. In each of the problems, you have to navigate a marble across 
 various platforms. If you fail to find the balance point, your marble drops over the side. Making 
 this even more interesting, are various backdrops as well as "gadgets" such as ramps, magnets, 
 conveyer belts, etc. The object is to not only navigate your marble from start to finish, but to 
 also collect gems along the way. In each of the puzzles, there is also a secret green gem that 
 is either somewhat hidden or not immediately accessible. If you collect enough of these secret 
 gems, you gain access to new secret puzzles. There are about 40 puzzles in all and about 15 secret 
 levels. Many of the puzzles also gain you different balls and different background music. While 
 the music is just that, the balls that you gain access to can allow you to manoeuvre through the 
 mazes faster or slower. For example, some balls weigh more than others while others are bouncier. 
 I will admit that I managed to finish the game only by using the Panda marble which is the slowest 
 of all but it was still fun. Highly recommended for those who want a break from the traditional 
 games that are out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: N/A - No Story, Simply Marble Labyrinth Levels. Pretty Addicting.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 7 - Pretty decent graphics, could have made things certainly more detailed or 
 interesting.
  
  Sound: 7.5 - Music wasn't really anything special, in fact I only listened to the same song during 
 the game since it was the only one I liked. The marble and environment sounds were great, the animal 
 balls sounded pretty funny.
  
  Environment/Maps: 6 - Maps in range with players experience. Levels get harder as you advance. 
 Some of the handling with the Wiimote were rather challenging. Only a handful of difficult or challanging 
 levels.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 4 - Games camera angles were quite annoying and at times treacherous. With 
 out the help of save points the camera would make it extremely difficult. Very short game, only 
 a handful of difficult or challenging levels.
  
  Interface: 4 - Once again I must note the annoying camera and the use of the "Wiimote" can be difficult 
 but interesting. Having a bump or jump function would have been helpful.
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 6 - Great use of the Wiimote in 
 a game. Not enough challanging levels to really enjoy for a long time. Treacherous camera angles 
 can make certain points very annoying. Certainly fun while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shmup-o
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  I picked up Kororinpa at the Circuit City clearance sale this past January. My wife loves puzzle 
 games and I remember reading a positive review on Amazon a few months prior, so I busted it open 
 knowing we were going to at least get our $17 worth!
  
  The game play is very, very cool. The basic premise is to navigate your marble to the the end point, 
 collecting all of the required jewels along the way. The game tracks the number of jewels required 
 and acquired, making it easy to determine what else is needed to complete the level. You are timed 
 as well, with good times being awards Gold, Silver, or Bronze trophies. As you progress through 
 the game, additional marbles, levels, and music are unlocked. In addition, the one player game's 
 levels also have a bonus green crystal which, when collected and the level beaten, unlock more 
 items. The controls are both very intuitive and very responsive at the same time. You don't really 
 control your marble, you control the playfield itself. It reminds me of Sega's Monkey Ball games 
 in this case, but the controls are much more fine tuned for greater control. A steady hand will 
 help immensely.
  
  The puzzles are very easy at first and gradually get more difficult. My wife and I were able to 
 successfully complete all of the levels, however our 8 year old had difficulty with the levels 
 after getting past the second world. Using the different types of marbles comes into play here. 
 For more of a challenge, do not use the Easy balls, as they make the game much easier.
  
  As noted in the Game Spot review, the game can be completed very quickly. I found that playing 
 with 2 players made the game much more challenging and more fun, as each raced towards the end 
 trying to get the best time. All in all, it was a pretty cool game. I think my son and wife will 
 be playing Kororinpa over and over, however I won't play it much now that everything is unlocked. 
 If you're a hardcore gamer, you need to play this game, but know that you will be either lending, 
 trading, or selling your copy after a few weeks. Having said that, this is a great family game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  I completed this quite some time ago. Although it's pretty short, the length is fitting for the 
 genre it is in. I bought this game for around 17-18, far below the 35 that most places sell it 
 for - bargain, you'd think. Well, yes, it's a bargain if you talk in price terms. In game terms, 
 the price is just right for this particular game.
  
  The genre is that of the ball-rolling but not in the sense of Monkey Ball, far from it. Although 
 in similar cute visuals and atmosphere, the gameplay, mechanics and physics are different. The 
 aim of the game is to get from A to B, where 'B' is a circle on the floor which becomes active 
 only once all these green cones are collected.
  
  This is one of the earlier titles in Wii's life, marketed as simple, cute and seemingly fun to 
 play- all three are correct. This is not a visually impressive game but it is reasonable for the 
 gameplay experiences it delivers. It is stylistically cute with the 'candy' levels, cartoon-ish 
 wood, plush floors and doughnuts or smilar sweet foods thrown into the mix. Later on, levels look 
 more advanced with industrial/metals, galaxy/space settings - all complimented by unlockable marbles. 
 You get to start the game with an 'easy' marble which rolls comfortably and is not heavy or bouncy. 
 Later on you can roll 'marbles' in the guise of basketball (bouncy but moves fast) , cat, dog (with 
 the accompany of animal sounds!) or galaxy or tankard (heavy) and more.
  
  There is no particular aim in story but to just complete stage after stage. If however, you complete 
 the stage in record time with a gold cup you get a gold cup next to your time. There are also secret 
 cones (orange) which when collected in enough quantity will unlock the secret stages. Nothing extraordinary 
 so far...
  
  Well, the level designs are actually quite clever and original - and this game is one of the few 
 games on the Wii which uses the Wiimote very well. To control the marbles, you are actually tilting 
 the wiimote - tilting the entire level! There will be times when you just have to tilt the wiimote 
 90 degrees/right angles so the entire level is on its side! Pretty exciting...! Well, it is exciting 
 for that is a first for me in such a genre of the game. There will be moveable platforms and platforms 
 that move according to the tilt of the entire level. There will also be bumps, narrow gangways 
 and these magnetic railings which the marble will stick to. Other obstacles include sticky or slippery 
 surfaces or gaps which require speed/nifty jump (by literally jumping the entire level/wiimote 
 up and down) .
  
  This game has very nice midi music on the whole although one or two may be annoying. Thankfully, 
 you can select which track you want to play before each level. There is a good variety of different 
 balls which you most likely won't use save for the select few - most are there for the sheer novelty 
 of its existence. This game is quite forgiving in the fact that falling off won't force you to 
 fully restart but return to the starting position. In later larger levels, there are 'checkpoints'.
 
  
  The game is very short. Very short if you blast through and don't replay by collecting the secret 
 cones, beating your own times/records, using different balls and going through the game in mirror 
 mode, getting gold trophies to unlock secret levels then completing all secret levels to unlock 
 the final level. Actually, it's not that short if you thoroughly enjoy this genre of gameplay. 
 If however, this is not your type of game then this game would be very disappointing. If you have 
 an open mind to different sorts of games, you'd see the value of this game, a value that is more 
 obvious back when games involved replaying the same gameplay but with the view to better yourself 
 each time.
  
  For the majority of gamers, it's worth checking the bargain bin for this or at least a decent rental. 
 For those who like simple gameplay that involve some actual skill in physical movement, this game 
 would be it. This game is also very easy to get into; it doesn't require much to understand how 
 to play the game, even my nephew of 4-5 years of age could tilt the wiimote towards a goal - perfect 
 for those new to gaming or do not play games at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  The game has tons of unlockable marbles for those who lost theirs and is exciting when you are 
 about to beat the hardest level. It features nice looking scenery based trails and paths, and can 
 even be challenging to adults. Definately a charmer for both adult and kids alike. Don't get it 
 if your hand's a wobbly one.
  
  Pros:
  
  Marbles play a big role in your heart and the gameplay, Switches between scenery ever so often 
 to give you warmth after an ice cold journey, Controlls are top-notch and react well to movement.
 
  
  Cons:
  
  Too short of a game and offers small sums of replay value, Rarely irritating for those seeking 
 challenges, May become a hand-full for children.
  
  Overall:
  
  Zoom in to other reviews if you are still interested, not the best but not the worst. Definately 
 not a "Been there, Done that" feeling. Consumes little effort nor time. Makes good use of the Wii-mote's 
 capabilities. 8/10, don't buy if over $30 maximum! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woega
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 25, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  The very first level you play reminds you of those irritating wooden ball-in-a-maze toys from ... 
 well years back. Kororinpa is a typical Nintendo game, happy faces and 'characters', colorful environments, 
 and an original concept.
  The control is very straightforward and intuitive; the environment is tilt with the Wii-mote, responsiveness 
 is good.
  The aim of the game is easy: navigate the marble through the maze to the exit, collecting all orange 
 gems on the way. That's it. Of course the difficulty of the levels increases as you progress, with 
 jumps, cannons, narrow ledges etc. Secret levels can be unlocked by collecting green gems that 
 are scattered across the various levels. Other unlockables are extra marbles, extra levels, and 
 music.
  The two player mode lets you race an opponent to the finish (again collecting all orange marbles) 
 and can be pretty fun because of the extra pressure which makes you take more risk to reach the 
 goal first.
  
  Concluding Kororinpa is a game for all ages, you can play a few levels if you have some spare time 
 which is nice. Have fun with it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZogTheIneffable
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  Tilt the Wii Remote to tilt the surface the ball sits on, in order to roll your cute little ball 
 around a series of obstacles, through a few dozen levels. Simple. Fun. Cute. And thats great 
 but thats all you get!
  
  You dont get many levels. The first few levels are really easy. The next couple of dozen are interesting, 
 challenging, but pretty straight forward, without any real sense that you are solving a puzzle 
 or making any sort of decision  you just follow the path. Then the later levels are just infuriating. 
 So, you end up with a couple of dozen quietly interesting little linear levels to follow, and after 
 youve got the hang of them youll find that you can play through all the worthwhile levels in 
 half an hour or so. Could the developer have put in multiple paths, more options for the way the 
 ball behaves, more puzzle elements, enemies.? Sure. But they didnt.
  
  What they did put in was music that makes you smile every time you hear it, some cute little characterisations 
 for the ball with endearing sound effects, and some simple but pleasing backgrounds.
  
  The result is that the game is quietly, emotionally satisfying, time after time, without ever getting 
 particularly interesting. Its calmingly, charmingly entertaining. Its the sort of game that you 
 can chill out to really easily, but never get excited by. That makes it sound like a rent it, 
 dont buy it game, but actually you wont want to give it back to the store after a day or two. 
 What you probably will want to do is to hang onto it and dip into it from time to time. So, buy 
 it, dont rent it  but make sure you buy it cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myth0s
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 12, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
 No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. No review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_War_Chief
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 16, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  A game that is very underappreciated. If you actually stand back and look, you find it is very 
 fun. The thing people always say is that it is too short. I'll admit, it is short. Very short in 
 fact, and very easy. But it doesn't mean it isn't fun. The use of the controller is brilliant, 
 by tilting the pad as if it is the stage, and some of the jumps are superb. It has so many different 
 obstacles. And the way you can go anywhere in the maze by tilting the pad to a dangerous degree 
 is perfect for perfectionists.
  
  The graphics for the game are definitely better than mediocre. They do the job just fine. They 
 don't look great though. The city levels and toy levels look brilliant, but cake and grass levels 
 look pretty bland to be honest. The music of the game is good though. It's quirky, perfect for 
 a game like this. They add the perfect atmosphere, and I never grew bored of them. The sounds like 
 balls make can get a little annoying though, which is why I usually choose one that doesn't make 
 noise. There's plenty of choice though!
  
  The different balls add a lot to gameplay, as they all have different attributes. What do you want? 
 Speed with less control, or mass with less speed. It what suits you to do your best. And then I 
 get onto the multiplayer. To be honest, the main game is great, but multiplayer doesn't add much. 
 It's just a race to complete it the fastest. It might have been better if both balls were on the 
 same maze, and you control your ball instead of the maze. And you can bump each other out of the 
 way!
  
  As I say, there's always lots of secret levels and balls to unlock by completing levels fast. And 
 if you try and get fast times, it does get exceedingly difficult. You cannot make mistakes at all 
 and must always be going fast. But if you enjoy quick games, what you'll play in short bursts but 
 won't get bored at, this is your game. Please don't expect Ocarina of Time type gaming though. 
 You'll be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahahaG
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 7, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty fun and i must say at first looked a little childish but as you progress through 
 the game u find challenge in it and things start to become a tad difficult, especially if you try 
 out all the different balls. Some may say this game is too easy, but after playing through it i 
 say that it helps your balance skills with the Wii remote, and its price of 40 dollars is easily 
 worth it. It may have no online modes to play on, but playing against another player can be equally 
 challenging, and it always feels great when you see the big Win on your screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadkandy
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the worst games I've played on the Wii so far. The music gets really annoying 
 after about 2 minutes. The themes don't change often enough. The level scale is bad. This game 
 could have been a good idea, but it's not. The use of the Wii mote tilt is a good option, but even 
 when the controller is well calibrated, the marble most often will not do exactly what you want 
 it to do. And not only is it not fun to play, it's not fun to watch someone else play it either. 
 I'd rather knock my head into a wall all day long. I wouldn't even spend 2$ for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeAmNiNjA
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 19, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  Hello, and tonite i am trying to do the impossible by writing 3 desentally long reviews in maybe 
 2 hours, yes i know i have no life, but im doing this for my readers so forgive me if its not in 
 perfect detail thx....
  
  So anyways, AGGGGHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH this game is going to make you SCREAM. I have never cursed more 
 in my life then i did while playing this game, but dont get me wrong, its not bad, its just IMPOSSIBLE... 
 unless you have a lot of free time like me.
  you know what just talking about this is getting me pissed, lets start the review.
  
  Gameplay 
 7/10
  For now just ignore that little part up top, i was jsut expressing my feelings, so anyways, this 
 game works very well. The physics were done wonderfully, the gameplay is just so smooth, you never 
 really see games with controls that flow as well as this, very little complaints their. And the 
 wiimote is perfect for this game, because it is the brick paste (dont know what its really called) 
 in between this games smooth brick gameplay wall. The wiimote's sensors are very responsive and 
 work very smooth, and my favorite part is this is the first game that i have played that you can 
 kill your self the second you spawn by flipping the wiimote backwards and your ball just falls 
 to nothingness and dies woo its a perfect stressreliver for a stressful game, but we are not getting 
 into that now. So as you may have seen this is a marble game, and who doesnt love marble games? 
 But this one is a little different, because not only do you have to finish the map, but you have 
 to collect a bunch of orange little cristals in order to finish. And that causes one problem, whats 
 a marble game without shortcuts. There are tons of short cuts in monkey ball (one of my favorite 
 games) but since you have to collect all of these crystals you cant take the shortcut. And even 
 trying a shortcut wont work because its so hard to jump your ball. Oh and thats one other miner 
 problem, in this game, if your in the air too long, you die, witch sucks because you could be and 
 inch before hitting land, and die, but not much of a problem unless you adventureus.
  And also there are these little green crystals (curse them!!!!) that give you a secret unlockibles, 
 such as extra levels and music. But in order to get them, you pretty much have to kill yourself 
 (say goodbye to the medal) and restart the level all over again (sounds not that bad huh it gets 
 a lot worse)
  But thats the extreamly bad thing about the gameplay, levels are so HARD. Not just getting the 
 green crystals, but finshing the level. Its not acceptible to take 21 min on a level thats par 
 time is about 42 sec (yea pathetic you think, well lets see how you do) If your not up for an extreamly 
 challenging game, and a huge headache, plz do not play this.
  Graphics 9/10
  This is the reason why i was waiting for this game so long, its graphics are very smooth and very 
 attractive. The graphics fit the game perfect, and are pretty detailed as well. And the graphics 
 help this game be so smooth, because they all blend together. I will use the the second level as 
 an exsample, the second level is a food themed level, and when you think food themed level, you 
 should want to eat the level yourself (well at least i do) . So this level does a great job at making 
 a food theme, because everything is perfectly colored, and bright, and made of food, that accually 
 looks like food. This games probably one of the best looking games for the wii right now.
  Sound 5/10
  Ahh the sound section, the shortest and most underappresiated of all the others. 
 This game does have some good sounds, such as when you are going over a metal fence for exsample, 
 it makes a sound like your rolling over a metal fence ( i would know too, it was a bet dont blame 
 me) . But that doesnt mean there is some bad sounds in their, a lot of bad sounds. Each of the marbles 
 make different sounds when rolling and hiting walls, but some of them are just stupid. Beware, 
 if any marble says cute sound, it will just make a sound of that animal screaming in an extreamly 
 high pitch, exsept for the dog, since they didnt have any dogs to tourture in the studio the had 
 to use a human baby instead....
  My favorite one of the sounds though is the car crush marble, its pretty much if you took a bunch 
 of cars, compressed them into a ball, and threw them into buildings, lots of metal sounds and destrustions 
 ensue.
  Lifespan 6/10
  Ok this game does have a very good lifespan, but it can be too frusturating to even want to play 
 it any more, which just kills lifespan. But it does have a lot of levels to play, and tons of music 
 tracks, marbles, and secret levels to bathe in for a while. But useually most of the unlockable 
 marbles, are either one extreamly hard to control, two goes insanly slow, three are the same thing 
 as normal marble with annoying sounds and look. But besides all that the multiplayer is fun, because 
 you dont need two wiimotes, just a wiimote and a nunchuk, which rocks. And there is no difference 
 in using the nunchuk either, it responds just as fine as the wiimote.
  
  -Smooth Gameplay
  -Great Graphics
  -Tons of unlockibles
  
  -HARD
  -FRUSTURATING
  -annoying 
 sounds
  
  Rent, plz unless you are a pro marbler, or you really think you will like it, rent it plz
  6.4/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjninja
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 13, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  =DOne of the best games on the Wii, quite short [unlocking everthing takes some time though] well 
 made and great muplayer! One of the best games on the Wii, quite short [unlocking everthing takes 
 some time though] well made and great muplayer! One of the best games on the Wii, quite short [unlocking 
 everthing takes some time though] well made and great muplayer! One of the best games on the Wii, 
 quite short [unlocking everthing takes some time though] well made and great muplayer! One of the 
 best games on the Wii, quite short [unlocking everthing takes some time though] well made and great 
 muplayer! One of the best games on the Wii, quite short [unlocking everthing takes some time though] 
 well made and great muplayer! One of the best games on the Wii, quite short [unlocking everthing 
 takes some time though] well made and great muplayer! One of the best games on the Wii, quite short 
 [unlocking everthing takes some time though] well made and great muplayer! One of the best games 
 on the Wii, quite short [unlocking everthing takes some time though] well made and great muplayer! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vincenzo2330
Rating: 1
Date: May 12, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  this game sucks. horrible. i played it for literaly five minutes and returned it to the store. 
 the gameplay was awful. the controls sucked. and all in all. it was god awful and should have never 
 seen the light of day. jusat the shear thought of this game makes me want to break my wii because 
 of the amount of money i wasted on this garbage. i can't beleive i even thought that this game 
 would be anything like marble madnness. now there was a good game. at least with that game you 
 had some decent music. this game had trash music. this game was trash. and it belongs IN the trash. 
 oh god this game made me so angry. then a dog gets hit. Arrrooo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgtXenon46
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I don't agree with the 5.8 rating from gamespot and I think the 7.7 rating from the users is much 
 more accurate. It's true there aren't that many stages (more than fifty, but some are very short) 
 but there is a bonus on each level and timed high scores, as well as 20 different marbles which 
 makes it interesting. The game play is also pretty solid, the only problem I had came when flipping 
 the controller completely upside down, the accuracy got twitchy. But it feels great to play a game 
 where the controllers are 1:1, when I move my hand 90 degrees, the game world goes 90 degrees, 
 so you can play without thinking about button combinations or any kind of controls, its very natural. 
 I had fun for the few hours I put into it, but I probably couldn't play it for more than 5 or 10 
 hours total. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidominance
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 6, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  So kororinpa is a Marble-mania game as clearly described in the title, you will use a set of different 
 balls and move them to the finishing line in different levels about 65 in total (though I played 
 60, but heard there are 5 bonus levels to be unlocked with some extra skill) and you can play all 
 level in mirror mode as well.
  
  The game can be relatively compared to Super monkey ball: banana blitz, however it remains different 
 in certain aspects. First of all, you can't jump like in monkey ball, but you can tilt the whole 
 level around in a 360 degrees motion, you will need this ability to complete some levels. As you 
 would expect, you will control the ball by titling the wii remote. In fact, what you will be tilting 
 are the levels and the ball will move accordingly. The game handles this aspect very well, and 
 the remote is extremely responsive, even to the slightest movements. Having said that, you will 
 need a steady hand to play this game as well as metallic nerves, because once you lose your temper 
 its all over. The controls are solid and very simple, basically apart from titling the level, there 
 is nothing else to do (apart from pausing and restarting) . The game physics are solid, and ball 
 will react differently to the different terrains in the level which makes things interesting. The 
 gravity element in the game is also interesting, any surface has gravity basically, so its not 
 like its always pulling objects downwards. If you hit a wall and tilted the remote 90 degrees towards 
 the wall the direction of the gravity will change and the wall will become the ground, this will 
 plays a significant role throughout the game and it is one of the things that distinguishes this 
 game from similar ones. This feature will also allow you to pull off some ridiculous shortcuts, 
 in some levels you can't help but try to take some shortcuts that might skip over 50% of the whole 
 level (you will try endlessly by the way) . However, in order to prevent you from cheating and finishing 
 a single level in 5 seconds or so. You will have to collect a certain number of orange crystals, 
 once you've collected all of them, you can go to the finishing line. There are also green crystals 
 (one in each level) that are hidden or difficult to reach -some are hidden in some surprising places- 
 and these will basically unlock few things so make sure to collect them all.
  
  In terms of Graphics, while simple, it has a lot of charm to it. Even though most of the time you 
 will be focusing on the ball only, but if you took a look at the background you will see some nice 
 environments. The levels are well designed as well, and you will notice some interesting effect 
 on the terrain. The game also has some nice particle effects that adds a nice touch to the whole 
 feel of the game.
  
  The game is well designed in general, and you the levels are designed in a clever way as well. 
 You will run through different themes, such as a garden, sweets, and cityscape and others. All 
 themes have different terrains, and style, and it adds a lot to the game's charm. As you progress 
 through the game, you come across different unlockables, these are new levels, music soundtracks, 
 secret levels and balls. Speaking of balls, there are twenty of them and each one of them has its 
 own attributes and difficulty, there are certain levels that will really need the Panda ball to 
 complete, because that ball is the easiest one ! The balls are cute and varied, you will most likely 
 stick to a favorite as you progress through the game. Each ball has its unique sound effect, and 
 they add a lot of personality to each ball.
  
  The game's difficulty varies from one to another. If you have a steady hand and you know how to 
 handle this game well, then most likely you won't be faced with any real challenge until the late 
 stages of the game. However, having said that, even though the early levels won't pose much of 
 a challenge they will be fun to play nonetheless. If you want to increase the amount of challenge 
 you can do so by selecting a hard ball to control. There is split-screen multiplayer in the game, 
 its basically a race to the end. The interesting bit is that you don't need two wii remotes to 
 play multiplayer. Player 1 will hold the Wii remote and Player 2 will hold the nunchuk, this is 
 good news for those who don't have two wii remotes. In addition, if you are a hardcore, and you're 
 compeltely done with the game you can try something crazy like playing multiplayer on your own, 
 because it is possible since you'll hold the wii remote and nunchuk, but I will have to say that 
 its difficult and requires a lot of skill and multi-tasking, send me a video if you did so !!
 
  
  Well, so far so good, but not until we get to the value aspect of the game. This is probably the 
 only and definitely biggest problem in the game. Simply put, the game is very short for a fully 
 priced game, you will probably finish the game in one to two sittings (depends on how good you 
 are) . Yes, these one or two sitting will be extremely fun, but then after that - apart from the 
 multiplayer aspect- there isn't a lot to do apart from breaking your time records endlessly with 
 no real incentives. Therefore, Kororinpa is a really fun game while it lasts.
  
  As for the final verdict, I easily recommend it for rental since it is a short game, however, if 
 the game went down in price, I can easily recommend it for purchase as well since the value increases 
 significantly by the drop of the price.
  
  I hope you found this review useful ! PEACE^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LavisFiend
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 10, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 7/10
  
  The graphics for this particular title are preety good. After all the whole game is just about 
 you guiding a marble down a very intricate course, so really, you couldn't make the graphics any 
 better for a ball and a 3d balancing course. But that dosen't mean the graphics are mindblowing 
 at all. They are easy on the eyes, and the very nice background looks surprisingly well done for 
 a background, but really, this sort of thing could be seen on the gamecube. But for the most part, 
 they are passable.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The sound is very well done for this title. The game has a very peaceful atmosphere, so the music 
 and sound effects correspond well to make the peaceful vibe stronger. The songs deliver, however, 
 they are not long at all. I can safely say that each song lasts for about 25-35 seconds before 
 it loops. It's not necessarily a bad thing, but you will be in a level (especially later levels) 
 for around 5-8 minutes, and hearing the same thing over and over gets really annoying. The sound 
 effects were well done as well, some of the marbles in this game are based off of animals, and 
 when you roll these marbles, they emit the noises that particular animal would make. They come 
 off as a really cute sound, but the sound repeats every 2 seconds... and it becomes horrendously 
 annoying. When you roll the marble on a wooden enviroment, it makes a scratchy noise, as if a marble 
 was actually rolling on a wood surface, metal makes a clank noise, etc.
  
  Story: N/A
  
  I will not give a score for story for this title... as there is no story.... it literally is 
 you just completing courses, there are no bosses, there is no linear story, there is nothing. Controls: 
 8/10
  
  All you do on this game is tilt the playing field. Thats it, and as far as controls get, you really 
 couldn't make them any better than they already are. My only real gripe is the way you have to 
 hold the wii-mote to tilt the playing field. I personally think it would have worked much better 
 had it allowed you to tilt by holding the wii mote horizontal then rather vertical, but thats just 
 me.
  
  But although you just tilt to control the marble down the field, it becomes really aggravating 
 as some times, especially on the later levels, you will have to twist the wii mote in the STRANGEST 
 of angles, just to make the plane level enough to get across, and it's also turbo sensitive, meaning 
 if you so much as twitch an inch off, your going to die. End of discussion. Other than that, control 
 problems are minor, and very rarely hinder your progress, except for a couple levels, but thats 
 it.
  
  Gamplay: 7/10
  
  As I have said before. This is a tilt the plane sort of game. You are a lone marble, your goal 
 is to get to the goal by manipulating the gameworld via wii-mote. Thats the gist of it. However, 
 its never that easy, as the plane becomes severly twisty and complex as the game continues on. 
 It takes more than actually just GETTING to the goal however...
  
  On the way the course is littered with red crystals (Think of these crystals as keys to open the 
 goal portal) In order to complete the level, you must collect them all. There is also a lone green 
 crystal in each level, positioned in the most annoying of places. These are optional, but they 
 unlock secret levels and marbles if you collect them.
  
  The complexity of this game however, begins and ends only with the courses, as the majority of 
 a game is a breeze. There are no lives, meaning you can die at any time with no repercutions cept 
 a minor time deduction (that does nothing but stray you a bit further from getting a gold, silver, 
 or bronze trophy, that really does nothing) The red crystals are usually on the way, and are very 
 easy to collect, so really the crystals are just an attempt to try to throw in a challenge aspect 
 that really does nothing for it as you can get them with ease. (and you have no fear dying in the 
 process to collect them)
  
  There is somewhat of a variety to be had with the marble selection. There are 20 in all, each unique 
 in a certain way, be it appearance and/or handling...
  
  However, though there is variety to be seen... you will probably only use probably around 5, if 
 that, because the majority of them are impossible to use in the later levels, especially the HEAVY 
 and FAST ones. You barely tilt the wii-mote and your marble has already fallen, it makes controlling 
 them a headache and an impossible endeavor.
  
  The game is a breeze, but that sort of works to its benefit, just for the fact that the game is 
 fun. Thats what it is meant to do. It dosen't punish you for failing, it just places you back on 
 and basically gives you all the time in the world to finish your task. But just because you make 
 a game easy dosen't mean it is any more fun than say a game that is difficult. This game lacks 
 a balance, and only has one direction, painlessly easy, and because there is no challenge save 3 
 minutes of level memorization and 5 minutes of navigating through it, it is sort of boring and 
 grows old.
  
  Replayability: 4/10
  
  The game takes about 3-4 hours...
  It consists of 50 levels, and once you complete it, you unlock the same 50 levels, only these are 
 inverted. You unlock practically everything in one go through, save for a few marbles. The green 
 jewels that unlock the Secret levels are usually really easy to obtain, so there is no reason to 
 replay a level once you gather the green jewel from it. It comes with a 2-player mode, but its 
 nothing all that great...
  
  Buy or Rent:
  Don't waste your money buying this title. It's not a bad game, its preety fun, but you can get 
 all you want out of it in a rental.
  
  CONCLUSION: K: MM is a welcome game to the Wii library, but though it is a passing title, it could 
 have been so much better had it had more to offer, but what it does offer however, is good enough 
 for a play, but just not good enough to have permently in your library.
  
  
  POINT CRUNCHDOWN:
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Story: N/A
  Controls: 8/10
  Gamplay: 
 7/10
  Replayability: 4/10
  
  TOTAL: 34/50=0.68 ROUNDS TO.... 7
  
  Kororimpa: Marble Mania scores a 7/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FagoteroGP32
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 6, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  Except the fact that is a too short game I&acute; d recommend it to those who still trying to find 
 a game that forces you to still playing it till you beat it. Not awesome graphics but correct, 
 good music, and the possibility of playing in mirror mode once you beat it.
  
  The records of each level are recorded into the game so, that&acute; s a good thing ^^
  
  So, 
 that&acute; s all, very funny, incredibly smooth control, too short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sloshed1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 30, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  If you loved marble madness, you will dig marble mania. It is very similar to the Atari classic, 
 except instead of controlling the marbles, you control the level itself!!! The game is simple to 
 pick up and start playing. It only takes around 5 levels to get a good grasp on the controls. The 
 game play is responsive and accurate for the most part. After playing for about a half an hour 
 I was hooked and did not want to put it down. It can take a minute to get your brain to get used 
 to the 3-d concept in moving your marble around. The graphics are not the best in the world, but 
 for a game you are only paying $40 for and is not meant to be centered on graphics, but fun, gameplay 
 that is made to draw you in, you can't complain. Music in the game is lacking a little. You can 
 unlock different tunes, but they don't sound that unique in their own right. The sound effects 
 on the levels are accurate, but again nothing special. The only notable sound comes from the different 
 types of marbles themselves that have their own sound effects that can be entertaining to say the 
 least. The bottom line with Marble Mania is if you are looking for a fun game for $40 you can't 
 go wrong. The levels themselves may be limited (there are 50 of them) , but between a cool split-screen 
 multiplayer mode and the challenge of going back and beating your previous times, there is quite 
 a bit of longevity to be had with this game. I would recommend it for anyone who likes puzzle games, 
 looking for a game to have a little fun with when you don't have a lot of time to play in one sitting, 
 or to anyone who is trying to get a non-gamer interested in playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jarua
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  Kororinpa is a game that runs in the same vein as Super Monkey Ball; you tilt the world in all 
 directions using the Wii remote's motion controls to guide a ball through various differently themed 
 levels. Unlike Super Monkey Ball where timing often plays a big factor, Kororinpa focuses on control 
 finesse; it's about making movements accurately and getting it right. As a result, the game offers 
 a refreshing change of pace and relief from what is often a frustrating style of gameplay. Kororinpa's 
 graphics are well suited to the Wii, with cleanly designed levels and a charming visual style that 
 bring a lot to the game's overall presentation. Starting off as a simple marble, progressing through 
 the game allows you to unlock more interesting spherical items to roll around the different worlds. 
 A pig, a cat, a football, even a miniature galaxy; all of them are balls you can use, with their 
 own sound effects that chime out whenever you bump into a wall or roll along at speed. Not only 
 do the balls differ in appearance and sound, they often have different physical properties; some 
 are faster, heavier, more difficult to roll, and so on. The gameplay in Kororinpa in simple, yet 
 enjoyable. Your basic goal is to roll around each level collecting red gems, doing so activates 
 a blue portal that allows you to finish up and move onto the next stage. Green gems can also be 
 collected to unlock new balls, although these are optional. The level design in Kororinpa is generally 
 good if not a little on the easy side. One interesting aspect is how you often need to roll up 
 walls to collect gems, something that results in you handling the Wii remote in some very unexpected 
 ways. While the levels are fun there's certainly a lack of them. There are 45 levels to complete 
 spanning 5 different worlds, once you complete these you're given the option to tackle mirrored 
 versions. You can get through these pretty quickly and once you're done there's not a lot else 
 on offer, except for you to unlock every ball or to beat the times you've set. As a result, Kororinpa 
 feels like a great game with only a fraction of the content; something hard to recommend at full 
 retail price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feniz
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  While this game is far from perfect, while playing through this game I found my self thinking that 
 this game has what I had been missing from Super Monkey Ball. The way the different marbles rolled 
 seemed to move more in line with the way they do in the old fashioned labyrinth marble games do 
 than was the case with monkey ball. Since thats how I viewed the concept of monkey ball from the 
 first time I played it on the GC, I'm happy to see it has finally been achieved. However, the game 
 is short, you can play through the basic levels within a few hours. What will take a little more 
 time is getting gold on every single level (for those anal enough to do this) . I would have loved 
 to see 15 more of the harder levels. As for the graphics, it would have been nice to see the game 
 in progressive scan as well as wide screen. But all in all I enjoyed the environments and the overall 
 look of the game. The two player mode serves very little purpose except for cases where two children 
 that can't share want to play at the same time. This is because there is no new gameplay strategy 
 added by playing two player. Its the same as before, try to get to the finish as quickly as possible.
 
  In the end it comes down to the types of games you like to play that should be the decision on 
 whether to buy this game. If you like monkey ball then pick up the game, if you hated it then you 
 most likely won't like this one either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuzumeCake
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Kororinpa, so what does it feature?
  
  65 stages.
  
  45 stages you'll easily encounter in your quest to roll the ball. 5 bonus stages which will require 
 some skills from you to unlock. And 15 secret stages that will require some collecting to unlock.
 
  
  When you've finished the 45 regular stages, you unlock the mirror mode. If you want to have a 100% 
 completion on your profile you'll need to play through mirror mode. There's 20 balls for you to 
 use, but almost all of them you'll need to unlock by advancing in the game.
  
  Kororinpa throws unlock-ables at you, there's lots! But it doesn't take long to get them all. But 
 there's definitely some kind of replay value here.
  
  In each stage you control a ball (which you're able to choose when selecting the stage) , these 
 balls includes a pig, a dog, a panda, a penguin, a soccer ball etc... and they are very cute. When 
 you roll them they make cute sounds using the wiimote speaker. If you're like me you would already 
 have went to the store and bought the game after hearing that.
  
  But I'll continue the review if that didn't satisfy your needs of cuteness.
  
  In each stage 
 you'll have to collect sparkling red crystals, you must collect these to be able to finish the 
 stage. This is a Nice tactic from Hudson, which makes it almost impossible to cheat on the stages. 
 it will also makes several stages more challenging, having to roll near the edges or falling to 
 collect the crystals.
  
  On each of the regular 45 stages there's also a green crystal, these are hidden and requires you 
 to look around the map. Collecting these crystals will unlock certain things in the game. So just 
 try to grab them all, ok?
  
  When it comes to controls, this is one great game to show the potential of the wiimote. Could this 
 game possible be done on any other console? In this game you have full control of the board. if 
 you turn your wiimote around, the board turn around. You're not limited to any kind of control 
 scheme. You can do whatever you want with the board, which means that you have 360degress of control. 
 An analog stick only has 180degress of movement, with this game you can turn the stage in a 360degree 
 motion. Which means that you'll get confused at first, because holding the wiimote flat and face-up 
 is something you're used to.
  
  But in this game you get to make it face-down, point straight up, point straight downwards, tilting 
 it etc.. You'll move the wiimote in all kinds of positions while you struggle on your rolling adventure. 
 You'll make walls become platforms by tilting the whole board 90degress, tilting it ever more and 
 you've made yourself a slope. This will take some time to get used to, because this isn't something 
 we're used to do. We're playing 360degress now.
  
  This game features a great soundtrack, they did a really nice job here. On your way to roll the 
 balls, you'll unlock several music tracks to listen too. Some of them are remade music of older 
 Hudson games, such as 'Super Star Soldier'.
  
  Kororinpa has a multiplayer option, 2-players can play at the same time. Using split-screen you 
 can roll through the stages together. This is very enjoyable, because you can either race against 
 each other, or just roll through the track next to each other. Kororinpa is a great game, but it 
 doesn't last very long. it will probably take somewhere around 5-10 hours to unlock all features 
 and get a 100% completion. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
