-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Legend of the Dragon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/legendofthedragon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Offers a variety of single-player modes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Awful fighting system.
 Does a terrible job of duplicating the cartoon's look and feel.
 Wii version's controls lack precision.
 Uninteresting opponents.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 4.0, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 4.7, 65 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Game Factory
Developer: Neko Entertainment
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: May 1, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Whether you're a fan of the cartoon or a fan of fighting games, Legend of the Dragon is a total 
 disappointment. 

  Legend of the Dragon is a fighting game from Game Factory that's based on a cartoon that currently 
 airs on Toon Disney as part of its Jetix programming block. It's about a pair of 15-year-old twins, 
 Ang and Ling, who are on opposite sides of a martial-arts-themed conflict involving humans that 
 can transform into beastlike creatures. The fighting in this game is uniformly terrible, giving 
 you the feeling that the product was constructed as a licensing tie-in first and a game second, 
 but the ugly graphics and lack of character speech mean that this probably won't do much for fans 
 of the show either, making it a failure from every angle.  

          The different fighters can transform into various creatures, but most of the attacks are 
 identical.     

  The fighting is stripped down, with only one punch and one kick button and very basic combos that 
 string those two attacks together. While you can push in a direction to execute different punches 
 and kicks, you don't have any special moves in your human form. As in most modern fighting games, 
 as you fight, a meter fills up with energy. Once it crosses a certain threshold, you can transform 
 into your character's guardian form. For the main characters, the forms are largely human still, 
 just armored. Others turn into decidedly snakelike, or ratlike, people, and so on down the line. 
 Your basic abilities don't change when you're transformed -- you can still attack, and the game still 
 plays like a bad 2D fighter with 3D ring movement buttons. But you can also use your power meter 
 when transformed to execute three different special attacks that make the game feel like it's trying 
 to ape the Dragon Ball Z Budokai series. One attack launches a DBZ-like energy beam at your opponent, 
 and at that point, a button-mashing or controller-waving frenzy breaks out, which either causes 
 more damage or nullifies the attack, depending on which player can mash faster. Another special 
 attack has the player enter six button presses or controller motions at random. If the opposing 
 player can memorize the string and enter part of it, that player will block the incoming attack. 
 The third attack launches a series of fireballs in a rhythmic fashion, and the defending player 
 can dodge these with well-timed button presses or controller waves. Unfortunately, these attacks 
 are identical for every fighter in the game.  

  In addition to a stock of standard fighting modes, like survival and practice, there's a quest 
 mode, where you move Ang or Ling around a map screen as though it were some kind of board game. 
 There are temples at several spots on the map, and at each temple, there's a challenge for you 
 to complete. The game tries to get clever here and change things up by giving you stipulations 
 for each fight, like in Soul Calibur's quest mode. So some fights have time restrictions, others 
 can be won only with specific attacks, and some fighters are only susceptible to combos. If any 
 part of the fighting were even remotely enjoyable, this might provide an interesting change of 
 pace. But it only manages to frustrate, because it's very easy to knock opponents out of the ring 
 accidentally, which will lose the fight for you if you needed to do something else to your foe. 

          The PS2 controls are pretty standard, but the Wii controls feel like they were tacked on 
 at the last possible moment.     

  Legend of the Dragon is available on both the PlayStation 2 and the Wii. The PS2 version has very 
 standard controls, with buttons for blocking and throwing. The Wii setup uses the Wii Remote and 
 the Nunchuk and is very similar to the PS2 controls, though on the Wii you'll block by pushing 
 down on the D pad, and you'll throw by pressing down on the D pad and waving the remote toward 
 your opponent. All of the special attacks require some form of Remote movement, and none of them 
 feel precise. Graphically, the two games are very similar -- both of them have bland visuals, with 
 a generic cel-shaded look and weak animation that makes all the characters look pretty bad. The 
 backgrounds are also ugly and plain. Because the game is based on an animated series, you'd hope 
 for some form of voice acting, but other than the typical fighting game grunts and a few very short 
 voice clips here and there, it plods on in silence, using text to convey the quest mode's nonstory. 

  Because of the game's dull fighting system that doesn't play well against the computer-controlled 
 opponents or against a live human being, it seems almost impossible to have fun with Legend of 
 the Dragon. When you factor in the total lack of detail in the attempt to mimic the cartoon's look 
 and feel, you're left with a game that even diehard fans of the relatively obscure cartoon will 
 probably hate. Do yourself a favor and keep your distance.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: residentevil47
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 27, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I seen this game not long after I obtained my Wii early in 2008. Games were usually $49.99 or a 
 little less. And I seen this game for $9.99 at my local Wal-Mart. I couldn't think of a better 
 way to spend my money... until I got home.
  
  As I started to play this game I was definatlely not expecting much. But I got worst than I expected. 
 
  
  The controls were udder terrible and unresponsive. The graphics were disgusting and a disgrace 
 to the Wii which is no great graphic show already. They used cell-shaded graphics similar to what 
 DBZ: Budokai Tenkihichi 2 for the Wii which made better use of the Wii and the visuals.
  
  This game was horrible beaten in under 3 hours and I was bored for the whole 3 hours. 
  
  For 
 a game this cheap you shouldn't expect much actually don't expect anything because this is the 
 worst way to waste you're money. For the love of god pick up Spider-Man 3 which also sucks but 
 its a damn sight better than this junk!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIMANICUS
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Japanese anim&eacute; s are often made into videogames, Dragonball, Naruto, Avatar and even Hello 
 Kitty. Most, if not all, are simple fighting games with the most basic fighting mechanics, Legend 
 of the Dragon acknowledges this, and throughs in it's own flaws to boot.
  
  Legend of the Dragon is based on the television series of the same name (to which I am pretty unfamiliar, 
 as per all anim&eacute; television series) and features 18 playable and unlockable characters from 
 the TV series, from the protagonist, Ang, and his sister, Ling, who both fight on opposing sides 
 thanks to the decision of the Dojo Master, Chin. Though you wouldn't know it from playing the game, 
 the story features many classic anim&eacute; plot devices, that eventually wave an intriguing story. 
 None of this is incorporated into the game, although minsclue details can be picked up from the 
 games many lines of text.
  
  The actual gameplay in Legend of the Dragon is both it's strong point, and it's weak point. The 
 fighting mechanic is pretty unremarkable, a word which here means nothing new and innovative, but 
 still better than the rest of the game , and it is also repetitive and poorly handled. Save for 
 a couple of the characters, most of them all play the same, with the same punches, kicks, combos 
 and, everyone has the same, hyper attack. At certain points in the game you are tasked with fighting 
 about 15 fights in succession, without break, just to unlock a new playable character in multplayer 
 and advance the story, although there isn't really anything to differentiate different parts of 
 the main quest.
  
  Legend of the Dragon's sound is poor, flat tinny sound effects interspersed with generic, old Chinese 
 riffs, the clips of which are about 10 seconds long. Character voices, or what ever voices can 
 be found, are dull and generic, most of which is simple grunts and the rest is just text.
  
  Control is a major issue with these kind of games, and with it being on the Wii, precise control 
 is everything. Legend of the Dragon ditches the idea of motion sensing (save for just a few attacks 
 and menu navigation, though these are not compulsory) and the very idea of a deep combo system 
 found in almost every other fighting game. You simply have 2 plain attacks, 2 grabs, 3 special 
 attacks and some impromptu attacks which rarely come in useful. Control on this game is just like 
 a PlayStation game, with a few Wii controls slapped on at the end.
  
  Legend of the Dragon is a low budget title that simply mooches off the series popularity, even 
 a hardcore fan of the series will have a hard time appreciating this cheap and tedious brawler. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
