-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/adventure/legoindianajones/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great offline cooperative play.
 Fun puzzles.
 Tons of replay value.
 Very funny.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lousy friendly AI.
 Respawning enemies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.7, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 857 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Traveller's Tales
Genre: Adventure
Date: Jun 3, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The third time is the charm for Traveller's Tales -- logical puzzles and great offline co-op play 
 make this the best Lego game yet. 

  Now that Traveller's Tales has conquered a galaxy far, far away, it has set its sights on giving 
 a Lego makeover to a more terrestrial franchise. Lego Indiana Jones: The Complete Trilogy lets 
 you reenact the key scenes from the first three Indiana Jones movies, with a blocky twist only 
 Lego can provide. The idea of children's building toys pasted atop action-packed adventures may 
 seem strange -- and seeing a Lego monkey is rather unnerving -- but the enduring charm of the movies 
 is the perfect foundation for some small-scale tomb robbing. The surprise is, even without a nostalgic-powered 
 handcuff fastening you to these stories, the seamless co-op and clever puzzles should be enough 
 to draw even the Indy ignorant into the experience.  

  Like the Lego Star Wars games, Lego Indiana Jones is primarily a puzzle-solving game with light 
 combat and platforming elements. While the core experience remains largely unchanged from the previous 
 games, the puzzles are constructed in a much more intelligent and logical manner this time around. 
 Previous Lego games had bewildering sections that would stump even seasoned puzzle-solving veterans, 
 not to mention frustrate casual fans who were just looking for a Star Wars fix. Those tricky sections 
 still exist in Lego Indiana Jones, but now they have been relegated to the bonus missions. Though 
 you'll still spend the majority of your time trying to figure out how to open locked doors or cross 
 perilous pits, the pacing is never halted by overly complex solutions.  

           You lost today, kid. But that doesn't mean you have to like it.      

  Even though 
 the adventuring is more streamlined this time, the obstacles you'll encounter are quite diverse. 
 Every level seems to throw a new trick your way that will continually keep you on your toes. The 
 most amusing puzzles involve the severe phobias with which certain characters are cursed. Indiana 
 has no fear swinging across molten lava with his whip or leaping over spikes while being run down 
 by a giant boulder, but if you put a snake in front of him, he'll become nearly catatonic. The 
 boss battles also provide a unique twist in every encounter. From having to figure out how to hurt 
 a man who can regenerate his health to fighting against someone who won't stop jumping, these encounters 
 serve as a fun diversion you'll have to solve quickly, lest you find your Lego head popped clean 
 off. Other sections have you using elephants to cross mud, driving a motorcycle while being chased 
 by a group of bikers, and trying to get a monkey to part with some dynamite. There is also a nauseatingly 
 awesome mine cart ride in  The Temple of Doom  section that, though brief, is quite exhilarating. 

  Though the puzzle aspects alone are enough to make Lego Indy worthwhile, the humor makes it enjoyable 
 even for people just watching the action. The silent cutscenes take you through the journey in 
 a much sillier manner than Steven Spielberg originally envisioned. No, you won't see the Lost Ark 
 melt some unfortunate Lego person's face, but you will see Indy's father fall asleep (because he's 
 old!) and even the Harrison Ford look-alike donning a blonde wig to deceive a foolish guard. The 
 humorous touches go beyond just the cutscenes; there are funny nods all around you. If you have 
 time to marvel at the decor when trying to escape from a burning castle, you might see a painting 
 of the Sphinx with a Lego head. Traveller's Tales also included a few references to its previous 
 Lego games. You can see soldiers wearing Darth Vader masks, Belloq mocking C-3PO, and a clever 
 homage to Hoth hidden away in one level.  

  It's worth playing the levels a few times just to pick up on all the references, but there is a 
 much more tangible reason than that: They are jam packed with hidden goodies. It's actually impossible 
 to get all the bonus items your first time. There are a number of different character-specific 
 traits, so you'll have to unlock Free mode to see all that every level has to offer. The different 
 traits help keep the tasks varied throughout the game. Indiana has his trusty whip, which can not 
 only help him swing across gaps and grab objects from far away, but can also bring the ladies closer 
 (and steal a quick kiss) . There are also scholars who can decrypt hieroglyphics, smaller-sized 
 characters who can squeeze through tiny spaces, craftsmen equipped with a wrench or a shovel, and 
 bad guys who can enter secret Thuggie doors. You'll be lucky to finish 50 percent of this game 
 your first time through, so it's overflowing with replay value.  

  Not everything is perfect in Legoland, though. The artificial intelligence is particularly awful. 
 You'll need your AI-controlled pal to help you solve puzzles sometimes, but you'll find your pal 
 less than willing in a few cases. This can be solved either by inviting a friend to play through 
 the game with you (the best option) or plugging in a second controller to move both characters 
 yourself. Trying to coax the AI to do your bidding can be an exercise in frustration, though. The 
 fighting can also get repetitive, especially when a swarm of enemies continually runs at you while 
 you're trying to solve a particularly complex puzzle. Bosses are usually protected by a troop of 
 soldiers, making them more difficult to defeat. Finally, the jumping portions can be very inconsistent. 
 It's not always possible to judge how far away you are from a platform, which leads to many untimely 
 deaths and arduous retries. None of the flaws destroy the enjoyment, but it's disappointing to 
 see the same problems from the previous Lego games rear their head once again.  

           Looks like Indy forgot to use his whip.      

  The three versions of Lego Indy are 
 nearly identical. The game looks best on the PS3 and 360, but the simple aesthetic works quite 
 well on the Wii. The Wii version does let you use motion controls, but you'll probably ignore that 
 option after it takes you five minutes to dig up a buried treasure. Though it can be fun to snap 
 the controller like a whip if you're feeling feisty. You really can't go wrong no matter which 
 Indy you choose.  

  Lego Indiana Jones serves as the expected progression from the Lego Star Wars games. The great 
 pacing, humorous cutscenes, and challenging-but-not-cheap puzzles make this the most enjoyable 
 Lego game yet. It's not the hardest game, but it has enough hidden goodies to make you play through 
 more than once. Both newcomers and diehard fans of Traveller's Tales' previous Lego offerings will 
 find plenty to enjoy here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: marioboy333
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 8:48 pm PT
Review:  The great film now goes on the wii. Lego indidana is a complete suceess. Though there is no dioluige 
 u can still pick up what is happening. They go through the 3 movies i only seen one and that one 
 was the temple of Doom. Also there is no game over. Which gives u alot of trys. The puzzle in this 
 game make u use ur brain a bit. Plus ther is fighting. This game mixes fighting and puzzles great. 
 U will enjoy the game, Plus with collectibles it makes the game longer and also if u have not seen 
 the 3 movies U can get an overview of it in the game. the lenght is long it can take about a week 
 or 2 to beat it . To collect collectibles will most likely take u 3 months or less. All the characters 
 are back that u know and love. The whip is aweaome. the music i don't really care about. anyway this 
 game is awesome. i liked it the senery was good to look at. Anyway thanks for reading 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:35 pm PT
Review:  
  Review: Lego Indiana Jones (Wii)
  
  You know, when I bought I Wii I was expecting to get tons of game play with it much like I did 
 with my Gamecube, sad to say that just hasn't happened, beyond great games like Super Mario Galaxy, 
 Metroid Prime Echoes, and Super Smash Bros Brawl my tiny white system had been largely ignored 
 this year, so when Lego Indiana Jones came out I decided to go with the Wii Version since I figured 
 the versions wouldn't be too different from the versions released on the 360 and PS3, and it is 
 $10 cheaper. Will Lego Indiana Jones live up to big pedigree left by the great Lego Star Wars games 
 or should you wait and hope that Lego Batman is better? 
  
  Story :
  
  Relive the Classic Original Indiana Jones movie trilogy, Raiders of the Lost Arc, Temple of Doom, 
 and The Last Crusade, as told through the cuteness that only a company like Lego could provide, 
 enjoy the classic tales along with some comedic twists on the venerable old series that will appeal 
 to all ages as you romp through the story lines of all three films, which basically consists of 
 3 large missions to find artifacts before your opponents do using the justification that you aren't 
 doing it for money like your rivals, but for the actual love of archeology and to have your work 
 displayed in a museum to inspire future generations to do the same (which is why I felt that the 
 movie Kingdom of the Crystal Skull failed since it broke from this tradition, but that is my opinion 
 and deviates from this review so I will move on)
  
  Graphics: 
  
  You know what this game looks good and as predicted it didn't look any better on the competing 
 consoles, and to prove my point I have done a head to head with my copy of Lego Star Wars Complete 
 Collection on the 360 for reference sake, and they look the same in almost every respect, for instance 
 my friends had come over and saw that I was playing Lego Indiana Jones they were amazed that I 
 was playing it on the Wii as it looked every bit as good as Lego Star Wars that I had been playing 
 the week before, for some odd reason I really don't see why the graphics wouldn't be equivalent 
 since Lego Star Wars came out in the last generation of game consoles originally. While I will 
 admit that the graphical system on the Wii needed to have been better, games like Lego Indiana 
 Jones are of the sort games that help justify the graphical decisions that Nintendo made when designing 
 the console, since they always have chosen to go with a more family oriented approach when it comes 
 to the look of their games by in large. 
  
  Music & Sound:
  
  Did you like the Music to the Indiana Jones movies? If you did then you will be plenty happy with 
 the music in Lego Indiana Jones since the music collection is exactly that of the original trilogy 
 of games. Do you care if there isn't any voice acting; rather everything is pantomimed so you know 
 what is going on, if this bothered you in Lego Star Wars well it is back so take this as fair warning. 
 Personally I would have liked to see a bit of voice acting but I am cool with it since I was fine 
 with it in Lego Star Wars, and it still works well with the source material here in Lego Indiana 
 Jones, I just hope that this changes for Lego Batman, since that could get confusing fast, especially 
 since Batman is normally narrative driven, that and I really would like to hear Kevin Conroy as 
 Batman again, or even Adam West for that matter depending on the approach they want to take with 
 that game.
  
  Control & Game play:
  
  If anyone out there played the Lego Star Wars games on the Gamecube then you know what to expect 
 here, that is right no limb flailing involved or pointing at the screen just sit back relax and 
 play like you would have with a Wave bird controller on my Gamecube. Though to be honest I ended 
 up playing a lot more lazily than normal since the nun chuck attachments cord allowed me to sit 
 back in probably one of the most slovenly positions I have ever played a game in which is cool 
 especially for a lazy weekend at home in front of the boob tube playing video games and eating 
 junk food which is how most of us gamers play games (admit it, you know you do) , it is a shame 
 then that if you still own a Gamecube controller that you can't use it to play the game, since 
 the play style is exactly the same, and could have been easily converted to the old controller 
 as well.
  
  Design & Fun Factor:
  
  I think by now that all of you have noticed that I have been comparing Lego Indiana Jones with 
 Lego Star Wars, and for good reason since this game is essentially Lego Star Wars with an Indiana 
 Jones Facade, which is not entirely a bad thing considering that the Lego Star Wars games were 
 pure gold in their simplistic yet engaging game play, and that is every bit present with Lego Indiana 
 Jones and while many of the fundamentals were different I found my self as sucked into Lego Indiana 
 Jones ever bit as much as Take 2's previous attempts with the Lego series of games, my biggest 
 worry is that the series of games may start to dilute it's self with continued usage (or over usage 
 since there are 2 Lego games out this year) of the play mechanics, and since I love the games I 
 would hate to see the experience start to get stale, but that has nothing to do with this game 
 or its design, and as it stands Lego Indiana Jones is still a ton of fun for just about everyone 
 one and anyone will have a blast playing this game
  
  This game is a great diversion from the normal glut of games that have appeared on the Wii thus 
 far, and would be a welcome addition to any collection, and since it is a full $10 cheaper on Wii 
 than on the 360 and PS3 why not give it a play though on the Wii. Lego Indiana Jones is good enough 
 for a Thumbs up!
  
  Lego Indiana Jones (Wii) :
  
  Pros:
  
  Fun game play
  
  Good graphics
  
  Good music
  
  Fun for the whole family 
  
  Cons:
  
  Formula is 
 starting to feel a little old
  
  No voice acting yet..
  
  Can't use Gamecube controllers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemanit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  Me and my brother always rush through our homework just to play this game. But don't worry, I have 
 a good education. My favorite movie out of that entire game would definitely be temple of doom. Short 
 round is cool. That ice rink power-up really gets on my nerves, though. I'll be in Indy's office and 
 I'll be on a high area and slide off. It is a waste of studs, so DO NOT buy ice rink. Why can not 
 guys jump as high as girls can? I mean, I like it when they jumped the same height and Jar Jar jumped 
 higher than everybody else. If you are having a really, really, really, really, really tough time 
 making a descision between Lego Indiana Jones and Lego Star Wars, pick Lego Indiana Jones. Even 
 though there are a lot more of those silly power-ups and levels, it is just way to freakin' easy. At 
 least 
  Lego Indiana Jones has a little of mystery in it. PICK IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crysis-matter
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  lego indiana jones is the 4th lego game realeased by TT and it is similar to lego star wars but 
 better. you play through all 3 movies radiers of the lost ark, temple of doom, and last crusade. 
 what makes this game so much more enjoyable the lego star wars is that there are more features 
 like picking up objects, more puzzles, and driving vehicles, it can help some puzles which are 
 so much fun. there are about 60 charcters you can chosse to play as through free play like the 
 famous Indiana jones to the not so famous soilder. but to play as these charcters you will have 
 to go through story mode which has some funny cutscene that are just silly and funny like indy 
 grabbing a snake insted of his hat or little circles around a soliders eye after he looked in binoculers. 
 there are so many funny moments i cant count. the gameplay is similar to lego star wars but wii 
 controls its fun but kind of gets old but rarely. the graphis are basically the same as lego star 
 wars but better looking. the sound is cool there are some action music and the famous theme song. 
 so if your a lego fan or indiana jones fan or both buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomWarrior69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I knew it was going to be good. Though I had some doubts because it's 
 just three chapters, Raiders of the Lost Ark, Temple of Doom, and The Last Crusade. So I thought 
 it wasn't going to be as fun as Lego Star Wars because of the length and shortage of characters. 
 Boy was I wrong! This game is great and has just about the same amount of characters in Lego Star 
 Wars. This game is incredibly fun. My favorite of the chapters is Raiders of The Lost Ark. The game 
 is extremely good and in my opinion, much better than Lego Star Wars. Just like in Lego Star Wars, there 
 are bonus levels and you get to collect artifacts which makes you feel like a true adventurer! It 
 is great how some of the characters have their own abilities, such as Indy uses his whip, Willie 
 can scream, and others can use a shovel, wrench, gun or explosives! This game is highly addictive 
 and I would recommend it to any of the Lego/Lego video game fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjhorton25
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I think that this is the best in the Lego games. You start with Indy and his sidekick; they face 
 the hardest traps and spikes on their way to the artifact. The game has hard challenges and puzzles 
 on the way. This is the best game play and the best in the all of the Lego games. The hardest part 
 is to get all the artifacts (mini kits.) Getting the artifacts is hard because they're hidden and 
 it takes a lot of characters to get all of them. The graphics are very good. You can get up to 4,000,000 
 studs for the wii. It's a challenging game and a lot of fun. I highly recommend it! The music is 
 really good because it's almost exactly the same as the music in the movie. Playing with such good 
 music make you feel like you're actually having a real adventure. It is especially good if you 
 have surround sound and sub-woofers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stjimmy222
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  There was much acclaim and praise for Lego Star Wars when it hit consoles. Now, it looks like they 
 have applied the same winning formula to the Indiana Jones series. Including the stories from the 
 first three films (no Crystal Skull included here) , the game gives each installment of the trilogy 
 its on little twist, with various humourous refernces to the movies. 
  
  First, the gameplay allows you to smash almost everything in your way in order to obtain Lego studs 
 which you can then in turn use to buy rewards later on. The very interactive environments allow 
 you to use the abilities of each character to their full extent, making for some great co-op play 
 and necessity of teamwork crucial (you don't need a friend to help you however, you can control 
 both characters if need be) Each characters different skills can be applied after completing the 
 story in the Free Play mode, allowing you to uncover more goodies and hidden items where you can 
 in turn unlocking more gems. Oh does the fun ever stop?
  
  The game looks visually good as well. The rendered scenery makes the lego blocks look like blocks 
 still, but in a way that make you say "Look at the shiny lego."
  
  One downside to the Wii version is there is a lack of use of the motion controls most Wii games 
 have came to use plenty. Sure you can whip the Wii remote to simulate cracking the whip of Indy, 
 but apart from that you might as well have a controller.
  
  All the characters are there, including some hidden ones. The free play alone is enough to keep 
 bringing you back, where you can take character not available in certain levels in the story mode 
 through the whole game in order to obtain hidden surprises. The combat, gameplay, music, and visual 
 effects all make for a great adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesMaster4Evr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  Lego Indy, a great game in the Lego series. You get to relive all the movie's best moments, like 
 finding the Holy Grail, Saving the poor slaves, and beating the Nazi's at retrieving the Ark. 
 
  
  The good
  
  Fun, multiplayer drop-in-drop-out gameplay. 
  Good storyline
  Good grahpics
  Using Indy's whip to grab the ladies for a smooch never gets old.
  Puzzles ( 
 Easy) are fun to do.
  Watching baddies break into pieces is hilarious.
  
  The bad
  
  Collecting all of the extra tidbits is laborious.
  Collecting the Star Wars characters sometimes 
 requires Free play. 
  
  Overall
  
  A great game that anyone can enjoy. Filled with hilarious cutscenes ( like when the Knight in the 
 3rd movie pretends to be Darth Vader) , fun gameplay, and tribute to the movies and Star Wars ( 
 Getting the Secret characters in their environments, like Luke in the Hoth cave and Chewy in the 
 Cantina) , this game is a game that people of all ages can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gametom1996
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  Lego Indiana Jones for the Wii was a game i really looked forward to. And it didn't disappoint 
 me at all. I started up the Wii and i began in an expedition leaded by Indy. Knowing the movie, 
 i knew that whe were on our way to the Lost Temple. I shaked with the Wii Remote and Indy unleashed 
 his famous whip on everything in the level and the Lego studs blasted out of breakable stuff. I 
 saw another new feature (first one being the whip) almost immediatly. I was standing on a platform 
 that had a light circle on it and when i shaked my Wii Remote, Indy used his whip to jump really 
 far. Later in the game, i realised that those light circles stand for a place where an ability 
 could be used. Indy's dad (Henry Jones sr.) for an example could use a book to unravel mystical 
 signs. He shared this ability with a few people like Brody. Girls can jump higher then guys in 
 this game. A really funny ability is Willie's. She can scream to scatter glass. Thuggee characters 
 from the Temple of Doom (like Chatter Lei or the Maharajah) can activate weird statues. Short characters 
 like Short Round can crawl through tiny holes. The game has more puzzles than violence, unlike 
 Lego Star Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  Lego Indiana Jones is a game that makes the Indiana Jones more cartoony. Like the Lego Star Wars 
 games, Lego Indy has some of the same gameplay, but with twists that Lego Star Wars dosen't have, 
 such as weapon switch for regular characters, more challenging puzzles, and some Star Wars cameos.
 
  
  What I liked about this game is that the gameplay is slicker than ever. Using the Wii Remote for 
 the whip and/or sword is brilliant. Switchable weapons. The game still has that cool character 
 customization. More depth. And one secret playable character from Star Wars.
  
  The only thing I didn't like is that some missions can take too long.
  
  Overall, Lego Indiana 
 Jones is one of the best Wii games to come by. Could this be the Wii's killer app and maybe not 
 Metroid Prime 3? Only time will tell for that answer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bopie64
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  I definitely enjoyed playing Lego Indiana Jones. Although when I played the historia (story) , it 
 glitched every once in a while when it played a cinematic video and I had to restart the level 
 because of it, the free play was a lot of fun. The graphics and landscape look awesome and contrast 
 with the lego look very well. There was also a very distinct look to the water and sand which I 
 really like. I haven't completed it yet (am at 75%) , and I think getting the artifacts is a fun 
 quest and makes the levels have a lot of replay value. This game was a bit short, though because 
 I was used to having so many levels to complete that the levels would last me a few months but 
 this time it wasn't quite as long. Definitely worth it, though. As for the motion controls, they 
 were fun to use sometimes but were pretty rare to use because buttons are easier on this game to 
 use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seniorDK
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  this game is a great game, excpeccially if you are a huge indy fan. or if you are a lego star wars 
 fan.
  the graphics were just perfect. not amazing but wat would you excpect in a lego game. it wasnt 
 difficult really at all. but maybe for me the most difficult part was just trying to figure out 
 clues to puzzles and all that stufff. Really the only bad thing about this game is the fact that 
 it was so short. still its a great collectors item for indy fans. there wasnt reallly any bad things 
 to this game except that the game alwways froze up. and there are some glitches that you can run 
 into. all in all this was an awesome game. and sense the new indy movie just came out there will 
 be a bunch of people wanting a indy adventure and this is wat this game prevides. this game gets 
 a rating  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fencingbean
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Lego Indiana Jones the Original Adventures for Wii is a great game. I had a nasty hunch that it 
 would be quite poor when I purchased it, but when I started playing it that I realised how silly 
 I had been. This game is arguably better than anything Lego Star Wars has to offer.
  
  The Gameplay is great, you can explore different environments, with good graphics and well-designed 
 puzzles which got me to think quite a bit. This game is very fun when you play it multiplayer co-operative. 
 The game has some funny cut-scenes and it supplies you with 60 different playable characters as 
 you progress through the game.
  
  This game is not perfect though. There are two main problems which stop it being perfect. The first 
 one is the fact that the enemies constantly respawn. As soon as you reduce some enemies into blocks 
 of lego, a new bunch come to replace them. Sometimes you have to switch to another character to 
 complete a puzzle and then the other person does something strange, like jumping of a platform, 
 which means you have to do something again making this game a bit frustrating at times.
  
  Overall, this game is definitely worth buying and it is highly addictive. Despite its flaws, this 
 game really good fun and is worth a purchase.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucario-kid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  Lego Indiana focuses on the 1st 2nd and 3rd Indy movies, in true LEGO style you will go through 
 18 levels solving puzzles and kicking hard LEGO ass!
  
  First of i will begin with the combat, normally this would'nt really matter with a LEGO game but 
 it does in Indy however because most of the main fighting is focused on hand to hand. There are 
 the obvious moves such as punches and kicks, but this would'nt be able to stand up on its own so 
 the good people at Travellers tales have added the special move system, this means that when your 
 fighting baddies you may be able to randomly do a super move such as give someone an atomic noogie 
 of flip them of the edge of a bridge or cliff.
  
  Next up is the character roster, it holds a good number of playable characters each with there 
 own special abilities and weapons to use, there i8s also the return of the strangely addictive 
 character maker, in which you make up your own characters and then are able to play as them in 
 free play mode, you will no doubt spend a lot of your time making yourself or a 007 impersonator 
 as i did!
  
  You may be thinking that this is basicly just LEGO starwars with an Indy facelift, and i'm not 
 going to lie, it is, there is still the red bricks now disguised as mail, and you still collect 
 studs around the levels, but even without any changes, heck because of no changes it is great fun! 
 Because the people at Travelers tales got the LEGO concept so well last time round the term if 
 it's not broken why fix it has never been so appropriate!
  
  Finally to the surprisingly good conclusion, that LEGO Indiana Jones is no doubt one of the funniest, 
 most absorbing, time taking games you will ever play, and with all these hidden unlockables and 
 secrets it is almost certain it will keep you occupied for at least 40 hours! And of course you 
 can't forget the 2 player which is a fantastic laugh! 9.5/10!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 131319
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Loved lego star wars the complete saga love lego indiana jones the original adventures even more. 
 I can't care less about the fact that they did not put NAZIs' in the game, i mean who cares. Ether 
 way I don't really care. I am Really waiting for the secule lego indiana jones the complete adventures 
 with kingdom of the crystal skull. I give this game a 10/10 becouse I love this lego game engine 
 Tt games has. Another game I want this year is lego batman which i'm waiting for. E-mail me if 
 you find a playable demo for lego  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariamunchkin
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure how many times I have seen all three "Indiana Jones" movies, but it's been several. 
 But I don't remember the Temple of Souls having lots of rooms and a giant statue with no eyes leading 
 to the Ark room.
  
  Maybe it's just me, but these little things are what bother me about Lego Indiana Jones, the latest 
 adaptation of a trilogy from Traveler's Tales. You get the classic cinematic battles like the big 
 bald guy vs. Indy running around an airplane, finally getting hit by the wing and broken into little 
 Lego bits, the mine car chase, and even the final trials before reaching the grail. But some of 
 the other levels don't make much sense. 
  
  Otherwise, Lego Indy is pretty solid. You start in Barnett College, like the cantina in Lego Star 
 Wars, but unlike the cantina, Barnett is completely explorable, and all your various customization 
 and content options are found by touring the college. You can see the clips from the game in the 
 screening room, enter cheats in a classroom. Visit the mailroom to open your packages (extras like 
 daisy chains and fast dig) , the library to buy characters or the art gallery for the custom characters, 
 and Indy's office holds a special secret that you need multiple characters to unlock. 
  
  The character abilities are nice. Not everyone comes equipped with a weapon, but you can pick up 
 the weapons dropped by your enemies. This time, unless you are a specific character who always 
 has a gun or blaster, after a few uses they will actually run out of bullets. If you die, you lose 
 your weapon. The girls can jump higher than the guys, Willie can break glass with her screams, 
 and Elsa and Henry always carry around scholar books so they can translate inscription pads. And 
 of course, there's Indy and his whip. Which by the way, on the Wii, can be MOTION CONTROLLED. I 
 played through one entire story before discovering THAT little gem, and then you can bet I was 
 crackin that Wiimote like there was no tomorrow. 
  
  The levels themselves are predictable and fun, and like the previous Lego games have lots of extra 
 areas and hidden items to find. Just playing through the levels as they are designed will get you 
 a little more than 50% completion, the rest is done by free-playing each level with a multitude 
 of characters with different abilities. Thuggee characters can activate statues. Metal can only 
 be broken by characters with explosive weapons. You can only paddle a raft if you have a shovel, 
 and Willie can break glass with her screaming. Did I mention that? 
  
  And that sort of humor is prevalent in the game, naturally. The cut scenes are cute and funny, 
 if not a little excessive. It feels like there are significantly more of them than in Lego SW, 
 and that they are a little long and encompass scenes I'm sure would have been fun to actually play. 
 Still, the game is solid and enjoyable, with a great replay value and motivation to keep playing 
 to earn extra levels like the scene with Young Indiana Jones from the beginning of Last Crusade.
 
  
  Overall, a good game, a fun game, and definitely a family friendly game. For any Lego or Indiana 
 Jones fans, it's definitely a blast. Maybe not as true-to-the movies as we might have hoped, but 
 definitely worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acebrawler
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventure is the best Lego game ever to this date. So many levels, 
 puzzles, and characters. I was shocked when I heard that there was over 60 characters, I almost 
 didn't believe it. One bad thing is that in story mode, no matter what you're stuck with Indy and 
 some other guy. You might get bored of Indy, or you might like having Indy with you all the way. 
 Another bad thing about the other characters besides Indy, is that all other characters suck! You 
 only use helpful ones to get the treasure while the others you don't even bother to use. Of course 
 this is only in free play. But the custom characters, well, their awesome. Their awesome because 
 you can make guys from a ninja with a gun and whip, to a girl with a bazooka. Yes, pretty wide 
 range, and way more weapons than the Lego Star Wars series. Well, as I said this game rocks, even 
 though it isn't tough or take long to beat it's fun fun fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingdom3455
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I really did expect more from the Lego company. This game is good, but I feel it needs a lot more. 
 You start off with indy and his sidekick Satipo (something like that) and go through missions. 
 Satipo, carries a simple shovel, or spade which really ticked me off because I expected more. In 
 that first mission, you don't fight ANYTHING BUT RED ANTS... then in the end of it, Satipo rides 
 a raft. After that, I didn't expect this game to be so good.
  
  I then followed to the second mission, which I found 10 X better. I finally found some Lego Star 
 wars elements, which I expected the whole time. There was a ride able animal, that resembled a 
 tauntan, and that made me better somewhat.
  
  What I really liked was the character choice however and the create you character, because it had 
 AWESOME weapons, so I felt better. Other than that, get this game with full caution, if you expected 
 a brick smashing lego star wars game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerking9
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  The game basically sells itself with a name like Indiana Jones and while realeasing it during the 
 new Indiana Jones movie (Indiana Jones and The Kingdom of the Crystal Skull: go see this movie) 
 was a genius idea on Lucasart's part. The gameplay could be made a little bit easier at times especially 
 during endless enemies parts, but the coop play can help a lot during these parts like have one 
 person solve the puzzles while the other battles endless or nearly endless enemies. Thumbs up to 
 Lucasarts to decide what to put in for each movie it brought back many movie memories. I do wish 
 they could have made it a lot harder becasue I'm already at sixty-some percent complete and I got 
 it like two to three days ago and I'm on a time limit.
  An Indiana Jones game makes for great fun for the family so if your going to get a fun family game 
 for everyone get this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
