-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/legostarwarscompletesaga/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gameplay still varied and friendly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Nearly all of the content is recycled from previous Lego Star Wars games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.0, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,213 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: TT Games
Genre: Action
Date: Nov 6, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even if the new bells and whistles aren't enough to bring back established fans, this is still Lego 
 Star Wars at its finest. 

  LucasArts and Traveller's Tales happened upon an alchemical combination of nostalgia with the 2005 
 release of Lego Star Wars, a jovial action adventure game that mined a pan-generational affection 
 for both George Lucas' space opera and those colorful Danish building blocks. Its 2006 sequel was 
 better, largely because it was based on the original trilogy rather than the prequels. Now Traveller's 
 Tales has wrapped the contents of both games into a single package with Lego Star Wars: The Complete 
 Saga. That's a great deal of content, and if you haven't played either Lego Star Wars games, this 
 is a solid package made even better by improved graphics, new levels, and online cooperative play. 
 If you  have  played either Lego Star Wars games, though, you'll be getting a lot of recycled content 
 here, which makes The Complete Saga harder to recommend.  

           The Lego re-creation of the famous scene where Darth Vader says 'Sit on it, Potsie!'  
     

  The basic appeal of Lego Star Wars is that it lets you act out some of the more memorable Star 
 Wars moments with cute little Lego people, a concept that hits so many different nostalgia triggers 
 with such precision that it almost seems sinister. The game itself is an action adventure with 
 a heavy focus on puzzle-solving and cooperative play, often at the same time. You'll make your 
 way through the Naboo palace, the cloning facility on Kamino, the streets of Mos Eisley, the corridors 
 of the Death Star, and other distinct locales, with a small party of various characters in tow. 
 While there are literally dozens of characters that you can unlock and play as, they all fit neatly 
 into a few different character classes, each with unique and appropriate abilities.  

  Though you can control only one character at a time, you can switch between which character you're 
 controlling on the fly, and much of the game is deliberately designed to force you to switch back 
 and forth between characters often, making full use of their various abilities. Of course, all 
 the characters and vehicles, and large portions of the environments, are made out of Legos, which 
 creates a surreal, playful kind of aesthetic. It also figures into the gameplay pretty often, as 
 you often have to build objects to progress. The game breaks away from the action adventure format 
 on occasion for a vehicle sequence, such as the pod race from  The Phantom Menace  or the attacks 
 on the Death Star. They're rarely as polished or intuitive as the action when you're on foot, but 
 they work well enough and break up the action nicely.  

  The group-based format has always made Lego Star Wars ideal for playing with another person, and 
 in The Complete Saga for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, you can finally play the game cooperatively 
 over the Internet. This is far and away the most significant addition to this package, and it's 
 been nicely integrated, making it easy for another player to jump into the game at almost any point. 
 In addition to online play, The Complete Saga features a number of other upgrades, mostly pretty 
 minor. A few new gameplay sequences, such as the pursuit of bounty hunter Zam Wessell through Coruscant 
 from the beginning of  Attack of the Clones , have been added. Other sequences have been changed, 
 such as the gunship cavalry chapter near the end of  Attack of the Clones , which now has less 
 of a gun-blazing shooter feel and features some puzzle elements.  

           If you've played a Lego Star Wars game before, be prepared for some dj vu.      

 
  Since this is the first time the content from the original Lego Star Wars has appeared on current-generation 
 consoles, all of the visuals have been enhanced for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3. It makes the 
 whole game look about as good as Lego Star Wars II did when it was on the 360 last year, with sharper 
 textures, a nice plasticized shine on the characters, and loads of focus effects. Save for widescreen 
 support, the Wii version doesn't look much different from the original releases, nor does it make 
 much use of the system's motion controls. Without the improved graphics or the online play found 
 in the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions, The Complete Saga on the Wii is a bit less appealing. 

  Many of the changes and additions in The Complete Saga are the types that only those who've played 
 through Lego Star Wars I or II would notice, and that's the rub. For those who've already played 
 one of the Lego Star Wars games, a full half of what The Complete Saga has to offer will be recycled. 
 The online co-op play in the 360 and PS3 versions helps, since playing the game with another person 
 can change the dynamic and pacing of the game quite a bit, but otherwise it would be much more 
 cost-effective to just pick up a used copy of the one you haven't played.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Link3301
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 4, 2009 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Great another lego star wars just what we need i'm tired of playing it with my little brother. 
 He thinks it's entertaining but really it is just junk. This game makes you come back to life every 
 time you die. The main focus of the game is playing through the levels finding out you have beat 
 them but not finished them. You apparently have to play them again to gather canisters. Gathering 
 them all only gets you one unlockable meaning its still not worth it. You also need to gather money 
 power bricks and gold bricks. Also the cutscenes have no audio. 
  
  Most characters have to be unlocked through repitive money gathering in levels. You will unlock 
 some through doing levels just once but many require endless toil in the same levels. You also 
 can buy stupid extras like invicibility making the game jsut plain repititive and easy. 
  
  Despite these bad points the game still has some humorous things and a 2 player arcade but thats 
 all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackhawkBix
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2009 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Pros: 126 Playable characters including Indiana Jones, Massive in size (it could take a casual 
 gamer months to achieve 100% completion in this game) , 30 vehicles to be used in vehicle specific 
 levels, great 2 player co-op, great bonus features and plenty of them, a great pick up and play 
 game, a bargain buy only $19.99.
  
  Cons: Not very difficult, Lego collecting can get tedious, aimed mostly at just Star Wars and Lego 
 fans.
  
  
  
  Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga is a fantastic merger of both the Star Wars movie series and 
 the enduring Lego toy sets. This was my first venture into the Lego series, and I was surprised 
 by how fun it was. One of the first things that struck me about it initially was the size and scope 
 of the game. There are 36 levels for the entire saga, six per episode. There are 2 extra levels 
 that are unlocked at the completion of each episode, an extra room containing 6 bonus levels, and 
 20 bounty hunter missions. That's a combined total of 74 levels.
  
  There is also plenty of replay value. Each level can be played a second time with different characters. 
 There are plenty of areas per level that are inaccessible. You have to go back to the level with 
 unlocked characters to reach them. These secret areas unlock bonuses, mini-games, and other little 
 surprises. That right there almost doubles the game length.
  
  Next in line is the truly massive cast of characters. 126 playable characters are available in 
 the game including two custom characters that you can create. Pretty much any character or creature 
 that you can dream up in the Star Wars series is available for play in the game, making a Star 
 Wars fan's dream come true. As an added bonus, Indiana Jones is also an unlockable character. 
 
  
  Each character has his own special abilities and fighting moves. Sith Lords have devastating force 
 powers. They can destroy character with force chokes and force lightning. Chewbacca can get up 
 close and rip the arms off an enemy. Indiana Jones and Han Solo have a rapid fire on their blasters. 
 Jango and Boba Fett, Watto, R2D2, and the Geonosieans can fly. As you unlock characters they start 
 to appear in the various areas of the Mos Eisley Cantina, which serves as you're hub in the game. 
 If you so wish you can start battles here, and have fights that involve characters from every movie.
 
  
  The Co-op mode is another great feature that just adds to the game. There are many modes of co-op. 
 You can go play any level with 2 players. As a side note, this game has a 2 player pick up and 
 play mode. At any point in a level, a second player and can pick up a controller and join the action. 
 He also can leave at any time, and neither of these two actions interfere with the game.
  
  The two player arcade room in the Cantina has some cool features. You can enter duel mode. Where 
 you can have any of the characters engage in a brawl. You can have dream fights such as: Darth 
 Vader vs. Darth Maul, Han Solo vs. Indiana Jones, Darth Vader vs. the Emperor, Yoda vs. Luke Skywalker, 
 any fight you can think of. 
  
  Some of the other modes in the 2 player arcade are battle arenas. You can pre-set a certain number 
 of enemies and then have a grand scale battle in any of the Star Wars environments.
  
  There are a few negatives in this game. Not huge, but they are there. 
  
  One is the fact that 
 every has pretty much the same goal. Collect a certain number of lego studs to obtain "True Jedi" 
 status, solve a few puzzles, and get to the end of the level. Collecting lego studs can get quite 
 tedious, and after a while you may wonder, "why even bother"? The puzzles are way too simple as 
 well. The game is geared for kids, but even an elementary school child will have no problem solving 
 them.
  
  A couple of levels are boring as well. Especially in The Phantom Menace Campaign. There is some 
 level variance. The space battle in Chapter 1 of Revenge of the Sith is fantastic. Likewise the 
 Jedi v. s. Droid fight at the Battle of Geonosis, feels like it came straight out of the movie. 
 That level in particular is one of the game's high points.
  
  Still though, most levels don't change too much. Not to say that they're all boring, but there 
 is a snag here and there.
  
  All together this is a fantastic game for Star Wars and Lego fans alike. If one or the other, definitely 
 don't miss out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 3:59 am PT
Review:  Well I have played the DS version but there weren't enough levels to fit the 6 episodes so anyway 
 this is my review of Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga for the Wii.
  
  The graphics on the Wii version are just like the other home console versions because I'm glad 
 to play this game in 3D so there is so much to do.
  
  We thought the Wii version of this game would have proper use of the lightsabers and it has but 
 when using the force it's not what we thought because all you have to do is press and hold Z to 
 move objects which are highlighted for a Jedi and the red ones are for the Dark side of the force, 
 characters like Darth Maul, Count Dooku (Darth Tyranus) , Darth Vader and Darth Sidious (Emperor 
 Palpatine) . To make objects move quickly when using the force, shake the Nunchuk.
  
  There are power ups in the game so when you see one, pick it up and you do things double time for 
 a short time before it wears off. While doing that, you can build objects at a faster rate and 
 the studs will be magnetic so you will be able to collect them quickly and use the force to move 
 objects quickly as well.
  
  There is a lot of replay value in this game because once you finish a levels in Story Mode, you 
 can play those levels again in Free Play Mode with all your favourite characters from the Star 
 Wars Saga and only 8 characters are allowed to be picked to take part so when you pick the leading 
 character, 7 characters will be selected to take part in the level from Jedi, Sith Lords, Storm 
 Troopers, Clone Troopers, Bounty Hunters to little characters like the Ewoks and other small characters 
 including Anakin Skywalker as a boy and Boba Fett as a boy. 2 other characters that are needed 
 for those rolls are Astromech Droids such as R2-D2 and R4 and Protocole droids such as C-3PO and 
 TC-14.
  
  Another feature in this game during Free Play Mode is the ability to use different crafts in the 
 flying levels because once you complete those levels in Story Mode, you can choose to fly any craft 
 you unlocked or bought from Mos Eisley Catiana and that's great fun and the funny thing about it 
 is in the original trilogy levels there are doors only accessed by Tie-Fighters only so if you 
 unlocked any Tie-Fighter, you can access those secret areas which is so cool just like with Astro 
 Droids, Protocol Droids, Stormtroopers and Bounty Hunters.
  
  The gold bricks are for unlocking secret doorways where you find special features in the game itself 
 so if you collected the amount of bricks recommended for the doorway, you can start building them 
 up to become a door. Red bricks are for unlocking hidden stuff and you will find them in each level 
 of the game itself.
  
  The cutscenes in Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga are very good and very funny as well because 
 they completely match up to the 6 films plus some new ones to some new levels as well. The music 
 and sound is top notch in this game because they are from all 6 Star Wars films.
  
  Unfortunatly, There isn't any online play in this game so if you have any brothers or sisters or 
 friends with you, you can play 2 player together if you have 2 Wii Remotes and 2 Nunchucks with 
 you.
  
  This game is highly recommended for Star Wars fans and Lego fans and for anyone who hasn't played 
 a Lego Star Wars game so I believe you should check it out and play it.
  
  Finally there is a lot more levels in this one as well. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: plo1234
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 12:50 am PT
Review:  Ok lets get the terrible stuff out of the way first. One of the things i hate is just a liitle 
 to much exctra stuff but hey it adds alot of longitivity to the game also the option to swing the 
 remote is terrible. The graphics to the game are very hmmmm legoish but the good thing they did 
 here is suppress the amount of voilence so younger gamers could buy. Also the game is so long you 
 could be playing for 10 to 20 hours to unlock everything. The gameplay is pretty good besides the 
 remote swing for the jedi it's really great i love the jet packs the boba fett gets and how you 
 can unlock indiana jones combined with the fun lego graphics it's just some of the best graphics 
 ever. Also the game is very polished and no glitches can be found so this game is a good one a 
 must for all lego fans! That's about all i have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinge3
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is not all that hard. I easily completed the story mode by myself in like 10-15 hours 
 from what I remember. But my younger brother and sister were once addicted to this game. They bought 
 everything from the in game shop, which costs a lot of studs. They even got the ghost characters. 
 This game is a puzzle game if you ask me as you solve puzzles with your cute lego people. This 
 game gets young ones addicted with its lack of challenge and cute visuals. However, You you are 
 over the age of 13, and don't have any younger brothers and sisters, then get this used or rent 
 it. Its good. However, I say you get it used, its a solid game. Sadly, I paid 50 bones for this, 
 and now its only 20! Im pretty shocked now that I feel like I "wasted" all that money on a game 
 that ended up cheap. So buying it new won't really hurt your walled as much as the really expensive 
 game on the market. Just be sure to not get ripped off and pay 50 dollars for this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cs110
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I got this game as i'd never played another lego game and i was pleasantly surprised. It's a fun 
 puzzling game with action thrown in. Mostly, it works brilliantly as a family game, but sometimes 
 it can become a bit too repetitive with it's simple mechanics. But, to break up all this action, 
 it has plenty of vehicle sections, these range from pod racing, to full-on space dogfights. These 
 do a fantastic job of giving you a break from the platforming. It has plenty of replay value too, 
 as it has literally hundreds of collectibles and characters for you to collect. It also has a few 
 bonus levels, to keep you coming, even after you're done. Overall, this is a fantastic game for 
 everyone, with it's basic puzzling (that can also be surprisingly challenging at times,) and simple 
 combat. In short, just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSmitto
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to explain why, but this game is extremely addictive. Before I continue I should probably 
 warn anyone who has the first two to steer clear of this game, as it is basically a combination 
 of both with a few extra levels.
  The game has 36 main levels, with a few more available with enough gold bricks, which are obtained 
 by doing certain thngs within the levels. There are also over 100 characters, which can be obtained 
 by finishing levels and buying them in the cantina.
  
  Pros:
  Clean, clear graphics
  Simple game play
  STUDS (money is fun to collect)
  A good variety of levels
  Co-op works 
 well
  Huge variety of characters
  Lots of unlockables help increase replay value
  
  Cons:
  Not too much extra content added to the first two games
  Friendly ai can sometimes be 
 frustratingly stupid
  Some puzzles can be annoying
  
  Overall Rating:8.0-Highly suggested if you don't have any of the lego games, or if you only have 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkey_samurai
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 25, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  When you think of starwars you think of a fast paced action packed blockbuster. But with lego starwars 
 it seems the opposite, after the 2nd episode you get the feel that you are constantly repeating 
 the same tasks over and over again and after a while the game gets repetitive and mundane.
  
  But it is a 
 fun game to play casually and the cutscenes are a crack up. It's a great game to play with friends 
 and driving the vehicles are great. Starwars fans will love it, especially with the use of the 
 Wii remote, but if you aren't a massive starwars fan just hire the game and save yourself $80.
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bopie64
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  When I got this game, I had never played Legos Star Wars, so I didn't at all think of it as recycled, 
 though. I unlocked all the secrets and everything, and I felt very satisfied with the gameplay. 
 It was a little easy seeing as you can come back to life right after dying and there isn't much 
 punishment, but it feels just right when you mix it with the "lego" way of dying. It is also pretty 
 fun to swing the wii remote as the lightsaber, something I'm sure you cannot do in the 360 or PS3 
 versions. Wonderful game, I'm glad I picked it up. It also plays in French and Spanish. I definitely 
 recommend playing this in co-op two player because it is a lot more fun and exciting with two people, 
 rather than just one because the AI is good, but sometimes the computer acts quite annoying. Plus 
 there is a lot of lasting replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDawg333
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  On the Xbox, we had 1 year, Lego Star Wars. Where we went through episodes 1, 2, and 3. About a 
 year later, we get Lego Star Wars 2: The Original Trilogy. Where we went through episodes 4, 5, 
 and 6. But now we have a totally better game. Where we go through all 6 episodes!!!!!!!!!! YAY!
 
  
  First of all, the graphics are a lot better, because its on a next-gen console. And the sound is 
 way better too. They improved it a lot. And i totally love how u can play through all 6 episodes 
 this time around. And they actually have a couple of new features. Sometimes u can find hidden 
 power-ups that make u stronger temporairily. And then u can now find blue canisters in the game 
 if u replay the levels.
  
  There isnt really much else to say about Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga except, it keeps u busy 
 for a while! I give Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga. A 9 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  The two main good things about this game is the innovative controls and the much improved graphics 
 and it also has the humour in too!
  
  The game is also good for the younger player because it is easy and has no violence or other bad, 
 bad stuff in. The innovative controls were interesting and I found them fun like swing the wii 
 remote to use the lightsaber or something like that. Anyway i'm just going on about stuff here's 
 the summing up...
  
  Graphics: They have much improved the graphics and it looks great! 9/10
  
  Sound: i've never 
 found Star Wars tunes that good but it's kinda good. 7/10
  
  Gameplay: The controls are very good and fun but the game is the same in levels as others and all 
 the puzzles and enemies et cetera are the same as before. 8/10
  
  Storyline: Like a mimed verson of the Star Wars movies!!!! 9/10
  
  You will find this game 
 most fun if you haven't played the previous games but if you have a wii and like Star Wars games 
 then it's worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fryboy715
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga is a great game, if you like walking around collecting Lego pieces. 
 The game has funny content, but we've seen it all before, right? The best feature of the game is 
 that when you finish the story, you are only like 25% through the game! So once you finish the 
 game, there is still much to do. Also, what I like about the game is that there are so many star 
 wars characters to buy at the shop with credits / Lego pieces. So the game is cool when you try 
 it out with so many different characters. Also there are movies and many extras to unlock. Another 
 thing I would like to make a point of is the motion sensored light-sabers. Honestly, I do not believe 
 the hype. First of all, there are only three or four moves you could do with your light-saber, 
 you can't move it around at your free will, and it doesn't cooperate that well sometimes. Overall, 
 it isn't the game I expected, its worse. Although there are endless characters, extras, and movies, 
 always something to do, and much to collect, the game isn't as fun as some of us expected it to 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PokeyStix
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Now usually, I'd claim that Lego games are for little kids. But I can see now that LucasArts have 
 really worked quite hard on this game.
  
  The graphics are solid, and sometimes quite easy on the eyes, the gameplay is satisfying, and with 
 it's basic goals Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga, instantly proves itself as a decent game.
 
  
  Now it's not Mario Bros. on NES simple, but for a game of today, it is pretty basic. And that's 
 what makes it good. It doesn't profess to be super cool, or super anything. It's not pretentious. 
 It says Lego Star Wars on the box, and that's what it is.
  
  Some entertaining parts are the cutscenes, where the little Lego men act out condense, speechless 
 scenes from each episode of Star Wars. The best one, is where the Lego Darth Vader gets out a picture 
 of Luke Skywalker's mother and father, then points to himself.
  
  There are no glitches, no major qualms.
  
  I'd say, the game would last around 15 hours in 
 the hands of an experienced gamer, and a little longer in the hands of a less-experienced one. 
 But whatever, the levels are set out in such a way that you know exactly when you're halfway, exactly 
 when you've finished, and exactly how much you have left.
  
  Lego Star Wars fans'll enjoy this, and others may just be pleasantly surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javrixx
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun. It is simple enough that I can just sit down with my girlfriend and play for 
 a few hours. But this game still has some flaws. The biggest flaw is not knowing what to do next... 
 Let me explain...
  
  You'll start a new level, kill some guys, go this way, go that way. Everything is pretty straight 
 forward. But then you get to a room and can't go any further. You look around all over and can't 
 find a switch or knob or whatever. You try shooting random stuff to see if you're missing anything. 
 After about 10 minutes of this total frustration you finally find that tiny background piece hidden 
 in the wall that you needed to shoot. It is like the creators said "Ok, let's make a cute, clever, 
 and fun game... But every now and then let's put the switch to leave the room totally hidden and 
 give the player absolutely no hint as to where it is or what to do next. That will just add more 
 game play, right?"
  
  The other thing is that every episode has at least one, but usually two, vehicle mission. The controls 
 are so different and crazy in these that you don't know what to do at all. Again, with no outlined 
 objective it can be confusing exactly what you are supposed to be doing. You'll fly around for 
 a good bit and then it will dawn on you that the background isn't just for looks but that little 
 red line you can barely see actually means something.
  
  
  Overall, the game is good. I'm just very picky when it comes to level design flaws and this game 
 has a few, but nothing too bad. I think the next installment with Indiana Jones and then Batman 
 will have most of the kinks worked out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaguarofDoom
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars is very fun and addicting. It has excellent gameplay. The Complete Saga doesn't 
 add much, so if you already own both Lego Star Wars games, you might not want to buy this. However, 
 it does add several new characters and levels. It also updates the prequel episodes by letting 
 you get into vehicles. This game will take you forever to beat. The actual story mode can probably 
 be completed in around 12 hours. But because there are 2 games in 1, there are hundreds of things 
 to unlock. While the actual gameplay isn't very difficult, it is hard to collect all of the unlockables.
 
  If you're trying to decide which console to get the game for, the wii might not be your best choice. 
 First of all, there's no online co-op like the Xbox360 and the PS3. The graphics haven't been improved 
 either. The motion controls don't add very much to the game, but it can still be fun. If you don't 
 like them, you can just use the B button to attack.
  If you are a star wars fan and only have one of the LSW games (or none) , get this game now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  I played this game with my girlfriend on her Wii, and foudn it to be very addictive after a while. 
 Once you realise the scope of how much there is to unlock and how much there is to collect, your 
 OCD side kicks in and you find it hard to leave things unfinished. There are capsules to collect, 
 True Jedi to achieve (getting a certain amount of coins in a level) Red Bricks to find (unlocks 
 very handy cheats) and challenges to complete. 
  All of these things are available to do in each one of the levels, of which there are many. 6 episodes, 
 each of which have 6 levels. Thats 36 levels of collecting things to be getting on with (not including 
 unlockable bonus levels) . And most of these levels are fun and innovative too, and have smart little 
 references to the Star Wars films. The game is a little samey I suppose, but you rarely find yourself 
 getting bored. 
  While playing this game on your own, the camera is generally fine, but when playing with another 
 person it can become incredibly annoying. Many a time we sat and found ourselves unable to see 
 where we were going or getting respawned to where the other player is because the camera could 
 not keep up. This is very frustrating when trying to figure out certain puzzles that require players 
 to split up and head to different parts of the screen. Another annoyance is the game is rather 
 easy. Puzzles are simple to figure out, and you only really get stuck due to bad game design because 
 you dont know where you are supposed to go. The game gets even easier when you unlock certain cheats 
 such as Coins x10 and invulnerability. Yes you dont have to use them but you will so that collecting 
 those last couple of capsules wont take any longer than needed.
  So overall this game is great fun. Its addictive, it has lots to do and you shouldnt find yourself 
 bored until everything there is to be done is done. Just beware that playing with another person 
 can be frustrating, and dont expect a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFlareKin
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 18, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  If you were into the last 2 Star Wars Lego games, then Star Wars Lego The Complete Saga is not 
 really new to you. Even though both games were both big hits, this game is just putting those two 
 games in one. The good side is that there are new characters that you can play as. There is even 
 Indiana Jones that you can buy. The Star Wars Lego 1 levels also have the new gold bricks that 
 you can obtain and other things that have been added to Star Wars Lego 2. The additional level 
 of Star Wars Lego 1 that you get to play as Darth Vader and that imperial guy was, unfortunately, 
 removed if you enjoyed that level. A new thing that is not so new is the ability to make new characters. 
 You can use characters from Star Wars Lego 1 to even create new ones. The main lobby area where 
 you access all of the levels is also the same as Star Wars Lego 2. However, the episode lobbies 
 are newly decorated each. The only new feature being on the Wii is being able to use the Wii remote 
 to swing the lightsaber, which gets kinda bring after a while. The blasters are used by pressing 
 a button on the Nunchuck. There are some new levels. Anyhow, if you were into Star Wars Lego 1 
 and 2, then this game might not be what you want to get. If you do not have Star Wars Lego 1 or 
 2, then this game might be something you would want to get. Overall, I recommend it for new Star 
 Wars Lego players, not the ones who have had both Lego Star Wars games for all this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wild_Card
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Were to start. Well lets start by say'n this game rox. The graphics are actualy pretty good when 
 compaired to alot of other Wii tittles. The story naturaly is great. the missions are fun, well 
 thought out and paced just about right. difficulty is also very well ballenced though more skilled 
 players will find it a bit on the easy side. There are some issues i have found mostly to do with 
 the cam angles in some places makes falling to your death a bit to easy lol. the combat is alot 
 of fun and for once its actualy makeing sense. its simple yet it works. everything from saber on 
 saber action with darth maul to deflecting blaster bolt. 
  IMHO this is one of the more fun Wii games out there. After reading some reviews i almost passed 
 this baby up. But im glad i didnt go by the score GS gave it. Its just alot of fun to play and 
 its not one of those games that is over just as your getting into it. 
  
  I would like to have seen a little more graphical upgrade though to be honest. much like with RE4 
 wii edition. i think devs are getting very lazy. if your going to port a game and sell it at full 
 price at least spruce it up a bit. of course were getting TWO games for the price of one but thay 
 are older games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loulou43
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  lego star wars is fun at first but once you've done the first story it looses its appeal there 
 is nothing special about it the only good point is the diversity of the characters the game would 
 have been drasticly improved if you could make your own levels and have an imperial side there 
 are not enough vehicle's and i wish you could drive at-ats more often but in the same way as you 
 do with the clone walkers if these ideas were used the game would have drastically improved, but 
 on the whole the game is to average and plain there is nothing to special except the characters 
 and accuracy of some of the levels but there are some fun bits like the pod race and starting fights 
 in the cantiena and the speeder bike chase and the level where young anikan destroys the trade 
 federation capital ship but the rest are to similar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga is the latest installment in the Lego Star Wars franchise. The 
 game requires you to play as LucasArt's beloved characters: Obi Wan Knaobi, Darth Vader, Darth 
 Maul, Jar Jar Binks and so on, all in the Lego look, build and structure, and you play through 
 all the six culturally famous movies, and master new Jedi moves to wipe out your bad guys. If you 
 are familar with the other games, or just like Star Wars or Lego, then you will know exactly what 
 I'm talking about. This new Lego Star Wars still is pretty much the same as it's sucessors, except 
 so much more fun than before.
  
  Complete Saga requires you to swing your Wii remote in order to perform your attacks. What is cool 
 about this control scheme is that it does not over complicate itself, or tries to be too slick. 
 In fact the control scheme is easy to pick up, and responsive. Swinging the arm with the Wii remote 
 may be tiresome, but it's so fun seeing the comedic combat your character creates. In every level, 
 you have to try to unlock and master new Jedi moves, and it is great they do not fustrate anyone 
 whilst playing.
  
  The game looks great. Huge detail in every level, and looking quirky in design, to match the Lego 
 imagery. Of course, in the course of two games, the design always sucseeds very well, and fans 
 will love it's detailed presance.
  
  Overall, Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga is a great, fun game and marks a fun trilogy of games. 
 It will be a sorry sight to see it go, but the childlike innoence we will always remember from 
 the franchise. Get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CartoonProphet
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Having never played any of the older LEGO Star Wars games before this one, I really didn't know 
 what to expect from this game. 
  
  I was pleasantly surprised to say the least.
  
  LEGO Star Wars: The Complete Saga is one of the best, if not the best, Star Wars game I have played 
 in recent memory. For reference I am reviewing the Wii version of this game.
  
  Let's get to business then shall we? LSW: TCS is too much fun. The game's hub is set in the Mos 
 Eisley cantina, LEGO Star Wars characters wander around interacting with each other while the classic 
 cantina song plays in the background. In the main room of the cantina are the doors to each episode 
 of the Star Wars story and the bar where the games unlock-ables are purchased. While episode I 
 is the only one open at the beginning, all 6 are present along with doors to some bonus content.
 
  
  The story mode is well designed with humorous cut-scenes and fun gameplay that focus' on cooperation 
 and team-work. 2-player action is available in story mode, but requires another Wii-mote/nunchuck 
 combo. some areas are like puzzles in that you may need to build a LEGO access panel or staircase 
 to proceed. These puzzles can be a little frustrating at times as you may need to smash or use 
 the force on everything in the room to find the LEGOs required to move on or even *gasp* backtrack 
 to find them! More frustration may set in as you play through the story mode as certain collectibles 
 are unreachable until "Free-Play" mode is unlocked. Various races and vehicle based missions are 
 also included, but they feel somewhat tacked on as an afterthought or simply as a story element 
 rather than a core element of gameplay. Poor vehicle control and uninspired levels mar an otherwise 
 great action/adventure title, though they don't impact the overall feel of the game and do help 
 in breaking up the frantic pace of the foot based missions. 
  
  After you've completed the story mode is where this game shines. In free-play mode you can use 
 whatever character you have unlocked either through story mode or through purchase at the bar. 
 Only one character can be chosen though, as the CPU will choose another 5 characters to compliment 
 your team. Assuming you have them unlocked, the computer will always choose an astromech droid 
 (artoo) , protocol droid (threepio) , gunner, bounty hunter, Imperial, high jumper, Sith and/or Jedi 
 or combination thereof to make it possible to pass the stage you've selected. Some of the collectibles 
 are quite hard to find and reach -- so there's hours of game to be had here even after you've completed 
 the story mode. Finding all 10 pieces to a minikit will add that vehicle to your selection in the 
 bonus minikit mission in each episode. Finding the power brick (red LEGO brick) unlocks a power 
 to be purchased from the bar, it must then be activated by the user and even then they don't work 
 in every game mode. 
  
  Outside the cantina are the minikit viewing area (see your finished and unfinished minikits) and 
 the bounty hunter bonus missions. In these missions you must use a team of bounty hunters to find 
 the hero characters in one of the game maps in 3 minutes or less. Once you've accumulated some 
 gold bricks (LEGO SW progress awards) you can build the doors to some bonus missions. These include 
 the original versions of some of the story missions, some alternate story mode style missions and 
 some bonus stud finding missions in a traditional LEGO town setting. There's also a 2 player arcade 
 game. It's more of a fighting game pitting p1 versus p2 in a stage of choice. Choose your character 
 and get to kicking your friend's butt!
  
  The game, overall, has some fairly good graphics for what is essentially a PS2 port. How good can 
 LEGO bricks look anyway? The characters have a nice plastic sheen to them and the environments 
 are lush and colourful though there's nothing to really wow anyone, nothing stands out as being 
 really bad. The only major issue I have with this game is the camera controls... or the lack thereof. 
 Some jumps are nigh on impossible with the camera angle given, and with no way to change it for 
 a better look, you'll spend some frustrating times getting where you need to go. As far as audio 
 goes; I experienced some audio glitches like sounds playing at the wrong time or not playing at 
 all, but they were rare occurences and didn't detract from the feel of the game much. Otherwise 
 all the typical SW music and sounds are there in their full glory, though you might get sick of 
 the cantina song after a while.
  
  The game controls with a wiimote/nunchuck combo. Moving with the analogue stick, attacking with 
 B, jumping with A, special moves and LEGO building with Z, switch characters with C or in free 
 play use the 1 and 2 buttons. There's some waggle built into this game, but it's not needed, nor 
 is it very well implemented. You have to waggle the remote too hard to attack for it to be really 
 beneficial or immersive, so just stick with the B button. The 2 player experience would be better 
 if the computer didn't take control again if you fall off a cliff for instance. But the game is 
 definitely better with a friend.
  
  LEGO Star Wars: The Complete Saga is probably one of the best games for the Wii right now. It's 
 not too hard or too difficult, is relatively non-violent and kid friendly and there's a lot of 
 game to be had. With 160 gold bricks to collect (only 36 are story missions and 14 can be bought) 
 you'll be at it for quite some time if you're looking for 100% completion. If you love Star Wars, 
 platform/action/adventure games and probably LEGO then you'll love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  I played Lego SW II on the X360, and Lego SW on the gamecube, they were great fun, but this game 
 is only really worth buying if you're hardcore about the following:
  
  LEGO
  Star Wars More and More games
  Games fetish.
  
  I fall into all of those categories, so I 
 instantly bought it, but if minor bonus levels aren't enough to amaze you, you're better off just 
 picking up Lego SW 1 and 2 separately.
  
  People are always moaning about how wiimote activity can lack in some wii games, but to me I don't 
 really care, I got bored swinging Qui-Gon Jinn's lightsaber in ep1, so I just press B.. yes.. B... I 
 don't enjoy 100% full time motion sensing, and these controls are as simple as heck, so once again, 
 I do not mind.
  
  Buy the complete saga.
  
  ============================================================== 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukiat
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok, in this game you have a lot of things to see and discover, unlock, use, buy, and break faces, 
 in this game you are in star wars (it's not too oviously?) as well in your mind. the game are very 
 cool with all the lego's, the force, the change of players, the fights with the wii remote, shots, 
 it's absolutly fun, as example, with my brother do the 30% of game in a night and we finish it 
 on the morning, highly addictive and a very cool co-op mode.
  
  In the ameplay it's some of the bests, with a loong list of movements, the implementacion of the 
 wii mote and some thoings like that, with the fact of dress your character like you want and have 
 a lot of fun with this guys make you leap so much...
  
  the graphics, like i was saying its very cool, for the fact of the leos and the amazing effects 
 of the game and the wii, with a lot of extra things, very, very fun.
  
  Sound: there is no a ten sound, but it marks... the spound of this game is the swords, the ships, 
 the weapons, and for the game, it does well... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  Lego Star Wars: The Complete saga is the first Star Wars game ever to get into the Wii Console, 
 and the third installment of the Lego Star Wars series. The story takes place in both trilogies 
 of Star Wars. From episode one: the phantom menace to episode six: return of the jedi. The game 
 has more extras than there was in the previous games. The player can play as extra characters seen 
 in the movies. They can even play as Indiana Jones from his own series. 
  
  What I liked about this game is that the graphics made a good improvment. More stuff that's not 
 seen in the last gen games. Most of the glitches in the last two games are fixed. The best part 
 of the game is playing as Indiana Jones.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that the Wii Remote activity really lacks. Although most 
 glitches are fixed, a couple stayed, and a little more were added. One cutscene was cut, although 
 that cutscene stayed in this game. Ewoks can no longer grapple on to hooks.
  
  Overall, The Complete saga is still a superb Star Wars game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayjayd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  I'll break this review up into 6 categories- Graphics, Sound, Gameplay, Value, Audience, and Overall.
 
  
  Graphics
  
  The game does a great job with the characters. Every single character, including your two custom 
 created characters, is fully animated. The movements are smooth, with a great framerate, and the 
 figures actually look like Lego. The backgrounds are quite well done, although there are a few 
 drab ones- unfortunately, the Mos Eisley cantina, hub of your adventures, is one of these. However, 
 even those backgrounds which aren't so great are complemented by the crazy variety of colourful, 
 destructible objects everywhere. A large part of the game involves bashing these decorations to 
 get Lego studs- the game's currency- but before they get broken, they still look pretty nice. And 
 when characters or objects get broken, they break into a bunch of Lego pieces- a nice touch, and 
 made me laugh out loud in a couple of situations. Humorous and well-made cutscenes are the icing 
 on the cake.
  
  9/10
  
  Sound
  
  The lightsaber effects are the standout here, sounding exactly like those in the movies. The blaster 
 effects aren't bad either, and there's some variety in this game. There are about 4 different sound 
 effects for blasters, depending on the character. Droids also make noises similar to those in the 
 movies, although some, especially R2/R4/R5 can get quite annoying after they die for the millionth 
 time. The game has only two lines of voice acting- "Roger roger" and "Uh-oh", both spoken by battle 
 droids. The characters have various screams/grunts and other noises, but the cutscenes don't actually 
 use dialogue. I, personally, like it this way.
  
  9/10
  
  Gameplay
  
  A bunch of Lego characters running around and killing each other. Yawn, right? Wrong. There are 
 several different classes of characters, for example Jedi, Sith, Bounty Hunters and Astromech Droids. 
 You get a group of characters for each mission- either predetermined in Story or chosen by you 
 in Free Play- and you need to use their special abilities to solve puzzles and fight enemies in 
 order to beat each mission.
  Exclusive to the Wii version is some motion sensing- swinging the Wii remote like a lightsaber, 
 moving the Nunchuk and Wii Remote back and forth to build faster, etc.- which is fun, although 
 it doesn't add much to the game.
  There are tons of characters and vehicles to unlock, by collecting studs and minikits. They are 
 all delightfully quirky- like the Beach Trooper, a stormtrooper in a swimsuit, or the Gamorrean 
 Guard, who plays his axe like a guitar when the special button is pressed.
  The difficulty is on the easy side, although there are some hard sections. The difficulty does 
 not hamper the gameplay in any way.
  The game has a near infinite amount of unlockables- special missions, extras, characters, vehicles 
 and blue canisters, to name a few. It's to be expected, seeing as it's 2 1/2 games in one.
  It's enjoyable for anyone new to the series, and the new & improved content is definitely still 
 worth it even if you've played both of the previous games.
  
  10/10
  
  Value
  
  Wow... where to start...
  Well, there are 36 story missions- six in each of the six episodes. 
 After you beat them they can be played through again in Free Play, in order to bring along characters 
 you normally couldn't use and unlock new stuff. You can also play them in Challenge, which involves 
 finding 10 blue canisters in a set amount of time. There are also 20 bounty hunter missions, a 
 Super Story (all missions combined) for each of the six episodes, a character/minikit bonus (race 
 to 1,000,000 studs) for each episode, six bonus missions which were either cut out or changed, 
 a two-player arcade that will keep you and a friend entertained for hours, and a bunch of small 
 minigames or puzzles in every level. All of this is accessed from your hub, the Mos Eisley cantina. 
 Even though the missions from the second game, Episodes IV-VI, are practically the same, the new 
 graphics and Challenge mode make them seem fresh. The missions from the original game, Episodes 
 I-III, have been modified to include features like building, explosives, stormtrooper and bounty 
 hunter doors, etc.
  There is a bar in the cantina where you can purchase extra stuff. You can buy characters and vehicles, 
 hints, gold bricks (to unlock extra missions) and extras. Extras are like cheats- they range from 
 the insanely useful (stud multipliers, invincibility, minikit detector, super blaster) to the whimsical 
 and hilarious (super gonk, disarm troopers, disguise, moustaches) to the cosmetic and cool (silhouettes) .
 
  And this game is so jam-packed, I know I missed something.
  
  Can I give it an 11? No? Fine, 10/10
  
  Audience
  
  This game is playable by everyone. 
 Its fun and addictive style and great presentation can draw anyone in, and the violence is toned 
 down (all Lego blocks, no blood) so it's appropriate for kids. I recommend this for everyone. It's 
 also easy enough and has a short enough learning curve that adults can play it. Seriously.
  
  10/10
  
  Overall
  
  A delightful package. Recommended regardless of whether you've 
 played the first two or not. Great for any age, and enjoyable to all. A staple in a Wii owner's 
 collection- go buy it. Now.
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  Lego Star wars has always been an interesting game. The concept about a game with lego people running 
 around reliving starwars is just strange. But it is a great game. its funny just running around 
 and watching the lego people fall apart. and you get to kill jar jar, any star wars fan would want 
 to to that. Comparing it to the other lego starwars games, if you already have the other two, you 
 might as well just keep at those games and maybe pick up this games used, or just rent it. Its 
 really nothing new. Just little things here and there, like the powerups. The still well done, 
 and the controls are reletivly well done. they could have done a better job using the motion control 
 with the wii. It takes to much motion to make the jedi swing the lighsabers or make the soldure 
 shoot. but its easy overlooked because you dont have to use the motion control. all in all, its 
 a game worth getting for any starwars fan or lego fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars is perhaps the most successful sci-fi series of movies ever, and because of this amazing 
 success and the saga's deep and lengthy plot, producers were able to create tons of games based 
 on the films. At first, the idea of joining Lego and George Lucas' galactic adventure may not sound 
 so right, but it works and the title that was born of this unpredictable move has always stood 
 out from the other games. 
  
  Mainly because Lego Star Wars is extremely different from the other games, on which the characters 
 are portrayed exactly as they appeared on the big screen. Meanwhile, on LEGO Star Wars, the unique 
 Star Wars' Galaxy gains different attributes that makes it look even more distinct from the other 
 games based on the franchise. As the title of the game implies, every single character, ship, object 
 in the game is made of LEGO pieces, giving all of them different personalities.
  
  Many people may look at the game with a little prejudice since it falls on a category that is extremely 
 disliked by most Nintendo Wii gamers, ports. The Complete Saga is a compilation that presents two 
 games in one, Lego Star Wars I and Lego Star Wars II, with a few nice extras added. The main difference 
 from this game to the other ones, extras aside, is its controls that have been obviously changed 
 for the Wii version of the game. But do not let your port bias get on the way, Lego Star Wars is 
 surprisingly a solid port, despite its outdated graphics, that differently from the XBOX360 and 
 Playstation 3 games, have not been updated for the Wii title.
  
  The gameplay is quite simple. There are tons of characters for you to control, but basically you 
 will be playing as two kinds of characters, the Jedi who use their light-sabers while they are 
 on combat and the others who use laser guns to destroy as many enemies as possible. Those who have 
 been dying to get some light-saber action since the Wiimote was first unveiled will probably have 
 some fun playing as Jedi. However, there is a slim chance that you get disappointed with the controls, 
 because all you have to do for your Jedi to strike is shake your Wiimote desperately and he will 
 perform a series of blows against Imperial Troops, as an alternative you can also press the B button, 
 but it isn't half as fun.
  
  The disappointment may appear because most fans were probably expecting the controls to be more 
 intuitive than that. But I guess that this apparently simple control scheme fits the game perfectly. 
 Also, if you want to use the force to assemble some objects or make enemies dizzy you can simply 
 press the Z button, but if you feel like d doing it slightly faster you can waggle the Nunchuck. 
 Those two Jedi moves aside the game doesn't make any use of other motion sensing controls, jumping 
 and shooting is done on the old-school way.
  
  On some missions you will take control of ships, controlling them may not be as simple as it looks 
 like. On the first missions you will constantly have some problems with them. Whenever you want 
 to make a sharp turn you may end up getting a 180 degrees loop instead, it can turn out to be excessively 
 frustrating when you are trying to reach certain spots on the map, but by the time you get to the 
 end of the game you will have mastered them.
  
  The game features all six episodes of the saga, each one of them consists of six chapters or missions 
 that represent famous battles from the movies. You will access them through the Mos Esley Cantina 
 that works as the hub for the game. All missions have tons of collectibles. Studs can are used 
 as the game's currency, with them you can buy many extras on the bar, that is located on the Cantina, 
 such as characters, videos, hints, ships and new options, you had better collect as many of them 
 as possible since there are many extras and some of them are steep. If you collect a certain amount 
 of studs on a mission you will be awarded with the True Jedi status, getting it on all missions 
 will be necessary if you are going for full completion.
  
  There are also Canisters to be collected, there are ten of them on each mission. When you play 
 the mission for the first time you will be restricted to play as a few characters, but once you 
 beat it for the first time you will unlock the Free Play mode that will allow you to go back and 
 play the mission with the characters you have selected, once again, this is very important for 
 a full completion since every mission has places that will not be accessible on your first play 
 through, therefore you will have to go back with a different character to reach a certain area.
 
  
  There are around a hundred and sixty Star Wars characters on the game including Anakin Skywalker, 
 Darth Maul, General Grievous, Chewbacca, Han Solo and many others. Plus, you will be able to customize 
 two characters and put your name on them.
  
  It is likely that a few gamers will feel like the game mechanics is a little but odd for every 
 time you die you won't have to restart the mission again, the only harm on dying is that you will 
 lose a bunch of studs once that happens and return to the exact same spot that you were five seconds 
 earlier.
  
  Each episode also has two extra bonus missions, and as an addition this time you can play another 
 twenty bounty hunter missions, on those missions you will take the role of a Bounty Hunter, hired 
 by Jabba to execute the most famous personalities of the Galaxy within a given time, if you sum 
 up all the missions available on the game you will come to an amazing number of sixty two. If you 
 are only playing it for the sake of finishing it, you will have fifteen hours of an enjoyable gameplay, 
 but if you are looking for more than you had better be ready for this game will take some time 
 to be completed.
  
  The graphics can't even be compared to the finest Nintendo Gamecube titles. However, they inferior 
 quality isn't annoying and the game flows nicely. There aren't any improvements on this area, if 
 you have already played one of the titles that compose this game. There is a big variety of scenarios 
 and planets to be explored, and the scenarios just express personality. The cutscenes displayed 
 on all missions are loyal to the movies and tell the story correctly, but it didn't stop the developers 
 from adding some extremely comic scenes, and giving all characters some more personality.
  
  The same goes for sound and sound effects, but that isn't a bad thing when it comes to Star 
 Wars. The movies are known for featuring one of the best and most epic soundtracks of all time 
 and all the developers had to do was to simply copy it. It is pretty exciting to hear the light-saber's 
 characteristic noise whenever you waggle your Wiimote.
  
  The game's cooperative mode is also worth to mention. Whenever your friends are at your place be 
 sure to give it a try. The Co-op mode is very fun and on some missions you will definitely feel 
 like having somebody to play with you.
  
  In a nutshell, Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga is a port, but this is one of the few times when 
 being a port is not a bad thing. The game is lengthy and most importantly fun, there is an unbelievable 
 amount of missions to be completed, and many characters to play as. With its huge quantity of collectibles 
 and undeniable charm it is a great game for the entire family to sit and enjoy, despite some light-saber 
 battles and shooting missions the violence is diminished because of the game's cartoony look.
 
  
  If you have played the two Lego Star Wars titles already, then it is better to leave it out of 
 your collection because a few missions aside there aren't enough novelties to compel veteran players. 
 However, if you missed one of the two titles it is always a good thing to be able to buy two games 
 for the price of one.
  
  Actual Score: 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pthor655
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  When my brother first brought this home i immediately though oh god here we go again another kiddy 
 game to clog up my games cabinet, but as i started playing i realised that it wasn't that bad, 
 i played the first lego star wars game briefly on the xbox, and was sadly disappointed. The first 
 game is in fact still there but combined with the second installment making a very good game all 
 round.
  
  graphics
  
  obviously the Wii doesn't have the graphical power of the PS3 or 360 so its not amazing but it 
 comes damn close, i played the game on a 60hz TV and i will say the textures looked glossy and 
 vibrant the lighting was good, and the in game videos were not only good but also funny.
  
  gameplay
  
  on a normal controller the controls would be easily set out, but this is the Wii 
 and the gameplay therefore steps up a notch with regard to interaction, shake the wiimote and one 
 of those cute little lego jedi will reduce the little droids and stormtroopers to little pieces. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockOut9
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Lego Star Wars is back and better than ever. If after playing lego star wars 2 you played lego 
 star wars 1 and wished it was like its sequel with all new force powers and cool characters this 
 is the game for you. In the game you get to play all six episodes. In the episodes 1-3 you can 
 do all the new force powers, and building. Episodes 4-6 are just as much fun as before. The Wii 
 brings Lego Star Wars The Complete Saga to the next level. You can actually be the jedi. The Wii 
 Remote is your personal lightsaber!! Lego star wars also has Lego City where you try to get 1,000,000 
 studs so you can keep all of the studs. You can also hang out in Lego City With its park windmills 
 and Lego sign. You also get new levels and characters and you can continue your bounty hunter mission. 
 If you've been dying to get the next lego star wars or are looking for some fun you should get 
 Lego Star Wars The Complete Saga!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emac1971
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This game suprised me. Foremost, your kids can play this game due to the fairly easy interface. 
 The controls are fairly basid, and if your character gets "broken" they respawn with no penalty 
 save for a starting point refix and the loss of some LEGO "studs", which serve as money in the 
 game. 
  This game has its violence due to what it is, but they do a great job of dulling it down. Characters 
 get broken into LEGO pieces. There is no blood or gore, so if you're looking for your stereotypical 
 shoot-em-up you've come to the wrong place. There are a lot of comical overtones in the game, including 
 hat machines and characters who act clumsy. The storylines are accurate to the movie saga, for 
 the most part, with a few tweaks here and there for gameplay purposes.
  The game is fairly in depth with all 6 movies included in the game, and each movie has six levels. 
 In each level you must complete puzzles and earches to unlock vehicles, characters, "studs", and 
 bonuses to use in the game. There are mini-games in each level as well as well as some mini-adventures 
 given to you by Jabba the Hutt .
  It's a fun game with lots of places to search, characters and vehicles to unlock, and hours of 
 gameplay. While the finding "studs" can become redundant there are enough features to keep your 
 interest for a long time.
  Keep it up and try it out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsonsfan2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  
  Long game
  A lot of fun
  
  Bad:
  
  The camera. It is terrible. You have absolutely no control over the camera, and that makes it hard 
 to see your characters at times.
  
  
  Lego Star Wars the complete saga is very likeable. You don't even need to like Star Wars to enjoy 
 this game, but, it is a much more fun game if you do like Star Wars, even just a little bit.
  
  Lego Star Wars TCS has all six Star Wars episodes in Lego form. In each episode, there are 
 six levels and a bonus one, which all have you play in a event that happened in the episode you 
 are playing in.
  
  Graphics: 8- They look good, but some things don't.
  
  Sound: 9- The music from the movies is in the game, and all the wepons and characters sound like 
 they do in the movies.
  
  Camera: 2- You can't control it at all.
  
  Control: 7- Good most of the time, hard to control some times, but not usually.
  
  In concluson, 
 Lego Star Wars TCS is a great game to play, even if you don't like Star Wars. But, if you don't 
 like lego (but who doesn't like lego?) , you may not enjoy this game as much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madogmgd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Lego star wars is both Lego star wars 1 and 2 combined with added new stuff. So if you have played 
 the first one or second or both it's like adding two different foods together and adding some spices. 
 overall its a fun game the controls are swing the wii remote to use your light saber or you can 
 just push b but swinging will give you an extra joy . The main diner design is different with a 
 new junkyard even though I've played both trilogies my favorite is the original trilogy. The difficulty 
 is not hard but not too easy its just right .there's plenty of extras like blue canisters, challenge 
 mode, gold bricks, Lego citys, and remakes of original levels with new stuff to keep you busy for 
 a long time. It's a shame there is no online on the wii version but it's alright but sometimes 
 the levels can get repetitive and Lego stud collecting will suck up most of your time. But other 
 then that it's a pretty fine game if you're a fan of the series looking to try the series or wants 
 to own both this game is worth the money and worth the time. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAVID9891
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This is the third Lego star wars game and they just get better. The game play is the same. The graphics 
 are so much better then the first two and the amount of player you can be is fantastic in my opinion 
 there where so many cool characters they left out in the last two games. Plus the fact that you 
 can play as
  indiana jones is great advertising for there next game. There was one thing I did not like it was 
 when you have to collect the red canisters in special mode it toke me forever to do. If that was 
 not in the game I could have cut 4 hours of my total time. Lets not forget the custom mode now I'm 
 all for more types of characters to create but when I cant understand how to make the guy I want 
 they should have made some kind of organizational system to choose what kind of guy you want. For 
 all those people how had trouble in Lego City and New Town hear is a little advise make all the 
 flowers pop up that should help. If you have trouble collecting a lot of studs save up from the 
 beginning and you can get multipliers of X2, X4, X6, X8 and X10. You get them in that order and the 
 levels are 24,27,30,33 and 36. There is a little bonus when you get 100% your custom characters 
 with lightsabes can open any doors and grapple as if they had guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greasepit
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Lego star wars the complete saga is a great game, it took already great games put them together 
 to make an even better game. they have done this by adding new levels new characters , including 
 Indiana Jones as a secret character. but the best thing is now you can control the lightsaber by 
 swinging the remote, you can use the b button instead which work just aswell. the graphic look 
 about the same as they always have but thats not a bad thing as it is quite a good looking wii 
 game.
  in the end lego star wars is a great game that any wii owner should take a look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariamunchkin
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Having played at least Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy, I knew pretty much the whole scheme 
 of the game. The levels are basically identical to the levels in the original games, with a few 
 new twists like power-ups (makes your character invincible and abilities are faster/stronger) and 
 a few new levels here and there, but mostly the same good ol' game. 
  
  It's not the best video game, heck, I wouldn't even call it great. But it is insanely fun, especially 
 for someone who grew up loving both Legos AND Star Wars. I just can't go wrong with this one. 
 
  
  The transition to the Wii is pretty basic, there really isn't any difference than normal joystick 
 capabilities, except that you can move the remote and nunchuck while doing certain things to make 
 the action go faster/stronger (ie. moving the controller and nunchuck back and forth like you're 
 running lets you build faster, you can do special Jedi moves by holding Z and moving the controller 
 in certain ways) but these are all abilities and actions that could be done without the use of 
 motion as well. 
  
  Part of me wishes more were done with the Wii controller, but in reality, that would make it a 
 whole different game, and since it works, why mess with it?
  
  Overall it's a great game for families to enjoy together, the multiplayer options make the game 
 easier and more fun, there is more that you can accomplish, including a special multi-player bonus 
 area that I haven't tried out yet, but hopefully will soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordLanz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I never played these Star Wars games, but I bought them today. And I havent played much but I must 
 say its a great time and the cutscenes are funny lol. Great Multiplayer, yes its two player. And 
 best of all after you beat each level you can go back and do freeplay in them, so you can try out 
 different characters. Graphics are pretty good too, better then Gamecube Versions from what I have 
 seen. Great for partys, or when friends are over. A must get. A+. Tons of Extra Content, got back 
 and play as a different Character in each level. Collect Studs to unlock new things such as Characters 
 ships, content and more. And You now have the ability to skip cutscenes. So Overall Great game 
 go rent and or buy it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
