-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Link's Crossbow Training
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/linkscrossbowtraining/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Game and Zapper for $25 is a good value.
 Gameplay is simple, but gets challenging when you go for high scores.
 Fun while it lasts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Zapper doesn't really make the game much better.
 Can't calibrate aim enough and can't remap buttons.
 Too short.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.0, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 1,226 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Action
Date: Nov 19, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though it's extremely short, Link's Crossbow Training is a fun shooting game that's good enough 
 to overshadow the faults of the main part of the package, the Wii Zapper. 

  When Nintendo first released details on the Wii Zapper, people were skeptical as to how the Big 
 N would convince the public to spend their hard-earned cash on what is essentially a plastic shell 
 designed to hold the Wii Remote and Nunchuk. That answer came when it was announced that the Zapper 
 would come bundled with Link's Crossbow Training, a simple yet fun shooting game with a Legend 
 of Zelda theme.  

           Men's Health Tip: If you don't want to get hit there, don't put a target over it.     

  It can be played without it, but Link's Crossbow Training is designed for use with the Wii Zapper. 
 The Zapper itself is just a sturdy piece of white plastic molded to loosely resemble a futuristic 
 gun with two grips. The remote lays flat across the top of the Zapper, and the Nunchuk locks vertically 
 into place on the back. There's even a removable compartment that lets you wind up the Nunchuk's 
 cord so you only have enough wire exposed to connect the Nunchuk to the remote. The trigger is 
 on the front handle. Because it's so far up on the gun it doesn't feel natural, but you get used 
 to it after a short while.  

  The Zapper can be used with newer games like Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles and Medal of Honor 
 Heroes 2, but Nintendo is sweetening the deal with Link to move the peripheral off of store shelves. 
 In the game you play as Link, and you're presented with a total of 27 shooting stages spread over 
 nine levels. Each level contains three stages, and you must earn at least a bronze medal on a stage 
 before you're able to move on to the next one. There are three different types of stages. In target 
 shooting, you must try to shoot the bull's-eye on targets that pop up out of nowhere as quickly 
 as possible. Accuracy is more important than precision here -- and really, this is true in all the 
 stages, because as long as you hit the target at all you'll increase your score multiplier. Defender 
 places you under attack by different creatures, some on foot and some that attack from the sky. 
 You use your radar to locate what direction your foes are approaching from and then point the Zapper 
 offscreen in that direction to turn that way. Ranger is the stage that most closely resembles a 
 traditional Zelda game. You're given a set number of enemies to kill (or you must fight a boss) , 
 and you move around the level with the analog stick to seek them out before time expires. It's 
 tough to run, look around, and shoot at the same time, but with a little practice it's manageable. 

  Those are the basics, but there's a lot more going on. You can shoot scarecrows, skulls, pots, 
 signs, and other items scattered across the levels to earn bonus points. Holding down the trigger 
 until your reticle flashes lets you shoot an exploding arrow, which is handy when you're facing 
 an onslaught of skeletons or wolves. Some enemies will flash green; if you shoot them, your crossbow 
 will be able to fire rapidly like an automatic weapon. While speed is a necessity, you'll have 
 to be careful what you shoot. Some targets in target shooting are painted with an X and will deduct 
 points if hit, and you'll also lose points if you shoot creatures you're trying to protect. You 
 can breeze through the game's nine levels in an hour and a half if you're good, but it has that 
 "Just one more try, I know I can do better!" charm to it, so there's a lot of incentive to revisit 
 previously cleared stages to improve your score. There's a multiplayer mode, but because it doesn't 
 support more than one player at a time, you just end up passing the Zapper around trying to best 
 your opponents' scores. A practice mode is also included, but it's just another way to replay stages 
 you've already finished, and you can do this in the score attack mode, so it's essentially worthless. 

  It's tough to say that the Zapper makes the game better in any way -- you can play just fine without 
 it, and you won't really feel like you're holding a crossbow. This has nothing to do with the Zapper 
 itself, but because of the way the Wii senses motion; you have to aim via a reticle that appears 
 onscreen, not like you do with traditional light gun games like Duck Hunt or Time Crisis. There's 
 an option to adjust the height and speed of the aiming cursor, but there's no way to align it. 
 As a result, our gun always seemed to be aiming about three or four inches to the left of where 
 the gun was actually pointed.  

           That'll teach fruit to mess with Link!      

  It's easy to sum up Link's Crossbow Training's presentation: Twilight Princess. The graphics are 
 essentially the same, and you'll revisit many locations and fight the same enemies from Link's 
 earlier Wii appearance. The only issue with the audio is that the crossbow doesn't sound much like 
 a crossbow, but other than that small complaint, the game sounds fine and you'll enjoy hearing 
 the always-great Zelda music you've come to know and love.  

  As long as you don't expect more than a short but sweet shooting game, you'll be pleased with what 
 Link's Crossbow Training has to offer. It's good enough that you might find yourself thinking of 
 the Zapper as the bonus pack in.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (85 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2009 3:44 pm PT
Review:  I just wanted to buy a wii zapper to play with call of duty, but I came out with a great shooter 
 called links crossbow trainer. The controls a very easy as you just point and shoot away with the 
 b button and in some levels use the stick on the nun chuck to move around to shoot even more stuff. 
 In some levels the enemies may come at you too much and overwhelm you, in that case by holding 
 down the fire button you may get a bigger shot and a lock onto your enemies for more points, (shooting 
 at cluster of enemies with one charged shot may kill them all at once) . As you play through the 
 levels you gain points, the more points you have, you have a better chance in getting a bronze, 
 silver or gold medal for that level and a high score. If you get a medal on a level, you get to 
 unlock next corresponding level and so on and so forth, till you get to last level with the final 
 boss. The whole game has graphics like in twilight princess, and each level corresponds with an 
 area within twilight princess, whether it is in the sky or on a river. 
  Overall links crossbow trainer is an alright game to play, as it gets you to better recognize the 
 wii zapper. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael0134567
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 7:45 am PT
Review:  Link's Crossbow Training is a pretty solid game. It's extremely short, but alot of fun. For $20, you 
 get the Wii Zapper Accessory and the game. It takes place in the world of "The Legend of Zelda Twilight 
 Princess".
  
  The game controls pretty well overall. You press "A" to pause."B" is to shoot obviously. You hold 
 down "Z" if you want to zoom in. In some stages you can move around, but it's pretty linear and you 
 should except that. Most of the stages are on rails where you just targets. In some stages, you should 
 enemies. You can just adjust your cursuor sensitivity in the main menu if you want to. In the single 
 player, there's 9 different levels and each have 3 stages. To just go through the single player will 
 probably take you around a hour and a half to beat. There's also a 4 player multiplayer included, but 
 you just take turns on a stage you chose and try to see who can get the highest score. Still, it 
 can be alot of fun with 4 people depending on if they get mad easily. In the single player, when 
 you're finished a level by completing, you're ranked on your score. If you get over 20,000 points, you 
 get bronze. If you get over 40,000 points, you get silver. If you get over 60,000 points, you get gold. If 
 you get over 80,000 points, you get platnium. There's 3 different types of stages, the target shooting, defender 
 where you defend a certain level and the ones where you move and shoot enemies. Unfornately, you 
 can't change your control scheme around. It also supports the Wii Zapper, but doesn't really make 
 the game any better
  Score=9/10
  
  The graphics are pretty much the same as Twilight Princess on the Wii which means it looks good. Like 
 Twilight Princess, there's the blury textures. There's not much to talk about in the graphics especially 
 if you've already seen Twilight Princess. If you have a EDTV or HDTV, you'll be happy to know Link's 
 Crossbow Training supports 480p and 16:9 widescreen.
  Score=9/10
  
  Link's Crossbow Training sounds pretty good overall with the always great Zelda music. The sound 
 effects you hear in the game are really good. Again, there's not much to talk about in the sound 
 if you've already heard Twilight Princess. When you shoot the crossbow, the sound of it comes out 
 of the Wii Remote. My only complaint is the crossbow doesn't sound like a crossbow. It supports Dolby 
 Pro Logic II.
  Score=9.5/10
  
  Link's Crossbow Training has pretty good replay value overall even though the single player can 
 be beaten in over a hour. Trying to get platnium medals adds a good amount of replay value to the 
 good. The multiplayer mode is pretty solid and can beat alot of fun.
  Score=8.5/10
  
  Overall, Link's Crossbow Training is a great game and it deserves to be in your collection. It may 
 be short, but it's really enjoyable and fun. For $20, you're getting a great deal cause it also comes 
 with Wii Zapper. If you're unsure if you'll like this kind of game, at least give it a rental if 
 you can.
  Overall Score=9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  We'll admit that some members of ONM were a bit dubious about the whole Wii Zapper thing. After 
 all, it's really just a plastic shell that forces you to hold the Remote and Nunchuk in a certain 
 position. It doesn't exactly offer anything different.
  
  The thing is though, it actually does. It adds a new level of immersion. It may seem like a silly 
 thing, but when you're pointing with a gun instead of just the Remote, you do genuinely feel like 
 you're shooting your enemies instead of simply pointing at the ones you want to fall over.
  
  This is made clear in the free game provided, Link's Crossbow Training. Much like Wii Play 
 was designed to help you get used to the Wii Remote's functions, Crossbow Training provides 27 
 simple mini-games to help you get used to the Zapper.
  
  
  Well, we say 27 but there are really only three main types of challenge, with increasing levels 
 of control. Firstly, there are on-rails target practices which simply have you concentrating on 
 shooting. At first these are straightforward, with you taking out targets before moving on to a 
 different part of the stage, but they eventually get slightly more complex, such as the level where 
 you have to ride Epona over the Bridge Of Eldin while taking out enemies.
  
  Then there are the Defender stages where you have the ability to turn 360 to shoot enemies 
 approaching from all angles, which are alright but nothing to write home about.
  
  Finally, and our personal favourite, are the free-roaming stages. Here you have a set time to run 
 around (using the analogue stick on the Nunchuk to move) and shoot all the enemies in that level. 
 
  
  It's simple and enjoyable enough, and fans of Twilight Princess will love revisiting their favourite 
 areas and encountering various familiar Zelda characters. One minute you're gunning down Keese, 
 the next you're shooting out targets held by Gorons or dispatching hordes of Moblins. Graphically 
 it meets the same high standards too, which is little surprise considering it's running off exactly 
 the same engine. 
  
  High score addicts will also fall in love with this game, as the combo system (your score multiplies 
 every time you shoot a target without missing) , combined with loads of breakable objects in the 
 background - one of which contains a yellow rupee worth loads of points - means you'll constantly 
 be trying to better your score.
  
  More Please!
  That said, it is just a simple free game and you shouldn't expect any more depth than simple high 
 score challenges. It can be frustrating because it's so enjoyable you're left wanting more. We 
 want to play a full game with the same controls as the 'run and gun' levels (get on it Nintendo) .
 
  
  
  
  The Zapper is a fun peripheral that genuinely does get you more involved in the game. It's comfortable 
 to hold and pressing the trigger is satisfying, and when you use it with certain games, such as 
 Ghost Squad, you do really feel like you're getting the arcade experience. There's probably not 
 enough depth here to justify shelling out 20 for the Zelda game alone. Your purchase should come 
 down to how likely it is that you're going to buy more Wii Zapper-compatible games in the future. 
 If arcade shooters are your thing, then grab this when Ghost Squad comes out and you're onto a 
 winner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDawg333
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Allright, so my birthday was about 2 months ago and my sister's husband got me this with the zapper. 
 I play it for a pretty long time, for the rest of the night. And i was actually pretty amazed at 
 what this game can do. I mean, its not the best kind of shooting game, (well hey, its a wii... oh 
 well,) but its very addicting and fun to play.
  
  You got multiplayer mode, practice mode, and story mode. I need to do the multiplayer but i dont 
 have another zapper, but i dont really care. Anyways, u got these stages and u shoot the targets 
 and/or objects, animals, etc. And based on your score u get a certain medal. Currently i beat the 
 first level with a PLATINUM medal. Pretty sweet. I also have a silver medal on the second level. 
 I cant seem to get much points on the stage where u have to shoot the skulls in the sky. Thats 
 too hard. But ive been practicing and im getting better. And besides the medals, and multiplayer, ( 
 which u need a second zapper for) , there really isnt much else to do. But its something to do when 
 ur bored or feel like releasing ur anger on a game that u can shoot stuff on.
  
  Overall, the game is fun, but too short, and kind of gets challenging on the way up. But, its allright 
 and i say its worth playing. If u already have a zapper and dont have the game for some reason, 
 (i wouldnt know why) , then maybe u should rent this game, but its pretty much a keeper for me, 
 but when i get mad at it because i cant beat a level, i quit. LOL. I give Link's Crossbow Training 
 8 shots in the face out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1TheBlueWii1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game can't be bought alone, you have to buy the Wii Zapper with it. This game is a great demo 
 for the Wii Zapper. In this game, there is no story line from the Legend of Zelda series, It's 
 basically shooting at targets, and enemies. There are also boss battles but there are only 2 bosses, 
 and it's not Ganon. The graphics are the same thing as Twilight Princess. You can save your score 
 but to bad you can't send it to the Internet to compare other scores. I suggest playing this game 
 more for practicing so if you would show of some shooting skills with online games like "Quantum 
 of Solace", "Medal of Honor Heroes 2" and "Call of Duty: World at War". 
  
  So overall, it's a good shooting game, it's worth the price with the Zapper, but the game is a 
 little short.
  
  GOOD:
  - Graphics are not like windwaker
  - Wii Menu introduction is great.
  - Music is well done
  - Aiming with the Zapper seems Okay.
 
  - It's a pretty good price with both the game and the Wii Zapper
  
  BAD:
  - Really Short amount of levels
  - Not much boss battles
  - No wi-fi for keeping scores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithisil
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I'm bored, so I just thought I'd review this useless piece of silicon that came with my Wii zapper.
 
  
  The good:
  This game has one purpose: To get you used to the Wii Zapper. It's to train you, thus the word 
 "training" right in the game name. It does its job. That's what boosted it up to a score of 7. 
 I guess if you like arcade-style shooters and Zelda, this could keep you busy for a while as there 
 are some very interesting secrets and different levels of high scores make it a challenge as well. 
 It's certainly an interesting way to train with a new controller, but that's about ALL it's good 
 for.
  
  The bad:
  The game doesn't do anything new at all. Can't expect much else from a game that's designed to 
 train you to use a specific controller. Extremely short, shallow gameplay. I finished the whole 
 game (with gold medals on about half the levels) in about a half hour.
  
  Yep. That's about it. Woo, that was fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjohnston007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  The game itself is addictively fun, and there are a few things they've thrown into the levels to 
 change things up a bit, but all in all, it just feels too short. I do like how shooting certain 
 things aside from the targets can change how the level plays out... for example, in the horse riding 
 target range, if you take out the first pot, different targets pop up (and more of them) than would 
 normally if you had not shot that pot. The same goes for shooting the "scarecrows" in other levels. 
 So there is a reason to go back and play the levels more than once, however after you hit platinum 
 medals, what more is there? Not much as far as I can see. Who knows, maybe I'm missing something.
 
  Is it worth the money? I would say so without a doubt. But you get what you should expect. A super 
 vamped up version of duck hunt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoruSama
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  What you get in LCT isn't the greatest game of all time with the most indepth storyline. It isn't 
 much of a party game either. However, what you do get is a simple, very cheap addicintg game which 
 comes bundled with a zapper, which you can use to play this game.
  
  The gameplay is simple- shoot the target and earn points. Consecutive shots can earn you more points. 
 You can also shoot other objects such as pots and scarecrows to gain additional points. Although 
 it may seem a bit too simple, you'll be sucked in and want to improve your score.
  
  I don't have much to say about the graphics. They're the same as Twilight Princess'.
  
  Overall, 
 this game isn't revolutionary, but it still demonstrates the great use of the Wii Zapper for the 
 cheap price of $20. It can also be quite addicinting. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Ever since the first ads for the Wii came out, we have been waiting to see whether the Wii-mote 
 would make a good point-and-shoot controller. The Wii Zapper and Link's Crossbow Training are a 
 decent attempt to make the Wii a viable platform for first person shooters. For the most part, 
 the package is solid, and it is made a lot more enticing by its budget price. The Zapper turns 
 out to be a good peripheral for playing a game that is made for it, and Crossbow Training is a 
 fun and accessible diversion that has a surprising amount of replayability.
  
  The Zapper is little more than a plastic case for housing the Wii-mote and nunchuk, allowing you 
 to hold them like an uzi. It is simple, but effective. It has a place for you to store the cord 
 that connects the two, so that it won't be hanging out and get in the way. It fits well, so that 
 you can still access all of the Wii-mote with your front hand and the nunchuk with your rear hand. 
 Using two hands allows you to stabilize the pointer, which makes shooting objects on the screen 
 a bit easier. It also gives shooting a more satisfying, tactile feel. If the Zapper is lacking 
 in anything, it is something that allows you to brace it against your shoulder. You are still required 
 to hold it in front of you without a strong way to stabilize it, which means that your targeting 
 reticule will still drift a little bit on the screen.
  
  Link's Crossbow Training is a quality pack-in for the Zapper. Even if the Zapper did not come with 
 it, the game would probably be worth $15 or $20 as a stand-alone product. For most of the levels, 
 you are just stationary shooting at targets, or on rails. Only a few levels actually require you 
 to freely move through the environment and shoot. Anyone can pick up and play a few levels shooting 
 at targets, which makes this game great for parties. However, it isn't just an overly simple minigames 
 that wears out its welcome after a few minutes. There are nine chapters, each of which as three 
 stages. Each stage is different from the last one, and they all require a huge variety of approaches 
 and tactics. Different enemies appear and the stages get more difficult as you advance through 
 the game, so that as you progress, you have to make quick decisions, such as prioritizing the enemies 
 on the screen. Some enemies require a bunch of shots to destroy. Others dart around in unpredictable 
 patterns that make them hard to hit. There are even a couple of boss battles towards the end of 
 the game.
  
  One feature that adds a lot of strategy to this game is the ability to build up a higher score 
 by stringing together consecutive hits. Each target has a base number of points that it rewards, 
 and a multiplier, which is determined by how many consecutive hits you have scored. The key to 
 getting the silver and gold medals in each chapter is to select your shots very carefully, since 
 the multiplier has no limits. This simple mechanic vastly changes the game, and you will often 
 find yourself letting small targets go instead of missing them and resetting your multiplier to 
 zero. The scoring mechanic makes for a very effective carrot-and-stick when it comes to motivating 
 you to replay chapters so that you can acheive a higher score. 
  
  Link's Crossbow Training mostly uses assets from The Twilight Princess, and for a Wii game, it 
 is very pleasing to the eye. The game has a huge variety of indoor and outdoor environments, and 
 it makes good use of the entire color palette. It certainly won't provide you with the value of 
 a full Zelda adventure, but it helps that the graphics are pretty good.
  
  As a full-priced game, this combination probably wouldn't be worth buying. However, for twenty 
 bucks, it is easy to recommend. You can easily get your money's worth out of a budget purchase 
 by spending a couple of afternoons with the game. Unfortunately, the Zapper doesn't add value with 
 a first person game that requires more advanced controls, such as Metroid Prime 3, and this is 
 probably its biggest shortcoming. There are a couple of other games, such as Ghost Squad and House 
 of the Dead 3, with which you can use the Zapper. Hopefully, there will be more games like Link's 
 Crossbow Training in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Link's Crossbow Training, is fun. But there are some problems...
  
  Firstly - It's too short, I did want a bigger adventure mode.
  Secondly - The story wasn't very 
 well explained.
  Thirdly - Sometimes you feel very limited on what you can do.
  
  But now that all the bad stuff has been taken care of...
  
  Firstly - Amazing game in general, 
 graphics are nice, gameplay is good.
  Secondly - Mediocre multi-player (I mean that in the best way possible) .
  Thirdly - Good value! 
 Lotsa bang for your buck (Pardon the innopropriate termanology) .
  Fourth - Going for that high score is reall fun, and challenging, a little extra for when the game 
 is over!
  
  Link's Crossbow training is fun, you need some room to aim, you need to have aim, and you gotta 
 be able to have a little fun with it! But really. Nintendo is doing better at the whole ripping 
 you off thing. Only $25 for the Zapper and the game. It's a good buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAB991
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Link's Crossbow Training is simply a light-gun game that borrows music, settings, enemies, graphics, 
 and everything else, from The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. As a huge fan of light-gun games, 
 and Twilight Princess, I'm really pleased with this spin-off from the Zelda franchise. While playing 
 this game, it's crucial to go in without expecting the epic Zelda experience, which is the only 
 thing this game didn't borrow from Twilight Princess. It's a simple game, composed of ten levels, 
 each of which are made up of three one-minute sub-levels. There's no story, to pull you through. 
 Your motivation for playing is the possibility of getting a high score and a medal based on your 
 score for each of the ten levels.
  
  The game is short. Technically, the 30 sub-levels should take 30 minutes to complete. Unless you 
 want to go back to get higher scores and better medals, the game won't last you very long. However, 
 considering the fact that it's a $20 game that comes bundled with the Wii Zapper, a light-gun shell 
 that can be used with other games, the the game's 30 minutes doesn't seem like as much of a rip-off 
 as one would expect. But of course, anyone would want any game to last more than 30 minutes.
  
  The games mechanics are simple and fun as well. Most of the levels have Link standing still, 
 shooting at targets and enemies. Some times, Link has to turn around using the nunchuck, which 
 also is fun. The times where the game stumbles is where you need to move Link using the analog 
 stick of the nunchuck and turn using the IR of the Wii Remote. The Zapper is too big and heavy 
 to do this seemlessly, but it's still doable if you remove your Wii Remote and nunchuck from the 
 Zapper.
  
  Overall, the game's a fairly standard light-gun shooter. It's extremely short and easy, relying 
 on you to come back for more to make it really worth its value. However, it's fun enough to merit 
 another play-through. Thanks to its low price, Link's Crossbow Training is recommendable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucario-kid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Links Crossbow training is obviously a Zelda game, but not your average one however, it looks like 
 Links ditched his Master Sword and grabbed a crossbow instead!
  
  In Links Crossbow training you go around quite a few levels in an attempt to get a good score so 
 you can move on to the next level, and once you have completed it go back to get a platinum award!!! (It 
 could go higher but i don't know as that's the highest i've got) And yes it sounds a bit bnoring 
 but trust me it's not, the highscore system makes it an extremely addictive game, and if your quite 
 competitive like me you will always be up to beat your annoying brother in the multi-player mode!
 
  
  Links Crossbow training acts almost like a first person shooter game, most of the time your in 
 a fixed position where you either have to stay still and shoot targets or enemys, or your able 
 to turn around and shoot enemys in a rotation, also on almost every segment of the level there 
 will be a section where you control link and wander around the certain area from Twilight Princess 
 destroying all the enemys in the time limit and fining special items to boost your score, these 
 sections are easily the most enjoyable.
  
  Links Crossbow training is set in the Twilight Princess world, and in each level your in a certain 
 area of Twilight Princess shooting targets or enemys, and on two occasions bosses that actully 
 feature in Twilight Princess itself, unfortunatley however, these are not Gannondorf or Zant, but 
 they are fantastic and intuitive anyway.
  
  The one thing i have'nt said yet though and one of the most important things is that Links Crossbow 
 training comes free with the Wii Zapper!!!
  
  The Wii Zapper is fantastic and comfortable too, also it really adds an effect of realism to the 
 game that you won't see in a shooter on any other system.
  
  The bad points however (of which there are few) get a little frustrating is the fact that if your 
 standing up and holding the Zapper it makes your arm get a little ake and you then have to sit 
 down which is quite annoying as now the realism has started to fade, the other problem isn't really 
 a problem because a free game would barely ever have this but a lack of online play is extremely 
 frustrating, it would have been perfect for online, you could either be on co-op and work together 
 to destroy a certain amount of enemys in a time limit, and/or you could have a deathmatch sort 
 of thing where you have to take a certain amount of lives of each other.
  
  Overall Links Crossbow training is a fun little game that will keep you playing for ages, the lack 
 of online is disapointing but that was probably never going to happen, 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnttech
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game I didn't really want to pay for the game but the fact that it came with 
 a Zapper. This game really proved it self by coming across as a simple skill game. The theme of 
 zelda makes this game more worth while. The music from zelda sounds straight out of the game. Compared 
 to any other typical skill shot game. If you miss one target on some of them that will cost you 
 the level when playing vs. This aspect makes the games replay value go down. There are a few levels 
 where you get more targets depending on fast you are. This game was created to be simple and fits 
 the niche better then a flash game. Other then that its good times of mindless shooting. Could 
 have added more modes or challeges to give this game little more play out of it. If you liked zelda 
 for the wii, I would get this game with the wii zapper for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlehaze416
Rating: 7
Date: May 25, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Link's crossbow training gives you a solid experience that exceeds its price tag. Coming with the 
 wii zapper for only twenty bucks gives you a great value and a fairly entertaining experience. 
 The game's simple controls are further deepened by a steady increase in difficulty as well as obtaining 
 high scores. The levels give you a variety of experiences, from simple targets, to balloons, to 
 enemies, and finally two entertaining boss battles. Extensive combos will give you exponential 
 scores as well as the feeling of a sharpshooting hero, especially during levels where your targets 
 are creature and not wooden circles. Opportunities for a bonus round are scattered throughout the 
 game, as well as the guilty pleasure of shooting your hosts' pots, belonging, or even sniping a 
 dive bombing bird. All in all, this game really makes the best of its slightly flawed companion, 
 the wii zapper. If you are a fan of those plastic-gun-arcade-shooters, this is a worthy purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RavenStarr
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 13, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  For $20, you can't go wrong with this one. Yes, it's short, but it's a lot of fun, especially in 
 a group setting, and is an unbeatable way to improve your skills with the Wii remote. Graphics 
 are good, far outstripping what you'd expect for the cost. The levels range from easy to quite 
 hard, and you can improve your ranking or earn the high scores on a specific stage as well. This 
 is an especially family friendly title, since even the oldest and least game oriented family member 
 is likely to take a crack at at. Being able to revisit and train on specific stages is a real plus 
 if you're having trouble making it through a certain level. The game has good replay value for 
 casual gamers, and for those who enjoy raising their scores and improving their rankings over time. 
 My only gripe is the multiplayer mode, as you must pass the controller from person to person, and 
 there is no split screen, head to head competition in this case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: missonrs
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Pros: good value, short fun addicting game play, great family game, it's really simple at first 
 but becomes a challenge when you aim for high scores.
  Cons: Way too short/beatable in less then a day, wii zapper really does'nt enhance game play.
 
  
  Nintendo invented this short game to come with the wii zapper and when you spend that 25$ on it, 
 it's a almost that you will get addicted to it. Link's crossbow training is a action game where 
 you use the wii zapper, a shell you put the wii mote and nunchuck in to be like a croosbow. It's 
 like legend of Zelda twilight princess arcade version where you shoot at targets to get points. 
 In the game you will recognize enemies from twilight princess along with two bosses, buildings, 
 areas that have you remembering the old Zelda many of us loved. It's is aslo family friendly so 
 you it's one of those games you can get for family nights or building up a friendship.
  
  The purpose of the game coming with the wii zapper was like wii sports coming with the wii, to 
 introduce the wii zapper like wii sports introduce how the wii works. Now the purpose of the game 
 (what you do in the game) is very simple. You shoot at targets to get points. It has you going 
 through each level with a presented challenge and includes bosses. At first it's very simple, but 
 you get more addicted to it as you try to shoot for more high scores. There are nine levels each 
 with 3 shooting minigames lasting one minute (except boss battles)
  
  Gameplay is where you shoot at targets to get points right? But as you get consecutive hits each 
 hit is a multiplier so for example you have two hits in a row then your multiplier is two so you 
 get double the points. Also I learned your multiplier can go farther then 50! Link's CrossBow Training 
 also has multiplayer where you compete for the most points with a friend/family member. When you 
 do score attack you chose one of the levels (you start with levels 1-3) you shoot at the enemies 
 or targets to get a score and when it's over it totals you score up. You get medals for getting 
 over a certain score, 20000=bronze 40000=sliver 60000=gold and 80000=platinum. If on level 3 you 
 get bronze you unlock level four and keep getting bronze on each first time you'll get level 9 
 finished and the quickest possible is like 30 minutes. In the game each stage works like this you 
 shoot the targets at the first part for 20 seconds then you move to the second part for another 
 20 seconds shooting more targets then the last part for the remaining 20 seconds.
  
  So like the cons say it's beatable in about 30 minutes which seems to suck because that is so short 
 it's not even funny. But it's still fun afterwards to aim for high score and crazy scores (like 
 200000 I once got) . There are two bosses from twilight princess that you fight, dark nut and stall 
 bones. To play Link's CrossBow Training you need a wii mote and a nunchuck. You may aslo use the 
 wii zapper, but you don't have to and it really does'nt make gameplay any more exciting, so it's 
 kinda useless, but can be fun. The game has three modes: multiplayer, training, and score attack. 
 multiplayer is'nt nothing magnificent as some games these days, but is fun to enjoy with a pal. 
 Training is where you practice and also see top player's scores in practice which adds a edge to 
 completion for who is trying to be number 1, so that adds more fun because you will get addicted 
 to attempts to being good. 
  
  The game's graphics are technically proficient because it's as good graphics as twilight princess, 
 but no top notch graphics. Nothing unique to graphics to report, but it is'nt the worst and is 
 good graphics for wii. Good news is no graphics bugs or bugs at all so no need to worry about being 
 in the middle of a great score then it freezes. When it loads it's actually a great speed so you 
 spend less time waiting and more time playing. which is good aslo. The sound effect for hitting 
 targets or enemies is decent. Enemies when hit sound just like when you defeat them in Twilight 
 Princess so it's good in sound.
  
  When I got the game i got on sale for $20 which is such a wonderful bargain for bargain hunters. 
 the game has no storyline, or plot. When it comes to purpose it really does'nt make the wii zapper 
 the next big product so it's weak there and graphics are decent, but is'nt beautiful. Sound is 
 no movie type sound effects and is also really weak there. But gameplay is classic and arcade like. 
 Even when it's not the best it's a good game and I recommend to families who enjoy family friendly 
 wii games. Bargain hunters looking for good wii game deal well here you go great value on a short 
 enjoyable game. I last but not least recommend it to fans of legend Zelda games, and those who 
 enjoy Twilight Princess because it's a fun Zelda game and brings memories of Twilight Princess. 
 Should I invest money into it or not? If your on the recommend list or appealed to it during this 
 review Invest your change into it. If not this tells you don't spend on this and find something 
 else worth YOUR money. Link's CrossBow Training is a neat, cheap, addicting, simple game you can 
 enjoy it gets a 7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  I bought this game last year and played it through to the end within the first 3 hours of having 
 it. It was fun to try and better your scores (I received up to a platinum status for getting over 
 80,000 on a level) . Overall the game was great and had a great sens eof value. The main page states 
 that the game costs $25, but I got mine at Blockbuster for $20 including the zapper. The zapper 
 is supposed to be used for other light/rail shooter games like COD, Ghost Squad and Resident Evil 
 UC.
  I played Ghost squad with the zapper and it was a great addition that made the game fun to play, 
 but I could not get into using the Wii zapper on Resident evil. The consistant amoutn of shaking 
 of the wii zapper left and right to shake off zombies in Resident Evil made usint eh zapper impossible 
 to use.
  
  Back to the Links crossbow game, it was very short but still a fun parthy game for people who want 
 to test out their shooter skills. My family enjoyed playing it but many did not have the aim and 
 skill that I have with the zapper to beat any of my high scores. But all in all the game is a great 
 deal for a cheap price, and if you plan to use the zapper for other games it is a great addition 
 to your wii collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Link's Crossbow Training is a budget game. It's $24.99 USD and it comes with the game and the Wii 
 Zapper controller. Very easy to assemble because all you need is the remote and nunchuck. Basically, 
 it's an arcade-style game where you shoot targets in a time limit. The more you shoot, the more 
 points you earn. Shoot without missing and your score will multiply and you'll get a lot more points. 
 It's no different than Twilight Princess since all the places are there. From Ordon Village to 
 Hyrule Castle, to Gerudo Desert. You'll have missions where you have to shoot targers and enemies 
 you were familiar with from the past game. Even bosses like the Darknut from the Temple of Time 
 and Stallord from Arbiter's Grounds. It's a short game with 9 levels and 27 stages of play that 
 are done very quickly since they're all about a minute long. It shouldn't take you no more than 
 about a half hour to finish the game. There's no unlockables other than those little triangles 
 and medals for your accomplishments. This game is pretty fun to play and worth it since it's under 
 50 bucks. (the price of a Wii game) It's like 10 bucks for the Zapper and $14.99 for the game. 
 Add it up and you'll get $24.99. Just like the Wii and Wii Sports, and the remote and Wii Play, 
 this game comes with the zapper so whether you want it or not, you have to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  this game is the shortest game i have ever played but no matter with the great soundtrack and ur 
 fav levels from twighlite princess it ends out being a pretty decent game. seeing as it is only 
 a demo game the graphics sound and controls for this game are fantastic. if u really liked twighlite 
 princess but cant be bothered to play the game all over again then this game is definataley for 
 u. using the wii zapper u go through dungeons and arenas from the zelda game and shoot the crap 
 out of goblins and keese and other annoying critters that u have got to know already. the game 
 has a pretty good multiplayer part to it as well. u can pick this game up and be better than someone 
 who has being playing it for ages as it isnt hard at all. just accuracy and consistancy is the 
 key. the wii zapper is the real reason for buying the it though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Links crossbow training realy isn't much of a game..... it just dosen't realy have much to it. There 
 are three different types of mini-games. Mini-games that move for you like an on-rails shooter. Mini-games 
 that you can't move your legs, but you can spin around to defend yourself from bad guys. And mini 
 games that you have full control of your charecter and you are free to move around. But you are 
 confined to a small level to explore. Thats pretty much it. There are like 10 levels for each type 
 of mini-game so there are about 30 or so levels, and a few boss fights that are quite fun. All of 
 the mini-games are good. It's just that you can get platinum on all of the mini-games and beat the 
 game in every shape and form in about 3 hours. it's fun while it lasts, but you will probably beat 
 it in 1 or 2 sittings. But you can play vs in each of the mini-games, but you don't play at the same 
 time as each-other, you take turns then it compares your scores.
  
  good: fun.
  simple.
  controls work fine.
  you will want to get all platinum.
  boss fights mix things up.
  
  
 bad: extremely short. 
  Not much content to play with.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: imacritic814
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game would be much better if it had a story in it. Also, it is far too short, and easy to 
 beat. There is one exciting part though... taking the Wii Zapper to action!
  
  Get to use the Wii Zapper for a fun way to experience the game
  Vary from target practice, to 
 vicious enemies ready to tear you apart
  With the medal system in the game, work hard to get to the top
  
  Using the Wii Zapper was 
 pretty crazy, since the first time I've ever used it was in this game. Anyway, there are only 10 
 full levels in this game; 3 stages per level and about 2-3 minutes to complete each stage. You 
 can beat the whole game in a flash actually, and it wont be that hard to get the highest medal 
 (platinum) in each level. Though this is all disappointing, you can't resist a shooter like this! 
 Blast skeleton warriors to pieces and goblins trying to steal your loot. You can also adjust your 
 speed and height of your crosshair before playing the game in the options, which is pretty thoughtful 
 of Nintendo. Overall, not too bad, but not too good either.
  
  Score: 7.5 Could use some fixing. Maybe some more levels to add in the game to actually buy a gamer 
 some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjarat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  For a game that retails around the20 mark, I wasn't expecting much. Happily I was proved wrong.
 
  
  The game is simple enough gently introducing you to the concept of zapper play. Proof of its accessibility 
 was that both of my parents were able to quickly get into the game. 
  
  It's enjoyable, if a little repetitive. But, the repetition reinforces the skill & techniques required 
 for this style of game play. My friends agreed that playing Link's game was good preparation for 
 games like Resident Evil. 
  
  The zapper itself is well designed & perfectly houses the wiimote system. It's comfortable to use 
 & lends itself nicely to Ghost Squad & Umbrella Chronicles marathons. It feels robust without being 
 chunky or ugly & fits in nicely with the aesthetics of the Wii. 
  
  There's a clear future for the zapper with forthcoming titles like Sega's House of the Dead & hopefully 
 more Resident Evil titles. All in all, its 20 well spent. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Links Crossbow Training is a game that comes with the Wii Zapper. There is no story to talk about, 
 but it has the Twilight Princess setting. The game starts out with an easy set of three missions 
 in Level 1. It gets even more challenging the further the player goes. The game is short, but it's 
 only a game that tries out the Wii Zapper for future games. (Which I don't mind) I barely even 
 got the game, I'm nearly at the end while I'm writing this, but the game is fun. 
  
  What I liked about this game is that the Wii Zapper works real well. Beautiful environments like 
 Twilight Princess. Fills in the missing gap of extras Twilight Princess was missing. Zapper works 
 well with other games.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that it can get pretty repetitive. Zapper is complicated 
 to set up. 
  
  Overall, Links Crossbow training is a great Zelda extra filler. If this game's mini challenges 
 were in Twilight Princess, that would have gotten a higher score than a 7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polo136
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 29, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Link's Crossbow Training is very enjoyable while it lasts, but there is a few hours of replay value 
 left to enjoy. Take up the Wii Zapper and shoot different objects including targets, skul warriors, 
 goblins, fruit, skulls and giant spiders.
  It's also a good game to play with your friends, but it would be much better if you could play 
 two zappers at a time.
  The whole game including the sound, graphics and landscapes are entirely based on The Legend of 
 Zelda: Twilight Princess so if you're a fan of Zelda you will find this game quite enjoyable.
 
  Personally, my favourite levels are the Phantom level and the final boss, the big sand skeletal 
 dude.
  The Wii zapper feels a little akward the first time you play with it but you get used to having 
 the trigger at the front.
  PLUS there are a few Wii games that use the Zapper and many more to come, so it won't just leave 
 you once you finish Link's Crossbow Training.
  
  The Wii zapper and Link's Crossbow Training is a great package for $50AU. So buy it, what are you 
 waiting for, go ahead. 
  Link's Crossbow Training will keep you coming back to beat your own scores as it is a great game 
 certainly worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying this game is very simple. If you think that's a bad thing you may as well 
 go back to whatever you were doing before you started reading this. That being said, for me, the 
 simplicity lead to a lot of fun. 
  
  Visually the game is pretty good. It's using the same graphics engine that The Legend of Zelda: 
 Twilight Princess used. So, it looks exactly like Twilight Princess, but without the expansive 
 free-roaming kingdom. If you're a fan of Zelda games you'll enjoy the style in the game, I know 
 I did. 
  
  The soundwork is solid enough. As always Link doesn't talk, but I like it that way. The music is 
 pretty good, nothing groundbreaking for a Zelda game but good nonetheless. 
  
  You don't need to worry about stats, leveling, and so on. You just shoot stuff and see if you can 
 get higher points on a level than your friend or family member did. You could also try to best 
 your own score I suppose, but this game is best played with friends despite being single player. 
 The game plays completely different from past Zelda games. Rather than being a free-roaming action-adventure, 
 it's a third-person on-rails shooter. You just aim at the screen with your Wii-Mote and shoot crossbow 
 bolts into your enemies. I suppose it would be fair to call it a sort of modern day Duck Hunt, 
 but if you don't shoot the "ducks" fast enough they'll kill you.
  
  The Wii Zapper that comes with the game is pretty much just a piece of plastic that you use to 
 hold your wii-mote in a more gun-like fashion for you. That being said it's of solid build quality, 
 you won't be breaking it anytime soon unless it's on purpose. I've heard people both complaina 
 bout and praise the Wii Zapper for its configuration. It worked very well for me, and kept my aim 
 steady. Plus, there's a very satisfying clicking sound everytime you pull the trigger. 
  
  A solid, if not a bit short, single player shooter coupled with a new plastic thingy to help you 
 shoot at things better on your Wii, for under $25. I think the price more than justifies a purchase 
 here, but only if you're a Zelda fan or plan on playign a fair amount of shooters on your Wii. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 14, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great price for what you get, a Zelda FPS (!) , cool references to TP, fun multiplayer
 
  
  The Bad: Boring music, only ten levels, the Zapper has many flaws, can't buy the two separate 
 
  
  LCT is a great arcade style shooter with about ten levels or so and is great fun to test out your 
 Zapper (or other better third party light gun holders such as the Pega light gun if you want a 
 pistol type gun) and the multiplayer is a blast as well. While all the levels are from Twilight 
 Princess fans of that game will appreciate this game the most. The worst part about this bundle 
 is the Zapper itself. While it looks slick it's actually very uncomfortable and small. I wish the 
 Nunchuk and the Wiimote part would detach for people with big hands like myself. The cord wraps 
 around underneath the Zapper in a closed compartment which is nice, but if you have the Wii jacket 
 you be taking it on and off constantly. If you just want the game though you could probably snag 
 it off of eBay or Amazon for less than $10 and just use the Wiimote or get a better third party 
 light gun attachment. All Zelda fans, and FPS fans, should buy this bundle regardless though because 
 it's best for smaller kids or people with small hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_smoove
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Pros: addictive gameplay; despite the length, you'll want to go back and beat your high scores; 
 perfect for short gaming sessions; lots of fan service; Zapper is not as bad as they say; only 
 $20
  
  Cons: Over in under an hour; could have used at least one more set of stages; final boss is basically 
 Andross
  
  Presentation: Menus are really bare-bones, but the Zelda universe is full of its usual charm. Overall, 
 it feels more like a demo and less like a full game.
  
  Graphics: Basically Twilight Princess's engine, but with lots and lots of targets
  
  Sound: 
 Again, pretty much all of it is from Twilight Princess, but that's certainly not a bad thing.
 
  
  Gameplay: Point at targets, press B. That's really it, but it works great and is addictive as crack. 
 The Zapper doesn't necessarily improve the game, but it doesn't hurt it. Really, it just offers 
 a different way of playing the game.
  
  Lasting Appeal: The game is over in less than an hour, but it'll take a few more hours to get gold 
 medals on all 27 missions. Each mission is 60 to 90 seconds long. You'll want to come back and 
 play most of the stages over and over again. There's also a fairly basic multiplayer option that 
 has you taking turns.
  
  Closing words: Overall, I highly suggest buying the Zapper. It comes with a great Zelda spin-off 
 that does what it seeks to do, and nothing more. The Zelda universe is probably the main reason 
 this game stood out among the flock; every area, song, and enemy is pulled right out of Twilight 
 Princess. The Zapper itself is unique, but lacks something unexplainable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B1kmatt
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  This is another outing for Link except he has a new toy, his cross bow and he is not afraid to 
 use it. In this game that comes packed with the Wii Zapper (Which you use to shoot down familiar 
 creature found in LoZ: TP) you can expect a lot of fun, but you will hate when its over. Even though 
 it is short you have to remember that you only spent around 20 bucks for it so it is well worth 
 it. Also, it does come packed with the Wii Zapper although many people say the Zapper is not all 
 that it is still pretty fun to us in the game, but the big problem with it is it will be hard to 
 hit the all the buttons on the top of you remote and the trigger does not have a spring in it so 
 you hit the B button slower, but I did not notice that one all that much. The last comments I have 
 to make is its Link and you will explore a lot of familiar places from Twilight Princess, and also 
 if you have friends it is pretty fun when you compete or go for the high score with one Zapper 
 and a few friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Positive: - Zapper is fun to use - revisiting worlds from Twilight Princess is great - most levels 
 are worth re-playing - it's (technically) FREE! -
  
  Negative: - Zapper feels clunky and awkward for awhile - only takes about an hour to beat all the 
 levels - 
  
  Finally, Nintendo has realeased their Zapper controller, and it comes with a pack-in game called 
 Link's Crossbow Training. In the game, you go back to many of the memorable locations from Twilight 
 Princess such as the Bridge of Eldin, City in the Sky, and Arbiter's Grounds. This is a pretty 
 refreshing experience if you haven't played Twilight Princess for awhile. In these locations, you 
 either shoot targets that pop up on screen, defend yourself from enemies, or walk through areas 
 and defeat a certain number of enemies. The game is really short, but there are over twenty levels, 
 most of which you will find to be worth re-playing. The Zapper controller is really cool, but it 
 feels very clunky and awkward and takes some getting used to. I couldn't decide which way to hold 
 it, both ways felt so strange! Moving with the control stick when using the Zapper is a pain as 
 well and you don't get a good sense of direction when you're already trying to aim with it. The 
 Zapper definitely takes some getting used to, but it's a cool controller and is still really fun 
 to use. Link's Crossbow Training also has a multiplayer mode where you switch off with one controller 
 and see who gets the best scores on any of the game's levels. 
  
  Link's Crossbow Training is a pretty fun game and the Zapper is a pretty neat controller too. It 
 feels pretty awkward, but it's still very fun to use. The game's levels are very cool as well and 
 the locations are excellent. Overall, this is a very fun game. It may be worth the $20 even if, 
 like me, you're not planning on getting any other games that use the Zapper. 
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 7
  (this does not necessarily effect the overall 
 score)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  This is what I beleive, an arcade style Zelda game. Link's Crossbow training is rather short but 
 a lot of fun. You have 3 different types on each stage.
  
  The 3 are:
  
  Target shooting
  
  Defending yourself
  
  Ranger
  
  I like it on defend that when you 
 shoot a green enemy, you get automatic fire for a limited period and thats cool it acts like a 
 machine gun. When you hold down the B button, you charge up your shot and when you let go you release 
 a huge arrow. To zoom in, you press the Z button. There's only about 10 stages including 2 boss 
 fights from The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess which are the Darknut fight and the Stallord 
 fight and they tend to be tricky so you need keep an eye on the timer for that because on those 
 levels are 60 seconds and the rest are 50 or 60 seconds probably.
  
  This game is packaged with the Wii Zapper at a cost of just 19 and that's the same price in the 
 US which is $19.
  
  Quite cheap eh!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  First off, this is not going to be a review of the Wii Zapper. While the Zapper isn't perfect, 
 it is a good as a peripheral of that sort can be. With that said, the Zapper's pack-in game is 
 the true definition of a thrown together game added to make a seemingly boring package more appealing. 
 You can't really expect much for $20 and that's what you get "not much." The game itself is "blink 
 and you'll miss it short" and the game play is ruthlessly frustrating at times. 
  
  What Metroid Prime 3 did for the Wii-mote and it's capabilities, Link's Crossbow Training, tears 
 down in a quick 2 and 1/2 hours. The sensitivity of the wii-mote proves overwhelming when trying 
 to hit high multipliers on the later levels and you may even begin to question the usage of the 
 remote as a viable FPS controller. Now we know that's not true, but Link's Crossbow Training seems 
 to be on a mission to disprove that.
  
  Now, the setting and graphics are taken directly from one of the best games of '06, so you can 
 bet if you have played Twilight Princess you will enjoy navigating the levels and shooting the 
 familiar enemies. That in itself cannot sustain LCT much longer than a few hours. Unless you feel 
 that you really need a Wii-Zapper, staying outta Link's way wouldn't be a bad idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I pick up the Wii Zapper mainly so I could get my hands on this little gem since a Zelda bow-centric 
 game sounds like my cup of tea, and it ended up being so. However, you don't need to know why I 
 picked it up, but more what it is, so lets take a look:
  
  Gameplay:
  
  So, what the basic concept is for this title is that Link has a new Crossbow, and decides to train 
 with it for hours on end. Yea, the game really doesn't have a story, I just made that up. What 
 it does have a ton of little game modes to play. The mainly works like this: there nine levels, 
 and each one has a three stages. The stages are made up into three modes: target practice, ranger, 
 and defender. Target practice is where you don't move link at all and and he on rails with the 
 screen moving on its own. You mainly just make combos on the targets, only focusing on getting 
 that big score. Missing ends combos but hitting pots and boxes will still keep combos, they just 
 won't work on them. The next mode is ranger, which is where you take full control of Link's movement 
 and camera and go through a level battling enemies. These tend to actually be the most fun stages 
 once you get a hang of the controls. The final mode is defender, which is where link auto-moves 
 for you, but you can spin the camera. These two modes work basically like target practice in that 
 you are once again ranking up a score, but they add the element of enemies attacking link, ending 
 a combo and a loss of point upon being hit. The stages, naturally, add complications as you progress 
 through each and your only reward in the game is ranking, which are the standard bronze, silver, 
 gold, and platinum. The game also features a take-your-turn multiplayer for extended party play. 
 besides that, not much is wrong with the game. The Zapper, as some of you know, is an uncomfortable 
 device to use, and I actually recommend using the standard Wiimote and nunchuck for play.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Remember Twilight Princess from launch? Same game graphics as that. Only new 
 thing about it is the crossbow, which looks nice, but besides that, expect the same gorgeous look 
 of TP. Seriously, its the same thing, and I wrote a review on TP so go look at that for more info...
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Some new music and crossbow sounds, but besides that, its the same stuff from Twilight Princess... again. 
 And again, its great sounding, plus the new stuff sounds great. Only question I have is this: why 
 wasn't this crossbow in Twilight Princess itself? its an awesome weapon...
  
  Overall: 7.5/10.0
  Yea, I loved it but its such a short game with nothing actually new to it. 
 However, as a Zelda fan, I enjoyed a revisit to the Twilight Universe and hope to see a more story-driven 
 return to this world that actually brings this crossbow along... Everyone else.... its cheap and 
 not available for rent, so just buy it. If you hate Zelda, this won't change your mind, so just 
 skip it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Link's Crossbow Training is one of the last things you'd come to expect from Nintendo. These side 
 games, or spin-offs are often occurring in the Mario universe but not so much in the other famous 
 Nintendo franchises with the exception of the ever popular Pokemon series. As fine as a series 
 The Legend of Zelda may be, seeing a game like this is very rare and ultimately this scarce amount 
 of spin offs is a good thing because these kind of games tend to ruin the value of the series itself.
 
  
  On whether you'd call Link's Crossbow Training an actual game or not, that is up to you and your 
 standards. The game only has 8 levels that are divided into 3 stages each so that totals to an 
 amount of 24, assuming you already knew that unless you are under the age of 8. This is in the 
 Score Challenge mode mind you, so you can always do some multiplayer and practice too. The addition 
 of those two other modes do help the game feel like an actual game, not just a demo showcasing 
 the Wii Zapper that this game is packaged with.
  
  Yes, this game comes with the Wii Zapper and it easily makes it worth buying. It would be a crime 
 if Nintendo retailed just the Zapper for around twenty dollars because the peripheral itself is 
 just a mere plastic shell that you insert the Wii Remote and Nunchuck into. But it's a neat plastic 
 shell at that with its strangely unique Tommy-Gun shape. The only problem is that it's a little 
 hard on the fingers as after about half an hour of play your fingers will start to get sore.
  
  Crossbow Training is actually a lot more fun than you'd think. When I purchased the Zapper 
 and this game, I really had strong doubts. I only expected a few levels and nothing more so I was 
 really surprised when I was greeted with a lot more than I expected. Still, this trip is over way 
 too quickly and after you've completed all 24 levels including the measly 1 boss fight, you are 
 done and there is no incentive to come back unless you want to work on getting better high scores.
 
  
  To unlock the next level after the one you are currently working on you must get a bronze medal 
 at least. To get a bronze medal you need to score at least 20,000 points on all three stages in 
 a level. After you've got a bronze medal you can shoot for silver and gold medals that require 
 40,000 and 60,000 points but only a bronze is required in each level to beat the game. 
  
  The control is spot on, but really that is no surprise. The Zapper doesn't really add any easy 
 to the control or really take anything away either so it's really a matter of choice judging on 
 whether you bought the set for the Zapper, for Crossbow Training, or for both. If you've played 
 Twilight Princess than expect the controls to control about the same as it would if you were shooting 
 a projectile weapon in T. P. A cursor comes up and when you're ready to shoot you squeeze the trigger 
 and it's as simple as that. In one mode it requires the analog stick and you can hold the Z button 
 to zoom in a bit.
  
  That brings me to the next thing you should know about Crossbow Training, there are three types 
 of gameplay modes. The first one if Target Shooting in which you are obviously shooting targets 
 that come up. In all three of the modes if you hit targets consecutively without missing, you're 
 points will double, triple, etc. which will add up for some massive scores. The second mode is 
 Defender in which it is shown in a third person view and you must defend yourself from various 
 foes. You can't move Link though, you can just circle him around. The third mode is called Ranger 
 and you can actually mode Link around with the analog stick on the Nunchuck as you hunt down enemies. 
 All of the modes deliver different levels of enjoyment but are all really fun to play.
  
  The graphics and sound in Crossbow Training aren't anything to write home about. In fact, they 
 are the exact same as Twilight Princess, a game released a year before it. Nothing has changed 
 except I find it a bit weird that in some levels music from different area play. For example, in 
 the first level the setting is in Ordon Village but the music from Death Mountain plays. I found 
 that a bit strange. The graphics are far from terrible, just now that Metroid Prime 3 and Mario 
 Galaxy are out, they are starting to look very dated.
  
  In the end, Link's Crossbow Training is a very fun albeit short experience. You'll be done with 
 it in a matter of hours, only coming back to work on high scores. Crossbow Training is a great 
 game that could've been better if the game featured way more levels and we all would've loved to 
 see more boss fights.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 1, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Links Crossbow Training for the Wii
  
  Good: Very nice graphics, Zapper in this game is flawless!
  
  Bad: To short
  
  Gameplay: 
 8/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Storyline: 2/10
  Extra's and Replay Value 3/10
  
  I am hitting the game hard in areas and being generous in others so don't think I am being 
 harsh. The main reason to get this game is for the zapper and its $20 its worth getting, its a 
 decent attachment and this game well it feels like a add on for twillight princess in every way 
 to graphics to sounds all from that game. You go through 10 different stages in this game and shoot 
 at targets with the zapper, so nothing else kinda makes you remember duck hunt for the good old 
 nes days? well expect for that laughing gay dog YOU JUST WANT TO SHOOT!... ok I lost my cool there... 
 so if you have yet to try it out, its worth the purchase, even if it lasts only an hour. 
  
  Overall: 69/100 for a 7/10 on gamespot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay3695
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 1, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is just a quick fun little thing that happens to come with the Wii Zapper. Even though 
 for when your bored it can really help. Theres all these little mini challenges on it and its just 
 all about using Links sweet new cross-bow, which he kinda randomly got, I don't know how. Anyways 
 it's pretty sweet it takes probably 3 hours at most and to get a gold medal on all the practices 
 is way easy. But it's all cool your Link you have a cross-bow and you run around to different areas 
 seen in the last Zelda installment and you shoot various targets. Sorry for the short report but 
 this game doesn't have much and the only reason you get it is because you bought the Zapper. But 
 the Zappers pretty cool and with the game included it makes it even better. But really if your 
 hard-core First Person Shooter kinda Person then the Wii Zapper is a good thing to have it seriously 
 enhances gameplay for first person shooters, but besides that you really shouldn't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saxostev
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 30, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  It's pretty rare for Nintendo to create a non-cannon spin-off game to franchise that does not include 
 Mario or Pokemon in the title. Lately though Nintendo has started to give this treatment to the 
 Zelda Franchise, Starting with the Tetra's Trackers on Gamecube (only in Japan, I think, it may 
 have been canceled) and finishing with the two Tingle DS games: Freshly Picked Tingle's Rosey Ruppeland 
 (found everywhere but America) and Tingle's Balloon Fight (Japan's Club Nintendo exclusive) Link's 
 Crossbow Training is the first of these spin-offs to grace the US complete with the Wii Zapper. 
 
  
  The Facts:
  Nothing special, Link gets a crossbow and trains with it. Basically there are 9 stages with three 
 sections each containing three different game types: target (an on-rails mode where targets pop 
 up and you shoot them) , Defender (where your stay in the center of a stage and shoot enemies that 
 appear) , and Ranger ( where you run around and shoot enemies in a RE4 perspective) . Every hit 
 you score adds to your score multiplier, and it can get outrageously high. You can hit other items 
 like pots and signs for some small points and maybe a large bonus will appear. After you complete 
 a stage, your points are tallied and you may receive a medal if your score is high enough. I've 
 yet to try multi-player, but from what I read in the manual, it's basically single player, only 
 you're taking turns with the remote or Zapper. 
  
  The Good:
  The Graphics are very good, they look exactly like they did in Twilight Princess. The sound and 
 music are also ripped from TP, It gives the a much needed atmosphere that is missing from the other 
 packed-in Nintendo games like it (Wii Play and Wii Sports) . The game play is addictive. You'll 
 find yourself going back to the other stages to see if you can beat your high score. The Automatic 
 power-up makes you feel like Rambo shooting down hordes of bad guys. There's no real learning curve 
 and the pick up and play feel makes it a good game choice if you have like a half-hour before work 
 or classes. Also you don't have to play with the Zapper if you want, the game won't care. 
  
  The Bad:
  It's too short, each of the tree sections of a level is only 80 or so seconds long, 
 so one could complete the game in a few hours, and there's no way you can extend the time in this 
 game. You don't fight against the main villains in the TP (Gannondorf and Zant) which is kind of 
 disappointing, Zant was a fun boss in TP. The game also have that mass audience appeal that other 
 packed-in games (Wii play and Wii Sports) have, so your grandad and aunt Sue won't feel right playing 
 this game with you. Also I would have like to have an online leaderboard so you can brag about 
 that platinum medal you got on the Final Stage, or at least simultaneous multi-player so we can 
 steal targets from our friends
  
  Final word:
  At the end of the day, Link's Crossbow Training is a good addictive game, it's just too short, 
 lacks a decent multi-player and lacks that strange appeal that WIi Play and Wii Sports have. I 
 would say it's worthy of a purchase, even if your interested in only the Zapper. It alone justifies 
 the 20 dollar price tag on that molded piece of plastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Well, I expected the game to be pretty bad, considering all of the players and critics saying that 
 the Zapper is awful, and that's what I though when I first started playing, but after you get the 
 hang of it, it becomes an extremely fun adventure game with some good boss fights and interesting 
 modes to play through, and though the game will only last about a day, you can go back through 
 to try to earn more medals, so it's a good challenge.
  
  It's not the best Zelda game out there, but it's probably one of the best shooters, because in 
 addition to shooting targets, you can also walk aroun, shoot enemys, defend yourself, fight bosses, 
 etc., and there's also a score board, which is nice. Of course, the game has its problems, like 
 how the Zapper isn't always so accurate, and how some targets are extremely tiny, and the Zapper 
 also takes some getting-used-to...
  
  The game doesn't really have a story, so I like to just think of it as this; Link gets bored, so 
 he decides that he needs some action, so he goes out and shoots crap. Hey, don't complain to me, 
 I'm no expert story writer! The levels that you go to are the levels from Twilight Princess, and 
 though you can't explore many of them, you can see that the level design is the same as before, 
 no differences at all.
  
  Speaking of exploring, that's another problem, you're always getting objectives, and you're always 
 timed, and a lot of the areas are blocked off, which means that you can't explore anything, and 
 that just sucks, but it doesn't really effect the game too much, since all you really wanna do 
 is shoot stuff up. The soundtrack in the game is great, as you would expect from a Zelda game. 
 It's mostly songs from Twilight Princess, but hey, that's great.
  
  The graphics are great, a lot better than what you would expect from a little game bundled wtih 
 something. The graphics are pretty much as good as Twilight Princess, and all of the characters 
 are in the Twilight Princess style. Now how about some info about the Zapper, eh? You put the Nunchuck 
 in the back of the Zapper, then you put the Wii Remote on the top, you connect the two, then pull 
 the trigger (B button) to fire. You'd think that having to move with the same controller that you'll 
 be swinging around with would be annoying, but it actually works great. You can obviously remove 
 the Nunchuck and hold it in a seperate hand if you want, but that's not how I reommend doing it.
 
  
  Everything works out great with the Zapper, even the things that should be annoying, so I really 
 don't get why everyone's hatin' on the Wii Zapper. Back to the game, there's a great deal of fun 
 to be had with this game, and it can hold tons of files, and since you can collect different medals, 
 it should take a while to actually beat the game 100%. The sad thing is, once you beat the final 
 boss, nothing happens to confirm that you've beaten the game, it just brings you back to the level 
 select. Oh well...
  
  Pros: Nice looking graphics. The Wii Zapper looks nice and feels comfortable. Fun challenges and 
 good boss fights. It can hold a lot of files. It's only $20, seriously.
  
  Cons: Nothing happens after beating the final boss. You can't really explore anything. The Wii 
 Zapper isn't always so accurate. Short game, despite some replay value. No storyline.
  
  I recommend it, especially since you can use the Zapper for other games. And the game included 
 is a great deal of fun that even people who aren't fans of Zelda can enjoy. Sure the Wii Zapper 
 has some problems, and the game is short, but in the end, you'll get your moneys worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetHawk45
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is good and a lot a fun.
  
  Although it is very short, Link's Crossbow Training is very fun and challenging. All you have to 
 do is play a level, which has three stages in until you get a bronze medal or 2000pts. The game 
 has a total of 9 levels or 27 stages. There is three different types of stages; Practice, Defender, 
 Ranger. In the practice the stage move on it's own within a time limit and you shoot as many targets 
 as you can. In defender, you have to defend Link from in coming enemies. In ranger, you can move 
 and you are supposed to kill all the enemies. If you hit the required targets or enemies, you get 
 a triforce. Another great thing is that you cannot get highscorces the first time, which adds to 
 the replay value. Overall this is worth the 25 dollars and is a great game. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hassam7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  The game is very entertaining and really does help you get strated with your Zapper, but it is 
 very short and there is not much to do in it, its like all you have to do is hit the targets that 
 pass by and kill the enemys that attack and also if I must put, u also have to shoot mud bowls 
 and nearby objects for points too! The game is very addictive and it has very strong looking visuals 
 but after the 6th level I suppose you'll get a little tired of it. 
  
  I am stuck on level 7 and I can't get a bronze medal to proceed! I don't even play the game that 
 much or else I would have crossed it by now but I am right now playing Super Mario Galaxy and Heroes 
 2 now! 
  
  If you want the Zapper for games like MOH Heroes 2 or other shooters then go buy it if its not 
 sold out. 
  
  The games soundtrack is really good and it gets you excited in the beginning. One thing that is 
 kind'a disturbing in the game is that when you move with Link in some of the missions, the camera 
 and aiming thing gets lost sometimes when you move too much, and its really annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadraxis1809
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  The zapper is an invention to make shooters alittle more "involving" and easier with the shotgun 
 design, now its innovative and DOES make shooters feel more confortable and links crossbow training 
 is one of them. i have to say, for a short pack in free game this is surprisingly good and the 
 whole arcade style of gameplay makes it addicting to beat high score after high score. basically 
 the game is good but not spectacular its free with the zapper and its worth the playtime believe 
 me its good and its even more fun to zelda fans, the game is based on twilight princess and some 
 of the levels seem familiar but overall the games worth the try and a good score beater with the 
 addicting goodness the nly drawback to the game itself is the lack of levels and limited gameplay 
 types but then again this IS a free game and a set up game to show how the zapper is used so yeah 
 ill say it again its worth it and it is free and its on anyone to get it but personally i think 
 its good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf360rev
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: You'll be using the zapper for this game it might be awlard to play this game with out. 
 the gameplay is fairly decent. You get to charge up arrows, zooom in, and the score account if you 
 hit the guys with missing a hit it will go like X10, X11, if you miss you'll go back to start. You 
 will also be moving the character around alot. That after you play score attack I think it is the 
 levels will appear in practice mode where you be able to select the level after you played it once 
 before.
  
  Sound: This has few some different music from twilight princess but not that much it is still good 
 to here he music again.
  
  
  Graphics: Again Same as twilight princess's which is not a bad thing since this a mimigame type 
 thing with the zapper. 
  
  
  Overall: Game comes with the zapper and it can get pretty addicting once you get the hang of the 
 game. That it has a good amount of levels all with different ways how the game works. This game 
 is worth it with the zapper and pretty fun. This game also has different medals you can get. 20,000 
 points for bronze, 40,000 for the next one I think its silver and 60,000 for plantium medal all 
 good reasons to go back and play the game even more then you can go back to beat your score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stonetowerghost
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  The Good: A good variety of Twilight Princess Themed shooting; It's addicting; Free Zapper Included; 
 Lots of levels...
  
  The Bad: The levels (and entire game) are kinda short; Certain game design choices make no sense; 
 Difficulty level is uneven...
  
  The Wii Zapper has been an object of much attention since its announcement. I can say right now 
 that it's a neat peripheral, with a lot of potential, but the game that comes with it could have 
 used some more tweaking. 
  
  Link's Crossbow Training takes place in the world of Twilight Princess, and for all intents and 
 purposes, it succeeds in maintaining that feel. Each world is exactly identical to the area it 
 attempts to mimic; whether it be the sweltering deserts of the Gerudo, or the mysterious Lost Woods. 
 Everything looks, sounds, and feels the same. Nintendo has done a great job in keeping the setting 
 true to its world. This is Twilight Princess; but much shorter, much easier, and far less compelling.
 
  
  Shooting is varied into three stages; Targets, Defender, and Ranger. Targets, as the name implies, 
 is shooting targets. Some will be moving, others stationary, and (this goes for all levels) there 
 will be some items around the area for bonus points. To mix things up, LCT included targets that 
 will subtract from your score, and reset your multiplier (which multiplies your score based on 
 consecutive shots) . This ramps up the difficulty a tad. 
  
  Defender is mainly a stationary enemie defeating shoot out. You will shoot monsters from the sky, 
 rivers, and ground, and also prevent them from attacking you. If you are hit, you can kiss your 
 high score goodbye. It's hard to focus on the radar and what's in front of you at the same time, 
 but it's not impossible either. Unfortunately, the challenge here is merely based on frustration. 
 
  
  Ranger includes timed enemy shootouts, and boss fights. You will control Link with the Nunchuck, 
 and shoot with the zapper. This can get difficult, especially when you use the zapper for the first 
 time (It can feel awkward) . It just takes a while to realize that Link turns with the motion sensing, 
 and not the nunchuck. This will make things difficult, because enemies can sneak behind you without 
 your notice. You get a warning chime when they do this, but it panics you rather than alerting. 
 In boss fights, you'll tackle a single enemy (Like a darknut; TP style) , and attempt to bring them 
 down before time runs out. You don't lose if you fail, but you will miss out on a ton of bonus 
 points. As always, going for consequtive shots is a must. 
  
  The game is short, and the few options for gameplay don't do much to alleviate this fact. You will 
 spend most of your time in earning medals, which is, on the whole, relatively easy. You only need 
 to bronze medals to progress, but anyone who hopes to get the real meat from this game will go 
 for Platinum. Unfortunately, the levels are very short (Each level averages at about a minute) , 
 and the game is over in a flash. I finished off the final boss and beat the game after less than 
 an hour. Trust me; I felt kinda ripped off. 
  
  The game is very fun, but there are a few gripes that don't coincide with the 'short' factor. First 
 of all, this game's difficulty level is completely out of whack. You will find the meat of the 
 challenge around mission 6, and it will be a cakewalk at the finale. I'm being honest here; I only 
 got a bronze medal at mission 3, but I got gold on the final mission (1st try for both) . I see 
 a problem with that. Also, the scores add up, and that kills the challenge toward getting the Platinum. 
 Each mission has three areas, and you need an accumulative total of 80000 points (between 3 levels) 
 to get Platinum. Let me be frank, it's possible to get tht much in a single level. That's a problem. 
 
  
  Another gripe, is the multishot option. If you hit a glowing enemy, your crossbow will shoot faster 
 rounds of arrows. Unfortunately, this decreases accuracy, and one missed shot will destroy your 
 multiplier. Multishot is meant to quickly plow through enemies, but you can't unload an entire 
 set of multishot arrows without missing. Seeing as the multiplier plays such a huge role in the 
 game, why did they include the multishot in the first place? Honestly, it hurts more than it helps. 
 
  
  Enemies also have different sets of life, and it's hard to remember how many shots it takes for 
 a kill. If you have an itchy trigger finger, you're in for trouble. Once you kill an enemy, you 
 can't fire another shot at it without losing points. They could have at least offered a hit point 
 bar; that way we would know when to stop shooting at our targets. The game is ultimately so easy, 
 that a mess up or two won't matter, but high score junkies will get frustrated by the inability 
 to keep the multiplier from reseting. Geometry Wars: Galaxies was less complicated; that's saying 
 something.
  
  It's fun, but it ain't a revolution. Link's Crossbow Traing is a nice minigame, but I'm thinking 
 more about my new Zpper than the game that came with it. Oh, and speaking of pack ins... will someone 
 please slap Nintendo for giving us a cardboard sleeve for a case instead of a regular one? Such 
 money grubbing.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  This game is short, but it's quite enjoyable, while-probably not being in any attempt to be a proper 
 game, and only a free game to test and love your Zapper with, it's quite fun and will get you going 
 until you find another appropriate full-time game to play with the Zapper, such as the upcoming 
 Ghost Squad, or Medal of Honor: Heroes 2, I wouldn't recommend using it for Umbrella Chronicles, 
 I have, and there are actions that interfere with the grip of the Zapper, and will probably make 
 you panic or get annoyed with it.
  
  Back on topic...
  
  Not much more to say I guess, but it's a great "Zapper Simulator" to master your skills for future 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsplayer1010
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Link's Crossbow Training comes with the Wii Zapper for $20. While it can be played without it, 
 the game was designed to utalize the Wii Zapper. "B" is to shoot, "Z" is to zoom, and You use the 
 control stick to move. 
  
  There are nine levels, with three challenges each. There are three types of stages. "Target Shooting" 
 has you shooting mostly targets, with the occasional enemy. "Defender" has you in a stand still 
 and aim around you. "Ranger" has you walking around trying to to kill a set amount of enemies. 
 The latter is my least favorite stage, due to the difficulty of using the control stick and aiming 
 at the same time. 
  
  The game is set in the "Twilight Princess" universe, so naturally the graphics are the same as 
 that game. The game has good music and sound effects, but neither are memorable. The game's value 
 is great based on the price, but decreased by its short length.
  
  That's the review. I recommend this game to fans-of shooting games. This is a great example of 
 the Zapper's potential. Let's hope developers can take advantage of it in the future. 
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coco900
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Links crossbow training for the wii is a real bargain for 20$ plus it comes with the wii zapper 
 which is like a light gun for the wii. The game comes with three modes score attack multiplayer 
 and practice. In practice you play the stages you have unlocked just to try to get better at them. In 
 multiplayer you play with others using only on zapper to see who can get the highest score on each 
 stage. And finally score attack is where you try try to get a good enough score to get a medal and 
 unlock the next level. Also the game is short but is very addictive and once you start playing it 
 it is hard to stop. Play it if you are a fan of these type of games but if you are not try it anyway. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liquid_Raiden
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  The Wii Zapper is a great new addition to the Wii. Although there isn't many games that you can 
 play it with, it can be addicting and very fun.
  
  Link's crossbow training is a really great game. It's very short, so you can't really expect much. 
 You will go through a total of 8 levels, each having 3 courses in them in which you hit the targets 
 and enemies. Once again, it will only last about an hour or two. It's a bonus game, they could 
 of decided NOT to put it in there.
  
  You will come back to it to achieve the high scores in the game, or play with your friends. It 
 will keep your entertained for a bit.
  
  The graphics are just like Twilight princess, and the music like always, is excellent. I think 
 it would keep you happy until you get another game to play with the Wii Zapper ( Such as Resident 
 Evil ) . Even if you have bought another game, i think you should still try the Link's Crossbow 
 training, since its really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario_46
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Addictive gameplay  Great graphics for an on rails shooter  It comes free with the 
 Zapper  Its a good excuse to go back to Hyrule once again
  ________________
  
  The Bad: Zapper doesnt make the game any better  Too Short for its own good
  ________________
 
  
  
  Link's Crossbow Training is a Nintendo game designe to be played with their brand new peripheral 
 the Wii Zapper, sadly it doesn't make the game much better (or any of the other games designed 
 for it) and it turns out to be just a simplistic piece of plastic that feels like a big rip off. 
 
  
  The Wii Zapper is a piece of white plastic designed to look like a gun, and when you first play 
 it you'll know Nintendo made a big mistake in the design. The Wiimote is placed on the top of the 
 Zapper, exposing the B trigger, which is in the front of the gun and doesnt feel very natural to 
 use it like that, and the nunchuck is placed in the back. It doesn't feel natural at all to be 
 holding it with your right hand while moving the nunchuck with your left thumb, in fact it makes 
 the games it was designed for arguably worse.
  
  Now with the game, Link's Crossbow Training is surprisingly good, it's fast paced and challenging. 
 In the game you go back to Twilight Princess' Hyrule and play as Link. There are many different 
 stages taken directly from the game like Hyrule Field, Castle Town, Lake Hylia and various temples; 
 each stage consist of three levels and there are three different game modes in each. The first 
 one is Score Attack, which consist of shooting the bull's eye before they disappear. Second is 
 Defender mode, where you'll get attacked by a set of different creatures from the game while you're 
 standing; you'll have to kill them before they get to you, because if they do they'll take points 
 from you, luckily there's a radar that will show you the position of each enemy. The last main 
 mode is Ranger, where you can actually move and kill your enemies before the time runs out, and 
 it's the best mode in the game. Each consecutive shot gives you more points and at the end of each 
 level you'll get a medal (or not) based on your score.
  
  To shoot you'll have to point the Wii Zapper to the screen and press the B button, and just like 
 i said before, it doesnt feel natural at all. You can also hold the B button to throw explosive 
 arrows (like the bomb arrows in Twilight Princess) and sometimes an enemy will give you an upgrade 
 for your crossbow that will make it shoot like an automatic weapon. There are also Boss battles 
 in the game, that are really fun and challenging. You can also shoot smaller things to gain some 
 points, but there are also some things you cant shoot, for example in Score Attack you'll encounter 
 several targets with an X in them, if you shoot those you'll lose points. 
  
  Other thing that makes the Zapper less than ideal is the fact that in this game you'll need speed, 
 something that the zapper wont give you, specially in Ranger and Defender modes, where you'll be 
 using the analog stick on the nunchuck, it's really hard to be moving Link, turning around and 
 shooting with the Zapper at the same time, so these modes are better played without it. 
  
  But Link's crossbow training it's a very addictive game. You'll always want to come back and get 
 a better score, so there's a little bit of replay value into it. Sadly the game is too short, which 
 is disapointing because it's really fun; there's also a multiplayer mode but never with more than 
 one player at the time so that's also disapointing. 
  
  
  Graphically is basically is the same game as Twilight Princess, but that's not bad at all, in fact 
 it looks incredibly good for a light gun game. The music also comes from Twilight Princess, except 
 for a couple of new tunes but it's wonderful. 
  
  Overall Link's Crossbow Training is a surprisingly good game, with addictive gameplay, gorgeous 
 graphics and some awesome boss battles. Sadly is too short for it's own good and the Wii Zapper 
 makes it a little bit worse. If you don't want the Wii Zapper then i can't blame you, but if there's 
 any way you can get Link's Crossbow Training without the zapper and for a lesser price then don't 
 loose that chance, because it's a really fun game, plus is a good excuse to go back to the magnificent 
 world of Hyrule. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 25, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  When buying the Wii Zapper, you'll get Link's Crossbow Training. Like Wii Sports, this isn't the 
 the most technically amazing game but it is designed to show off the hardware, and thats what this 
 is for. 
  
  The Wii Zapper is pretty much just a piece of plastic with a trigger. You use it for games like 
 This, RE: UC, Ghost Squad, and I think the Medal of Honor Game. In Links CBT you have a cross bow 
 and you shoot stuff. Its a lot like a light gun game shooting targets and enemies. 
  
  Everything works fine, and there is quite a lot of content in the game for a pack in, the only 
 major flaw with it is the levels where you actually have to move link around with the nunchuck 
 while aiming. It may just be because I'm not that used to it yet, but the controls are a little 
 weird on those parts. 
  
  Will Link's CBT hold your attention for long? probably not? Is it enjoyable and a good game to 
 pop in when you're in between Super Mario Galaxy sessions? Yeah it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidRswii
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Well let me tell you a little about the Zapper... don't bother with it, its a useless item that 
 was never needed I mean the Wiimote and Nunchuck works just fine. Well its a real struggle to connect 
 it and take off trust me Nintendo could have made this simpler but they didn't bother and it uses 
 two hands, its really uncomfortable to play with, and it does not make the game any better.
  Now on to the game included...
  Its a rail-shooter in the world of Zelda Twilight Princess, there 
 is no story so don't get your hopes up if u wanted a new Zelda Adventure
  
  PRESENTATION: It uses the Zelda license to trick you that this is a good purchace... but the game 
 is more of a Demo then a whole game.
  
  GRAPHICS: Looks like Twilight Princess, but it lacks the scope of the adventure mode.
  
  SOUND: 
 Punchy sound effets and mostley music from the last Zelda game
  
  GAMEPLAY: A fun shooter best played with out the Zapper. If it had more levels and custimizable 
 options it would have been cncedered a whole game.
  
  (now on to the actual hardware)
  
  PERFORMENCE: Squishy mechanical trigger is used most on the Zapper which sometimes makes your 
 finger tired
  
  BUILD QUALITY: The highest material of lightgun action
  
  EASY TO USE: Yes even a 3 year old can do it
  
  VALUE: 20 bucks for just the Zapper would be 
 a total rip-off but with the game its worth checking out
  
  COMFORT: Tommy Gun style is really uncomfortable. Trying to shoot fasy can get you tired very quickly
 
  
  LASTING APPEAL: The game is over in less then an hour. Two-player mode is broken. Getting platinum 
 in all the levels is not overly difficult.
  
  Thats why I'm giving this package a 5.0 don't waste your money on this item it is not worth buying 
 the game is the only thing holding this game together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  This game splits the Zelda fans. Some - like me - will enjoy it because it is a highly addictive 
 game with a familiar character, familiar music, familiar enemies and a familiar setting. Others 
 will hate this sidestep because it has no story and because it goes against the usual Zelda conscept.
 
  
  Whatever you think, you can't argue against this game being real fun to play. It is somehow challenging 
 and it requires skill ang reaction. I really enjoyed it, so it was kind of a disappointment that 
 I managed to finish it in fifty minutes.
  
  This game is only a shooter all the way. You aim with the wii zapper and shoot for the enemies 
 or targets that appear and some are moving. Mostly you just stand still, but at some levels you 
 walk around as well. What separates this game from similar mini-games (in a good way) is the combo 
 you get. If you keep shooting the enemies or targets without missing you will get much more points 
 (first 30, then 2x30, then3x30...) . So the key is to keep your combo. However you can hit jars 
 or scarecrows or barrels without loosing your combo. In some jars there are diamond, which gives 
 you more points the faster you shoot them (maximum 1000) and fairies that gives you 1000p anyway.
 
  
  You might say that this game has little variety in gameplay, it is true, but on the other hand 
 it does have more variety than you could expect. You shoot enemies while you defend a carriage, 
 you shoot targets while riding Epona, you shoot skull heads that are tossed into the air, you sneak 
 around shooting skulltulas, there are even two boss fights.
  
  There are nine levels, each with three challenges. You get bronze medals on 20000p, silver on 40000p, 
 gold on 60000p and platinum on 80000p. You start with three levels available, but after that you 
 have to get a medal to unlock the next levels.
  
  The skill level is not that challenging. Personally It wasn't a single level I didn't get a medal 
 on first attempt. I even got gold medal on the final level on first attempt. However you might 
 come back to beat your own score, maybe try to get gold medal in all events (and later platinum 
 in all) or try to find the glitches. After some time it is not that challenging and you can take 
 the levels with more perfection (when you now the glitches and where the diamonds are) , however 
 even when you have all the platinum medals, you migth come back just to play it. It is a perfect 
 game if you want to play, but just have a few minutes.
  
  For one who have played TP, you will find Hyrule familiar (it is exactly the same) , and the music 
 is familiar, even some of th quests are familiar (like find and shoot all enemies in the hidden 
 village) . To fans like me, that is a plus.
  
  The games comes with the wii zapper. You might at first feel like I got the power when you hold 
 the wii zapper, but it isn't that important, in fact on the levels where you walk around, I prefer 
 to not use the zapper.
  
  So on this game, graphics is a plus and so is gameplay, but the shortness is a minus, it is also 
 to easy and there is a little lack of variety, but still it is a very good game, surprisingly good 
 in fact, and I will recommend trying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crash225
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  I think Link's Crossbow Training was a good game but it didn't last long enough. The single player 
 is short though it does have some replay value because the first time around you're mostly getting 
 bronze ans silver medals, once you start to know whats gonna hsppen next it's a lot easier to get 
 high scores. The multiplayer however, is great if you have three or four people (mabye it's just 
 me because I can beat all my friends at it but that's not the point) and it will go a long time 
 because no matter how many times you play even one single level, if you win, there's always someone 
 who just can't admit defeat and will challenge you again (and therefore you can beat them and rub 
 thier nose in it. hehehehe.....) . The fact that the zapper works with other full-games (Metroid 
 prime 3 isn't to easy with the zapper. Trust me, I tried and got my arse handed to me on a silver 
 platter by Meta Ridley.) is really nice and consisering the fact that the zapper (and crossbow-quest) 
 is only $25 it basically makes this game a must-buy item for all wii owners.
  
  Oh, and in regards to the title that also might be just m because ever since Twilight Princess 
 on death mountain when you had to fight the elder goron for the first time (not wearing iron boots) 
 and you get slapped into the wall with one smack, iv'e hated gorons a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felmo_07
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  As I have probably spent hundreds of dollars on the arcade shooting game, Point Blank, I was very 
 eager to get my hands on Nintendo's new wii zapper which comes bundled with Links crossbow training. 
 The design of the wii zapper is different to your ordinary point blank handgun as it is a two handed 
 gun which supports the wii-mote along with the nunchuck. The wii-mote is placed into the plastic 
 top of the gun and the nunchuck is placed into the handle so you can use it to control your character. 
 The reception of the gun itself has come under a great deal of criticism but I have to admit that 
 I like the new feel of this hardware. The gun feels more futuristic than a plain old handgun and 
 when you get down to playing LCT, you will feel that it is a better design than the traditional 
 handgun and that is quite easy to control after a while.
  
  Links Crossbow training is not a huge shooting game, but rather an introductory game for players 
 to get the feel of the wii zapper. In this game you play as Link in the Twilight Princess game, 
 where the levels are all based off the game. Your game play options are score attack, multiplayer 
 or practice. Score attack is the central component of the game as there are nine levels with three 
 different stages in each level. In these levels you get points for each target you hit and the 
 more consecutive targets the more points you will receive. The points that you earn determine what 
 medal you earn (bronze, silver, gold and platinum) . In each of three stages you will be given a 
 different game play to use. The first is known as target shooting as you are only controlling a 
 cursor and have to shoot as many targets as possible, just like in point blank. The second stage 
 is known as defender, where you are a stationary Link who must fend off as many enemies as possible. 
 The last stage is known as Ranger where you control Link with the nunchuck and try to shoot as 
 many enemies as possible. Multiplayer is where you and a different person compete against each 
 other by having separate turns in trying to obtain the highest score and then by passing the zapper 
 off to the next person to try to beat your opponent. Practice is where you play just one stage 
 out of the nine levels, and receive a score for each stage.
  
  LCT has a lot of great qualities. The most notably being that you will always feel challenged to 
 beat your high score over and over again. Also the Ranger stages in each level are the most enjoyable 
 as you do get to control Link and that it is not just another point and shoot level. The bad qualities 
 for LCT are that it is too short and at times a bit too easy. I got all platinum medals in about 
 five hours, which was a lot quicker than I expected. Also I do believe that Nintendo did fail on 
 the multiplayer option as there is no joint option. I understand that they didn't put that in because 
 there wouldn't have been two zappers, but that could have easily been fixed with another person 
 using just the wii-mote and nunchuck without the gun. Overall the wii zapper bundled with LCT was 
 pretty much what I was told it to be. Like every game it has its good points and its bad points, 
 but as I am a passionate shooting fan I will forgive the bad qualities. For only $50 (AUS) it is 
 actually a very good buy and you will have heaps of fun playing each stage over and over again 
 to try and reach a higher score. The only thing that may keep you away from this game is the shape 
 and style of the zapper. If you know that it will not suite your shooting needs then don't buy 
 this game, but don't write off the zapper based on every review so far as they are quite negative 
 to the zapper itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo1000
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 13, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  Its addictive
  Its great fun with both Wii Zapper and the remote on its own
  Decent score attack mode, collect different medals for certain scores
  Players who've played 
 Twilight Princess and loved it with love this mini-adventure too
  Ah, the sweet music and sound effects of Twilight Princess
  
  Cons:
  Just how Nintendo Power 
 put it, its just too darn short, and there totally correct
  Does it work better with the remote on its own? Maybe it does
  The multiplayer a poor
  Where's 
 a mission mode, Nintendo?
  Where's online scoreboards, Nintendo?
  Levels are just like them in Twilight Princess, no updated graphics
  Uninspired using a already 
 well-known franchise in my view, why didn't Nintendo try something new with the Zapper?
  
  When you talk about short games, then remember to always talk about Link's Crossbow Training. The 
 game has several levels, 27 stages and 9 levels to be precise. Each Level has 3 stages and after 
 playing these 3 stages the scores you got from all 3 are added together thus giving you a certain 
 score. Get a certain score and you'll be awarded with either a bronze, silver, gold or the best 
 of all platinum. After that there isn't really anything else. I should really remember that this 
 game isn't meant to be a full-blown game and is ideally a budget title at 20 ($24) with the Wii 
 Zapper. I'll talk about the Zapper later because it hasn't had the desired effect I was hoping 
 for. 
  
  Disappointing Nintendo
  There's a multiplayer mode, up to 4 players can play and you choose a certain stage then take turns 
 at getting the highest score, albeit I can't say its that much fun. When playing the multiplayer 
 mode you have to take turns by passing the Zapper around after your turn. I really do detest these 
 multiplayer modes (Particularly on the Wii) where you take turns, games like Warioware Smooth Moves 
 and Big Brain Academy have already demonstrated that this concept of playing with friend is tedious 
 and frustrating, especially when you have one remote and you have to pass it around to each other. 
 Why couldn't Nintendo make a mode where you could all play at the same time by having a cursor 
 each and then seeing whose fastest at shooting down the most targets? Presumably Nintendo couldn't 
 give a damn about added this feature and others too. Like an online scoreboard? Or a achievements 
 feature where you got a medal and then it could be sent to your Wii message board? How about a 
 mission mode where you had to do a range of tasks in a level for example? All of these missed opportunities 
 makes the whole feel defunct. Its feels dead and plain unoriginal. Its a shame the room for improvement 
 and overall potential is there, hence why this review is sooooo short.
  
  The Wii Zapper?
  I'm really not sure the Wii Zapper is great and lived up to what potential it 
 first had. I remember seeing it for the first at Nintendo's conference and I thought wow. Its not 
 like they've made a drab and lifeless gun attachment. I mean compared to the gun attachment Nintendo 
 unveiled in 2006, the Zapper looks brilliant. Mainly because its not just a handle on the end of 
 the remote but a proper innovative design. Out of all those mostly stupid and pointless accessories 
 and peripherals on the market the Zapper is the best. Its simple to put together and the wires 
 are hidden and don't get in your way.
  
  
  However using the Wii Zapper isn't necessarily that fun. It makes the cursor jerky and can be uncomfortable. 
 If I'm honest I'd rather use the remote and nunchuk separately, honestly. Giving the remote little 
 quick and subtle touches to move your crossbow hair is so more straightforward and simpler. Comfortable 
 and overall more convenient. What's bad though and which worries me is that Link's Crossbow Training 
 was meant to demonstrate the Wii Zapper's capabilities just as Wii Sports was produced to show 
 what the motion-sensing remote could do. That worked, however Link's Crossbow Training fails to 
 show why the Wii Zapper is needed. I'm sure though that a developer will crack the Wii Zapper's 
 potential sometime soon.
  
  Overall
  For 20 ($25) I wouldn't get the game. However you are getting the Wii's best accessory thrown 
 in with too which can be used with other games such as Umbrella Chronicles and Ghost Squad albeit 
 the Zapper feels inadequate when playing sometimes. However the amount of improvement potential 
 Link's Crossbow Training has is massive. Its not that difficult using the same environments from 
 an already made game then just adding a little mini time attack mode where you can get medals. 
 I feel as if it's a lazily developed Zelda game, which needs to be expanded on, I'm disappointed 
 really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair-of-Acre
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  When you hear about this you think... no good. But for only 20 this is amazing. While it isn't 
 what you expect from a zelda game the different modes make it great. Sure the aim is a little off, 
 but its fun and the Wii Zapper itself is very useful for other shooter games. One strange thing 
 to note is although its a Wii game it uses lefty Link's world aka Twilight Princess's GC world, 
 which is quite odd since its on the Wii. In Short, you have a Wii? Then without any doubts just 
 go ahead and buy it! 
  
  Graphics=7
  Sound=8
  Gameplay=8
  Lifespan=7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPS4L1F3
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun. When you go to Practice mode, there will be only 3 levels unlocked. There 
 are three areas in each level. 1-3 is like Resident Evil 4 style because the back view and the 
 running is just like Resident Evil 4. In some areas, you can't move and that's not cool but it's 
 still good anyways. In Score Attack, it's still the same thing as Practice but instead, you unlock 
 levels and each one of them gets harder. There is also multiplayer so your friends or your family 
 can join the fun. I haven't finished the whole game and I don't know much of this yet. The best 
 thing about this Wii Zapper is it can work with other shooting games too but im not sure if it 
 works with all of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheese_Wow
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Link's crossbow traning comes with the nifty little piece of plastic everyone knows as: The wii 
 Zapper. It is shaped to look like a tommy gun, but everyone knows this information so i'll just 
 cut to the chase shall i?
  
  Graphics 4/5: Legend of Zelda: Twilight princes..... Well.... if you played that game... you know 
 what to expect graphics wise out of this. Still a great looking game, i mean.. i'm not a graphix 
 hore! All in all good for a wii game.
  
  Sound 4/5: Wether you be in the town, forest, or desert, all the music that was in LoZ: TP is there. 
 Its actually quite good too. The sounds out of the wii mote are crappy like always but still, its 
 kinda cool because whenever you have a special ability active, the speaker will kind of hum in 
 an almost hypnotic way.
  
  Gameplay 5/5: Simple, yet addictive, you point at the screen and shoot... yup that simple :) . you'll 
 find yourself replaying these stages numberous times just for fun or to just try and beat that 
 high score *which sometimes seems impossible on the harder levels* but the 27 levels break down 
 into 3 catagories which are:
  
  Target practice: In this mode, you'll have to shoot at the bullseye at various targets, some of 
 them will pop up for a few moments before going back down, but if you managed to consecuatively 
 hit the targets, you multiply your score by whatever number that target was. (aka hit 2 targets 
 in a row, multiply by 2) . Diffrent colored targets are worth double than the normal colored ones, 
 and blue targets with X on them, deduct 100 points from your overall score. You move on rails in 
 this mode, but you can change the path you take by shooting various things in the backgrounds... i 
 still have yet to find out what these things are, but when i do, i'll make sure to post.
  
  Defenter: Not on rails this time, but think of yourself as a turrent that can turn in 360 degrees. 
 In this mode you be up against wave after wave of diffrent kinds of monsters. In later levels you'll 
 be going up against monsters that fly and monsters that walk at the same time. At some points you'll 
 find yourself surrounded, but if you shoot the little green butterfies in the sky, you'll get 100 
 rapid fire arrows, which... well, rapid fire (a la tommy gun anyone) . 
  
  Ranger: In this mode, instead of the enemies coming to you, you go to them! Tricky at first i'll 
 tell you that, but eventually (mabey after 2 or 3 run throughs) you'll be an expert at it. You 
 walk with the nun-chuck and aim and shoot like normal. You'll have a certain number of monsters 
 to take out, and they will fight back, which will deduct 100 points from you're over all score 
 if you get hit. I'll Tell you the truth right now, yes, it is much easier to play this mode if 
 you don't use the zapper, but its just not as fun anymore. and it kinda takes the challenge away 
 from it.
  
  replay value 5/5: just try not going back and playing these levels
  
  Tip: In any game mode shall you find yourself surrounded and unable to obtain rapid arrows, hold 
 down the B button and you'll get an explosive arrow. It can take down ALOT of enemies at once, 
 but it doesn't have the range of regular arrows, so keep that in mind. Also they don't have the 
 speed of a normal arrow, so you'll see them go through the sky first, then hit your enemy. i didn't 
 find out about the Explosive arrow until i beat all 27 levels.
  
  all in all the Game play is great, and this is a very fun pick up and play kind of game. Its short, 
 but hey, what do you expect out of a $20 dollar spin off, bundle game? If youhave a wii, are planning 
 on buying Rezindent evil: UC or Medal of honor: heroes 2, you may wanna pick up this little periphrial 
 device. It just makes it all the more fun to play. And as for the rumor about the crappy B button.... its 
 a lie, Mine is very respinsive and doesn't feel lagged at all, but then again, i did follow the 
 directions in the book on how to put the comtroller in it. But anyway back on topic Link's crossbow 
 training gets an 8/10 
  
  O=== [ ] ======  Reviewed by Sun Assassins 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panicos70
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  This game is a good laugh. I bought it to enjoy with the family over xmas and I think we will all 
 have fun. Because its quite easy to play the oldies and the youngsters will be able to enjoy the 
 game. The Mrs loves it and she isn't really a games player (though I am converting her ;) . The 
 graphics are a rehash of Zelda so nothing wrong there. As for the Zapper, it feels nice and sturdy 
 and very neat when everything is attached and the wires are but in the right place. When you compare 
 it to the monstrosity that is the new G-CON for the PS3, I think we can all agree it looks a lot 
 nicer. For 20 no one can really complain!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mao6542
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I admit I was not expecting much from this game at all due to obvious reasons that it simply came 
 with the gun and was a shorter game. However, after playing it, I realized I was enjoying it and 
 continued to play. After getting better and adjusting to the zapper, it seemed that higher scores 
 were within reach and became a mandatory thing for my personal agenda. It was not the longest game 
 but for an addition with an accessory... its not bad. One key element for me was the fact that the 
 platinum scores were NOT ridiculously out of reach which made it nice for total completion of the 
 game. Some shooters demand very high scores that make it easy to give up on, however Link's CT 
 did not. After receiving platinum scores on all stages, I was satisfied with not only my adaptation 
 to the zapper, but with the game itself. A solid buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Wow this Game took me by surprize. I thought some so so pack in Game but i been playing this Game 
 all weekend with my family. The Graphics are good and the Music everything works well the Wii Zapper 
 is a blast and for 20 bucks how can you go wrong. The shooting in Links CrossBow just a blast with 
 diffrent levels. True the Game is short but what fun my little Girl loves it and Plays it all the 
 time if Nintendo could do more games like this with the Zapper Gun the Wii would be fun again with 
 new life. So go out and buy Links CrossBow for 20 bucks with the Zapper Gun you cant go wrong lots 
 of fun for the whole family thanks Mars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  
  
  This is the best deal for a Wii accessory, you can't get more bang out of your buck than Link's 
 Crossbow Training with the Wii Zapper. 
  First of all the game is great, shooting with the zapper makes it very engaging and addictive especially 
 when you keep a combo going to get the highest score possible. The graphics are the same as Twilight 
 Princess as well as the sound everything you remember from TP is here. Nintendo chose the perfect 
 franchise for a shooting game. The game doesn't need to change anything except the replay value. 
 Like others would say, it is short. After I earned all platinum medals I wished there was more, 
 if the developers would've done that it would get a superb rating. 
  
  The Wii Zapper again is a great accessory. Simple design yet feels like a gun when playing with 
 it, all the grips are comfortable the only flaw is the nunchuk grip, the inside bottom part of 
 the grip is designed too sharp an edge making it uncomfortable sometimes for the bottom part of 
 your hand. After you keep playing with it you will eventually learn how to hold it without any 
 discomfort. Sometimes I even like to hold it with one hand. I hope there will be more great games 
 being developed for the Wii Zapper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noct
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Link's Crossbow Training is largely just a demo of how well games can utilize the Zapper peripheral 
 if they are designed around it from the get-go, but since it is a free pack-in, there is absolutely 
 nothing wrong with that.
  
  I have seen far too many complaints about how the game is too short or is easier to play without 
 the Zapper, when these points are completely irrelevant. Even if the big N had decided not to include 
 a game with the Zapper at all, many gamers (myself included) would still have bought the peripheral 
 regardless; I think Nintendo was just trying to follow the same success that they had bundling 
 WiiPlay with an extra Wiimote, but from a reverse perspective. Granted, the Zapper is certainly 
 not on the same level of quality as the Wiimote, but in my opinion the pack-in game here is quite 
 a bit better then WiiPlay, and is a whole lot less expensive as well. Also note that the Zapper 
 is not the pack-in here, the Zelda game is, which I think some people are not fully grasping. The 
 Zapper too I think is being widely misunderstood, but I'll get to that...
  
  At its core Link's Crossbow Training is simply a shooting gallery game ala Duck Hunt/Hogan's Alley, 
 but made infinitely more interesting with the use of the Zelda license, and some excellent additions 
 to the standard light gun gameplay of the past.
  
  On the licensing side of things, they simply could not have chosen a better mascot for this title 
 if they tried. I'm a bit surprised N didn't try to shoehorn Mario into this game instead, but thankfully 
 they gave it to Link and he is an absolutely perfect fit. You need a bit of a dramatic/serious 
 tone for a shooter to really be exciting, and Zelda titles tend to perfectly meld that with the 
 wholesome, cartoony goodness Nintendo is famous for. Simply put, this game works on both levels; 
 not only is it a fun and at times legitimately exciting shooter, it is also a welcome (albeit short) 
 addition to the Legend of Zelda series. 
  
  The gameplay itself is split into three main game types that repeat once for each level. The first 
 section is your standard shooting gallery type of game with targets that pop up right in front 
 of you. These sections vary a bit as the game goes forwards, generally by having the targets move 
 around or intermingling them with the prerequisite "bad" targets that you aren't supposed to shoot 
 at. Many of the later levels also include recognizable characters holding these targets making 
 you need to aim a bit more carefully so as not to shish-kabob a good guy.
  
  The second section has you engaging in 360 degrees of combat with actual enemies, and consequently, 
 it is a lot more exciting to play. Basically you stand in place and try to defend yourself as you 
 are attacked on all sides by the current generation of baddies trying to rid Hyrule of Link. Once 
 again, this is a challenge that ramps up as you go forward, starting out with slow-moving, one-shot 
 enemies, and eventually throwing more formidable foes your way with armor/shields or specific areas 
 that you must target to take them out. 
  
  The third and final section of each level is definitely the coolest part, and worthy of playing 
 the entire game just to experience. The game basically becomes Resident Evil 4, but in Link's universe. 
 These sections too have a ramping up of difficulty as the game progresses, but they are a blast 
 from the very first level, particularly if you are a fan of the Zelda franchise. Essentially they 
 just boil down to Link being dropped into a 3d environment with a set amount of creatures to eliminate 
 before the timer expires, but much like any Zelda title, there is such a great feel to the characters 
 and level design here that you will want to keep playing just to see what comes next. Without giving 
 too much away, I'll just say that these sections do eventually turn into full scale boss battles 
 that are almost as exciting as their counterparts in the actual Twilight Princess game.
  
  This game itself is rather shallow overall, but it does have a great amount of replayability due 
 to the medal earning aspects of the scoring system. You are awarded with score multipliers based 
 on consecutive hits, and your grand total of each section is added together into a final score 
 for each level. Each level has certain scoring requirements to earn the different medals, and your 
 Mii is rewarded with a little stack of triforce symbols for each medal that you have earned when 
 you return to the title screen. It's almost like a mini Xbox360 achievements type of thing, and 
 really adds to the replayability in my opinion. It also encourages you to explore more of what 
 can and cannot be destroyed with your crossbow in the game, as many of the little bits and pieces 
 of the scenery contain extra points to accumulate and sometimes even crossbow power-ups such as 
 rapid fire.
  
  There is also a simple but welcome multiplayer game here that I have seen taking some unfair criticism 
 in other reviews. Several reviewers have remarked about how they were disappointed that the game 
 is turned based rather then having you play simultaneously, but I have to argue with that perspective. 
 Apart from the fact that this game is based on using the Zapper, which you have to assume many 
 gamers will not have two of, much of the game involves moving around or rotating the screen 360 
 degrees. To have two-player simultaneous play would obviously have meant split-screen, which would 
 have really taken away from the game experience in my opinion. This is one of the few games that 
 has you constantly viewing your entire surroundings, including the air above your head, and that 
 field of view being limited would definitely have negative effects on the gameplay.
  
  On a side note, I just have to bring up Gamespot's own review by Aaron Thomas here. I have generally 
 agreed with most of his stuff in the past, but his "Bad" section on this title totally baffles 
 me... 
  1.) "Zapper doesn't really make the game much better"
  - Not only do I disagree with this, it doesn't make any sense... To my knowledge you can't buy 
 the game alone, so regardless of whether or not you prefer playing it with the Zapper, you have 
 the choice, so how is that a con?
  2.) "Can't calibrate aim enough"
  - While I won't argue that depending on your angle and distance from the screen you may need to 
 calibrate the aim to get it perfect, of the three "Zapper-friendly" games I have played thus far, 
 this one had the best accuracy hands down, and I honestly never calibrated it once.
  3.) "can't remap buttons"
  -Wha!?! Why would you want to remap the buttons? The game only uses 
 two buttons, and one of them is the trigger of the Zapper. So I ask again, Wha!?!?
  
  All in all, properly reviewing this title is a matter of perspective as far as I'm concerned. If 
 you view it as a FREE pack-in with a rather inexpensive peripheral then it is a great little game, 
 if you tried to review this as a stand alone title for full game price, then it would obviously 
 come up pretty short.
  
  I have to include a few remarks about the Zapper itself here too, since this game and the peripheral 
 are really just one product. I am seeing a lot of reviewers talking negatively about the Zapper 
 and I really don't understand where they are coming from. The two major complaints seem to be that 
 it isn't a real "light-gun", and that the games are easier to play without it. I have three incredibly 
 intelligent thought provoking words for all of you; so freaking what?!
  
  Nobody is selling this peripheral under the moniker of being a light gun, it's just a plastic shell 
 for the Wii to give shooting games more of an arcade light gun type of feel, and it definitely 
 does that. It's solidly made, it feels pretty comfortable once you get used to it, and it comes 
 with a free Zelda game to boot! Much like the cheesy plastic attachments that turn your Wiimote 
 into a baseball bat or golf club, it is more about adding a bit of a tactile feel to the game experience 
 then making your control "better". I was not under any impression when I bought the Zapper that 
 I would achieve higher scores with it; I just wanted my shooting games to feel more like I was 
 at the mall playing House of The Dead then pointing a remote at my TV, and it definitely does that. 
 I could get more accurate control with a gamepad then a Wiimote in some cases too, but it doesn't 
 make we want to stop playing the Wii. Much like the difference between a FPS on a console versus 
 a PC, you take a hit in the accuracy department to get a different gaming experience; I don't see 
 what is so hard for people to understand about that. I'm a pretty big virtual reality enthusiast 
 myself, and while there is no denying that games are easier to play with a standard tv and controller 
 then a head mounted display and a game glove, that doesn't make me lose interest in VR. It's all 
 about immersion, and the Zapper definately increases the immersion factor of a game.
  
  Anyway, my emotional outbursts not withstanding, Link's Crossbow Training is a nice little game, 
 especially when you only have to buy a $20 peripheral to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2009 10:45 am PT
Review:  I read gamespots review on this game and they said the wii zapper wasn't that great but the game 
 itself was fun. I totally disagree. The Zapper is what makes this game so fun and addicting. Without 
 the Wii Zapper this game is maybe worth the $20 price tag but with it I would probably pay double. 
 
  
  The game itself is like advanced duck hunt with Zelda quality graphics. It is great that Nintendo 
 actually included a game to demonstrate the zapper. Most companies would have just sold the peripheral 
 for $20. I would like to say thank you Nintendo for actually looking out for your fans and not 
 just trying to make a profit. Crossbow Training is ultimately like I said a demo but what do you 
 really expect for that price. The game is very fun especially if you and some friends are competing 
 for high scores. You can make it through the nine stages of the game in less than 2 hours but you 
 will more than likely play it a lot longer than that. This is the type of game you may not play 
 for a month and then your friend comes over and you will play for hours. There are not many games 
 that you can say that about. Oh yeah I thought the calibration worked just fine. Go buy a Wii zapper 
 you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  The Good: Is a great way to test out the Wii Zapper, has decent graphics, sound effects and controls, 
 is pretty addicting.
  
  The Bad: Is short and not very deep, the zapper isn't as impressive as you'd think.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  By itself, the Wii Zapper isn't very impressive. It's a plastic case where you can store a Wiimote 
 and Nunchuk in a way that sets them up to feel more like a gun. It's a bit more advance than the 
 stupid Wii Sports attachments, but about as useful. What really makes it worth paying $25 for an 
 attachment is the game Link's Crossbow Training, which comes bundled with the Zapper.
  
  The game is a pretty basic light gun style shooter like one you'd see in arcades. You have enemies 
 and/or targets appear on the screen and you must point your Zapper at them and fire. It's as simple 
 as that. The game's graphics and levels are inspired by segments from The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess, which launched for the Wii and GameCube last year, so some of the levels you may sware 
 you've seen before, and you probably have.
  
  There are three basic modes for Crossbow Training: single player where you simply unlock stages 
 by completing them, time attack for one player and a verses multiplayer mode where you must outscore 
 your opponent. The only thing kinda funny about the multiplayer is that if you buy another Zapper, 
 you'll get another copy of the game, but you really don't need that. 
  
  The Zapper itself is pretty responsive when it comes to shooting targets. Make sure you stand far 
 enough away where you won't interrupt the signal accidentally while playing, or else you could 
 really get messed up. 
  
  One good, but also unfortunate trait of this game is that it's a very easy pick up and play for 
 a few stages game, but that also means that you won't be getting a ton of gameplay out of this, 
 so don't expect to only play this once you get a Zapper.
  
  Overall, Link's Crossbow Training and the Wii Zapper are worth getting, but keep at mind that this 
 is just a taste of what shooters on the Wii could be like with this new periphrial.
  
  Gameplay: It's a standard light gun style shooter in the Legend of Zelda universe.
  
  Graphics: 
 Looks about as good as the Wii port of Twilight Princess.
  
  Sound: Good enough for what it is.
  
  Value: It's only $25 for a game and a Zapper, both of 
 which will be used a lot after a while.
  
  Final Thoughts: Rapid-Fire crossbow? Excellent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Popz3377
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Just alone the Wii Zapper is totally great and fun it helps out alot and is just simply fun to 
 use, playing with it is like playing an arcade game which is great and makes even the worst games 
 fun but with Links CrossBow Training this is the best thing that has came out for Wii! Is fun to 
 play because its great game play withsutable graphics. Its is also unbelievealbly fun to try and 
 beat your old high scores and get new medals! Not only is the game fun to play its great pratice 
 for using this very fun and cool Wii Zapper. This game this one of the many things to make all 
 Nintendo owners proud! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rustymilk24
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This controller cant work with most good games for the wii and if you try to play a game like re4 
 it will be impossible. the game it comes with is the worst part of it. none of it is fun. dont 
 waste 30 bucks on somthing that will just frustrate you. vsd bx hdfhdg dbdf g dfgd v fv v v v df 
 vd f d vd d v v v hj v v v hjvs vs vvb sd vs s d d sd vj vl usvsd vue v v s v vd v sjv ds vsjv 
 jsd vjsd v ds vsd v sd vdvsv s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6h05tly
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  In the E3 2006 Convention or later on, a Wii peripheral was displayed to the masses. It was the 
 Zapper add-on for the Wii remote that resembled the NES Zapper back in the day. At the 2007 E3 
 Nintendo Press Conference Nintendo unveiled the final design of the Wii Zapper and most of us were 
 scratching our heads on why Nintendo redesigned the peripheral. In November 2007 I bought the Wii 
 Zapper along with the game "Link's Crossbow Training" that came bundled with it and I must tell 
 you, it is a perfect way to enjoy the Wii Zapper. So without further ado, let me start the review
 
  
  Graphics:
  It's the same as Twilight Princess. In some levels you can see the polygon work on trees, mountains, 
 enemies, and other things when you get close to them. Nintendo should've polished this game a bit, 
 but despite this it's still stunning to look at, especially in the Desert and Snow areas.
  
  Sound:
  Most of the game's soundtrack was borrowed from Twilight Princess. Even though the 
 music is MIDI, it's probably the best MIDI music I've ever heard on any game, especially in the 
 Shootout, Snowpeak, City in the Sky, and Temple of Time levels. Thank you Koji Kondo, my favorite 
 VG music composer.
  
  Game Types:
  There are three game types: Target Shooting, Defender, and Ranger. In Target Shooting, you shoot 
 targets within the time limit: Red ones give you normal points, Gold ones give you more points, 
 and Bull's Eyes on red or gold targets give you even more points. Consecutive hits (which means 
 to shoot targets simultaneously without missing, giving you a combo until you miss your target) 
 give you more points while the Blue X targets, when it, will lose some of your points including 
 your combo. My rating for Target Shooting: 7.0 out of 10 since we've seen this all before in previous 
 target shooting games. In Defender, you shoot enemies within the time limit: Move the pointer to 
 aim and turn. Consecutive hits give you more points. If you get hit by an enemy, you lose points. 
 My rating for Defender: 8.0 out of 10 because it is just heart-pumping when there are enemies up 
 close and come after you very fast. And finally, in Ranger, you have to complete objectives in 
 certain stages. Control Link with the control stick (nunchuk) while aiming with the pointer. I 
 prefer to use the nunchuk without it attached to the Wii Zapper (which is optional since there 
 are two ways to play the Wii Zapper: nunchuk attached or separate to/from the Zapper) . And if you 
 succeed in killing all of your enemies, you'll earn a bonus (just like the other modes too I've 
 mentioned earlier) for your effort. And yeah, you'll earn consecutive hits if you precisely hit 
 your enemies. My rating for Ranger: 9.0 out of 10 since this will give you an idea of how first-person 
 shooters (or third-person perspective) will feel, but there is limited amount of button configuration 
 since you only use the B, C, and Z buttons, the pointer, and the control stick in Crossbow Training 
 since there aren't any nunchuk controls you can use in the game. (You can use the A button, but 
 that is used to pause the game.)
  
  Game Play:
  You can have up to 8 game files saved in this game. There are 9 levels, each level containing 3 
 stages = 27 stages all together. In order to unlock new levels, you need to earn a certain amount 
 of medals to access them, mostly by earning 20,000 points by the level's 3 stages combined, earning 
 you a bronze medal (40,000 will give you a silver medal and 60,000 for a gold one) . With so many 
 stages, most of them are pretty short, ranging from 60 to 90 seconds, and all of the stages are 
 timed. Just like I've mentioned earlier, if you shoot most or all of your targets before time runs 
 out, you'll earn bonus points (depending on how fast and accurate you shoot your targets will give 
 you more points) . In all of the stages you have unlimited arrows. But for Automatic Arrows, you 
 only have a limited amount of ammo and they shoot faster than regular arrows (good for shooting 
 many enemies and earning quick combos) . You can only get this by shooting flashing green enemies 
 and the maximum is 100 and they deplete very quickly, so shoot wisely. And finally, the Exploding 
 Arrows let you shoot enemies or targets instantly by holding the B button until your cursor turns 
 orange and then release to kill your targets quickly (if you are surrounded with a lot of enemies 
 during the heat of battle or want to rack up your score a bit) .
  
  Multiplayer:
  Up to four players can play in multiplayer, and you only need to use one Wii Zapper to play this 
 mode. Choose the stage and the number of players. You can either choose the Link Icons or you can 
 use your Mii as a data file. Unfortunately, the only thing the Mii avatar does is shows your stats 
 and won't appear in the game's stages (it's only purpose is for it to be displayed with your score 
 on the game's screen) other than Link. Once the player is done playing their round, he or she will 
 pass the Wii Zapper to the next player. Once the game set is finished, the results will show which 
 players won, earning them a star for their victory. Unfortunately the stars you've earned in multiplayer 
 won't be saved (as far as I know) to your Mii's file. This is good as a party game if you have 
 more people playing the multiplayer mode, which has a high replay value.
  
  Link's Crossbow Training's sole purpose is to let you get the hang of the Wii Zapper's control 
 mechanic and the game does a very good job doing it. You can play the game without the Wii Zapper, 
 but what's the point in doing that? Games like Medal of Honor and Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles 
 will help the Wii Zapper during the Wii's lifespan in the years to come. By the time you fully 
 master Link's Crossbow Training, you will also master the Wii Zapper and all its glory and innovation. 
 So aim, shoot, and have fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  I picked up my own WII Zapper on Black Friday, I really liked the idea of a controller attachement 
 that turns your normal WII controler into a machine gun type controller. I played Links Crossbow 
 training with the Zapper of course to see if it was worth my money. Well it sort of was the Zapper 
 itself is amazing and actually makes you fell like your playing an arcade rail shooter which isn't 
 bad. The huge let down is the Links crossbow training, and don't get me wrong I loved Twighlight 
 princess and I like how it's like a lost long mini game to Twighlight by incorperating baddies 
 and levels from Twighlight but thats where it stops it gets repetitve and boring pretty fast. I 
 recommend buying this but then buying the Umbrella Chronichles or Ghost Squad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_chub
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  The game itself is very basic. Nothing to be bragging about. It works well, looks good, and can 
 be relitivly challenging if you are trying to win the medals. But I would have to say, the zapper 
 itself it what is worth it. It is just another thing that adds to the fun side of playing video 
 games. I've been using the zapper with Medal of Honor, it just makes the game more fun. It would 
 be nice it Links Crossbow had some levels like the old-skool duck hunt, where it wasn't timed and 
 ends no matter what. Something that would let good players just keep playing as long as they can. 
 But it is a fun game no the less, much better then Wii Play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StL33T
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the Wii Zapper, I thought it would be a great way to enhance first person shooter 
 games, but after I looked up first release games for it, the controls and some gameplay just didn't 
 look like it was all that good.
  
  We all know that the Wii is only capable of motion sensing (atleast all the games have been that 
 way up till now) and its not the same as really aiming it, and we all understand that. However, 
 with a gadget like the wii zapper, you'd want it to be as close as it can get to real aiming, and 
 the adjust alignment may not make it exact, but still very very close. but it's still not aiming 
 like it was for the NES's Duckhunt. And becuase of this, aiming - moving your cursor to the target 
 is sometimes really frustrating and have to get used to
  
  The controls for the game are in a way pretty good but not a "8.0" standard. The trigger is in 
 the "B" button, infront of the gun... not the best place to put a it. You will almost never hold 
 a 2 handed gun with the trigger in the front. The Z button and the B button's function should be 
 switched around. Or atleast let the players decide that with more than one control scheme. 
  
  The wii zapper is to said to COMFORTABELY fit into someones hand in the feel of the gun... 
 not entirely true, I'm 14 years old and my hands aren't really big, about average, I have my left 
 front right back. the middle part of the zapper always gets in the way of my hands when i hold 
 it the way i want to, i have to position my hand a bit slanted and its very uncomfortable. holding 
 onto the wii zapper for a while doesnt only make your arms and hands tired, but also hurts.
  The wii zapper isnt all that good and nor is the game. it doesnt live up to the wat everyone says 
 it should
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRHYMENOCEROS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  The Wii Zapper is a handy accessory to have around. The Zapper itself makes FPS (First Person Shooter) 
 or any other type of game thats compatible with the Zapper a whole lot easier. For instance, games 
 like Medal of Honor Heroes 2 & Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles are compatible with the Wii Zapper, 
 and I and many other people have said that the game feels alot easier, and alot more realistic 
 with the Zapper. 
  In order to know if the game you are gonna purchase is compatible with the Zapper, then all you 
 have to do is check the back of the box. It will say if it is or isnt on the upper right hand corner 
 of the box, where it says how many players the game is, if you need the nunchuck, if it supports 
 a T. V. with a higher resolution, and/or if you can use the classic controller or not. The symbol 
 for it is obvious, all it is is a picture of the Zapper thats colored blue, like all the other 
 things in that corner. 
  Let's not forget that the only 20 dollar Wii accessory doesnt come alone, it comes packed in with 
 a free game. Links Crossbow Training is game that is basically a giant tutorial that shows you 
 how to use the Wii Zapper. The game is set in the same world as the Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 is. The game is packed in with over 27 different levels that you can play in, and it features characters 
 from Twilight Princess as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickmagnet_1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Just wanted to let everyone know that, although Gamestop is usually a great deal when it comes 
 to buying games - especially used titles (can't say that about trading them in) , DO NOT BUY THIS 
 FROM GAMESTOP!!!! It can just as easily be had for $5 cheaper from your local Walmart, Toys R Us, 
 and most other stores. I have no idea why, but Gamestop is selling the Wii Zapper for $24.99, while 
 every other place out there is selling it for $19.99. It doesn't make sense to waste $5, if you 
 don't have to. Now for my review. The Wii Zapper w/ Link's Crossbow Training is awesome!!!!! Don't 
 listen to the reviewers on this site when it comes to this $20 package. It is TOTALLY worth it. 
 Yes, it is a little short, but its not THAT short, and it is a total blast to play. Mario is another 
 awesome game, if you are looking for another wonderful title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woz46n2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Overall, the game is itself is a hell of a lot of fun. The zapper itself doesn't really help much. 
 I find shouldering it and looking down the controller was the best way for me to use it. But i 
 was really impressed how fun the game was, played for hours until my wrist hurt! Some of the levels 
 are extremely challenging. And you'll have fun going back trying to bump up your score on each 
 individual level.
  So get your butt to walmart and spend $20 so your wii will actually get some use, instead of just 
 being turned on occasionally for visitors to play tennis! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prolifikshadow
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  Chestnuts roasting on an open fire! O, sorry, I'm listening to Nat King Cole Christmas music. What 
 am I doing here? O yeah, Crossbow Training and the Zapper. Anyway, Its a great deal, you essentially 
 get a gun peripheral and a short game for 25$ bucks. Link's Crossbow Training is fun, addictive 
 and can get very difficult when you attempt to get platinum on every level. I've already spent 
 more time in this than Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam, which I've had since it released. As you can guess, 
 there is really no story. Your Link (obviously) perfecting your crossbow ability (again, obviously) . 
 You visit many familiar sights from Twilight Princess and they are accompanied by the incredible 
 Zelda music that we have come to love. There are about 9 levels I think, each level has 3 stages. 
 There are essentially three different modes of stages. You have your standard target practice, 
 where you shoot targets that pop up, targets on Goron's...... stomaches, etc. The other modes are 
 Defender and Ranger. In defender, you can move the camera by moving the Wii Zapper. In Ranger, 
 you can actually move Link with the control stick, and are asked to eliminate a certain amount 
 of enemies in a small amount of time. The Wii Zapper works great and is a great addition to any 
 Wii collection. Prolifikshadow, signing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dc456
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  When the announcement of the Wii zapper got out people got really exited for what it would bring 
 for Wii. But the fact that you got a free game with it was a bonus and a good starting point for 
 what shoud come for the future.
  
  The game is generally another shoot'em up, but that isn't necessarily a bad thing. Basically you 
 aim and then shoot the heck out of enemies seen in the Legend of Zelda: The Twilight Princess but 
 most of the time you'll just be shooting targets. Even though it sounds pretty dumb, the developers 
 made a good note of putting a 'ranger' mode for some of the levels. This is where you can actually 
 move around freely using the joystick and once agoin shooting with the B button.
  
  But as gamespot pointed out the game is very short, but even though it is right from the getgo 
 it sucks you in. And it isn't necessarily bad that it is because really after a while it gets old 
 so after you get bored of it whats the point in playing 10 more levels?
  
  Overall for $23 this is an amazing deal and if you are going to buy the Wii zapper don't be afraid 
 to play it certainly leaves you wanting to know how Wii game developers are going to eveolve this 
 idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starmetroid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I can't keep my hands off this game since I got it. It is similar to the shooting range in Wii 
 play except it goes a few steps further with ranger and defender mode. There are nine levels to 
 this game with three stages in each level the objective is to get as many points as possible to 
 get medals like in Wii play and Wii sports. In each level you have a target test, then a defender, 
 and finally a ranger mode or boss battle. This game also has a multiplayer mode where you take 
 turns with the zapper trying to get the best score in one of the levels. Though this game will 
 not last long it is insanely addictive and you will find yourself always trying to beat your high 
 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: console-deity
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  While Link's Crossbow Training isn't anything spectacular it's good for a little friendly competition 
 between you and close friends. The controls handle quite well, the levels are reasonably varied, 
 zapper fit's pretty well in your hand though it will cramp up a bit after a while. All and all 
 a decent buy for $20 (I got a better deal buy shopping around, normally most pay $25) . If you have 
 a wii and want something fresh to play with your friends this is worth it. I personally feel nintendo 
 could develop this into something more, it would take a little creativity but it could be done. 
 The zapper feels a little small to feel like a real gun so parents don't need to worry about that 
 aspect, besides this wouldn't teach a kid how to hold an MP5 and not break their wrists. If your 
 at all worried about it looking too much like a gun the game of course can still be played without 
 the zapper but that would really detract from this titles charm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chergesheimer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  The Wii Zapper itself, did not live up to the expectations. Its faulty handling gives you only 
 a slightly better grip. It does improve the shooting games, but you still have much trouble aiming. 
 The trigger to fire is on the front end, making it feel like your launching a grenade rather than 
 firing a crossbow bolt. The price is unreasonable because the controller is an unatural piece of 
 plastic that holds two controllers in place, and the game is very short. The controller represents 
 and is supposed to give you stabalized support, so you can aim better. It does, but not enough. 
 I believe it should have included an arm support, like the butt of a rifle. Too bad. It ahs been 
 very troublesome for me to aim because in light gun shooters, I usually calibrate the gun down 
 the sights and fire with my own accuracy, but this does not support you with calibration and you 
 only use it to stabilize the cursor. I found it very, very disappointing.
  
  The game on the other hand was decent. Really helps you practice with the zapper. There are interesting 
 levels, such as boss fights, target practice, and usual defender levels that include killing various 
 enemies from the Legend of Zelda game using the nunchuck to move Link in some of the games. All 
 the game levels and enemies are from the Legend of Zelda Twighlight Princess game. The games difficulty 
 increases throughout the levels making it more of an incite to win than simply accomplishing the 
 levels. Gamplay is fun with unlimited crossbow bolts, score multipliers with consecutive hits, 
 and a zoom option. I loved this game and reccomend it if you are a shooting fanatic. THANKS FOR 
 READING
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benwillis
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I picked up the zapper with the intention of playing Umbrella Chronicles and RE4, but found Link's 
 Crossbow Training to be a great, kid friendly intro to the zapper. There are several different 
 zappers on the market, but I was determined to stick with Nintendo's official version. None of 
 the other zappers have a game bundled, and it's definitely worth the $5-$10 more to get Nintendo's 
 product plus the game. Nintendo's zapper is superior to the competition, because you can access 
 all of the buttons on the remote and nun-chuck, so theoretically you could use it to play any Wii 
 game.
  
  Surprisingly, my 8 year old son didn't like the zapper, and just played Crossbow Training without 
 it. Personally I love it, I think it handles like a TMP (ala RE4) , especially when you get the 
 automatic, machine gun bonus. A side point: if you're a purist and are expecting a crossbow-like 
 feel in the game, don't. It is definitely more like a Uzi.
  
  Another surprise with the zapper was that I found myself playing "left handed" (with my left hand 
 on the trigger finger) , and I had great difficulty playing RE4 until I realized I had the controls 
 backwards. Using my right hand on the trigger made a world of difference.
  
  I'd recommend trying one out first to see if you like how it feels, but I'm really happy with it. 
 Another great Nintendo product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petercaviar01
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  at first i was just getting the wii zapper and not expecting the link crossbow training to be anything 
 good but i decided to try it out
  and it was really fun and challenging trying to keep the score multiplier up. i only played 3 levels 
 and its really easy to pick up and play first it shows you how to aim and then move the screen 
 by pointing the pointer near the end of the tv to move left to right and stuff and then the next 
 level lets you move link around which is easy
  
  there isnt any online play or ranking score to try get the best score against other people but 
 thats alright and theres multiplayer but not simeltaniously you gotta pass it on after your turn 
 is over 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii -- x360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Link's Crossbow Training is just fun. It's just a simple fun game that you'll spen hours on trying 
 to beat your highscores. You'll be sucked into the game literally in the first 5 minutes that you 
 start playing. Maks best use of the wii zapper. The game is short but in this case it's a good 
 thing because it gives you more time to try and beat your high score and find secret paths and 
 more. A game that you don't have to be Zelda fan to like this game. A great game that you will 
 suck you in and you'll have hours of fun. I would give a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KenpachiSama
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I'll give Gamespot credit for this comment, "You'll almost feel like the Zapper is the bonus here." 
 And that is so true! Link's Crossbow Training is the best and most addicting pack-in game since 
 the original Duck Hunt on the NES. Even though it's short and sweet, for what it is, Link's Crossbow 
 Training is one of the most fun games to come out on the Wii for just a quick round or game-play. 
 You will surely get through all the levels within an hour or two, but that doesn't mean you won't 
 go back and try to beat your old scores. And on top of that, you'll find yourself wanting to beat 
 your friends' scores when they outdo you (There is a built-in high score system that displays the 
 Mii face of the current leader.) . 
  
  In all sincerity, Link's Crossbow Training really is just like Duck Hunt, in a sense. You might 
 be playing the same game over and over again, but you don't mind. You just want to have the best 
 scores all around - and if that means playing for endless hours to get ahead of your friends or 
 just to get Platinum ratings on all the levels, then so be it. For $20, what more can you ask for? 
 Oh, yeah. There's a Zapper too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawq902
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This game, along with the Wii zapper, are a lot of fun. Links Crossbow Training is a challenging 
 game that is great to play with your friends and family. It's not complicated and the Wii zapper 
 is a great addition to help you steady your aim and maximize your fun. The only problem i have 
 with this game is that it is way to short, i blew through the first 6 or seven levels on my first 
 or second try. Although i am stuck right now i; m still having a blast going back and getting better 
 medals. Overall this game is great for the price, and a lot of fun for parties and stuff like that 
 (especially if you got a massive t. v.) wish i did) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendor
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  It's tottally worth the $24. It's just too too short. Holding the zapper is neat yet the B trigger 
 seems a little broken or light. 
  
  The good
  Nice control format. Great replayability. Great multiplayer. User friendly.
  
  The bad
  The 
 game is way way too easy, too too short, and the zapper can get your hand really tired. They also 
 don't even allow you to change difficulties. 
  
  But heck you get what you buy for and this is tottally worth it. Basiclly this is just a party 
 game, great for the up coming thanksgiving when your family comes toghther. It's a game you can 
 only really have fun with, with other people.
  
  Summery
  It's time crisis, it's an arcade game. Great multiplayer. GREAT MULTIPLAYER! And score system.
 
  
  Go and get it if you have the extra $24 in your pocket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prankinyou
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is a very pointless game that shouldn't even be played, but with the extra feature 
 of the "Wii Zapper" it's awesome. The first stages are based on The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, 
 wait they're all based on TP. The graphics still look great, you get to shoot an arrow into a Goron's, 
 rock type guys, crotch, and it's hilarious... This game isn't even worth playing unless you have 
 the nintendo Wii Zapper. This game has three types of modes: 
  
  Bullseye, Defender, and Ranger. Bullseye is when you fly around and shoot specific targets with 
 your triforce crossbow. Defender is when you pivot around and simply shoot your enemy's with the 
 crossbow. Ranger is the hardest to get when you first try it, I reccomend to take the nunchuk out 
 and use it like that. Ranger is when you move around and kill your enemy's.
  
  
  Spoiler: When you get to stage 8 and final stage, you get to fight some bosses form Twilight Princess. 
 That Black Knight guy and the Skeleton Boss from the desert Dungeon. Shoot it's hands!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaktiboi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  For a freebie mini-game tossed in with the reasonably-priced Wii Zapper, Link's Crossbow Training 
 is very fun and contains many hours of replay value. You start out with only 3 levels available 
 (with 3 different scenarios per level) , and must unlock the remaining 6 levels by earning at least 
 a bronze-medal score in the single-player point-scoring mode of the game. Some of the later levels 
 are surprisingly tough, so this isn't a cakewalk. All told, there are 27 very different, colorful, 
 interesting scenarios.
  
  The best part of the game is that you can share the single Wii Zapper among 2-4 people and have 
 a nice multi-player competition. It makes for a great couples game or party game. You can pick 
 any of the 27 scenarios that you've unlocked and see who can get the highest score.
  
  There's also a solo-based "practice" mode where you can play any one of the 27 scenarios that you've 
 unlocked so far, which is perfect for figuring out how to unlock the next level.
  
  Really, for $20 you can't go wrong with this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
