-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Looney Tunes: Acme Arsenal
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/looneytunesacme/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Finally, the Looney Tunes characters resort to violent gunplay.
 Two players can work through the story cooperatively.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Jumping gaps and activating switches is boring.
 Using the same few attacks on the same few enemies is also boring.
 The weapons really aren't all that great.
 Weak presentation barely tries to convey the Looney Tunes attitude.
 Control, collision, and camera problems result in lots of cheap deaths.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 2.9, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 103 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment
Developer: Red Tribe
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Oct 9, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dull, repetitive, and carelessly programmed don't even begin to sum up how crummy this action game 
 based on the Looney Tunes license is. 

  Looney Tunes: Acme Arsenal is a third-person action romp that blatantly borrows a number of concepts 
 from Sony's Ratchet &amp; Clank series. In a nutshell, you work your way through large 3D environments 
 and lay waste to the enemies you encounter using the characters' comical kung fu attacks or the 
 different Acme-inspired weapons that are available within each area. If you disregard the fact 
 that gun violence is very out of character for the Looney Tunes gang, then the game's biggest problem 
 is that it tries to copy Ratchet &amp; Clank but doesn't actually come anywhere close to delivering 
 the same amount of fun or variety that the typical Ratchet &amp; Clank game does. The action is 
 boring, and the presentation is half-hearted and almost devoid of humor. Furthermore, thanks to 
 the sloppy programming, the simple act of playing the game often feels like an exercise in frustration. 

           In Acme Arsenal, the Looney Tunes gang has guns and knows how to use them.      

  
 According to the story, a mysterious mad scientist has invented a time machine and sent his robot 
 goons back in time to eliminate the Looney Tunes characters' ancestors, which would erase Bugs 
 Bunny, Elmer Fudd, and the rest of the Looney gang from existence. Luckily, Bugs Bunny catches 
 wind of the plan and rallies the other toons, who decide to travel back in time to set things right. 
 The main mode is mission-based. In it, you run and jump your way through 3D environments that are 
 liberally populated with robotic adversaries. To dispatch these bad guys, you can get in close 
 and smack them with your melee attacks, or you can blast them from a distance with the different 
 weapons you've picked up. If you play alone, you can swap between the two characters involved in 
 the mission simply by tapping a button. However, if you connect a second controller, you and a 
 friend can control the characters individually and play through each mission cooperatively. There's 
 also a stand-alone battle mode, which lets you and your friends fight it out in multiple arenas 
 to see who is the top toon.  

  You'd think doling out violence with your favorite cartoon characters would be fun. Unfortunately, 
 every level employs the same boring mix of gap jumping and switch hunting, and the combat mainly 
 involves mindlessly mashing the buttons to perform the same melee combinations against the same 
 half-dozen robots that are recycled thousands of times throughout the game. You can collect vials 
 of a substance called illudium to make your character stronger, but that doesn't add any new attacks 
 to your repertoire. Likewise, the weapons don't do much to alleviate the monotony brought on by 
 all that sameness. They're effective at getting rid of enemies in a hurry, but, out of the 15 different 
 guns you can pick up, the only ones that aren't generic blasters are the flamethrower, the freeze 
 gun, and the extend-o-fist. You also don't get to run wild with them as often as you'd like. Few 
 enemies carry them. Instead, you usually have to bide your time until you come across a vending 
 machine, which will sell you one for an astronomical number of gold pieces. However, the joke's 
 on you, because the 20 or 30 shots in that gun probably won't last beyond the next cluster of enemies. 

  The presentation feels similarly phoned-in. Sure, the characters look like they're supposed to, 
 and the toon-shaded backgrounds look appropriate, but there's not much to see with regard to different 
 animations or environmental details. Once you've seen Bugs Bunny slam his guitar down and have 
 observed the embers being cast out of the fire pits, you've seen everything this game has to offer. 
 During the missions, the only real hints of Looney Tunes attitude you'll notice are the repetitive 
 one-liners that the characters utter when they're trading blows with the enemy. The prerecorded 
 scenes that are shown between missions do show the characters interacting with one another, but 
 the gags are nowhere near as funny as anything you'd see in an actual Looney Tunes or Merry Melodies 
 cartoon. Even on a technical level, the presentation fails. The muddy textures and simplistic terrain 
 features are at least four years behind the curve compared to other PlayStation 2 games. Except 
 for an increase in sharpness, the Xbox 360 and Wii versions of the game don't look any better. 

  In fact, the only noteworthy enhancement the Xbox 360 version of the game offers over its PS2 and 
 Wii counterparts is the ability to play through the story cooperatively with another person over 
 Xbox Live. That's not much of a bonus, considering how lifeless the whole experience is. It's also 
 rather silly that the battle mode in the Xbox 360 version is limited to local split-screen play 
 only, considering that the Xbox Live service is perfectly capable of handling four players and 
 the tiny arenas that the game dishes out.  

           It's like the developers quickly slapped together a crummy, generic action game, and then 
 tacked on the Looney Tunes license.      

  On top of everything else, the developers did a poor job of nailing down the controls, hit detection, 
 and camera. Shaking the Wii remote to deliver jabs and spin attacks takes a while to get used to, 
 but, generally speaking, the controls in all three versions simply entail repeatedly tapping the 
 buttons to jump, perform melee combos, and use weapons. If only playing the game really was just 
 that simple. First of all, aiming weapons is a pain, because the lock-on function has a tendency 
 to latch onto boxes just as often as an enemy. Secondly, the characters move like they have oil 
 on their feet. They slide all over the place! Combine that with the exaggerated follow-throughs 
 on most attacks and you'll frequently find yourself slipping off of ledges for no good reason. 
 It also doesn't help that you'll occasionally take a swing at an enemy only to pass right through 
 them, basically flinging yourself right off of the platform.  

  Above all, the most frustrating thing is how the camera tends to move at the worst possible moment. 
 It's bad enough that it never seems to pick a good angle in the first place, but you'll frequently 
 find yourself in the middle of a jump between two platforms when the camera decides to point at 
 something other than the platform you're trying to land on. Health refills and checkpoints are 
 plentiful, and you can continue as much as you like, so at least the shoddy programming doesn't 
 mean the game can't be beaten. Nevertheless, you'll have to endure lots of cheap deaths during 
 the roughly eight hours it takes to clear all of the missions contained within the game's 10 chapters. 

  Don't bother with Looney Tunes: Acme Arsenal, not even for kids who you think won't know any better. 
 It isn't fun, it certainly isn't funny, and the game's sketchier aspects are liable to fluster 
 anyone who plays it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SFCU
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I, like many others, thought I was going to be fighting Looney Tunes villians of all sorts in all 
 kinds of cool vehicles and awesome weapons.
  
  Sometimes things just don't turn out the way you want them to. Sometimes they are downright crappy. 
 This game is solid proof.
  
  Just a note, I've only played the Wii version. It, I'm sure, was the crappiest among the systems 
 it's on.
  
  When you are first getting to the main screen, pressing the Nunchuck the tiniest bit throws off 
 the center, so it drifts and makes menu selection impossible. It takes a keen eye to spot where 
 in the manuel it tells you how to fix this problem.
  
  Next is the ever-so changing difficulty. One second you're bored out of your wits, and the next 
 you're wondering if there's a way to get past this part. Rarely is there a time in between when 
 it's fun and gripping.
  
  There are several bugs in the game, such as a cutscene at the end of the level that was the repeat 
 of the opening cutscene, but the sound was apparently correct. So crappily done.
  
  Now, the controls. Where do I begin? First, there's the programmers' logic. They think, "This game 
 system is the most motion-oriented system on the market. Let's have our game be nothing but wrist 
 strain!" Yeah, no. Sorry. The most basic attacks are moving the Wiimote left or right, which only 
 75% of the time actually are picked up and the character responds. Then there's the Nunchuck. It's 
 motion is a quarter-turn left or right. It is the most complicated motion ever, in which less than 
 25% of the time it is recognized. And if you hold it in exactly the wrong place, your character 
 will spin uncontrollably.
  
  And now the camera. By holding down "Z" when you don't have a gun, it automatically centers the 
 camera behind you. Not so frustrating? Wrong. If you start moving it will constantly move behind 
 the character, moving the camera so much you get a seizure. And then there's when you are jumping 
 a particularily hard gap. It chooses just in the middle of the jump to shift, throwing off the 
 controls and veering you off in the completely wrong direction, almost always an instant death. 
 It just consistently is giving you the worst viewpoint possible.
  
  Then there are the invisible blocks and explosives. On one particular vehicle level (which are 
 a waste of time, by the way) , it took me about 10 tries to get around a certain blocked off area. 
 The obvious way was abstucted by an invisible wall, and I guess the designers thought it would 
 be obvious to jump between the gap too high for the camera to get a good look of. And on a couple 
 levels, you would walk along and suddenly, an explosion would knock loose coins, half your Illudium, 
 and a good portion of your health.
  
  And that's just the story mode. The multiplayer mode might be a fun experience for those first-time 
 players who are totally ignorant of the game's lack of everything, but looking deeper into it really 
 shows it's suckatude. All but 1 level was way to dark to see anything, and that got real old fast, 
 and it was really hard to navigate. There was no way to check the score without pausing and bringing 
 a complete stop to the action.
  
  This is only for those who can afford to spend thirty bucks for an hour and a half of fun and for 
 those Looney Tunes collectors who have to have everything Looney Tune. Otherwise, DO NOT BUY IT. 
 You may want to reconsider renting it or borrowing it. The Wii version of this game all out SUCKS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dunestar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  One of the hardest things with video games happens to be TV/Movie Tie-ins because, as we've known 
 in the Past: even if a TV/Movie is a hit, it doesn't necessarily mean it's gaming counterpart will 
 be.
  
  Case in point, Looney Tunes: ACME Arsenal by Warner Bros. Interactive. Think of Loons meets Super 
 Smash Bros. meets Zelda sans the puzzle-laden dungeons.
  
  The premise is rather simple: the Mad Scientist (dubbed Frankenbeans here) from the classic Chuck 
 Jones' short wants revenge on the Looney Tunes. In doing so, he decides on sending Eraser Bots 
 back through Time to 'rub out' their ancestors. Basically you play as Bugs, Daffy, Marvin, Foghorn, 
 Taz and Gossamer to foil Frankenbeans' scheme.
  
  Though Sylvester, Wile E. Coyote, Roadrunner and Tweety (as your Checkpoint indicator) have cameos, 
 it would've been nice if you could have selected them as well, but I suspect Warner Interactive 
 was on an astringent deadline.
  
  Anyway, the schematics of the game are simple: bash robots in all forms and fashions and deal with 
 some mid-bosses (based on some familiar Chuck Jones' villains) while also collecting cash for unlocking 
 new skins and ACME Weapontry to use against your foes.
  
  Along the way, you also collect a strange powerup called ACME Illudium Q-37, which when acquired 
 builds up your character's strength. With the Wii the fun part is moving the Wii Remote and twisting 
 the nunchuck in order for your guys to perform fancy moves and making spin jumps to cross longer 
 gaps. The thing is, you have to really practice this to get good, and the game does have a tutorial 
 for you to try out for getting used to the moves.
  
  Though the levels are repetitive at times, the game is fun, especially in one-player mode where 
 you can switch between two characters. Meaning if one dies (unless dropping into a bottomless pit) , 
 the other fills in until you can regenerate them at a checkpoint. Same applies when playing two 
 player.
  
  With two player, you can either choose horizontal or vertical split-screen, and the cool thing 
 is you no longer have to wait for your friend to find you. Whenever you hit a Checkpoint, your 
 friend automatically teleports with you.
  
  The reason I like ACME Arsenal is, it's a game you can just have fun with and play it whenever 
 you're not in the mood to recount what dungeon you were at, or what part of a mission you were 
 supposed to do later.
  
  But my beef here is this: Warner decided on using the classic 3D Camera engine from Super Mario 
 64. Meaning, you'll find some spots where the camera locks into place, thus making depth perception 
 rather difficult, if not frustrating. For instance, in one level you have to get Taz and Foghorn 
 up this volcano to a prehistoric version of a cage. The problem here is when you reach it, the 
 camera locks into a frontal view rather than allowing you to position it for determining the jump 
 better. And because it IS in 3D, your character doesn't exactly make straight jumps. Due to this, 
 you'll wonder if Warner Interactive designed LT: AA for being a two-player excursion.
  
  The Arena setting is great, reminscient of Smash Bros and Loons where you can fight against characters 
 in a free-for-all. Too bad , the guy behind Brawl didn't decide on using these guys as well. I'd 
 like to see the Wabbit and Duck pummel some plumbers and Snake.
  
  Overall, ACME Arsenal is a great game for passing the time with your Wii, and does offer some interesting 
 replayability with different character choices and costumes when you play it again.
  
  I'd definitely give this one worth a look. Despite the poor camera angling, this one actually is 
 fun to play around with. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
