-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Lost in Blue: Shipwrecked
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/adventure/lostinblueworkingtitle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good variety of fun minigames.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Constant, tedious focus on stat management.
 A few frustrating issues sabotage the fun of island exploration.
 Lousy graphics and sound.
 Lucy is a walking negative female stereotype.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 13, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.7, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 51 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Hudson Soft
Genre: Adventure
Date: Sep 23, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The pleasures of island life are cast away by constant frustrations in this tedious survival game. 
 

  From Daniel Defoe's 1719 novel  Robinson Crusoe  to the contemporary castaways of  Lost , stories 
 of island survival have long fired the human imagination. Throughout the course of three DS games, 
 Konami's Lost in Blue series has tried to tap into this primal experience, but the adventurous 
 elements have repeatedly been bogged down by tedious micromanagement. Now, Lost in Blue: Shipwrecked 
 brings the series to the Wii, but rather than representing a fresh start, the larger scale of this 
 iteration only serves to magnify the flaws that have plagued the earlier games.  

           Exploring the island involves an awful lot of walking up to ledges like this one to see 
 if you can scale them.      

  You play as Aidan Sanders, a 16-year-old child of privilege who escapes a sinking cruise ship with 
 his pet monkey Hobo and awakes to find himself on a tropical island. There, he must fend for himself, 
 scavenging the island for food and supplies with which he can build the makeshift tools he needs 
 to survive. It's not long before he's able to toss together a raft capable of taking him to another 
 nearby island, where he meets up with Lucy, another survivor of the shipwreck. The two of them 
 team up to explore the island and try to figure out how to get home. There are a few different 
 directions the story can go in, depending on your actions, but in general, there isn't much attention 
 paid to things like plot and character development. The focus here is on survival.  

  As you would expect, surviving on the islands is not easy. Unfortunately, it's also not much fun. 
 Your characters have food, water, and stamina levels, which are in a constant state of rapid decline. 
 You can rarely go for very long without resting, drinking, or eating, and you'll spend a great 
 deal of your time just catching fish or hunting land animals to prepare your meals rather than 
 exploring the island. And even considering the accelerated rate at which time passes, the amount 
 of food the characters need to consume to sustain themselves seems outrageous. A meal made from 
 four whole fish or from all the meat off a slaughtered wild boar might only fill Aidan or Lucy's 
 stomach roughly halfway. It's fitting that concerns about food, water, and sleep play an important 
 role in a game about life on an island, but Shipwrecked doesn't balance these concerns with the 
 other aspects in an enjoyable way. The unending focus on micromanaging your characters' stats quickly 
 grows tedious and drowns any enjoyment you might have found in the simple pleasures of island life. 
 If you manage to survive and progress, you'll eventually be able to build creature comforts for 
 your base camp, as well as more effective, durable tools that make your existence easier, but it's 
 a long, dreary struggle just to get to that point. Even then, these concerns are never put aside 
 for long.  

  Even when you are able to focus for a short while on island exploration, a number of frustrations 
 hobble what should be an enjoyable endeavor. You'll constantly need to scale ledges as you make 
 your way across the terrain, but with the camera positioned behind Aidan, it's often impossible 
 to tell if you can make your way down until you walk up to an edge, at which point he'll either 
 climb down or cry out in fear. There's a minimap that shows your immediate surroundings, but if 
 you get lost (which isn't difficult) , the map is useless for helping you find your way back to 
 base camp. Although you need to take Lucy with you on your expeditions for practical reasons -- you 
 can carry twice as much stuff if she's with you and push rocks with her help that Aidan can't budge 
 on his own -- she needs a lot of help. For example, you'll have to help her up or down from nearly 
 every ledge and across every jump, which really slows you down, making her seem like the embodiment 
 of a helpless female stereotype. (Absurdly, she also wears high heels as she hikes across the island.) 
 There should be an intrinsic pleasure to the experience of exploring -- of finding out what lies 
 beyond the next ridge -- but these issues make it more of a chore.  

  The one bright spot here is the slew of minigames, all of which make good use of the Wii's motion 
 controls and provide a much-needed diversion from the tedium of the game's other aspects. You'll 
 use the remote with the Nunchuk to harpoon fish, saw wood, tie logs together, flip cooking meat, 
 fan flames, row a raft, stay atop a stampeding bull, and much more. The games can be fun for a 
 while because their number and variety is impressive. However, these, too, can grow dull through 
 frequent repetition -- fishing and cooking in particular you might find yourself doing a lot more 
 than you would like. Some minigames can also be played cooperatively with a second player, which 
 works fine, but considering that the bulk of the game is for one player only, it's doubtful that 
 most players will get much use out of this option.  

  Visually, Lost in Blue is a total disappointment. The graphics look like something from five years 
 ago, with flat textures, simple character models, and no details or flourishes to help bring the 
 lush island environment to life. The sound is even worse. The music ranges from forgettable to 
 irritatingly repetitive, and the occasional use of voice acting only serves to distract because 
 you'll usually hear a character say only a portion of his or her printed text.  

           You'll get more than your fill of this cooking minigame.      

  Your adventure can 
 span across 101 days, each passing at the rate of an hour per minute, so even considering that 
 you can sleep entire days away, Lost in Blue can certainly keep you occupied for quite a while. 
 And once you're done, if you'd like, you can start all over as Lucy or play an unlockable mission-based 
 mode centered on a pair of supporting characters, but neither of these options improve the game 
 in any way. Surviving and making a life for yourself on a tropical island would be hard work, but 
 playing a game about it shouldn't be quite so hard. And while the island has its share of secrets 
 to be discovered, they're just not worth the effort. It's easier to eke out an existence on a tropical 
 island than it is to squeeze much enjoyment out of this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bleux33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  This game is good and hard. This game starts out hard then gets a little easy then hard again. 
 Lost in blue has a lot of minigames and a lot of collecting. At first you are going to wonder why 
 are they always hungry then you realize that the time in this game goes by very fast a minute is 
 like a second so it is about a minute for an hour in the game. you would have to collect supplies 
 so the game could get a little easier and sometimes you have to find the right supplies to pass 
 like once i can't make a supple rope then after about two days i found a supple vine to make it. 
 You can make alot of tools and recipes. You can make a bed shelf a house and you need alot of supplies 
 to make these. Some times there is a cut scene and your water, food, and stamina stuff will go 
 up or to full that helps a little. 
  
  If you like collecting and minigames you should try this game out it is about 30 bucks and the 
 manual is huge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fflover3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  This game is the 4th in the Lost in Blue Series, not including the 2 Survival Kids games, and still 
 needs some work.
  
  Like in every Lost in Blue, you play as a boy or girl, but your forced to play as a boy like Lost 
 in Blue 1 until a certain point. Your journey starts on a boat, where you notice a stupid girl 
 staying on a flaming ship for her dog, while you and your monkey get on a life boat, which you 
 fall off of.
  
  The first island you are on gives you everything you would ever need to live in the game, consdiering 
 everything is 2 seconds away from your overhang shelter. But that is misleading, because once you 
 get to the second where you meet stupid girl, it gets as hard as the original Lost in Blues.
  
  Your water meter goes down faster then in the DS games, and is usualy a pain since Lucy almost 
 goes through water twice as fast as you for no reason what so ever. The hunger also is annoying, 
 because unlike in the DS games, its ahrd to ignore the fact that when you have 0% hunger, you stop 
 every now and again for 5 seconds...
  
  At least your endurance meters do not drop like in the DS games, but food also only never gives 
 anything at fully cooked above a 35 or so.
  
  They made it easier, since there are 6 twig and stick trees, whih means fishing is harder, but 
 still twice as spammable (Three-four fish at once!) but they do not fill as much.
  
  Also hunting, or what I have seen so far, is a joke. You meet a respawning boar early in the game, 
 which you wack until it dies, unlike in the others, where hunting actually FELT like you were waiting 
 for that squel of a trapped boar.
  
  None-the-less, for a game priced at a DS game price, its pretty darn good. The graphics are not 
 stunning, but graphics barely ever matter, and the solid, repetive gameplay is still alive in strong. 
 Rent it if you can, see if you like it, then make a final choice. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
