-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 07
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/madden07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tons of motion-controlled moves that are responsive and intuitive.
 The new minigames are a blast with four players.
 All the features found in the GameCube version are present here.
 Awesome tutorial system that teaches you everything you need to know.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Graphics engine is getting a bit long in the tooth.
 Time to get some new commentators.
 Superstar mode still has a number of annoying issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.1, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,295 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Madden NFL 07 for the Wii isn't just a quick-and-dirty port. It's an excellent use of the Wii's 
 motion-sensing capabilities that revitalizes Madden in many ways. 

  One of the big complaints about sports games year after year is that they just don't change. Especially 
 in the last few years, EA's Madden NFL franchise has weathered the brunt of many of these complaints, 
 largely in light of the mild upgrades made to older console versions and the "tear it all down, 
 build it back up" approach the company took with its Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions. To some 
 extent, though, it all boils down to one question: How do you update football? The answer may very 
 well be found in Madden NFL 07 for the Wii. At first glance, this looks like a pretty basic port 
 of the older console iteration of Madden 07 released earlier in the year. But once you get your 
 hands on it, you'll find a highly revamped experience that makes great use of the Wii's unique 
 capabilities. And it's not just a few things here and there, either. Tons of the various moves 
 and actions of football are mapped to the motion-sensing controls, with largely positive results. 
 There are a few things that maybe don't work quite as well as they could, but by and large, Madden 
 on the Wii is a successful reenvisioning of how football is played on consoles.  

          Yeah, it's Madden all right, but Madden NFL 07 on the Wii takes the series in some crazy 
 new gameplay directions.     

  From the moment you boot up a game in Madden 07, you'll find a heaping helping of tutorials showing 
 you the basics of the game's controls through some of the familiar minicamp games. In fact, all 
 throughout Madden you'll find little tutorials about individual actions. Once you jump into a full-on 
 game for the first time, before each and every play, a new tutorial icon pops up in the upper right 
 corner, and by pressing a button, it'll bring you to a screen where it demonstrates a new action 
 and lets you try it out. It's a phenomenal system, especially since anyone who has ever played 
 a standard football game will need some adjustment to this new control scheme.  

  In most cases, the movements you make to perform an action in the game are completely intuitive. 
 To snap the ball, you flip the Wii Remote upward with a quick snap. To pass, you simply press the 
 button of the desired receiver, and flip the remote forward in a passing motion. When you're carrying 
 the ball, the Nunchuk acts as your body, while the remote acts as your arms. What this means is 
 that by tilting the Nunchuk from side to side, you'll juke in the appropriate direction, and by 
 tilting the remote from side to side, you'll perform a right or left stiff arm. Basic tackles are 
 handled by simply running into other players, but you can level them with big hits by holding down 
 the Z button and pushing both the remote and the Nunchuk forward. Kicks are handled by simply swinging 
 the remote upward after pressing the A button to start a kick.  

  These are just the basics, mind you. There are tons of motion-control moves to be found here, including 
 moves for lead blocking, catching, swiping at the ball, and pulling off various presnap offensive 
 and defensive moves. It's a complex system, but many of the moves are so easy to use that it becomes 
 second nature after a couple of games. For instance, even though it might seem counterintuitive 
 to use the D pad for receiver assignments, it's just as easy as it ever was with the normal button 
 assignments in other versions of Madden. The running moves are fantastic and feel completely natural. 
 The timing's a bit tricky in the early goings, but once you get a feel for it, it works like a 
 dream. Even better, the game actually brings up icons to signify when you're doing something right 
 or wrong with the running controls. If you're too late for a stiff arm, it tells you. It also occasionally 
 pulls off a "smart" move for you when it thinks it feels a tilt but you haven't necessarily moved 
 the controller over far enough to pull it off right.  

          Some of the new control systems can be a bit complicated, but many are quite intuitive. 
     

  That's not to suggest every move is perfect. Defensive moves don't always feel like they're registering 
 properly, especially the big hit move, and trying to figure out the timing for a manual catch for 
 an interception while playing on defense is an exercise in futility. The game also doesn't quite 
 overcome the hurdles of mapping pre-snap controls to this controller. To do just about any of these, 
 you have to point to a specific player on the field, and then a rather crazy map full of control 
 options pops up. It's easier on offense, since you can dictate when the ball is snapped and take 
 your time a bit more to sift through the options, but trying to pull off functions like the defensive 
 playmaker controls and line shifts can be a bit of a rush job with this interface, partially because 
 of the long list of functions, and partially because the remote pointer doesn't always go where 
 you want it to go. There's also a bit of weirdness with kicking from time to time. Getting the 
 timing down for kick power doesn't take long to figure out, but the controller also tracks the 
 angle slice, so if you have the controller turned too far one way or the other, you'll send it 
 in weird directions. However, even when you think you have it lined up perfectly, you'll sometimes 
 get a phantom slice that shouldn't be there.  

  These issues aside, Madden NFL 07 plays wonderfully. Despite the initial learning curve, it's an 
 accessible game of football overall, and it doesn't sacrifice any of the depth of the other console 
 versions. The full playbooks are there and are sorted in the usual way, but there's also an update 
 to the "by play type" playbook system included for newer players who don't know what an I-formation 
 or a zone blitz is. This new system specifically categorizes plays by easy-to-use terminology, 
 like "long pass," "inside run," or "deep pass D." These playbooks are also smaller, making them 
 a bit less daunting for newcomers. Ultimately, both casual and longtime players will be able to 
 find something to suit their needs, and with all the tutorials on hand and the largely responsive 
 controls, just about anybody who likes football ought to be able to have a great time with it. 
     

  If you're familiar at all with the recent entries in the Madden series, you'll find every feature 
 you've come to expect in Madden NFL 07. The franchise mode is mostly untouched from Madden NFL 
 06, with all the usual bells and whistles, such as the Tony Bruno radio show, newspaper headlines, 
 minicamp games, owner mode, and the like. The one new addition to the package involves rookie scouting. 
 You now have the option to play through the college all-star game and to run individual rookie 
 prospects through combined workouts to gain more statistical information about players prior to 
 the draft. Getting more involved in rookie scouting is always a plus, and both of these features 
 are a nice touch.  

          The new minigames are a blast to play with friends.     

  Superstar mode remains largely as it did last year in the PS2, Xbox, and GameCube versions of Madden, 
 letting you create your own rookie player and letting you play every game specifically as that 
 player for the length of a career. All the secondary concerns, like interviews, endorsements, movie 
 roles, and the like are here again, and they suffer from the same problems as last year too. The 
 same weird disconnects between what goes on in an interview versus the actual scenario you're in 
 tends to rear its head at times, and the amount of menu trudging you'll find yourself doing throughout 
 the mode is rather tedious.  

  However, one big, new addition to the mode makes it a significantly more compelling experience 
 than it was last year. The goal for the superstar mode is to get your player into the Hall of Fame 
 at the end of his career. Throughout your superstar's career, a menu will depict how far along 
 your player is toward establishing his legacy as one of the best of all time. Apart from just throwing 
 a lot of touchdown passes while playing as a quarterback, or intercepting a billion passes as a 
 defensive back, and so on and so forth, you also have to interact with your team and establish 
 a personality. You do this through various interviews, which give you specific answers that gear 
 you toward a team-minded player, or a Terrell Owens-like brat, as well as through a new influence 
 system. Every superstar has the ability to play certain roles on the field. These roles include 
 a field general for a quarterback, a possession receiver for a wide receiver, a rookie for -- you 
 guessed it -- a rookie, and so on.  

  These roles actually give you tangible bonuses and control over players on the field. A quarterback 
 using the field general role, for instance, can upgrade his passing accuracy rating as well as 
 the blocking ratings for his various offensive linemen. Another role he can take, the team leader, 
 lets him upgrade the awareness, injury, acceleration, and agility ratings for all the other offensive 
 players on the field. You gain these points by upping your influence rating. This rating goes up 
 or down based on what you do on the field. Make a huge completion for a first down, and you'll 
 get a nice bonus. Throw a lame interception that's returned for a touchdown, and it will drop through 
 the floor. It's a great and addictive system that actually makes you want to play through superstar 
 mode games rather than just simulate them. As annoying as some of the holdover problems from last 
 year's superstar mode still are, this year's mode is exponentially more fun to play with, thanks 
 almost exclusively to this feature.  

  Like the GameCube version of Madden NFL 07, Madden on the Wii lacks online play. However, in its 
 place you'll find a trio of multiplayer minigames that go a long way toward making up for that 
 one omission. The best one is two-on-two, a schoolyard-style game of football where two players 
 play offense and the other two play defense. You each get a set of plays to score as many touchdowns 
 as you can or to try to defend against the offense, respectively. The defensive player assigned 
 to the quarterback even has to count "Mississippis" before he can rush the QB, and the QB can send 
 signals via "buzzes" with the controller's rumble function by simply pressing A before the snap. 
 It's an ingenious little mode that's completely awesome when you've got a group of four players 
 huddled around playing. "YAC Attack" is another fun one, which has a full offensive squad going 
 up against a full defense. The goal here is not only to complete catches and score points, but 
 also to burn the opposing defense for as many yards as possible. Each time you run for extra yards, 
 points get taken away from the defense, and you get bonus points if you throw to the receiver that's 
 being covered by a player-controlled character versus a computer-controlled one. Defenses score 
 points by swatting away and intercepting passes. Less engaging is the kicking combine, a mode where 
 each player takes a turn kicking the ball for however many rounds are designated. Along the way, 
 the other players can drum on the controllers to try to turn the wind against the kicker. The problem 
 here is that the wind is almost always too effective, making it near impossible to get most of 
 your kicks off without ridiculous overcompensation. But even with kicking combine being less than 
 stellar, the other two games are so much fun that they make that one lemon irrelevant.  

          Madden looks good, but EA could stand to upgrade this engine quite a bit.     

  Unsurprisingly, 
 Madden on the Wii uses the same basic graphics engine that the series has been using for years 
 on older console platforms. To make a direct comparison, this version looks closest to the Xbox 
 version of the game, though maybe not quite as good overall. The game does support 480p resolution 
 and widescreen, and it looks quite good when viewed this way. Yet, these changes aside, this graphics 
 engine has been around for a long while, and it's not aging gracefully. The player models still 
 have a stunted, chunky look to them that seems like it should have been reworked long ago, and 
 while the basic animation looks solid, it could stand a bit of tweaking to get rid of some of the 
 obvious clipping problems that continually pop up. Audio also hasn't changed much in the last few 
 years. The soundtrack is filled to the brim with a mishmash of popular rock and hip-hop, and just 
 like in every other year, it's a wildly varied mix that doesn't gel at all -- not to mention that 
 some song choices, such as Spank Rock's "Backyard Betty," seem a little seedy for an E for Everyone 
 game, even with lyrical edits. Madden and Michaels are still recycling a lot of the same commentary 
 lines they have for the last couple of years, and the on-field effects still sound entirely decent. 

  At its best, Madden NFL 07 can feel revelatory, if only because it takes the existing Madden gameplay 
 and tweaks it nicely to work with the Wii technology. It would have been so easy to just cram in 
 some lousy, half-baked motion controls and call it a day, but it seems like some legitimate care 
 went into the updated design in this version of Madden. While there's certainly room to improve 
 on this debut, it's a wonderful start for the series on the Wii. Even if you've picked up other 
 editions of Madden this year, Madden on the Wii is absolutely worth playing, because it's a whole 
 different ballgame.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (90 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LOTR_conquest
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 2:34 am PT
Review:  The Wii and the PS3 both have a similar problem - whats the point in buying the games unless they're 
 made for the console.
  
  Let me explain:
  
  With the PS3 even though it has brilliant graphics they are only fully used for games made for 
 just the PS3, such as MGS4, otherwise it will probably be the X360 version with just slightly better 
 graphics. (and more expensive)
  
  With the Wii, games like Wii sports or excite truck use the Wii brilliantly so you can forgive 
 not brilliant graphics. The trouble is that games that have just been taken from the console will 
 not usually use much of the Wii's capabilities and will simply be a poorer graphics version of 
 the console game.
  
  Madden NFL 07 changes this completely
  
  The main layout of the game is pretty much the same as the console with franchise mode and superstar 
 mode (which is rather excellent) although there is a few Wii only mini games which are great fun 
 with friends.
  
  The brilliant thing about the game is it's control scheme. It takes full advantage of the Wii remote 
 and nunchuk while still making it playable. The moves work most of the time and it is great fun 
 playing.
  
  If you like sports games you WILL thoroughly enjoy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvdre
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I've tried to play Madden with a game controller on a PC and failed miserably. The Wii controller 
 is a much better way to play the game for the uninitiated. Hiking the ball, passing, running, kicking, 
 are all pretty intuitive. I still make dumb errors, but the game is very fun to play.
  
  The graphics are fine on the Wii ... not stellar but that is not why we have a Wii. The music is 
 the same old, tired Madden rock score. I just turn that way down.
  
  My biggest complaint is navigating into things like the Franchise mode, where there is no explanation 
 and I am left wondering how to get started. I can't start training camp because I lack a full roster. 
 But I can't figure out how to fill the roster. So for now, I am not using franchise mode.
  
  All of this is probably very obvious to Madden old-timers, but I am a newbie and I can't figure 
 it out. The manual is no help.
  
  The game is much easier to play in offensive mode than defense. I can't seem to do much yet on 
 defense. The computer's AI makes most of my tackles. Gradually, I am sure I can learn more. Right 
 now I play a defensive end and I try to rush the passer to no effect.
  
  On offense, though, I am getting the hang of running the ball, calling audibles and finding open 
 receivers. There is a steep learning curve, but it is learnable and a nice experience.
  
  In summary, the Wii version is newbie friendly. And I think the 2007 game, which is the first using 
 the Wii controllers, is a great choice given the cheap price you can find on eBay. Much more fun 
 for your dollar than the later versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 555fabulous21
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  With a new and improve gaming experience, no one goes wrong playing this game. With minor flaws 
 such as dealing with the wii remote and nun-chuck, this game still is an energetic phenomenon. 
 Plus, great mini games for not only you but a friend of yours can also play. Not to mention the 
 great matches you could play with awesome plays and interesting maneuvers. I say buy it at any 
 price and it will be worth it to the end. Especially if you are a NFL fan! I'm never going to sell 
 mine and hope for an even better one in the future. I am also telling you, you wont be disappointed. 
 For those of you who have trouble playing this game, I recommend you spacing yourself and getting 
 a bigger television. Plus, take your time when playing, so you don't do something you will regret. 
 That is all I have to say, thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ukdeaddog
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 is a great game, i give it 8.5. The motion control scheme works great and are very 
 easy to pick up for first time Madden NFL players and yet can be more complex for advanced players. 
 The difficulty as in any sports game can be differed to match your playing ability.
  
  The graphics are pretty good and playing career can be great fun but as well just jumping into 
 a quick match can be fun to.
  This game is great for multi player, for the matches and especially the mini games, my favorite 
 mini game is 2 minute challenge were you have as the name suggests you have 2 minutes to score 
 as many points as possible
  
  I thoroughly enjoyed this game and i believe anyone who enjoys sports games will too.
  
  It 
 doesn't cost to much i got my copy for $25.00
  
  Because of all of this i believe that this madden is the best in the series.
  
  Overall a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 brings the venerable sports title to the Wii with great success. All of the motion controls 
 feel like they should have been thought up years ago as it makes gameplay easier. What I don't 
 like however, is that the game is too deep for my tastes and tries to get you to dive in at every 
 opportunity.
  
  First off, as mentioned before and time and time again, the Wii and Madden go hand in hand. There 
 is a motion for every thing, be it a stiff arm, the snap, or smacking a ball away from a receiver, 
 most actions are done via gestures. And it feels smooth, oh so smooth... with one exception. I 
 never could get my player to catch balls via hand motion. Wether bad timing, facing the wrong way, 
 or just doing it wrong, i don't know.
  
  Sound is held tightly together, with proper and clear sounds coming from the Wii-mote, a good licensed 
 soundtrack, and good commentary. Also, nothing environmental gets in the way, which is always thankful 
 in my book. 
  
  Graphically, player faces look somewhat distorted and blocky, but animations and flybys run smoothly 
 with no drop in frame rate. Nothing exciting, but more than what I had seen on previous football 
 games on Nintnendo systems. 
  
  My biggest gripe about the game is that when you try to play franchise mode, you're thrown a bunch 
 of stats to keep track of and deals to make to obtain players and keep morale on the team high. 
 While this may be a football fan's dream, it is WAY too deep for me to care about. All I want to 
 do is play each week and get the team to the super bowl. I don't care how much money I'm paying 
 someone, just let me play the actual game. 
  
  Also, do not confuse this with Madden 08, as this version doesn't have online support. It does, 
 however, use the weather channel on your Wii to give real-time representation of stadiums on the 
 field based on your current conditions.
  
  Football fans, rejoice, the football simulation game you've dreamed of is here, but casual fans 
 may want to stick to the mini-games and training sessions as well as the "play now" option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 is a great sports game for the Wii. It has great interactive controls and great football 
 action. The controls are easy to learn and multiplayer is very fun. The commentary isn't very good 
 though, but honestly who gives. The game is quality football, that what really matters. This game 
 is worth every penny. This one is also better than Madden 08 so it's good all around. Buy this 
 game if you like realistic, interactive, fun, multiplayer and exciting football. Thats what this 
 game is all about. Buy this game for fun and for a great addition for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Gingersnaps
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 for the wii is a good game the reason i rated it so hish for a madden game is its on 
 the wii. the controls are awsome when they work. the graphics are just a hare better than PS2 i 
 know that because i have it for the PS2 also. but the camara in superstar mode is annoying as ****. 
 i don't like where this mode is going so far, but, i like where the football games on the wii is 
 going next near i hop it will be even better. mutiplayer is so much fun though i wish they had 
 online that would be awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Never_Fear
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 is the best game I've played on the Wii. I kept thinking that this equation, 'football+wii 
 controls=crap' was true, but it is the exact opposite. Wanna know why? Controls, graphics, and 
 just being able to sack the quarterback. I could stop right there, but I will continue to give 
 you a more detailed description.
  
  Controls - Plugging in the nunchuk to the Wii Remote will start you on your amazing trip through 
 07. To move around, you use the nunchuk's control stick. To throw the ball, whip the Wii Remote. 
 To tackle, all you have to do is run up to someone. To tackle harder, push both the Wii Remote 
 and Nunchuk forwards at the same time. To choose a play, you just have to point and click with 
 the Wii Remote, or you can use a Madden Reccomendation.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are great. Not those little zoom-in's they do after a while, but zoomed 
 out, the game truly looks great.
  
  Playing The Game - Even if you don't know how to play Football, I would still play this. Know why? 
 Because that's what I did, and now I'm writing a good review on it. Anyways, playing the game is 
 the best. I could play for hours. It's really like playing actual football.
  
  So there you have it. Madden NFL 07 is probably the best game for the Wii.
  
  42...42,
  
 
  NEVER_FEAR! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 is the football game the franchise needs to began to bring some back from the heavy losses 
 due to 2K5. The gameplay is great. Its fast paced and the wii controls are great. The voice acting 
 is about the worst ive seen in the series, and if you want awesome graphics the wii isnt where 
 its at. For gameplay value though, the wii is for you and me. The sounds arent that great taking 
 more from the presentation. Youll forget about all that while you stiff arm and juke your way to 
 the in zone. Or your having to look and pass quick enough before you get sacked. Online multiplayer 
 hasnt come to nintendo yet either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenRunner0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 for the Wii is a good game, hitting the quickly growing stale and dull Madden/ NCAA/ 
 2K7 football games with a fresh set of Wii controls and and the like. While we're on controls, 
 let's talk about them... good. Many actions such as snapping the ball, passing, and juking are very 
 easy, quick to master and fun. However, some actions are very... different. Kicking works some of 
 the times other time you just throw out your arm trying to kick and end up with a 20% kick with 
 an 80 degree slice. Other such as trying to catch are very unresponsive and don't always work, 
 or like calling for the ball, are really very pointless. However, for a Wii game, this is a very 
 good looking game. Not a generic, blocky, GC game. But the game modes are lacking. Yes, Multi-player 
 is a blast but only for 2 people, 3-4 only hinder the game, and there is no online play. Also the 
 Franchise modes and Superstar modes are laced with long load times and Superstar mode is just too 
 damn hard at times. But overall, Madden NFL 07 for the Wii is much better than its X360 and PS3 
 counter-parts. Why? Because this game brought football games back to what they need, not amazing 
 graphics, but making it fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KenpachiSama
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Okay. First off, I've never been a huge fan of the Madden series, because in all honesty, they 
 are ALL the same game. With that aside, here's my review. Madden 07 on the Wii is almost an unbearable 
 game. The Wii control movements make the game fun for all of 5 minutes until you realized, Hey. 
 I'm not actually playing football. With the amount of glitches I experienced in the first few games 
 I played, I realized that EA likes to take a piece of you know what (unfinished, mind you) , wrap 
 it, and send it out for the public to dumbly buy. Nothing original at all. Players rising on the 
 field and walking through the crowd are not what I call a great simulation of what happens on a 
 real football field. Give me a break. If EA really cared about their product, they would actually 
 put more heart into it and make the game a better representation of what football is like. The 
 Maddens have been a disappoint for the past few years, and I don't expect the newer ones to be 
 any different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nghtcrwlr821
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  I've never liked football. I've always found it to be boring. But after I played Madden on he Wii 
 football has grown on me. The first thing you'll notice about Madden 07 are the brand new controls 
 specifically created for the Wii. You pass the ball by holding down one of the d-pad buttons or 
 the A button and flicking the Wii remote forward. Kicking is done by pressing A and moving the 
 Wii remote up as fast as you can. If you move the remote to the left or right you'll slice the 
 ball and send it curing to the left or right. Tackles are performed by either pressing the B button 
 or thrusting the Wii remote and nunchuk forward. If you hold down Z and do this you'll do a more 
 powerful tackle. The new controls really make the game feel new and fresh and it's a lot of fun 
 to boot. Madden 07 also hosts a bevy of features to get your football on. There is a new Learn 
 Madden mode that will teach you how to play Madden with the new controls. The tutorials are very 
 simple to understand and you'll never find yourself confused with doing them. The franchise mode 
 is back if you want to go deep into a simulated football experience. There is also a Superstar: 
 Hall of Fame mode were you create yourself, pick your parents, and play some football. I found 
 this mode to be the most fun. You go through your training, get drafted, and work your way up from 
 a rookie to a household name. When your playing a game while in this mode you can choose to either 
 watch the game and only play when your player is out on the field or play the game like you normally 
 would, only switching to play only as your player when he's out on the field. There are also training 
 modes and mini game modes where you can play and get points to earn medals that give you points 
 to buy cards and cheat codes. If your a football fan (or not) you should really pick this game 
 up and give it try. The great controls have made football games fun again and has made them feel 
 new. I highly recommend this game to Wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcheek13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I love football games and I was so disappointed when EA bought out the license to make all the 
 NFL football games, I haven't played a Madden that I enjoyed... Until now Madden 07 for the WII 
 is so much fun it has a lot of modes and for a franchise that needed something like this it couldn't 
 come at a better time. The use of the WII Remote is perfect it makes the games a lot more enjoyable 
 and it makes the experience new and fresh. The addition of all the game modes that made old school 
 Madden great are back and so much fun, right now this game is cheap and a must have even if you 
 don't enjoy football games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d-ray12
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 14, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  This game definitly represents the madden company good. The game is so fun and can last a really 
 long time. The controls are just right their not to hard but not to easy. Also the gameplay is 
 one of the best times i've ever had playing madden. The only thing that i think they could've added 
 was online play, if they had added that then this game would be almost perfect. But since i've 
 heard that madden 08 will have online mode, i cant wait to go and reserve it. It makes me want 
 to buy this game again and get some practice in. I completely advise buying this game, and look 
 forward to what they have in store for the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORDMUFFIN1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  Well madden 07 originally came out for xbox ps2 DS and gcn. But this wasnt just a port. They took 
 the control scheme and made it fit wiis intuitive gameplay.
  The graphics received and update as so did the players and rosters. When you play Madden 07 for 
 wii it sucks you into the game causing a more in depth experiance. The teams uniforms received an 
 update too and the game is more fun now. The football throwing controls and the jukes, spins and 
 dives are fun to complete. So if you are a wii owner and love good games this is a must buy! O ya 
 Madden rules!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: areslizard
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 17, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  Madden 07 on the wii adds a great twist two the game through having to move to make thing happen. 
 I love how it is desinged and how every thing works there are no glitchs at all. The kicking is 
 a little hard but after five to six kicks you begin to get used to it. The throwing is extremly 
 easy to catch on to and it works really well. You go from the hike you pull the remote and the 
 nunchuck back and the play begins. you look around and you have a guy wide open the letter over 
 his head is A. You hold a and thrust the wii remote forward. Bang your QB throws the ball and its 
 going down the field bang your guy catchs the ball. bang you get control of him. You thrust the 
 nunchuck sidways to juke the guy infront of you. You than start to much the nuchuck and the wii 
 remote as fast as you can to speed up. You than run itno the inzone for the touchdown. Heck yes 
 you scored now to kick the extra point, but wait it is a fake you run it in for two, yes. This 
 is just brief little segmant of the game and how you play it. If you get it have fun playing it. 
 This is a great fun game. I give it a 9.2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DuNN-
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 14, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  The basic gameplay, exhibition is great, but as always there are many errors in this game. For 
 example, I intercept a pass my team looks disappointed while the other team looks like they won 
 the superbowl. The game is really great especially when you have friends over, with so many different 
 game modes from Multiplayer Mini-games like 2 on 2 or Yac Attack or kicking field goal contests, 
 rushing attack, and much more. Signle player is pretty good to when you got franchise mode and 
 superstar mode (my favorite) . A great part of the game is the FreeMotion controls, which just make 
 you feel like an NFL superstar making the deep catch or throwing the deep ball. And like always 
 you get the announcers off on almost every play I throw for a TD and you hear And it gets picked 
 off or some other craziness.
  
  -DuNN- Quick Wiiview #2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srbbnd
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  So I have played Madden 07 on PS3, XBox, 360 and so on. On the 360 and PS3 the graphics are off 
 the hook. On the Wii not so much... However, after picking this game up for $30 bucks at Wally World 
 I was pleasantly surprised after I learned the controls. At first I was a little upset by the difficulty 
 in doing big hits, interceptions, field goals and basically with everything. After I got used to 
 it the game became extremely addictive, because of the difficulty and difference. The Wii controls 
 are an innovation to the Madden series and I cannot wait to get my hands on 08. Field goals are 
 the best change. The difficulty is so tuff that you can longer rely to make them 95% of the time 
 like you do on other systems. The ability to pump up the crowd by moving the controllers up and 
 down is just one of the sweet options. The controls are not perfect and do not always read well, 
 but it is new and a fresh concept. Graphics are slightly better than the regular XBox which is 
 nice, but come nowhere close to the PS3 or 360.
  
  The other flaw is no online game play... All I can say is lame.
  
  However, this is one of the 
 rare occasions where the Wii controllers make this sports game the BEST on the Wii. Highly addictive 
 and fun this is a must have for anyone with a Wii and breathes life into the pre-historic Madden 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigmick07
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 13, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This Madden game is revolutionary in the fact that it offers a completly new control scheme than 
 the classic controls. The graphics of course are nothing compared to the 360 or PS3 but they do 
 look a bit better than the PS2 and original xbox. The Wii-mote just feels right as you are gunning 
 a pass into the corner of the end zone or if you are stiff arming off an oncoming linebacker. Everything 
 just seems to work well. You have the usual 30 season dynasty, Superstar Hall of Fame mode, practice 
 (which has been changed to my great dislike, where you can't just select a random play everytime) , 
 game situation, and of course a play now mode. But the wii edition adds 3 new modes. 2-2 which 
 is my favorite specially with a friend, Y. A. C. which is similiar to 2-2, and some sort of kicking 
 competition but isn't that fun. The 2-2 mode is absolutly amazing and is really fun. Overall its 
 the same madden with awesome new controls and a few new mini-games, but this is the madden to buy 
 if yo own multiple systems. Also the Music is what you would expect from a madden game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: missonrs
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 5, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  For all you FootBall Fans out there you might want to get a wii then this game Because the controls 
 are easy to learn and fun i mean really fun. Even for people who are not football fans and hate 
 foot ball this game wii make you into a football fan. Its fun to block, kick the ball, shove players 
 to the side, and throw the ball. I used to hate football video games to be honest but now i love 
 them. If you suck go to training mode because its not some stupid boring training its fun and helps 
 you learn to play the game. Overall the game is one of the best wii games to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_Papi7
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 gives an amazing impact on the Nintendo Wii, and does a great job of using the Wii remote 
 motion-sensing controls. It feels as though you are really making the moves, and it is more fun 
 than ever before. The plain old button clicking is over, because now you can enjoy the gameplay 
 of the Nintendo Wii football playing. Its not just all hype, the game is just plain amazing. If 
 you rent this game, you will probably just want to go out and buy the game right away. Countless 
 hours will be spent playing this game right when you get started, as this addicting game is fun 
 in all ways possible.
  
  The NFL Superstar mode is probably the best parts of the games. It gives more detail than the Madden 
 06 version, and also bases it all around your player. If your player is in, then the camera will 
 zoom in, and focus on your player. This just makes the gameplay even better. Also, with lead-blocking 
 control, you can really bust out great runs, and make terrific, memorable plays.
  
  The mini-games are a new, and enjoyable fun part to the game. The Madden 07 mini-games are different 
 than all the others, making it extremely fun, and also enables you to enhance your skills for the 
 real games. They will help you make you better in almost all positions, having a mini-game that 
 has wide-receiver trying to make great catches, and also the cornerback block the passes.
  
  Multiplayer is another great part of the game, especially for a system like the Nintendo Wii. 
 The motion-sensing controls make you more into the game, and really make the games more competitive. 
 It's just great, and extremely enjoyable.
  
  The graphics aren't disappointing, but I won't exactly say they're a lot better than the Madden 
 06 version. Now, this isn't even something to worry about or doubt yourself on, because the graphics 
 are just fine. They have progressed, and the gameplay just makes up for everything in the game. 
 All in all, Madden 07 is a great, and extremely fun game. If you don't already own this game, I 
 would seriously put a lot of thought in adding this amazing game to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarherolover
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 26, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  I have never really been a fan of football. Until now. I just rented madden NFL 07 for the heck 
 of it. But, after using the great wii controls, I discovered: this game is actully great. This 
 actully wanted me to try other madden games..... not just is the control scheme great, also the 
 graphics, and just the design around the game must have been so focused. Madden NFL 07 is a great 
 buy for any wii owner, and a must-buy for any football fantic out there who owns a wii. Madden 
 NFL 07 gets an 8.8 out of 10 for me. And, even though it is not a 9.0, this game gets a guitarherolover's 
 choice award! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carlitonsp
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I am not a sports fan, and the fact that I liked this game should show you how good it is. This 
 game has the most inversive, and innovation of any sports game, you swing the Wii-mote to Throw, 
 strafe with the chuck and mote to dodge, and the controls are just make the game more fun than 
 any other version, but be warned, there is a deep learning curve since you have to remember how 
 to do certain moves. Now, you probably should know something about football if you're going to 
 play, since the plays are kind of hard to understand unless you know about them. The graphics are 
 about as good as how they are on the Gamecube, which is dumb, since the Wii has more power than 
 the GC, and they could have at least beefed up the graphics a bit. The audio in terms of the football 
 itself, is actually very good, but the announcers are boring, and the background music is so quiet, 
 that you can barely hear it, but that's probably a good thing since a lot of the music sucks. This 
 game does not have any main stream things, I was not able to find any type of season gameplay, 
 but the multiplayer options are really fun, and the main game can keep you addicted for a while, 
 depending on your interest in football. This is the best version of the game, and if you're a Madden 
 fan, you should buy this version of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 11, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  WARNING I do not know a whole lot about the game of football so I might miss some key features 
 of this game without realizing it.
  
  Well Madden NFL 07. Never would I buy this on anything but the Wii. Why you ask? Well I played 
 the PS2 version and it just kinda felt crappy to me. I found the controls frustrating and annoying 
 that you had to be a football expert to actually understand the game. Fortunately that is not so 
 much the case for the Wii version of 07 and after I had first heard about it I thought well okay 
 maybe I'll start getting sports games.
  
  First up is the gameplay. It is very much pick up and play with little explaination needed. Although 
 the tutorial can greatly help. You move using the nunchuck's analog stick and sprint by holding 
 the Z shoulder button. The Wiimote is used to pass by making a throwing motion. It's very responsive 
 almost like hitting a button in mid air. Pushing the Wiimote to the side will preform a stiff arm 
 and doing the same with the nunchuck will result in a juke.
  
  Graphics in the Wii version prove several things. The two biggest things are that one, launch titles 
 lack a lot of quality, and that just because it has last gen graphics doesn't mean that the game 
 is bad. In fact in spite of the graphics it's the highest rated version of this years NFL games. 
 Some small details are nice such as wheather and stadiums but it's nothing that hasn't been seen 
 before. Touchdown HD-less.
  
  The game's sound is there and is good. There are a large number of licensed tracks to customize 
 your own playlist although SD card support would have been nice. The Wiimote speaker is used and 
 has a nice feel to it. Hearing your guys scream orders at each other righ beofre a big play gives 
 a sense of realism.
  
  Thanks to a multi-player mode which can go up to 4 players (in a two on two game) you can play 
 this with your friends right before the big game or after. Whatever makes you happy. The replay 
 value is increased by the create a team, fan, and player modes which can unfortunately take up 
 hours of your life but your team will be unstoppable. For obvious reasons there was no online anything 
 in it so I'll cut it some slack there. Also it uses the Whether Channel to create the conditions 
 of our local stadium if you choose to do so. Supposedly the announcers also talk about what happens 
 on the News Channel but I have yet to hear it.
  
  Now the bad. It's just a football game and the graphics are a Wii bit lacking but for a launch 
 title it's pretty solid. Hopefully the few problems in 07 will be addressed in 08. But unlike 08, 
 07 features the Pittsburgh Steelers from Super Bowl XL so they have a chance of winning their games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LHBlast
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 5, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 for the Wii is a great use of the Wii's motion controls. It is great for multiplayer 
 play. The superstar and franchise mode can get a little boring at times, but don't get me wrong, 
 this game is amazing. The music is amazing, the gameplay is great, and the storyline is great. 
 Madden 07 is great for when friends come over. It's a great use of the Wii remote and Nunchuck. 
 I love the unlockables too, even though I don't use them as often. If you like to watch or play 
 football, this is the game for you.
  
  WARNING: This game can be highly addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Np_Pro
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 12, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  To throw, select the receiver and throw. Throw fast for a bullet, slow for a lob, and somewhere 
 in between for a nice average toss. Moving the Wii-mote right and left makes you stiff arm. Doing 
 the same with the Nunchuk makes you juke. Swat with the Wii-mote to swat a pass. Lift up both controllers 
 to help make a catch. Thrust them forwards for a diving tackle, and drum them to break a tackle. 
 OK, I think thats most of the free motion moves in Madden. They all work. Thats the beauty of it. 
 The graphics disappoint, but as I say about all Wii games, they are good enough to understand what 
 is going on, and thats all that really matters. This game is easy enough to pick up and play with 
 your friends or against the computer. Its fun. Go play it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DojoKanooJoto
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Best football series on the wii. I think this is better on the wii instead of the 360. It is more 
 interactive but it takes a while to master it. Superstar mode is really hard for every position. 
 Franchise mode is the best. The best thing about franchise mode in my opinion is the newspapers 
 and radio segments. Thing is the radio segment is usually him saying that more than 5 players made 
 a milestone. And the interview is usually with Bill Cowher. If you play the game a lot I guarentee 
 you will lose weight and will tire you out. I usually play games for an hour I only played this 
 game for a 1/2 hour cause I felt like I was going to have a heart attack. Overall great game and 
 if you want a game that is fun and you don't care about graphics than this is the best game for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reidwii1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  madden 07 for the wii was the way madden gameplay got rejuvenated
  
  GAME PLAY: the game play is with out a doubt the best part of the game! so much different from 
 all other consoles, and really ,... better! lets start with offense, the throwing of the ball... 
 is awsome! u don't even half to make a throwing motion if u dont want to. u can simply do a sword 
 slash as if u were playing the legend of Zelda TP! The running and plowing into people are pretty 
 much the same, but when u thrust forword.. it feels real good! the one thing I have to complain 
 about is the kicking... u dont know what to expect, it could be 100% or 5%! and u wouldn't know 
 it...
  
  Lets go to defense. The basic feel is satisfying. u obviously run the same, but when u thrust to 
 tackle... that just seperates the game from other consoles... its real fun to make interceptions 
 as well! The franchise mode and other modes work the same if not better for this! It is arguably 
 the best multiplayer game out there for the wii, up to the date i'm writing this. The gameplay 
 definetly saved a for sure spot for nintendo in madden, and thats something we couldnt say about 
 the Game cube version...
  
  GRAPHICS: the graphics are over all better than the previous generation of consoles (Xbox, Ps2, Game 
 Cube) but ya, u guessed it... it isnt up there with its rivals, none other than X360, and Ps3.. 
 but the on field affects are good enough to not notice it, the shadowing of the field is definetly 
 better than last generation... now... i will be blunt... what the heck are the coaches supposed 
 to be? I look at them from the side lines and Lovie Smith and the Browns coach look like monkeys! 
 and I am the furthest thing from raceist! That part of the graphics are just awful! They should 
 change that in 08.. but next year I bet the creators will use the supposedly 3 times better than 
 GC graphics! and than we just might be able to compare to the opposing forces
  
  SOUND: They read my mind, half of the songs are what I like, Taking Back Sunday and a few other 
 bands! great. Now the onfield action is the exact same as the GC version, solid no better or worse
 
  
  VALUE: the beauty of it is... u don't have to to like football! if u want an innovative experience, 
 this along with many others is the game to go to
  
  08 will be better and that's hard to believe! i'm reidwii1, check out my other reviews.... till 
 next time... later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mesayni
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  Madden's always been fun for me, because I love football and football video games are basically 
 like peanut butter and chocolate. But the knock is that they're basically the same thing year after 
 year, to which I've always had to justify by saying things like well this year, the Broncos don't 
 have Mike Anderson which means nothing to your random video gamer. But this year, EA Sports has 
 changed the franchise in a way that goes beyond simple name and stat changing, which I personally 
 never had a problem with. They've changed the franchise in a way that makes the Wii look like it 
 might actually make a difference in the videogame market. Besides the controls, the gameplay is 
 similar to how it's always been. Anyone who's played Madden before will be right at home here, 
 but the controls make this sense of home a bit less pronounced. This was a good thing for me, though, 
 and added to the fun considerably. Stiff arm with the wiimote, juke with the nunchuk, throw the 
 ball, kick by moving the wiimote, all are interesting ideas and mostly well-implemented. I had 
 troubles with kicking and throwing, but they didn't usually feel like control issues as much as 
 me issues. After all, I've never had to play Madden by actually throwing my controller. In the 
 end, though, I got just as addicted to this game as all the other Maddens since there was no sacrifice 
 in content. In fact, there are a few new Wii-exclusive 4-player modes which have added some lasting 
 replay value. After 3 seasons of winning the Super Bowl (as the Broncos, of course) I'm not really 
 motivated anymore but that still spells about 40 hours of gameplay which even at times broke up 
 my Twilight Princess game. Quite an accomplishment, though not one I'm sure I'm proud of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paparazzi00
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 2007 is a fabulous football simulatar. It is especially good for the wii due to various 
 reasons. First, it uses every component of the wii's great motion sensors. Next, it adds a whole 
 new dimention to sports gaming. In fact, you actually feel like you are in the game. Finally, it 
 adds a new twist to gaming. For ever now they have been making sports games after sports games 
 that just don't change, but this game is a whole different story. I highly recomend this game for 
 all gamers and sports lover. It is appropriate for about ages 7+ due to the actions you must use 
 to throw, kick, etc. As you can see this is a must have for all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lgdowner
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This was my first Madden game and Madden '07 didnt disappoint. Though the graphics arent the greatest 
 (about the same as a PS2) the gameplay completely makes up for it. The controls felt great on the 
 wiimote, and minus the 'big hit' tackling (which felt counter intuitive) throwing the ball and 
 kicking felt very natural.
  I felt the game was very addictive as I played franchise mode and attempted to take my team, the 
 Cincinnati Bengals, to the Super Bowl. The offensive and defensive playbooks offer a wide variety 
 of play options.
  Also, I gotta give props to the ability to switch to the no-huddle and call plays at the line of 
 scrimmage. Its a great buy, and a must for any football fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strieb
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  The game I'm talking about today is Madden NFL 07. Yep a sports game.
  Although I'm not really into sports game and even less in American Football, I just wanted to buy 
 this game. So off I went to the local games shop and bought it, putted it in my WII, put the lights 
 out and started for a long session of madden.
  
  The first thing that realy was cool about this game: You can select the mode with your WII mote!!! 
 Isn't that worth a 10 already? How many times could you do that in your live... Gameplay:
  The gameplay is just great, the controls work very well, the gameplay is pretty fast paced ( although 
 you get a rest after each down ofcourse ) its a deep gameplay and just plain fun! First I started 
 with the tutorials. The tutorials are realy handy and do their job perfectly, and if you ever forget 
 how to juke/stiff arm/sprint/whatever you can view the tutorials again. Even in the middle of a 
 game. Next I played a quick game, although I didn't know the american football rules they became 
 quite clear realy fast. And if I didn't know what play to pick (with the wii mote ofcourse ) I 
 could ask madden himself! How great is that? Well at least it works :)
  
  Let me explain how the controls work:
  First you select a play. Lets say short pass. Your army 
 of american football soldiers go and stand in the correct position, but with a few button presses 
 you can change a lot. This comes in handy if your opponent got a counter play. Than next you throw 
 the ball to your quaterback by flicking your wiimote backwards. You can now walk a bit with your 
 quater back and with a flick forward you can throw forward. When your runner gets close to the 
 ball you can catch it by lifting your controllers up and start running with the nunchuck. With 
 a small wiimote or nunchuck move you can juke and stiff arm. And with the C button you can defend 
 the ball. Ofcourse if you play good you go for the touchdown :) Also after you throwed the ball 
 to the quaterback you can actually change the play, like pressing a button to get your QB running 
 or pass it to the secondary reciever. As defender the controls are easy to. The gameplay and controls 
 are realy good.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are fine, its not realy special and from close the textures are pretty horrible. But 
 the characters and stadion look realy nice. Nothing special but solid here. But EA, next time better 
 graphics please :) The wii can do much better Sound:
  As usual in EA games the sound is good, licensed songs and nice stadion effects. The only bad thing 
 is the commentator, the first few hours its ok but after it gets realy repetive.
  
  Value:
  Believe me, this is worth your 50$. You can start seasons, play quick games, play realy 
 cool minigames, the multiplayer is cool, create your own hall of fame super star and more. And 
 as top of the mountain, you can collect cards of famous players, coaches and cheerleaders. Oh did 
 I mention the rare cheat cards that for example let you never miss the ball?
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Solid and fun, the difficulty is hard. Graphics: 7
  Solid, but the Wii can do 
 much better
  
  Sound: 8
  EA quality, nuff said.
  
  Value: 10
  This game will last for hours and hours.
  
  Total: 8.8
  
  Btw: Its my first review and 
 english is not my mother tongue. please comment me and rate my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingandCitizens
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Madden\'s controls honestly weren\'t that groundbreaking. They were fun but not much else was added 
 other than that, if anything at all. The multiplayer was amazing as usual. Although i probably 
 wouldnt have played it too much anyways, I think online would\'ve been a good addition. Nevertheless 
 the gameplay is good, and it seems that they really thought all the controls through. The graphics 
 weren\'t the best that we\'ve seen Madden in obviously, but they seemed much better thatn PS2. 
 I enjoyed the music and the sound effects from the big hits and the noises made on the field, they 
 were actually excellent. You will be playing this game alot but after a while it starts to get 
 old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_monsta12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 13, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 is a great game for the Wii. It really revolutionizes sports video games in the way 
 it is played. It's not like all the other ones, every year the same game but the teams get different 
 stats. It's not even just a port, they changed the game a lot.
  The gameplay in Madden is pretty simple, but complex too. The Wii-mote is used to do things like 
 hut the ball, throw to a receiver, call for a fair catch and deliver big hits. The buttons, on 
 the other hand, are used for changing into another person on defense, selecting a receiver, diving 
 for a tackle, and other things too. The controls take some getting used to, after your first two 
 or three games you should get them, but there are many different other things you can do that are 
 a little more complex. You can call audibles, try to strip the ball, etc. Overall though, the controls 
 are pretty simple.
  There are many different modes in Madden. There's the franchise mode, Hall of Fame mode, network 
 mode, minigames and more. When you first turn on the game, it will automatically take you to the 
 tutorials and teach you how to play. It takes about ten minutes to finish this, depending on how 
 many times you try each tutorial. A quick rundown on wach of the modes: Play now is a simple pick-up 
 game with a computer or your friends. Franchise mode is where you choose a team and go through 
 the season with them, and you get to set merchandise prices and stuff. Hall of Fame mode is where 
 you choose your parents and create your superstar, and take him through seasons trying to get to 
 the Hall of Fame. Network mode is something I havn't played yet, and I don't think I'm going to. 
 Then there's multiplayer and single player minigames, like rushing attack, the most fun one, where 
 you try to get you half-back to get a touchdown while the middle linebacker and safety try to stop 
 you. The graphics in Madden are pretty good, but has some glitches every now and then. The player 
 models are done pretty well, and the movements are appropriate. Sometimes though, when a player 
 is tackled, he randomly pops back into standing position and walks away. And when a player gets 
 injured, sometimes they hold the wrong part of their body. Like when Shaun Alexander appears to 
 have hurt his elbow, he's actually holding his stomach.
  The sound in this game is done well. They match what's going on in the game, and come out clearly. 
 The Wii-mote sounds could use some touch-ups, but all the same, it still sounds pretty good. Overall 
 Madden NFL 07 is a great game for the Nintendo Wii. It's gameplay is great, the graphics are done 
 okay and the sound sounds good. Any sports fans that own a Wii should check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  All I have to say is wow. Madden hasn't been this fresh and new since the 2002 version I played 
 on GCN!
  
  I have to say that I wasn't always a football fan. I never really got what plays to call, all the 
 rules, plus theres a lot of butt slapping between players! What is with that? Anyway I only played 
 Madden 92 for the SNES and I skipped it on N64. When I first got my GCN I was just wanted to give 
 everything a try and picked up Madden 02. I had so much fun with that game I became a football 
 fan from the sim rather then from watching the games. Now I do both. Madden has been stagnant for 
 several years now. The graphics have gotten a bit better here and there and they may add an option 
 here and there but it's still pretty much the same game. Most players can only take that for so 
 long, so i haven't played Madden since 05. Well with the Wii the opened up more play control options 
 and EA did it right. I feel like Tom Brady in my living room. Calling plays, picking recievers, 
 and hurling the ball (I have not broken an Wiimote like those other nimrods, just the the strap 
 on people!) . I also feel like Asante Samuel when I raise my Wiimote and intercept that jerk Peyton 
 Manning trying the throw deep to Harrison. yes the controls are spot on and you feel like you are 
 actually in the game. You can just sit and twitch your wrist around like a slug, but if you get 
 up and move around it's so much more fun. With multi players it's even more of a blast. There's 
 nothing better then trash taking your friends after a sack, interception, long run, or deep pass. 
 Mimicking the moves is just that much more fun!
  
  The sounds with in the game hasn't changed much, and the comentary is just as irrelivant then previous 
 Madden games. I do think that the soundtrack of bands has gotten much better. There is less rap 
 and more rock, and there are bands that most people actually know. The graphics aren't horrible, 
 but they aren't fantastic either. But that's what the Wii is built for. It's not about being pretty, 
 it's about being fun, and Madden does just that. This one will be in my library next to Zelda forever! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bambitheking
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  When I got Madden 07 for the Wii I expected a madden game same as everything else, but it was more 
 than that. It had new carrer type modes, Super Star and other things like minigames. Which alone 
 make games great. But then I played and realized the controls for the game. That added loads to 
 the fun of madden. To hut by jerking the wiimote back, and passing by throwing it forward. It makes 
 great controll of the wiimote. It is very enjoyable, not complicated in any way. Wheather playing 
 with a computer or a friend this game is simply amazing. I recomend it to all madden fans out their. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _rizzle_
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Being from the UK, we dont really hear much about the NFL or american football in general. I was 
 at first skeptical about this game since I have never really been interested in the previous titles. 
 However i found this game to be extremely good. Since I do not know much about this sport, i found 
 the game difficult. And I only purchased the game yesterday so I have not been able to test out 
 all the different functions. The sound track is great especially because i love hiphop. If your 
 fans of the series i am positive that you will enjoy your experience with this game, even if you 
 just a casual fan like myself, it should still be fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blahblah311
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  This is a Madden that you'll never want to put down. Past Maddens really dont appeal to me because 
 im not a very big madden fan. This is the funnest madden ever. The controls are what make this 
 game so fun. just the matter of how you have to get into the game and do the movements you have 
 to do. the only down side to the controls is how many there are i still have a hard time rembering 
 the controls myself and sometimes you press left on the d pad and it will throw to right which 
 drives me up a wall. Overall this game is a must have for wii owners who enjoy football even if 
 your casual about even my dad likes to play this game every so often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: friday04
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 26, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest, I haven't really given this game a fair shake. But since Wii Sports and Gears of 
 War take up so much of my time it's been hard to get in there and play. When I do play it, I find 
 myself getting flustered with the controls. I don't feel that it's as intuitive as it looked on 
 the videos. When I throw the ball, I want to throw in a direction. Instead, I have to use a directional 
 button for the receiver I want to throw to and then flick my wrist. The whole flick the wrist thing 
 is what throws this off for me. I really wanted a football game where I dropped back and threw 
 to the open receiver by sending the Wii Remote over my shoulder in a true throwing motion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnycobra15
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 26, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  The Good: A new system of controls where you feel like your acually playing a real life game of 
 football; Wii-exclusive mini-games are great way to learn the basics of Madden on the Wii, and 
 for some awesome multiplayer fun.
  
  The Bad: The graphics engine is beginning to show it flaws; learning the controls can take a long 
 time to get used to and could be very frustrating; it's time for EA SPORTS to either dub some new 
 commentary dialogue or get some new commentators.
  
  Overall, Madden on the Wii are a match made in Heaven, but the new control system is a challenge, 
 and graphics is getting old, but still, Madden NFL 07 on the Wii is still worth your $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbishrob04
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 22, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  i have never owned a football game in my life, i dont watch football while its on tv... but madden 
 for the wii is AWESOME.
  
  Gameplay: with the introduction of the wii remote to sports games, players are given the feeling 
 of being put into the game. the controls for this game are truely great... they may take a while 
 to get used to, but once you are you will agree that they add a new level of fun to the same ole 
 madden you've been playing for years.
  Graphics: surprisingly were alot better then i had expected. the game runs alot more smoothly then 
 that of the 360 version. yes the 360 version looks better... but given that most launch titles for 
 any system don't look all that special, this game holds its own.
  Sound: being a sports game there really isnt too much you should expect from the sound, pretty 
 standard for a footballs game... for what it is, the game sounds good.
  
  overall id give this game an 8.5. it succeeded in exactly what it intended to do... gain a larger 
 player audience, such as myself. this game is great fun and is one of the handful of wii launch 
 titles that i recommend every wii owner to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 19, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Pros: New motion controls are easy, intuitive and fun; great extra one-on-one minigames not found 
 in any other console version; solid soundtrack and voice acting
  
  Cons: Menus - before and during games - often freeze briefly; graphics are low-quality
  
  The 
 sturdy Madden football video game franchise long has been considered the best. But in recent years, 
 it has taken criticism for resting on its laurels and getting complacent  not anymore.
  
  The Wii version of Madden 07 is completely revamped. Yes, it's a port of the GameCube version, 
 but saying that doesn't do it justice. EA Sports created a completely separate division to handle 
 the conversion to motion controls for the Wii version, and it really shows.
  
  The old standbys are there - Franchise mode, Superstar mode, Madden Cards for achievements and 
 minicamp to hone your football skills. But it's the new additions that really make the Wii version 
 shine - and once you use the Wii remote to play Madden, button-mashing will seem prehistoric and 
 will never be as fulfilling again.
  
  Want to throw a pass? Make a throwing motion - the faster you do it, the faster the pass. Want 
 to stiff arm a defender? Stick your arm out the side for real and it happens on the screen.
  
  You even can practice your kicking at the in-game pause menu for as long as you want before 
 you do it for real in the game by swinging the remote upward. Kicking is the only halfway difficult 
 move to master - and with some practice, anyone can get the timing down.
  
  But the best part of the Wii version of Madden 07 is the multiplayer minigames that can be found 
 only in this version. You can play one-on-one against your friends - like pickup football. This 
 is remarkably fun and it alone is worth the price of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicX100
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 12, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Alright I am a BIG football fan and I play all the Madden game when it come out. Every year! And 
 Madden seem to lose it for a year or 2. Even the 360 and PS3 are the Madden game we are looking 
 for! And it seem it no hope left for Madden.
  Well...... that NOT true because the Wii Madden is the Madden game we are looking for!
  Madden 
 NFL 07 for the Wii is the best yet. Because it fun, the wii-mote bring the Madden Series to life, muitplayer 
 is really good, and the NEW Features on the Wii are good.
  But even there a lot a good thing. Sadly there are still bad sutff. : ( Like the wii-mote does being 
 the Madden series to life, but it kind of hard to learn, and the Graphics are on the bad side it 
 look worse then the Gamecube Madden, and the Wii can do better then that, and the NFL Superstar is 
 still not the good!
  But Madden NFL 07 for the Wii is the BEST one yet! But not yet perfect!
  Good: the wii-mote bring 
 the Madden series to life, Great Multiplayer, and the NEW Wii Features are GREAT!
  Bad: The Graphics look worse then the Gamecube Madden, It hard to learn to get into it it take a 
 hour or two, and the NFL Superstar still SUCK
  Overall, Madden NFL 07 is one of the MUST-BUY game for the Wii at launch!
  That why I give it 
 4 pigsink out of 5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walladude2
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  The new Madden has finally arrived! The new Nintendo Wii's version has some great spots, and some 
 spots that really need some work. The game's intuitive controls really make you feel like whatever 
 position you're playing. It also has great drills, and to get you used to the game, many tutorials. 
 On the other hand, it has some problems. The controls take a very long time getting used to, and 
 the graphics are not that great. If a reader was deciding to get this, I would suggest to rent 
 it first, just to get a feel for the controls, and from there, decide whether or not to buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii-man-23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Now, if you were to go back a year or so and draw up a list of games that could work well with 
 the prospect of the wii-mote, then i am sure that madden would be high upon most peoples lists! 
 This 2007 installment goes far beyond traditional madden, yet it still feels slightly stuck in 
 the past.
  
  Controls wise, this game looked set to really show off the wii's capabilities. The prospect of 
 maybe stepping into the Quarter back's role slightly more realistically was enough to make this 
 a hit on launch date - and fans were not disappointed. The main focus of the game is pretty much 
 identical to the previous installments of madden and it includes the same features - franchise, 
 mingames, multiplayer.. e. t. c. However, what makes Madden '07 on the Nintendo Wii so special is 
 it's revolutionary controls. This game sees you flicking the wiimote as the quarter back to send 
 the football soaring down the field. Or, it has you flicking and thrusting to perform a manor of 
 actions whilts running such as stiff arms, jukes and spins. Ofcourse, you control movement with 
 the analogue stick. Also, you need a steady yet powerful arm to be a top kicker in this game. The 
 power of your arm motion sets the power of the kick and the steadiness and stability of the wiimote 
 during this sets the accuracy and how mcuh you do or don't slice it. You can expect the same controls 
 apart from these seen on other maddens. For example, you use the d-pad and a button to set the 
 reciever and the b button ( or trigger ) allows you to dive tackle. Ofcourse, you can still call 
 audibles with the d-pad and other controls, but what is good with Madden '07 on the wii is the 
 new 'pointer' system. This is basically where instead of having to cycle through the entire team 
 just to get to one player, you can just move your on-screen cursor to your desired player and select 
 him. This is responsive and works well and is a great time saver!
  
  Graphics and sound now. Madden '07 looks the part but there seems no great improvvement on previous 
 titles. However, it is hard to pick faults. However, you can expect the same old commentary and 
 dull in game audio. This is slightly over looked by some catchy tunes found on the selection screens, 
 but you will rarely stop and take note of this!
  
  There is multiplayer and you can either play with or aginst a friend at a match of football (depending 
 on you having 2 nunchuks and wiimotes) or you can go for the new mulitlpayer minigames. Nothing 
 special here, but it is fun to try and beat your mates record of TDs scored in a minute, and so 
 on. Also, no online play here - no surprise really!
  
  Overall, Madden 2007 for the Wii is a great display of the wii's technology and compatability but 
 it kinda shows of how maybe Madden is getting a bit old now and could do with some new ideas! But, 
 the wiimote is a great start to a possible rejuvination of this well established and well followed 
 series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraZySeahorSe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Madden 2007 on the Wii is a fantastic game. Before release, there were many doubters among gamers 
 about how the Wii would handle sports games that took complicated controls like Madden does. However, 
 this game has certainly proved doubters wrong. The gameplay is revolutionary, using the 4 directions 
 on the d-pad and the A button to throw to recievers. Ofcourse, you also need to actually make the 
 throwing motion. Defensively, tackling is roughly the same but by extending both your arms, you 
 can make great tackles into vicioius, big hits. The Wii takes full control of the football experience 
 and brings you into the game so much more. The graphics certainly aren't that impressive, but they're 
 enough to not keep you looking away during all of the great new, close-up camera angles that are 
 used when desperate points in a game come. What really takes the Madden experience to a whole nother 
 level is the sound. Usually sounds in these games aren't as impressive but the speaker in the Wii 
 remote is used brilliantly. Hearing the quarterback yell the plays, hearing the strain from big 
 hits.... it's a great addition. Everything comes together pretty well for Madden on the Wii. The 
 multiplayer is that much more competitive and fun because of how into the game you become. You 
 honestly feel like it's you and your friend duking it out as the quarterback and a defensive player. 
 Madden NFL 2007, Wii style, is atleast a rent. If you've had it since release, then you know what 
 i'm talking about in this review. However, go out and atleast try this game. It won't let you down. 
 I give Madden NFL 2007 a 8.5/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crossbball
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  I think this game is really fun. There is a lot of action in the game, the hit stick is still a 
 good thing in the game to. I like the playing with the nunchucks because it makes doing stuff harder 
 and so you cant always relly on hitting some1 with the hit stick and if you miss they might get 
 a td. i also like the audibles that you can use. There is almost any audible to get around an offense 
 or an offese to get around a defenses pressure. Plus since you have to use the wii controller and 
 stuff to get to the audibles its the first game that you actually have to use a lot of the clock 
 to get to what you want out on the field. This game is really hard to get used to though because 
 you have to do everthing by your own motion. Interceptions are kinda easy in the game but deflections 
 are probably the hardest in the game. You cant deflect anything! Anther thing is the new blocking 
 system. Its alot of fun to be a blocker and lay someone out and making a break away run for your 
 running back. + there are alot of cool new blocks like wide recievers will take out peoples legs 
 and make them do flips and stuff. I think this game is really fun but you need to find the right 
 diffulcuty. I tried the 2nd diffuculty and threw for over 300 yards and 3 tds and maybe 1 int a 
 game everytime but on the 3rd difficulty it was like 200 and 1 td and 3 int a game so theres a 
 big difference there. OVerall it is a really fun game for anyone who knows the game of football. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bilich
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 2, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  So far the game has really impressed me, they really spent time in developing the controls to work 
 well with the Wii Scheme. It is honestly just a matter of doing to get things to work really well. 
 Something as simple as swinging your arm in the air to call for a fair catch is something I use 
 to explain how things are done right with this game.
  
  The passing sensitivity is pretty responsive when executing a lob or zip a ball towards a receiver. The 
 lead blocking is an interesting feature but sometimes the running backs don't go right to the hole 
 you have created, but it can surprise you on those occasions when it works.
  
  The only thing I have struggled with so far is being strong on defense I used to pride myself in 
 my ability to execute well and forcing 3 and outs. Rushing off the line takes a lot of work (a lot 
 more realistic though, some lineman are stronger then others) . Trying to catch the ball on defense 
 by tossing your hands up together is tough for me to do correctly maybe its just my timing so I 
 end up just swatting the ball down.
  
  This game is one of the best Madden experiences I have ever had and I recommend it to anyone that 
 ever enjoyed playing a Football video game. I haven't played '07 on the PS or the XBOX but I must 
 say at this point they would probably feel like '06. Once you play on the Wii there is no going 
 back to the old one game-pad control again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tombom159
Rating: 1.8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the worst out of all madden games. 07 has great grafics sure but what is with 
 the game play. 1. two many cut scenes during the game whats with all of them getting prepared it 
 waste time. 2. Story mode sucks all it is is the calender in the other one you had your own house. 
 3. story mode again whats with it zoomed on your charector i hate that you cant see anything and 
 you cant play as the person who catches it. 4. choosing plays not online but 2 players because 
 they can see the play your choosing. It's also to easy to run with the ball as a quarter back. 
 All and all Madden 07 sucked bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jensen_slipknot
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is SO fun! The motion interacting makes it feel so real, like your playing with your 
 favorite teams. For example, to catch you raise both controllers, like you were really cathing 
 a ball. The graphics are the same as ps2 xbox and gamecube so it looks the same. Other than graphics 
 I think its the best madden yet. If you own a wii and love football go buy it, it doesnt matter 
 if youve played or not because its not just button mashing anymore. So if you dont wanna play real 
 football this is the next best thing. Once again, if you own a wii and love football GO BUY IT! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOMIE_G64
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  The Madden series is probably the longest running football series to date, which earns it a huge 
 reputation (both good and bad) and high launch expectations. While Madden '07 for the Wii does 
 meet expectations, there are things which weigh it down.
  
  Gameplay:
  Almost all living Americans know how to play Football. For some reason, every Wii game manual is 
 about 10 pages and covers nothing, so if you DON'T know how to play football, this might not appeal 
 to you. First of all, the tutorials teaches you how to play, but dosen't teach you how to strategize. 
 Unless you played for a High School football team or watch football periodically, you will find 
 yourself getting sacked over and over again. You won't understand the word Hot route and you probably 
 don't know what audibles are. Otherwise, its just same old Madden (minus having the cone on default 
 settings) , but then again, its just same old football. The only changes worth noting are the the 
 controls and the accuracy bonus you gain with the cone (POV from '06) .
  
  Controls:
  These are terrible. Three words to sum up what I feel about the controls. Not only do they have 
 to map out all the functions that the Wii-mote dosen't have the buttons for, but they have to add 
 twists to them too. Now, the way you throw the ball depends on the way you move your 'mote. Kicking 
 is also pained with sensor errors. If you were looking for straight forward Madden this might take 
 a while to get used to.
  
  Madden is one of the greatest football game series in the world. The Wii version of it hasn't changed 
 it's trend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  First of all, when I sit down to play a Madden game, I expect to see some great graphics. There 
 are none in the Wii version. The game looks good, but it does even come close to the Xbox 360 version 
 that I had. Ok, graphics aside, everything else about the game is very good. The gameplay is made 
 even more fun than before because of the Wii controls. They are easy to learn, especially since 
 the game flashes hints at what you must do in certain situations. After a while, they do go away, 
 but you'll know all the moves by then.
  
  Throwing, putting on moves, stiff arms, waving for a fair catch, etc. are all done with excellent 
 Wiimote (and nunchuk) movements. Although the playbooks have been made simpler, there are still 
 many many plays to choose from. The running game has become more hands-on thanks to the bette controls 
 and to the lead blocking features. The passing game is fun, but can take some practice to master. 
 You simply use a throwing motion with the wiimote and press the D-pad to throw to a reciever. Each 
 reciever can be given hotroutes, out in motion, or kept in to pass block. The controls for the 
 QB are also nice, making it easy to call audibles, run the ball out of the pocket, throw the ball 
 away when under pressure, and take the snap, which only requires a quick snap of your wrist.
  
  The A. I. in the game is alright. I think it is improved over the 360 version, but there are 
 still times when the other team does odd things, such as when they try to kick an extra point or 
 FG and their kicker gets the snap instead of the place holder. The kicker just stands there, astonished 
 and bewildered before he gets dumped. It is a challenge to play good defense when controlling the 
 linebackers or D-backs. Controls allow precise movement and various tackling, jumping, swatting, 
 etc, but often times, the computer players get a step on you and then its over, they'll blow by 
 you and into the end zone. This may be a result of my poor choice in defensive play calling, however, 
 as I've learned to be more conservative and protect against the deep threat. The computer A. I. 
 will take advantage of you in you don't.
  
  There a lot of stats, and a very nice presentation, with newspapers, gameplans, weekly rundowns, 
 etc. The mini-games are fun too, and allow you to build stats of your players according to how 
 you perform.
  
  The sounds and music are good. You can change the music that plays (although I dont know if you 
 can add your own) . The sound effects are very good, and there are some nice little details in the 
 game, such as players animations after the play, helmets popping off, and many different animations 
 during the play on the field.
  
  There are several game modes. I am playing the Franchise mode, and it is pretty deep and offers 
 lots of options. You can micromanage things if you like, or let your coaches and the 'owner' do 
 their thing.
  
  For $49.99, you get all that you would get in the other versions except the pretty graphics and 
 multiplayer. There is no head-to-head play, something I don't miss. It packed with features and 
 is a good value.
  
  The main strength of the game is the control scheme and solid gameplay. The drawbacks are the average 
 graphics and some questionable A. I. at times. Overall, this is the best Madden football game I've 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for major updates to the look and feel of the game, the Nintendo Wii has got 
 something for you. EA Sports has updated their newest edition of Madden with new menu skins and 
 look of the superstar mode, but the biggest adjustment that everyone can guess is to add motion 
 play.
  
  To give you a taste of what the motion play includes, I will break it down by position.
  
  
 QB: You snap the controller upward to snap the ball. Hand-offs on running plays are still automatic, 
 but you still have to be prepared if you RB gets smacked before the handoff and the play turns 
 into a QB run. In terms of passing, you hold down the button of the receiver you wish to throw 
 to and move your arm in a downward arc motion as if you are really throwing the football. If you 
 wish to tuck and run, you hold the Z-button on the nunchuck controller to scramble from the pocket.
 
  
  RB: All of the same moves from previous games are there but with some new ways to do them. Turbo 
 is activated with the Z-button on the nunchuck. To stiff arm, you jerk the main controller left 
 or right. To juke, you jerk the nunchuck controller left or right. To double-juke and fake out 
 defenders, you jerk both controllers left or right. To break a tackle, you must swing the controllers 
 in opposite directions up and down.
  
  WR: Taking on the responsibility of receiving can be a difficult adjustment. You are given a route 
 and can stick to it or make changes. To fakeout a defender, you jerk the controller forward, backward, 
 left, or right to make a cut move. To catch the ball, you lift both controllers upward or dive 
 by hitting the B-button. If you are not in position to make a catch, you can swat the ball by swinging 
 the controller downward.
  
  Defense: To really cream the ball-carrier, you hold the Z-button and thrust both controllers forward. 
 To add a little of a tackle boost, you simply thrust both controllers forward. To strip the ball, 
 you thrust forward and pull back with the main controller. Swatting the ball is the same as when 
 you're a receiver. To rip or swim, you swing the controllers left or right when engaged by a blocker. 
 To throw your hands up and block or intercept a pass, you throw both controllers up.
  
  Kicking: Punting, kickoffs, and field goals are all done the same way. You aim the arrow on the 
 screen and then hold the A button as you swing the controller upward. The system will catch the 
 angle and power of your swing and adjust that curve on the kick.
  
  Kick returning: The only thing to really add here is that you actually wave your main controller 
 in the air to call for a fair catch.
  
  Now to talk about what this all translates to in the game. It definitely gives a different feel 
 to the gameplay. When you are the QB, your camera actually sits behind the player to give you an 
 on-the-field view of the game. The different modes are not much different than in the past, but 
 there are minor tweaks. One of the largest of those tweaks is the role and point boosts. You now 
 longer are simply the QB or one of the DBs. Your role determines the amount of influence you have 
 in the game. For example if you choose to be a QB, you must first endure games as a rookie with 
 no influence and no play-calling ability. Eventually you will earn different roles, like team leaders, 
 where you have a chance to boost your other teammates stats in addition to yours.
  
  Now, this game is nowhere near perfect. I have tried it out briefly on the other systems and there 
 are some key pieces that each system lacks. Even though Nintendo has an edge on the feel of the 
 gameplay, they are missing the environmental and graphics pieces that both PS3 and 360 have. There 
 are not good movie clips after a big play that gives a player a chance to make a taunt or express 
 themselves. Wii misses the make on facial express and coloring of the game. Much of the text and 
 menus are hard to read because of the strange color combinations and the way that certain boxes 
 glow when highlighted. For example, if you are running out on the playclock, it lights up orange 
 and almost completely blocks out the actual numbers. There are also certain features that don't 
 work all the time. If you like accelerated clock or commentary during superstar mode, you may be 
 out of luck.
  
  Overall, this is a solid game and has its edge on the other systems in many of the areas. There 
 are some solid differences appearing between the new-gen systems and it may be time for Nintendo 
 to look into a way to upgrade the graphics ability of the system with add-on hardware. Other than 
 that, you will have a lot of fun with this game and though I didn't talk about it, there are a 
 good bunch of mini-games that you can play multiplayer and expand the enjoyment of this newest 
 Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 11, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  amazing how the wii controlls changed madden football in play. its like a new football game. the 
 passing if fun. it makes you feel so much you are in the game. the graphics are good. not as well 
 as the 360 but who cares. give me the great play with the controlls that the wii has. cant wait 
 for 2008 madden for the wii. i am having so much fun i think i will buy madden. and i thought i 
 was through with madden due to the fact it was getting old. the wii has brought life back in madden 
 football. to me the old controlls of the 360 and the rest its so bland. i am having so much fun 
 with the wii. the sounds in the game are good. i just wish EA would sink that darn rap music. this 
 is football i want football stuff from the 80s and 90s. dump that rap stuff EA its getting very 
 old. and not even the wii can save you there EA thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyuzfuny
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so my Xbox 360 fried and I got a Nintendo Wii. I'm a big Madden fan, so of course I snatched 
 up this game for the Wii, as all you here about is what a great sports game this is. So what do 
 I think about this game?
  
  Upon first putting in the game, you're greeted by an average menu system, which although not great, 
 is still better than that of the one for the 360. Although, once you actually get into it, you'll 
 notice their is more content that of the other next-gen versions. The franchise mode is ultra-deep 
 and exciting, and unless it's just me, I don't remember the option of having a fantasy draft in 
 the 360 version. I love doing fantasy drafts so that's a pretty big feature for me. There are also 
 some great multiplayer mini-games available, superstar mode, and other of the standard features 
 you come to expect from a Madden game.
  
  Now onto why you are reading this review in the first place; the controls. And let me tell you, 
 for the most part, they're great. They take a while to learn, but they did a great way of slowly 
 easing you into this crazy control scheme. Actually throwing to a receiver is quite a rush. Being 
 able to stiff arm, push, kick and do various other things in motion controls is quite interesting. 
 Although, not all of them are a hit. Although it's quite interesting to be able to kick in motion, 
 it's just frustrating and a bit of a mess. Also, it's quite often to point the cursor of the Wii 
 on the screen to select a player prior to the snap. Small complaints, but they are a bit annoying. 
 But overall, these are just little errors in a near flawless system.
  
  On the Audio/Visual front, their were a few surprises. As I said, the menus are average looking, 
 but on the field while playing, this game actually looks and runs great. The players look fine 
 and it runs at a smooth pace. One thing that makes me angrier than anything, is the cutscenes. 
 The N64 could and did do better than this. It is absolutely atrocious that EA thinks it's OK to 
 make something look this bad. Really, the coaches and players look brutal while you are choosing 
 a play. The commentators are average as always, as is the soundtrack. There isn't much for me to 
 really say here. EA hasn't changed much here for quite awhile, although it's fun to listen to EA 
 Radio while in Franchise mode.
  
  Is this the best Madden ever made? Simply, Yes. This is the greatest Madden ever made and simply, 
 one of the greatest sports games ever made. Motion controls make this game superior to the 360 
 version, although the visuals could use a bit of an overhaul next time around. In the end, if you 
 are a Wii owner, you must get this game.
  
  Positives:
  + Motion controls = Greatest Madden Ever
  + Looks good on the feld
  + Best Madden... ever
 
  + Lots of game modes and deep Franchise Mode
  + Best Madden Ever
  
  Negatives:
  - Cut scenes are brutal
  - Audio presentation is average 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blessing77
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Pros-Awesome game play, addictive, Makes full use of the wii=mote, easy to learn, great sound
  
  Cons-few bugs, graphics a bit lagging, some buggy controls, hard to understand franchise mode.
 
  
  This has to be the best madden game i have ever played. You really feel like you are playing the 
 game, because of the wii-mote. The graphics are a bit outdated but they aren't as bad ad everyone 
 says. Some of the controls are a bit buggy but beside that this game is excellent. Hours of nonstop 
 fun and totally worth the money. Very, very addicting. Don't hesitate because of past madden expierences, 
 this game won't dissapiont. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haggard_korn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 2007 for the Wii is a great game to pick up for the Wii. Madden 2007 will use the Wii 
 remote's new style the best it can. The new passing style makes this game stand out from all the 
 other Madden games where you just press a button. To pass you will have to use the remote and pretend 
 your actually throwing the ball yourself, you throw it slow for a lob pass, and you throw it fast 
 for a bullet. There are also new ways to juke and stiff arm. To juke you move the nun-chuck whichever 
 way you want to juke the defender out of his socks. And to stiff arm, you move the Wii remote which 
 ever side you want to stiff arm, and this time around the stiff arm is more effective. And to catch 
 the ball if you are a receiver you have to time it right and then hold up the both the controllers, 
 this is hard at first but once you get used to it it's funner. And to break a tackle you have to 
 drum both the Wii controllers. The kicking in Madden 2007 for the Wii is also new. Now you'll have 
 to press A and then hold the Wii mote below you and bring it up as you are about to kick the ball. 
 This is also hard at first because if you tilt the remote even slightly the ball will slice. After 
 while this kicking will be cool and enjoyable. Madden 2007 for the Wii i probably one of the best 
 Madden's yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melefty
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 7, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  This game is the baes madden game ever! The controls are wonderful! passing is a throwing motion 
 with your arm, bug hits are a pushing or shoveing motion with both hands, and swating is the exact 
 same motion youd make if you were really swating the ball!, even if your not a big fan of football, 
 or madden games, you can still easily enjoy this game, honestly ive never been a true madden fan, 
 i played it at my friends houses a biut, and i owned one madden game, and rented 06 a couple times 
 for my GC, but i was never a true fan. then i tried this game out for wii, and i was completely 
 converted, i understood the controls (almost) immeaditly (with the help of a few tutiorials) . and 
 i started my own franchise, and dominated. when i say this game is hard, i mean it works up to 
 becoming hard, the first preseason games are pretty easy, but once you get further on, dont expect 
 to win ever single game.
  the graphics are nothing stunning, but they arnt horrible. dont focous on the graphics and youll 
 be fine. the sound is good, i like the music. i only wish there was more variety. the value of 
 this game...... totally worth it!. and my tilt, well, like i said, i was never a huge madden fan, 
 but after pplaying this, i was totally and completely cured, and im definatly looking forward to 
 the next madden games to come!
  I reccomend this game to absolutely anyone and everyone. Madden fan or not. if you have a party 
 of 4, or your just playing by yourself. you should get this game.
  oh, and if you do happen to have a party of 4, with 4 wiimotes and 4 nunchucks, its a blast, check 
 out the mini-games, play a real game, explore all the other madden features, just know one thing.
 
  This game rocks!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifreak93
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  EA has really gone above and beyond of what anyone has expecting. with the new free motion sensing, 
 it has never been easier. there is really no lag inbetween the wiimore and the tv. this game is 
 also stunning, and is 3rd for graphics in release titles. When you get your superstar out on the 
 field, the camera drops down into 3rd person. which i think is a great addition. ESPECIALLY when 
 your defense. safety is a very hard position to play. you have to read where the pass is going. 
 and when you intercept it, MAJOR fame. this game is probably , no definitaly, the best Madden game 
 to come out in a long time. a definate must have for any sports fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turboking005
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Get this game! Gamespot is not kidding about it being the best out of all the systems it's on! 
 This is a truly solid game with GREAT graphics! The controls are very fun! It's not hard at all 
 after you get the hang of it. Yes, it's addicting! The gameplay is awesome and so is the sound! 
 You will probaley like superstar mode (I do) This very easily gets a 9.6 from me! The mini camp 
 is very good like always! This game is the best in the Madden series so, once again I recommend 
 that you should get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChefKetone
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 29, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Obviously, the Wii version of Madden NFL 07 is designed around Wii's remote. EA's FreeMotion controls 
 can have some pretty interesting gestures coming out of you during the game, but most of them can 
 come almost instinctively (for example, swinging the Wii remote forward to make a pass) . Some of 
 the gestures, especially the nunchuk ones, don't seem to execute well. Then again, it's a launch 
 title, and I believe it's an awesome first shot at the new control scheme. FreeMotion will most 
 likely be fine-tuned for the next installment.
  
  Graphics don't seem to be up to par. The graphics are roughly the equivalent of what the game would 
 look like on a Nintendo GameCube. True, Wii is less of a power-house than its competitors, but 
 in terms of presentation (and aside from the control scheme) it looks like a sixth generation version 
 was just ripped and burned on a Wii disc.
  
  As with most other EA Sports games, this Madden comes with a whole new soundtrack featuring some 
 pretty catchy tunes. The problem in sound, however, lies in the in-game commentary. Most of the 
 commentary doesn't come off as sounding natural, and the cutting and pasting of different sound-bytes 
 can get really obvious. I know from experience that the commentary has been better in previous 
 games (i. e. NCAA Football 2003) .
  
  Most notably, the Wii version is the only seventh-generation console version to not include online 
 play. This version does, however, include some cool mini games which are more about some arcade-style 
 fun rather than trying to be true to the real sport. The game still has offline multiplayer, and 
 players can team up to play games with and against each other on the same console.
  
  In my opinion, Madden NFL 07 is one of the best launch titles for Wii, probably second only to 
 The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. It's got some issues that need fixing, but I have faith 
 in EA, and look forward to 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick11478
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Well they have finally done it! Madden has never been better or more fun. Nintendo and EA took 
 great advantage of the motion controlls, to make this a fun as well as an addictive game.
  
  Madden 07 has a deep franchise mode, as always. You can always count on Madden to have the 
 best franchise mode.
  
  Gameplay- It's great but there are some little things that bother me.. You would think by the year 
 2007, Madden would have some better jukes, cut's, ect. But... They don't... They look like robots 
 when they cut, you can never get someone to make a sharp cut. They always round off the turns that 
 they make. But I hope that will be changed by Madden 08'. Graphics- Great for a launch game.. That's 
 all I really have to say about the graphics.. They can get better though.
  
  Value- It's worth every penny. You wont regret paying 49.99 for this game.
  
  Sorry this was 
 kind of short but.. I think you get it... BUY THIS GAME! IT'S AMAZING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameGorilla2006
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I give it a B+ because the sound, value and game itself is really superb. However, I'm disappointed 
 in the graphics of the game. It truly does not look quite as modern as I hoped it would be. And 
 I have to admit; I still think that the players in the game look a little bit like robots, on account 
 of that their movements and way of tackling others look a little on the mechanical side. Nevertheless, 
 I still think it is a very entertaining game. EA Sports has always been good at making quality 
 sports games. Even though it could take a while for some people to get used to it, I see this game 
 as an instant classic! It's a game that is pure and was meant to be amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 for the Wii takes an older sports franchise and makes it interesting again. The motion 
 controls that the Wii adds to Madden seem a little gimicky, but they make the game more fun.
  
  The controls take time to get used to. Thankfully there are a ton of tutorials to help you, 
 so it won't take long to figure out. Once you do, the game plays basically like any Madden game 
 from before, which is a good thing.
  
  It's fun and intuitive. It seems to be missing something, or isn't as finished as it should be, 
 but if you can get over that, you'll enjoy a very fun football game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacotacoplayer
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I was very dissapointed when I purchasd this game. I really wished I could've returned it to buy 
 Zelda. Take the following into account: If you like NFL Superstar in 06, and is your favourite 
 game mode in Madden, DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. All I wanted was to play NFL Superstar.... and I was 
 EXTREMLEY dissapointed when I found out you can't even choose the plays. What a peice of crap. 
 The controls are pretty fun, but I expected more free-motion controls. I didn't even break a sweat 
 in this game. I wanted to. But I didn't. I wish that to run you would have to make motion with 
 your arms, and to tackle you would HAVE to push your hands forward.
  
  I strongly reccomend you RENT this game first. See if you like it. If you don't, youre lucky you 
 didnt spend 60 bucks on this. I am very bored of this game. Although the exclusive Multiplayer 
 minigames are kinda fun. Only that mississippi one is really fun. It was hard to get used to these 
 controls... heck, its still hard to run with the ball :P Anyway, please, rent this first. I am staying 
 a Madden 06 on Xbox fan after this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyruler12
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Last year EA Sports came out with their next-gen version of Madden 06 for the Xbox 360. They completely 
 killed the gameplay but instead amazed everyone with realistic graphics.
  
  Well, the Wii version is here, and it has the same amazing gameplay that makes Madden special, 
 and is more fun than the Xbox 360 or PS3 version of it.
  
  At first glance, it is the exact same game as the Xbox or PS2 versions, aside from a new Mini-Games 
 mode. But beneath that is a control scheme for the Wii that is simply outstanding. This game feels 
 like you are playing football. If you want to pass the ball, select the button of the receiver, 
 then swing the remote as if passing a real pigskin. If you want to catch the ball, raise your arms 
 up. You can do an incredible number of things with the free-motion controls. These controls however, 
 have a somewhat steep learning curve.
  
  The only drawback of this game is the graphics. The Madden graphics engine is getting very outdated. 
 The players look nothing like their real-life counterparts, and their shoulder pads go up to their 
 ears.
  
  I own both the Xbox 360 version of Madden 07, and the Wii version, and I have to say that in this 
 case  The 360 version is just too riddled with running backs 
 breaking 50 tackles and wide receivers dropping wide open passes. If you have to choose between 
 the two versions, go with the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelnX
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Yeah the graphics may not be all that great for a next-gen console. But really a next-gen console 
 doesn't have to look very realistic. Madden 07 for the Wii shares the great (or better) powerhouse 
 of the PS2 &amp; Gamecube. What really makes this game all great is the controls. EA Sports didn't 
 put slap a wrist for the Wii version. They really took a lot of hard work (as far as the controls) 
 to make the gaming experience worth the while. Madden 07 for the Wii makes a very good use of the 
 motion controls of the Wii controls. For example, you flick the Wiimote to snap the ball, throw 
 just like you're throwing the football (don't literally throw it off your hands) , you use the Wiimote 
 to stiff arm left and right, nunchuck for juking left or right, throw the wiimote up right for 
 kicking the ball, and so on. I was once a Madden fan back in the Genesis and Saturn days, but when 
 the Dreamcast rolled around, I coverted to Sega Sports with their NFL 2k series. But when EA (sadly) 
 took an official NFL license to make NFL games, I stopped buying football games, until there was 
 a very small, underrated hype of MAdden 07 for the Wii. SO I had to see for myself. The controls 
 is what really got to me. Presentation is no where as good as NFL 2k series, some of the NFL staiums 
 (Soldier Field in specific) are not completely duplucate, but the controls is what really makes 
 up the football game. If you want a whole new experience for playing Madden, this verion is the 
 way to go. I expect next year's version will live up to its full potential of the Nintendo Wii's 
 powerhouse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 23, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 for the Wii uses the motion-sensing controls excellently, and revolutionizes the Madden 
 series. Instead of just pushing many different buttons and triggers like you had to do in the previous 
 Madden games, in the Wii version, you perform simple gestures that feel quite natural. Here is 
 a quick overview of Madden 07 for the Wii:
  
  The Good: Excellent use of the Wii's motion-sensing capabilities, has fun set of minigames made 
 especially for the Wii, will keep you fascinated for quite a while with the revolutionary controls
 
  
  The Bad: Graphics are mediocre
  
  Madden 07 for the Wii is revolutionary, and you should definitely consider buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eegotriip
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  I really don't know who is more to blame here: Madden or Me?
  
  When you look at all the years of this game, it makes you wanna point the finger to yourself. After 
 all, you bought it.. or maybe your family did, but either way, it was purchased.
  
  The Wii may give the game a better overall feel, as if I'm really in the huddle, but the graphics 
 and same ol' Madden lets me down. I have Madden 07 for my PS2 and should have kept it that way. 
 Now I feel like I'm playing the exact same game, only one is supposedly the 'Next Gen' console 
 version. But don't let the title 'Next Gen' confuse you; the graphics make me feel like I'm playing 
 the PS2 version only with a funky new controller.
  
  Gameplay is virtually the same as is the commentary. Graphics are PS2 quality and the game is really 
 nothing more than another game made by EA to make money, not make people happy.
  
  So thank you, (talking to myself) , for purchasing this game for my 'Next Gen' console when all 
 I really did was buy the exact same game I have for my 'Old School' console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackmage_Goat
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 25, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  When you think Madden, you usually don't think much. Maybe Average sports game, or Nohting special. 
 The words Revolutionary and Awesome don't usually come to mind. This changes with Madden NFL 2007 
 for the Wii. Playing this game actually makes you feel like the player. When you juke, the player 
 jukes. When you throw, the QB throws. The controls are easy to learn, but the more advanced controls 
 take a bit to learn. When I watch football on Sunday, it makes me want to play this game. I've 
 played for hours. In fact, this game was the only game I had until Christmas. I want to play it 
 right now! Why revolutionary? The controls make it awesome. It's so realistic and puts you in the 
 game unlike the usual button mashers. So check it out if you want a truely amazing Wii experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenneil4
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 25, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Most new versions of Madden only slightly improve the graphics and update the rosters. Not this 
 game. The wii functionality creates a mind-blowing game that is really fun.
  
  This game includes all modes found in last-gen's games. The gameplay is what really stands out 
 in this game. You use life-like motions to control the game. To pass, you flick your wrist towards 
 the screen. To catch, putll your controllers up and so on. The graphics are decent but not great 
 compared to this gen's stuff. The sound is filled with credible commentary and a licensed sountrack. 
 The dealreaker in this game for me was the multiplayer and tutorials. The tutorials teach you how 
 to play the game easily. The four multiplayer games are fun for up to four players. In conclusion, 
 this game is by far my favorite madden game in recent memory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eagles931
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 24, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Well another Madden is out.. You know when a new Madden comes out and you play it to death but 
 then it becomes a big upset after a month or 2. But this actually deserves all the hype it got! 
 With Wii Exclusive Mini games that are great for multi player competitions. Like Kicking combine. 
 You pick your team and you kick field goals. if you are not the kicker you can make a drumming 
 motion with you`re wii mote to mess up the wind. Cool huh?. Well it has all the normal features 
 like lead blocker and highlight stick. but it is a whole new way to play. For example if you want 
 to throw the ball you do a throwing motion. When the ball goes to the reciever you make a catching 
 motion. Then there is in game tutorials so you dont have to look in the book and waste youre valuable 
 gaming time. I cant wait to rip this gift on x-mas! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 21, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  In addition to superb and well made mechanics, EA has created one of the most outstanding football 
 games of all time. Madden was on a dry streak and this version for the Wii has successfully broke 
 it. This version is overflowing with addictive and pleasant features and its easy to pick up and 
 play immediately. Its kept all the polish of the other versions and the final product is not only 
 the best version of 07 but probably the best version of any Madden.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Freemotion has completely reinvented Madden. All the controls are responsive and immersive, they 
 all play smoothly and surely lay the format of future games to come.
  
  Graphics - 8
  A very pretty game. The character models are mostly good (besides coaches) and the environments 
 and animations are all realistic and appealing. Sound - 8
  A solid soundtrack with excellent sound effects. However, its considerably less exciting in the 
 soundtrack department compared to its predecessors. Overall - 9.1
  I proudly award my first Wii game with its 9.0 + score. Its accessible and enjoyable and presents 
 itsels effectively. It's defiantly one of the easiest recommendations in the Wii's ever growing 
 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRaven_basic
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 21, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  Given that this is the first Madden for the Wii this is a great game. It has something to entertain 
 any Madden fan. The Wiimote adds a lot of great things to the mix but also holds the game back 
 in a way.
  
  Starting off with the gameplay, at first it seems like a completely different game. The Wiimote 
 adds a lot to the experience. To throw the ball you have to actually move your arm in a throwing 
 motion. This can really get you into it but at the sametime the game as problems figuring out weather 
 you want to bullet the ball or throw it nice and easy. This problem can sometimes lead you into 
 throwing to the other team, which if you no anything about football is a big deal. The kicking 
 will take a lot getting used to sometimes it feels like you can do the same motion everytime and 
 the ball still doesnt have the power you want. And you can just forget playing D back on Defense 
 because it is very very difficult to intercept the ball, and if you miss you better hope you have 
 some backup because there is little chance of you catching him. Also changing a route or a play 
 can take awhile given you have to point your Wiimote at the player you want then select his action 
 from a long list. Even more difficult on D. The biggest thing is the lack of online. One of my 
 favorite things about Madden is playing other people over the online, its what makes the game great. 
 Sure you can play with another person on the same Wii but its just not the same and they can see 
 all your plays. But EA did add a couple fun mini games that could keep your attention for a bit 
 but they just dont compare to online, plus they also would be more fun online. Now on to the graphics, 
 they look the same as the xbox, gamecube, and ps2 versions have looked for years now and they show 
 their age. These graphics just arent any good for a next gen game, specially since you can notice 
 often in the game the detail in the models go from high to low rez, they kind of flicker back and 
 fourth. It needs a re-paint.
  
  The sound coming out of the Wiimote is great. But while playing superstar mode, where you cant 
 have Maddens great commentary in the backround for some reason, I guess to make it feel like your 
 at the game, all it does for me is bore it down a bit. Anyway I noticed that sometimes the sound 
 lags behind whats actually happening. Like you go through a couple plays, you score a touchdown, 
 you'll be lining up for the kick off, and the stadium commentary is just realizing you scored a 
 touchdown, which can really take you out of the game experience. The value of the game isnt bad, 
 you have all your basic Madden stuff to do, which is great and all but we've seen it many times 
 before and in someways better, and there is a big whole missing for the value with no online experience. 
 Overall its not a bad game, not bad for a start. If next years plays a bit better, has cleaner 
 graphics, and some ONLINE this will be a masterpiece. But for now this will do, there is something 
 for any Madden fan to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: role-player07
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 21, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  Madden 07 is an addicting game because of its basics. It has the great franchise and the huge online 
 multiplayer. You can easily adjust the skill level by going into My Madden than Game Settings and 
 after that selecting the A. I. and game level which are Rookie, Pro, All Pro, and All Madden. You 
 will basically keep going harder up the skill level the more you play. It has pretty good graphics 
 and every year they make the gameplay more realistic with less closelines and more real tackles 
 that you will see in the NFL. This game will be frustraiting in the beginning but the key is to 
 give it some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorarikukh2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  Madden 07 for the Nintendo Wii is easily the best Madden game yet. It uses the Wii-mote perfect 
 and really gets you more interactive with the game rather than sitting down on the couch and playing. 
 The graphics are pretty much what you have come to expect with a Madden game. They are decent but 
 you cant really tell that much difference from the previous games. If you have a Wii and are a 
 sports fan, this should be an obvios choice for a first game. If not then you will have to settle 
 for Madden 07 on the PS3/PS2 or Xbox 360 ect... all of them are pretty good but nowhere near how 
 innovative and fun it is on the Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msulli25
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I felt that all the madden games on other systems for the last few years have not changed in the 
 slightest, and you still feel the limited action in the game. Although they were very fun games, 
 there is only so much you can do with a madden football game with a standard controller and last 
 gen system. I think the wii offered an incredibly interactive version of madden, and the controls 
 are very intuitive. This game incorperates many differen aspects of the wiimote like spin, push, 
 pull, wave, swing, twist, etc. This game has been completely revitalized and i think it deserves 
 even better ratings than it got on some sites. Some people might think of this as a plus, and some 
 as a minus, but the controls do take some skill, and coordination to get used to, but once u get 
 used to them, you will never be able to revert back to any other controller. Although the graphics 
 are similar to that of a last gen system, who really cares because this game is great. I think 
 nintendo really stepped them up for this system and they look good no matter what other people 
 say.
  I can only imagine how perfect next years game will be and i am interested to see how they incorporate 
 some new moves with the nunchuk and wi remote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STongue
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 15, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07? We've seen it before, right?
  
  It looked great on the Xbox 360, and we've played it on other consoles. So why buy it now? You'd 
 think EA would just port this game to the Wii? You thought wrong.
  
  Right off the bat, the graphics aren't amazing. They are typical, nearly on par with the GC version 
 of the title. Now don't hate this game because of that, just read on for reasons you should get, 
 no, need to get, this game.
  
  As soon as you boot this game up, you have the option of using the point on the Wii remote, or 
 using the Nunchuk, to navigate the menus. I suggest just selecting the pointer, seeing as you can 
 navigate most of the menus just using the Nunchuk anyway.
  
  Anyway, let's get to the point. Playing the Game.
  
  Right off the bat, you can do some Madden 
 training. It is fairly simple, and the controls are great. Compared to other consoles, this is 
 a greatly desired control scheme.
  
  You measly press a button and flick the remote to throw a pass, pull back to hike the ball, or 
 slam the remote to the left or right to stiff arm. Those are just a couple of the controls for 
 this new game. Most things are recognized, but on very special occasions it will interpret your 
 movement wrong. Like I said, that only happens every 1 in 1,000,000 plays.
  
  Overall, the controls is where this game rocks. Menus, etc. are all the same from the GC version, 
 but you'll barely notice seeing as you're going to want to get right into the game!
  
  I really suggest buying this or at least renting it to give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socem007
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 10, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  One of the hottest games out there behind Zelda! In my eyes madden is a close second. The free 
 motion game controls fit right into the game. The graphics are that of a Playstation 2 game. The 
 game has some new features including multi player mini games. These are very fun and they include 
 a new game, 2-2. If you have liked the old madden series games this one is the series best. You 
 have the option of turning on or off QB vision and you have lead blocker where you are controlling 
 the blocker instead of the HB. If you like previous madden games buy this if you don't, buy this 
 anyway because its that good of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spixter534
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 for Nintendo Wii has all the great qualities that any Madden game would have, like Franchise 
 mode and Versus mode. They also have all the features from the game on the other consoles. My favorite 
 part is the Multiplayer Minigames. There are three of them, 2 on 2, YAC Attack and Kicking Combine. 
 In 2 on 2, there are two teams of two, and you each take turns playing quarterback and receiver 
 on offense, and linebacker and defensive back on defense. On offense, you try to score as many 
 TDs in the four downs you have. Then, you become the defense, and you try to stop the offense from 
 getting TDs. The scoring is a little different then in usual games. If you intercept a pass or 
 recover a fumble on defense, you get 2 points, plus if you run it back for a touchdown, you get 
 7 more points. On offense if you score a TD, you get 7 points. This is my favorite of the minigames. 
 Then, there is YAC Attack, which is a very fun and challenging game. When on offense you are the 
 QB, and you are trying to get the ball to a receiver and then get yards after the catch. The more 
 yards you get, the higher your score will be. You also get points if you score a touchdown as well. 
 The rest of the time, you play a defensive back. You try to stop the offense from getting catches, 
 and make sure they do not gain extra yards. If you blow your coverage or give up a TD, you will 
 lose points. The last game is Kicking Combine. You and your opponents each try to kick a field 
 goal. The catch is that the players that are not kicking drum their controllers to create wind. 
 This can make it very hard for the kicker to make the field goal. These are some of the best features 
 on the Madden Wii version. There is also Superstar mode, where you create a player, then guide 
 him through the NFL, hoping to some day make it to the NFL Hall of Fame. Along the way, you go 
 through Training Camp, games, the playoffs, and many other things, like movie shoots or the possibility 
 of being on the cover of the Madden game for that year. You go through the draft to start, and 
 then the team that selects you will be your team. On the way to the Hall of Fame, you may go to 
 other teams, and you may be offered huge contracts. This is a very fun mode if would like to experience 
 what the NFL is like. There is also Franchise mode, which is nothing new to Madden, where you go 
 through a season with the team of your choice, trying to win the Super Bowl. This is a great mode. 
 Overall, the Madden game for the Wii is better than its competitors, and the Free-Motion control 
 will get you off of the couch and get you moving around and into the game. This is an awesome game, 
 a must have for Madden fans who own the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Poole
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  Overall Score: 8.9
  
  Graphics: 7 Gameplay: 9 Multiplayer: 8 Sound: 9 Value: 10
  
  Review:
  Madden is a football sim thus leaving it with one thing to do, play football.
  It 
 has many modes but the most prominent of these is SuperStar, and Franchise.
  Superstar lets you create your own virtual-self or really anybody you want.
  
  Through this 
 selection you'll either become a more anticipant draft player, or the bottom of the cut.
  In superstar mode you can rise to be a team's QB leader, head RB, defensive captain, lead blocker/sacker, 
 and others.
  
  le on your side or the opponents being a mis-call which adds realistic game-play but tends to be 
 more annoying than helpful or fun.
  If your in the play during the game you'll be yourself and have to run your route/position's job.
 
  When your not in the play you get to control the QB.
  Superstar mode leaves a lot to be desired with customization being minimal, and long games which 
 would be more fun to be able to Fast-Forward to your plays, for what it should be it doesn't do.
 
  If your just looking for a interesting spin and less-control of Franchise mode SuperStar will 
 be enjoyable.
  
  Franchise mode is the most common mode found in any football game of the past, simply put this 
 is why you buy the game every year/few years.
  
  The franchise mode starts off in the pre-season letting you upgrade certain players through practice.
 
  It lets you do the standard trading of players and thing you come to expect from franchise mode.
 
  Theres not much to say about this mode since the tale has been told many times but it works seamlessly 
 with few annoyances and many pluses.
  
  The passing controls are a Huge welcome and really puts you in the game.
  When you complete your 
 first touchdown or quiet the crowd by waving your hands you will realize that this is a match made 
 in heaven.
  
  The kicking controls often allow you to deliver powerful and well direction-ed kicks and make the 
 kicking game more important than ever before, but can also be annoying when you miss that all so 
 important kick.
  Nevertheless kicking is a great addition to Madden that will receive a few minor tweaks next year.
 
  
  The running controls of the game are intuitive, challenging, and fun to play.
  Instead of going through the same button mashing exercise you can control your runner with great 
 accuracy.
  This is usually the highlight of the game because it is extremely fun to block, run, dodge,
  and 
 smash linebackers while going for the game-winning touchdown.
  
  If your on a screen-play running is also more fun than ever, with Free-Motion running is definitely 
 a great addition to Madden.
  Even the great, fun running controls can't make up for the abysmal catching and defensive controls.
 
  Catching is a bore as well as hard to do and catch onto.
  Running routes is fun at first until continually you miss the catch because you have to be facing 
 the ball or dead on the spot, and you often go off your route putting the Wii remote up to catch 
 the ball.
  
  With defensive controls used the same way normally only to deliver big hits you must put the Wii 
 remote forwards often overshooting or going to the side of your intended target tends to be a aggravating 
 hustle.
  
  In the general engine or mechanics has changed and much has been added since last year.
  
  
 Multi-player in the game is standard as always, the Free-Motion controls make it more interactive 
 than ever before and are quite fun.
  
  The four mini-games are fun to play many times with your freinds and is a must.
  
  Bottom line 
 if your a football fan who buys Madden every year you'll see plenty of improvement over last year 
 besides rosters and a few minor additions, This is a must have sports title on the wii.
  
  The game is still fun with extremely fun running controls and great Madden game-play you know and 
 love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nova_Mongoose
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that I got burned out on Madden after the 2002 version. I haven't even touched a football 
 game since 2003 so I was really surprised (good and bad) with Madden '07 on the Wii.
  
  Like every other game on the Wii, the developers implemented special controls for this version 
 to take advantage of the unique potential the system offers. I could not have dreamed that the 
 controls would be so invigorrating. If you've kept up with Madden games I'm sure they've started 
 feeling like an old hat. This version has you snap, kick, punt, pass, juke, stiff-arm, and execute 
 touchdown celebrations with the Wiimote-too cool!
  
  They sacrificed graphics to make the controls happen but it doesn't really bother the game at all, 
 in fact, this is the best Madden I've ever played. The only things that could make this better 
 are 1) better graphics and 2) online multiplayer. Which I'm sure they'll do next year. This one's 
 worth picking up even if you have another version of it: it's that good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun4292
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 for the wii is the best Madden game in the series and probbably the best football 
 game ever. The wii controls make this game fun and fun to play. You actually feel like a player 
 for the first time in a Madden game and it's great. The controls work great with the wii controler. 
 All the features are there as well whitch is very important. Although the graphics are not great 
 and the sounds not perfect this is by far the best football game you will ever play. If your a 
 QB in superstar mode the wii controler really shines. What im saying if you have a wii dont skip 
 out on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiFreak1993
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Madden 07 for Nintendo Wii has all the great qualities that any Madden game would have, like Franchise 
 mode and Versus mode. They also have all the features from the game on the other consoles. My favorite 
 part is the Multiplayer Minigames. There are three of them, 2 on 2, YAC Attack and Kicking Combine. 
 In 2 on 2, there are two teams of two, and you each take turns playing quarterback and receiver 
 on offense, and linebacker and defensive back on defense. On offense, you try to score as many 
 TDs in the four downs you have. Then, you become the defense, and you try to stop the offense from 
 getting TDs. The scoring is a little different then in usual games. If you intercept a pass or 
 recover a fumble on defense, you get 2 points, plus if you run it back for a touchdown, you get 
 7 more points. On offense if you score a TD, you get 7 points. This is my favorite of the minigames. 
 Then, there is YAC Attack, which is a very fun and challenging game. When on offense you are the 
 QB, and you are trying to get the ball to a receiver and then get yards after the catch. The more 
 yards you get, the higher your score will be. You also get points if you score a touchdown as well. 
 The rest of the time, you play a defensive back. You try to stop the offense from getting catches, 
 and make sure they do not gain extra yards. If you blow your coverage or give up a TD, you will 
 lose points. The last game is Kicking Combine. You and your opponents each try to kick a field 
 goal. The catch is that the players that are not kicking drum their controllers to create wind. 
 This can make it very hard for the kicker to make the field goal. These are some of the best features 
 on the Madden Wii version. There is also Superstar mode, where you create a player, then guide 
 him through the NFL, hoping to some day make it to the NFL Hall of Fame. Along the way, you go 
 through Training Camp, games, the playoffs, and many other things, like movie shoots or the possibility 
 of being on the cover of the Madden game for that year. You go through the draft to start, and 
 then the team that selects you will be your team. On the way to the Hall of Fame, you may go to 
 other teams, and you may be offered huge contracts. This is a very fun mode if would like to experience 
 what the NFL is like. There is also Franchise mode, which is nothing new to Madden, where you go 
 through a season with the team of your choice, trying to win the Super Bowl. This is a great mode. 
 Overall, the Madden game for the Wii is better than its competitors, and the Free-Motion control 
 will get you off of the couch and get you moving around and into the game. This is an awesome game, 
 a must have for Madden fans who own the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bastila19
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 07 is the latest version of the long running Madden franchise from developer Electronic 
 Arts. The past few years Madden has started to become stale. In my mind though, this version has 
 revitalized the franchise with amazing gameplay.
  
  The gameplay in Madden NFL 07 for the Wii is extremely intuitive. If you are still having trouble, 
 it has a great tutorial mode that teaches you everything. You actually throw in this game. It feels 
 awesome. All you have to do is hold down the button of the receiver and make a forward motion with 
 the Wii remote. While you are running, you can either stiff arm or juke with either the Wii remote 
 or nunchuck, respectively, by making a motion to the left or right side depending on which way 
 you want the move to go. It just feels so satisfying to actually feel like you are throwing the 
 ball or kicking the ball. One thing that is kind of annoying is when you are trying to select a 
 certain player with the cursor from the Wii remote. It is very touchy and the cursor kind of jolts 
 to other places randomly sometimes. Although this really isn't really a detriment to the gameplay, 
 it is a little irritating. Another thing is the big hit system. In order to do a big hit in any 
 other version of the game, you use the right analog stick to pull off a big hit. On Wii though, 
 you don't have two thumbsticks. So to perform it, you have to hold down the Z button and thrust 
 the nunchuck and Wii remote towards the screen which doesn't feel very natural and is actually 
 difficult to actually come up with a successful big hit. Annoying minor issues aside Madden NFL 
 07 for Wii has the best gameplay of any Madden to date. The graphics in Madden are a different 
 story. These are slightly higher resolution than Gamecube, but not by very much. This is probably 
 the biggest drawback of the game by far. It is a launch game, and we still don't know what the 
 complete power of the system looks like, but hopefully in the future they will improve the graphics. 
 The animations are really good though, but the main problem is the graphics engine.
  
  The sound is typical Madden. You have John Madden and Al Michaels at the helm commentating. They 
 need to get some new lines though. Their lines are getting kind of old. If you want good Madden 
 commentary, go to Madden 64 for the N64. Incredible lines from John Madden. The sound that comes 
 out of the Wii remote though sound kind of cheap. Overall the sound is the same sound from the 
 other last-gen versions.
  
  Madden has the same Superstar, franchise, and play now modes we all know and love, but exclusive 
 to the Wii version are three new mini-games. There is a two on two mini-game where there are two 
 offensive players and two defensive players. Another one is YAC or Yards After Catch where the 
 point is to catch the ball and gain as many yards after you catch it as possible. When you are 
 on defense you have to try and swat the ball and stop the receiver. The last one is the Kicking 
 Combine. This is probably the least fun, because sometimes it says you will slice the ball when 
 your wrist is perfectly straight. Madden for Wii is worth the money.
  
  Overall, Madden for Wii is the best playing Madden ever. If you don't care solely about graphics 
 and you have an open mind to innovation you absolutely cannot go wrong with Madden NFL 07 for the 
 Nintendo Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVaderNDS
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Overall Score: 7.7
  
  Graphics: 7 Gameplay: 7.8 Multiplayer: 5.5 Sound: 8.5 Value: 8.3
  
  Review:
  Madden is a football sim thus leaving it with one thing to do, play football.
 
  It has many modes but the most prominent of these is SuperStar, and Franchise.
  Superstar lets you create your own virtual-self or really anybody you want.
  
  It starts with 
 randomly generating parents for you, if you dad is a chiropractor and your mom is a SWAT team member, 
 you'll probably be a WR.
  After generating enough parents you'll be able to end up with a dad who is a Hall of Famer in the 
 prefered position of your choice.
  
  Through this selection you'll either become a more anticipant draft player, or the bottom of the 
 cut.
  In superstar mode you can rise to be a team's QB leader, head RB, defensive captain, lead blocker/sacker, 
 and others.
  
  If your in the play during the game you'll be yourself and have to run your route/position's job.
 
  When your not in the play you get to control the QB.
  Superstar mode leaves a lot to be desired with customization being minimal, and long games which 
 would be more fun to be able to Fast-Forward to your plays, for what it should be it doesn't do.
 
  If your just looking for a interesting spin and less-control of Franchise mode SuperStar will 
 be enjoyable.
  
  Franchise mode is the most common mode found in any football game of the past, simply put this 
 is why you buy the game every year/few years.
  
  The franchise mode starts off in the pre-season letting you upgrade certain players through practice.
 
  It lets you do the standard trading of players and thing you come to expect from franchise mode.
 
  Theres not much to say about this mode since the tale has been told many times but it works seamlessly 
 with few annoyances and many pluses.
  
  The passing controls are a addition that doesn't really make a difference if it were a button to 
 press, no faults or pluses are added to the passing game of Madden.
  
  The kicking controls often allow you to deliver powerful and well direction-ed kicks and make the 
 kicking game more important than ever before, but can also be annoying when you miss that all so 
 important kick.
  Nevertheless kicking is a great addition to Madden that will receive a few minor tweaks next year.
 
  
  The running controls of the game are intuitive, challenging, and fun to play.
  Instead of going through the same button mashing exercise you can control your runner with great 
 accuracy.
  This is usually the highlight of the game because it is extremely fun to block, run, dodge,
  and 
 smash linebackers while going for the game-winning touchdown.
  
  If your on a screen-play running is also more fun than ever, with Free-Motion running is definitely 
 a great addition to Madden.
  Even the great, fun running controls can't make up for the abysmal catching and defensive controls.
 
  Catching is a bore as well as hard to do and catch onto.
  Running routes is fun at first until continually you miss the catch because you have to be facing 
 the ball or dead on the spot, and you often go off your route putting the Wii remote up to catch 
 the ball.
  
  With defensive controls used the same way normally only to deliver big hits you must put the Wii 
 remote forwards often overshooting or going to the side of your intended target tends to be a aggravating 
 hustle.
  
  In the general engine or mechanics nothing has changed much since last year.
  Annoying things tend to just, pop-up in this year of Madden with almost every fumble on your side 
 or the opponents being a mis-call which adds realistic game-play but tends to be more annoying 
 than helpful or fun.
  
  You can also run through officials or first down chain holders making the game appear less fun 
 and immersible than before you ran through the referee with a 300 pound linebacker.
  
  Multi-player in the game is standard as always, the Free-Motion controls make it more interactive 
 than ever before and are quite fun.
  
  The four mini-games are fun to play many times with your freinds but get boring too soon leaving 
 you wanting more, in a bad way.
  
  Bottom line if your a football fan who buys Madden every year you'll see little improvement over 
 last year besides rosters and a few minor annoying additions.
  The game is still fun with extremely fun running controls and great Madden game-play you know and 
 love.
  However it'd be best to wait for other tweaks of the game you'll be better off waiting a shorter 
 time until next year with the current football season already half over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunter8man
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is proof that looks can be deceiving. Upon first glance, Madden 2007 doesn't look all 
 that impressive. Graphically, it's a step below the all of the other versions understandably. The 
 players look a little funky, and the game itself seems to have a very weird graphics engine. The 
 sound is also a little weak compared to the other versions.
  
  But the negatives stop right there.
  
  Chances are, you are buying Madden for the Wii for it's 
 graphics or sound output. You're buying it for the innovative control schemes. And in that department 
 is where this version of Madden stands above all the rest. I haven't had this much fun with a football 
 game since Tecmo Bowl. Madden for the Wii completely re-invents the ways you can control a football 
 game. Simple hand motions take the place of endlessly slamming buttons. And it all feels completely 
 natural.
  
  Adding to the controls, this has to be the most user-friendly game I've played in a while. The 
 game constantly offers to teach you how to use the controls, especially in situations where you 
 may need it. For instance, I let the opposing team complete a deep pass against me, and it told 
 me that I could learn how to swat away a pass right after that play. It also contains a Learn Madden 
 mode which takes you through the Madden mini-games to teach you the new controls. All that needs 
 to be said is that, despite its looks, this is the version of Madden to get. Easy to control and 
 very fun to play. It takes the staleness of the Madden series, and makes it new again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THA-TODD-BEAST
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed when comparing Madden 07 on the Wii to the XBOX 360 and PS3 was just 
 how many more features were there. Long forgotten (and sorely missed) features such as Create-A-Team 
 and Mini Camp were back, making this game a more complete package and automatically well worth 
 the money. Owner Mode is even included, and several other game modes and features are included, 
 giving this game even more value and replayability.
  
  As soon as I hopped into a game ( Play Now ) , I realized just how hard the game was to control. 
 I couldn't run or even pass because I had no idea what I was doing.. the game was just a real PAIN 
 to do anything with.
  
  I was afraid at first.. .. until I discovered a feature that I'd somehow missed on the main menu: 
 A Learn Madden mode, that teaches you everything you need to know in terms of how to play Madden 
 07 with the new controls on the Nintendo Wii.
  
  This mode is unique in that it allows you to choose which aspect of the game to learn (OFFENSE-PASSING, 
 OFFENSE-RUNNING, DEFENSE, SPECIAL TEAMS, etc.) , then it presents you with a dialog box first and 
 inside the dialog box you can do little drills in which it tells you how to move the controller 
 or what buttons to press, and as you successfuly complete these dialog boxes, you can automatically 
 skip the dialog box and then go straight to the field where you actually act out the play with 
 the controls you just learned.
  
  At first I was struggling even after I'd been taught what did what, and I will never forget how 
 bad I did on the Pocket Presence (QB) drill in Mini Camp the first time, but I quickly learned 
 that passing the ball on the Wii takes MUCH more concentration and awareness than it ever did before 
 on any other system.
  
  Hell, the entire game takes more concentration now.
  
  Instead of tapping a button to throw a pass, you first flip the controller upwards to snap the 
 ball, then you look for an open receiver, and once you find one, you press the corresponding direction 
 on the D-Pad (or the A Button) for that certain receiver, and finally you flip the controller downwards 
 to throw the ball.
  
  This system is very tough to learn at first because you have to be much more coordinated (as I 
 just said.) Since the nunchuck's joystick is used to move the QB and the Wii Remote is used to 
 actually select a receiver and pass the ball, it's a skill that almost reminded me of learning 
 how to juggle or concentrate on many things at once, since you're:
  1) Dropping back
  2) Looking for open receivers
  3) Attempting to avoid defenders via the nunchuck
  4) Attempting 
 to make a pass while precisely navigating your QB via the nunchuck, and actually throwing the ball 
 by using the remote.
  
  What I didn't expect, however, was to quickly master the controls for passing -- and I feel that 
 I already have. It does take about 10-15 minutes to develop most of the coordination required, 
 but after that it just really feels great being able to drop back and complete a pass with two 
 snaps of your wrist instead of two taps of a button.
  
  In fact, snapping the ball is something that seems so simplistic, but that adds so much more to 
 the Wii version. Before, you just tapped a button and the play started. This time, you snap the 
 ball by snapping the controller backwards, giving you more of a feel as if you're actually DOING 
 something.
  
  I would catch myself trying to snap the ball by hitting 'A', and as soon as I realized I was making 
 a mistake, I'd snap the controller backwards and get a much more satisfying feeling than when I 
 was pressing the button, expecting a snap.
  
  The running game is also a blast to play, and is another difficult thing to learn. The nunchuck 
 (left hand) can make your guy juke left or right, depending on which way you quickly snap it (this 
 can be achieved with a snap of the wrist) , and the Wii Remote is similar, only instead of juking 
 it stiff arms to the left or right, and the A-button performs a spin, while the B button (found 
 on the bottom of the remote where you'd expect a 'trigger' to be) performs a dive.
  
  Pushing both controllers towards the screen causes your runner to do a power move, and drumming 
 with the controllers (going up and down with one after the other) allows you to have the possibility 
 of breaking a tackle if a defender is slowly making a tackle.
  
  As you can imagine, the running game is probably just as intense, if not MORE intense than the 
 passing game, and the controls are what make it so. Now, it's actually FUN to run the ball because 
 you really have to use your arms to make plays happen instead of your fingers. I found myself swinging 
 my wrists to the left and right, pushing the controllers toward the screen to run over defenders, 
 and drumming the controllers up and down like a mad man to attempt and break tackles.
  
  And believe it or not, throughout this, I actually didn't feel tired at all -- it just felt BETTER 
 because just like the snap of the ball, it made me feel like I was really DOING something this 
 time instead of just moving a joystick in a certain direction and pressing a number of buttons 
 to make my guy automatically do moves.
  
  Special teams isn't really anything to write home about. To kick the ball, you just swing the Wii 
 Remote upwards AFTER choosing the kick direction by using the nunchuck's joystick.
  
  Defense is an exciting part of the game as well because you can actually push both controllers 
 toward the screen to make harder hits, and you can even do such things as jump up to knock down 
 or intercept a pass by raising both controllers above your head.
  
  Another awesome feature in terms of using the controllers is the fact that as a Quarterback, you 
 can 'quiet' the crowd by moving the controllers up and down, and as someone such as a linebacker, 
 doing this will pump up the crowd.
  
  Talk about sweetness!
  
  When you take the first snap or complete the first pass or even power over the first defender by 
 using a pushing motion with both controllers, you'll understand just how awesome this game really 
 is. It actually takes time to master, but once you've mastered the controls, you'll feel just like 
 a quarterback throwing a pass or a linebacker pumping up the crowd, then rushing in violently for 
 a sack.
  
  Madden 07 is the best football game for any console this year; there is simply no comparison.
 
  
  Set... HUT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sourjo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  Great game, more fun to play than on the xbox. Wii controls to snap, throw, juke and stiff arm 
 are fun to use. Good graphics for a 480p console game and sound is as good as the 360. Has support 
 for multiplayer which I have not tried yet. Has lots of weather effects as well. You can create 
 your own player and/or team. My only complaint is that Vick seems to throw too many interceptions 
 lol. And at times it seems like you have to jerk your arm up almost unnaturally to get a good kickoff, 
 FG or punt. I wish the controller was more sensitive to smaller slower movements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda187
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  For the past few years EA hasn't really changed anything in the Madden games. Sure they'll add 
 an extra small feature every season, but nothing big.
  
  Madden '07 for the Wii is a brand new experience. You can really tell that EA finally put in some 
 effort. They didn't just slap together a revised version of '07 from the GC, they took their time 
 on the controls and the result is very, VERY smooth.
  
  The graphics have been tweaked a little but nothing drastic. The visuals aren't as good as they 
 are on the 360 or PS3 but who cares? Madden sucks on the 360 so far.
  
  The controls are the best part by far. Ever wanted to drop back and actually feel like your throwing 
 a bomb to the endzone? Well, this version of Madden gives you that experience. The controls may 
 seem odd at first, but once you get used to it, the gameplay is amazing.
  
  If you have a Wii (or plan on getting one) and like football, get Madden '07.
  
  I give it 
 a nice 8.9/10 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
