-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 09 All-Play
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/maddennfl09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Designing new plays at the line is useful and fun.
 Simplified play calling and controls.
 Online play works well.
 Solid, time-tested gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Playing Five-on-Five has limited appeal.
 Superstar, Franchise, and Party modes have received almost no attention.
 Too much old, recycled content.
 &quot;Celebrating&quot; after a TD mostly involves waving your arms like a nut.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 18, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.2, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 359 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Aug 12, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Simple controls and a number of newcomer-friendly features make Madden 09 on the Wii a good game 
 for beginners, but there's very little new here for series veterans. 

  Madden NFL 09: All-Play for the Wii is for the person who thinks "Bump and Run" is an R. Kelly 
 song. It's for your girlfriend who thinks the tight end is the player that looks best in his uniform 
 pants. It's for the kid who thinks it's odd that John Madden has a game named after him because 
 he knows him only as the old guy from the commercials where the dude's foot catches on fire. These 
 are the sort of folks who will appreciate the new Five-on-Five mode, user-friendly play calling, 
 and simplified controls. If you're the kind of person who grew up on football, Madden 09 for the 
 Wii isn't really for you. Sure, there are Franchise and Superstar modes, as well as online play, 
 but they're pretty much the same things you've been playing for years.  

           Five-on-Five mode is simple enough for everyone, but it seems mostly designed to appeal 
 to young children.      

  Previous Maddens on the Wii certainly catered to newcomers, but not to the extent that Madden 09 
 does. Five-on-Five mode takes place on a cartoony field and the players have gigantic heads. It 
 breaks the game down to its simplest form by eliminating extra points and field goals. It also 
 limits the playbook to just four plays and has all of the gameplay performed by a few flicks of 
 the remote. It's mind-numbingly dull for experienced players, but it's good for young kids who 
 want to be like daddy and play Madden. The simplified controls found in Five-on-Five are carried 
 over to the full game of football as well, though you can choose to use the more complicated Nunchuk 
 and remote combination if you want total control over everything on the field. The remote-waving 
 controls used to snap the ball, pass, juke, and tackle generally work OK, but there are some frustrating 
 moments with both control schemes when the game doesn't recognize that you want to throw the ball 
 or makes your QB lob a pass when you really wanted to throw a bullet.  

  The bulk of the gameplay is unchanged, though there are a few additions that make 09 play better 
 than 08. Key among these is the ability to call your shot. As your team heads to the line of scrimmage, 
 you can press the A button, point and click on any WR, TE, or RB, then draw a new route for him 
 to run. The process couldn't be simpler, and it's an extremely fast and effective way to change 
 a player's route. You now have several ways to choose your next play. The "Ask Madden" selection 
 has been around forever, but here it's limited to one play and includes a brief bit of text that 
 explains why the game is suggesting you run that particular play. It's a great way for beginners 
 to get accustomed to calling their own plays. The next option is basically an abbreviated playbook 
 that doesn't overwhelm you with choices, but still includes a healthy number of plays so that you 
 don't feel as if you're doing the same thing over and over again. Lastly, you have access to a 
 full playbook that has enough plays to satisfy someone like Mike Martz.  

  Another addition to the mix this year is the ability to celebrate your touchdowns. On the Xbox 
 360 and PlayStation 3, this means just pressing a single button, but on the Wii, it's much more 
 interactive. After scoring, the game implores you to start dancing then tells you to wave the controller, 
 and if you're really into the dancing, it gets you to raise the roof. If you celebrate like Chad 
 Johnson, your player will receive a performance boost; if you show the enthusiasm of mild-mannered 
 Barry Sanders after a score, you get nothing. Kids, as well as people playing in large groups, 
 will likely have a good time spinning, jumping, and dancing around. However, some will find it 
 completely ridiculous and turn the feature off straight away.  

           The ability to draw your own plays before the snap is 09's best feature.      

  The 
 rest of the game modes are holdovers from last year. Franchise mode is solid. The simulated statistics 
 seem to be fairly accurate, and it's certainly fun to take the reins of a franchise, but the mode 
 has received only cursory attention since last year. The same can be said for Superstar mode, which 
 is just more of the same. If you haven't tried to take a created player or rookie from his first 
 training camp to the Hall of Fame, there's some fun to be had here, but if you've previously put 
 up with the lame training events, obnoxious agents, and inane e-mail from the guy who runs your 
 Web site, there's nothing here that warrants another look. How little attention has been put into 
 this mode over the years? If you're a scrambling QB, your coach will tell you that you could be 
 the next Michael Vick. He doesn't mean it in the "You're going to be banned from the league and 
 go to jail for murdering dogs," or even the "You're going to be an extremely talented player that 
 just doesn't seem to be able to get the job done" way, either. He means it as a compliment, and 
 that phrase hasn't been used in a complimentary way for several years.  

  In addition to the previously mentioned Five-on-Five mode, there are several other ways in which 
 Madden 09 tries to get the party started, such as the cleverly named Party mode. Up to four people 
 can participate in a bunch of minigames, just as they could last year. And just like last year, 
 the games will have you running routes, evading tackles, and even punting the football. Seriously, 
 if you're throwing a party but it has devolved into people playing a punting minigame... it's time 
 for everyone to go home. And maybe you shouldn't be hosting parties anymore -- it's for the best. 
 There's a Trivia mode, but it fails to entertain for a number of reasons. First off, the questions 
 don't seem to have been changed since last year -- you're still going to get the same questions about 
 mascot names. Some of the answers for the questions are straight up incorrect, so when the game 
 asks you what team Michael Strahan currently plays for, you'll have to pretend like he hasn't retired. 
 You'll even have to say that Ravens RB Willis McGahee is a QB if you want to get one particular 
 question right.  

  At first glance, it seems as if Madden 09 looks quite a bit different from Madden 08, but that's 
 really not the case. The difference is mostly due to colors that are bolder and brighter; a change 
 presumably made to appeal to the younger set. There are a few new player animations as well, but 
 that's really the only difference between this year and last. The frame rate is generally steady, 
 the player models are decent (but look nowhere near as good as they do on the 360 and PS3) , and 
 the stadiums are filled with ugly-looking fans. There's little time to scrutinize small visual 
 details because there's not a whole lot of time between plays, and there aren't any automatic replays. 
 These omissions hurt the presentation a bit but have the benefit of keeping the game moving along 
 at a fast pace. Plus, you can still pause the game and manually replay a play, so you're really 
 not missing a whole lot.  

           You'd better have a good lawyer if people are declaring you the next Michael Vick.    
   

  One area that has seemingly received no attention is the game's audio. John Madden and Al Michaels 
 call the action, which would be great if they weren't saying the exact same things they've been 
 saying for years. If any new commentary has been recorded for the game, it's sure hard to notice. 
 Neither announcer uses player names very often; instead, they say the jersey number or position 
 when a player is involved in a play. Surely, it's not too much to ask to get one or both of these 
 guys to say player names into a microphone for one hour out of the year. Madden certainly isn't 
 busy trimming his bushy eyebrows; that's for sure.  

  What few changes have been made to Madden 09 serve to make it more user-friendly to people who 
 aren't familiar with the game of football. Young kids should have a good time celebrating touchdowns 
 and playing with big-headed players in Five-on-Five mode, while casual players will appreciate 
 the simplified playbooks and "call your shot" play calling. There's very little new here designed 
 to appeal to football fans or, for that matter, anyone who has purchased one of the previous Madden 
 games on the Wii. It is series newcomers who have the most to gain from picking up a copy of Madden 
 NFL 09: All-Play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (35 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: maddenrulz
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:06 am PT
Review:  Madden is back! A great series in itself, Madden has presented great games ever since Madden NFL 
 2004. But 09 All-Play was a shocker.
  
  The player weapons that were featured last year, were given out to freely to players. Still no 
 weapons for kickers and punters. No create-a-anything sends this game down the toilet for me. Getting 
 rid of the salary cap was a good option to put in the games this year.
  
  Players are much slower than last year, even if their speed has improved over the last year. Which 
 makes it a nightmare for Quaterbacks like Brett Farve and Kerry Colins.
  
  Controls are very good this year, however, manualing catching the football is a nightmare, so is 
 breaking tackles. The All-Play passing feature doesn't work. If I try to throw to Randy Moss, with 
 All-Play on, I end up throwing to Maroney.
  
  Celebrations are pathetic! You stand there waving your arms about. If you're with your friends, 
 they'll probably think "He's/she's a nutter".
  
  
  Madden NFL 09 All-Play is average, if you keep All-Play on. If you don't have it on, it's ten times 
 better. It's worth checking out... ONLY if you play on All-Madden or All-Pro. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSGDevilDog
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2009 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I bought Madden 09 for the 3rd time when I purchased it for the Wii. I own it for the 360 and the 
 PSP as well. Why buy another console copy when I already had the best looking one available? Easy... 
 so I could play with anyone.
  
  Since most people concern themselves more with graphics than most other aspects nowadays, we'll 
 get that out of the way right now. This game looks good, but it is by no means close to, say, the 
 360 version. These graphics are comparable to Gamecube or PS2 level graphics. Don't let this worry 
 you though, even though it isn't jaw-dropping, the game does still look good, especially between 
 the lines where it is most important. Some player models are a bit exaggerated, like the linemen, 
 but for the most part, it's all more than acceptable.
  
  Sound sort of falls into the same category as graphics. It's nothing outstanding or extraordinary, 
 but it gets the job done. The on the field sound effects are decent, as is the crowd noise. One 
 very weak area in the sound department though is the referee audio. It uses an echo effect to the 
 extreme, causing anything that the referee might say (on replay challenges, penalties, etc) to 
 be nearly inaudible. John Madden and Al Michaels are still the announcing crew on the Wii... which... 
 is what it is. It's canned and recycled from previous years, so if you've played Madden before, 
 you've heard it before.
  
  Madden 09 All Play for the Wii is a great way for anyone who enjoys football to play the game without 
 the complexity of its counterparts on the other next-gen consoles. The controls are pretty solid. 
 You'll make a gesture to snap the ball, pass the ball, catch, jukes, kick and tackle. Player movement 
 is handled on the analog stick on the nunchuck remote while things such as defensive shifts and 
 selecting receivers are via the D-pad.
  
  For the most part, these gestures are pretty much right on and responsive. One area where the gestures 
 get mixed up though is passing. You have to snap your wrist quickly in order to throw a bullet 
 pass, while just making a simple throwing motion will throw a lob pass. The problem is, the game 
 will sometimes not notice a difference in the motion, so you'll find yourself throwing lob passes 
 when you meant to rifle the ball and wind up throwing an interception. This is especially noticeable 
 in online play where the game seems to suffer from not noticing a difference in how you throw the 
 ball. Catching is also very difficult (where you must raise both arms at the same time) and is 
 something the game has a very hard time recognizing. But the catch motion does not have to be made 
 unless you play on the harder difficulty levels.
  
  For the non-gamer types (my girlfriend for example) , the All-Play control option is a godsend. 
 It allows those people who want to play someone else in football to enjoy the game as well. With 
 All-Play on, all a player needs to do is select a play (either through a full playbook, a small 
 playbook of basic plays or just one suggested play) and perform the gestures. All of the rest of 
 the game is handled by the AI. This really does allow the games between previous Madden players 
 and newcomers to be close if the newcomer plays in All-Play and the regular gamer uses the more 
 sophisticated controls.
  
  Gameplay is solid all around. The basic football experience is an enjoyable one, although sometimes 
 penalty calls will leave you scratching your head when watching replays and seeing nothing to even 
 resemble a penalty that you may have been called for. Sometimes it seems as though the game just 
 has a need to call a certain amount of penalties and they are randomly thrown in during the games. 
 
  
  All of the usual game modes are here: play now (exhibition) , franchise, online play and party mode. 
 There's also a sort of backyard football 5 on 5 that is good for a short dose of fun with friends. 
 Online play is silky smooth connection-wise and is a great all around experience (minus the previously 
 mentioned control hiccups) . There is usually always enough people online that you can jump into 
 a game almost instantly.
  
  A few little Wii-exclusive items are the Call Your Shot mode and the telestrator. Call Your Shot 
 allows you to take hot routes to a new level, where you select a receiver before the offensive 
 snap and use your Wii-mote to draw a new route for your WR. This little addition is great, allowing 
 you to completely rewrite your WRs routes on the fly as you see fit. The telestrator doesn't really 
 have much purpose, but it does allow you to run replays just like you see on TV where you can use 
 your Wii-mote as a telestrator pen and draw on your replays. About the only time you will really 
 use this feature is to rub it in a friends' face when you pull off a big time play against them.
 
  
  All in all, the Wii version of Madden 09 is a great experience. If you're looking for the deep, 
 sim-oriented experience, you won't find it (and shouldn't be expecting it in all honesty) on the 
 Wii. What you will find is a flat out FUN football game. The controls are solid and the gameplay 
 backs it up. If you can take a game that showcases fun over graphics, Madden will be a good investment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pitthepunisher
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is a total letdown. For one, it doesnt have all the features Madden 07 has. You cant 
 call for the ball, so in superstar you can go totally unnoticed. It is so hard to throw the ball. 
 You dont have good reactions, you see a guy open, and then once you throw the ball he is covered 
 and they intercept your pass. When you are outside the pocket, you passes have no accuracy. It 
 is hard to tell what button your receiver is. And the open or covered meter just takes away some 
 of the skill you need, making it too easy, even though the position is supposed to be a challenge. 
 The graphics are horrible. One of the most aggravating points is the challenge feature. This is 
 a game, it should just call it right the first time. Only a supercomputer can tell, and some are 
 so obvious. And when you look at the Instant Replay, then you cant challenge. And defense is a 
 big flaw. The catch and swat motions are so similiar. So many picks missed. And all play makes 
 it easier to catch, but you will see a WR wide open, and the game will throw it to another, leading 
 to more picks. You cant make your playbook, which I hate. Madden has never been the best football 
 game fundamentally, but it has normally had the best features. It was so much fun to make your 
 own team, and then to make a playbook for it. The closest you can get to a playbook is Call Your 
 shots, but in multiplayer, it just tells your opponent what you are going to do. EA Sports is really 
 lucky there are no other good football games, or i would never play this game. Its funner to play 
 NFL Rush 2003 (which I dont have) , and im not as good as my friends. You cant tuck it in, which 
 every other company does, EXCEPT Madden. Save your money for something more worthwile, like burning 
 it, shredding it, or eating it. This game will only bring you aggravation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Headcsse
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 18, 2009 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Madden 09 is the oldest sports game series still running, and it doesn't seem to be slowing down. 
 The addition for the Wii, however, is a decent port of existing content plagued by the "All-Play" 
 feature that EA Sports seems to stick on every game it makes for the Wii.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I know that I raise the mean age for the average Wii user by around 6 years, 
 but that doesn't mean that gameplay has to be dumbed down. The Madden system works just fine; the 
 system of choosing plays, franchise mode, and online play work solidly. Madden veterans, however, 
 shouldn't use these staples to buy this addition for the Wii.
  
  The controls are the main reason for the "total letdown" I classified this game as. Passing the 
 ball by swinging the Wiimote foward lets my sister easily play as quarterback, but I feel ridiculous 
 using this play-style as a veteran of the series. There isn't any option to play using the Gamecube 
 controller or the classic controller, and that hinders this games playability considerably.
  
  The party mode added in simply because Wiis are fun to have with friends around is merely a 
 collection of training camp mini-games. 5 on 5 mode is useless. The only real good thing I have 
 to say about this game is its great soundtrack: Shinedown, Underoath, Gym Class Heroes and more 
 add their talents into the game and it's almost fun just sitting in the menus listening to the 
 great tunes. That in itself says quite a bit about the game, that you'd rather stay in the menus 
 than play the game.
  
  Other than that, it's just your regular old updated rosters Madden game. Don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bunit23
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Madden 09 All Play is a glaring example of how Nintendo Wii is designed for the little kids and 
 people who know nothing about football. First, the game features a 5-on-5 five mode with players 
 who all have oversized bobbleheads. To top that off the players are able to score at will in this 
 backyard football slugfest. Don't get me wrong, I don't think it's a bad idea to cater to the kids, 
 however; there are certain aspects of the "real Madden" that also have become childish and I think 
 it is unfair to the general public.
  
  For example, every time you score in this game (and randomly on big plays) the game switches to 
 this animation that calls for you to wave your Wiimote in order to celebrate and receive a player 
 boost depending on how hard you celebrate. What the heck? To make it worse, the animation has these 
 players repeating the celbration over and over. For example, say I have a LB make a sack. This 
 animation will show a red light in the background that grows brighter and larger as I wave my Wiimote. 
 It will then show him getting up off of the ground and celebrating. Before that celebration is 
 over he is shown getting up from the ground again and starting from square one.
  
  The upside to the childish play is evident in the ability to create your own routes. At the line 
 of scrimmage you have the option to choose a receiver (or multiple receivers) and completely change 
 his route. I'm not talking about playmaker or smart route either. I mean you can draw plays in 
 the dirt like you would in a game with your friends in the back yard. It only gets annoying in 
 online mode when a guy can run a receiver from side to side with triple and quadruple moves on 
 a route. It is almost a given that the WR is eventually going to break free. 
  
  Another downfall to this title is the rosters are way off. I usually play with the Redskins and 
 their roster is jacked. I have noticed a few other teams who have also been shorted a few players. 
 At first I thought there were just a few select rookies from the draft who weren't put into the 
 game because they weren't sure if these guys would make the cut. Quickly I realized that the Skins 
 starting strong safety, Chris Horton was not even on the game. Not even as a backup. They did TE 
 Fred Davis on the game and WR Devin Thomas but it is missing players such as former University 
 of Hawaii standout, Colt Brennan. How can a game miss a player of that magnitude? To make things 
 worse I got all of my QBs hurt one game and the game didn't even acknowledge that WR Antwaan Randle 
 El was the team's emergency QB. Instead I was stuck using a punter as the QB. I would say the roster 
 definitely needs to improve next year.
  
  Overall, this game is just another Madden title but the "grown man factor is taken away by a bunch 
 of useless attmpts to entertain the younger generation. I'm sure Xbox 360 appreciates the free 
 sales Nintendo is sending their way by forcing people to play this childish game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirWilliamIdol
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 25, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  So here's the deal: I've been playing Madden for years. I don't mind that EA pretty much releases 
 the same game every year, with updated rosters and a few extra bells and whistles. I'm a football 
 junkie who needs his fill. 
  
  My problem is with this Wii version. I have been playing Madden for Playstation systems since they 
 first became available. This was my first chance playing it on the Wii. I will never buy another 
 football game on the Wii again. The Wiimote can't seem to differentiate between a lob pass and 
 a bullet, which can cause some problems, especially in things like the Precision Passing drill. 
 Also, to catch a football, you have to bring up the Wiimote and nunchuck together. After not doing 
 it right the first few tries, I actually put the Wiimote and nunchuck IN THE SAME HAND, and was 
 still told that I need to move them upwards AT THE SAME TIME. The Wii is a fun system, but it's 
 apparently clear that of it's many limitations, sports games, particularly football games, may 
 be something that is best left to the big boys. I'm just going to stick with Madden 08 for the 
 PS2 and leave it at that until I can afford a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsgrizzlies35
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I can not give this game a perfect because well... it is not perfect. One flaw in the game is that 
 the gameplay hasn't changed all that much. Another flaw is that the NFL superstar mode looks as 
 if it has been COMPLETLEY ignored. But other than that this game is a very fun game. The online 
 is great. My favorite part is the diffrent game rooms. You can go in the competitve social or casual 
 game zone. In each rooms you will find diffrent skill levels of people The 5 on 5 is fun. Oh and 
 i like the all play mode because my sister, who hates losing, can do really good even though she 
 is not very good at all. But, if you have a 360 or PS3 i would recomend getting it on there. But 
 hey you might think its better than the 360 or PS3 version. Who knows????????????? If you like 
 an easy game then this game is a must buy. If you like a more challenging game i would reccomend 
 getting the 360 or PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboysrock981
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL '09 All Play has definitely had some mixed reactions about its play. If you're a beginner 
 at madden, it made it easier to learn and control. But if you're good, or when you get good, the 
 game brings less to the table then in previous years.
  
  The Good-
  Madden '09 brought the first online Madden to the Wii, and while people quitting on you can get 
 annoying, Nintendo has done a great job of letting you finish your game. 
  A large online community means that you'll practiclly always find another person to play online!
 
  All-Play mode lets beginners and little kids also get into the game!
  Excellent EA Sports Track- Including Lincoln Park, The Offspring, and many more great bands!
 
  Online rosters update every time you sign onto Wi-Fi, so you're usually always playing with an 
 updated roster online!
  5 vs 5 mode is very fun, whether you're a beginner or a veteran!
  Party mode lets you have mini-game tourneys, and lets you see who's the mini-game/5 vs 5/trivia 
 king!
  Instant replay is still in, but a new telestrator mode lets you draw on the play, showing everybody 
 what happened to make that big play happen for you!!
  For advanced players- ability to shift defences, and audible/hot route offensive plays is now better 
 than ever, especially with the call your shot feature!
  
  The Bad-
  Trivia mode isn't very fun, and was a big disappointment
  If you somehow get disconnected during 
 a game, it has bad results on your respective online ranking.
  Sometimes the QB dosn't always throw to the button you press, causing a lot of unfair pass plays.
 
  Kicking controls are mostly correct, but sometimes questionable when playing a computer opponent.
 
  Making a fan, a playbook, a team, and a player are no longer options, which were big parts of 
 the game before, this was very dissapointing.
  Franchise and Superstar modes are about the exact same as before.
  
  Overall Review-
  A fun 
 game, especially with the online play! However, nothing that's extra exiting to gamers without 
 Wi-Fi, even with the addition of 5 vs 5.
  
  My bottom line- If you like online play, and like madden, this is a great game to buy, although 
 slightly disappointing at times. If you don't have Wi-Fi capability, then spend your $50 on a different 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobnadel
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 29, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This so called "Madden 09" is nothing like the versions for non-Nintendo systems. The two extra 
 words, "All-Play" are the spoilers of what would have been a great game. It is fun for newcomers 
 to the Madden games, but for people who have had Madden 08, it is a letdown. All Play just destroys 
 the controls, this was a big mistake by Nintendo and EA, I can't understand how people like this 
 game, it just stinks, and now they are making all of the sports games "all-play:
  
  The Good: Call your shots is pretty fun; Dancing when you score is nice too!
  
  The Bad: Can't 
 choose receiver; Basically same as Madden 08; No fun for hardcore players; Not the same as versions 
 for PSP, PS3, PS2, XBOX, or X360; Superstar and Franchise are horrendous; nothing new at all; EA 
 should be ashamed of itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivionownn
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I remember Madden 08 for Wii and how good it was. This game fails in the list of good immersive 
 games.
  
  The controls are more responsive then the Wii Madden 08 game.
  You flick the Wii remote up to snap the ball, and hold Z and flick the Wii remote up to fake snap. 
 All of which sound fun, but in the end, they can get extremely boring to do.
  
  The online is not that great. You can match up with one player in either ranked or unranked games.
 
  
  But with the strange controls, the online fails to impress...
  
  There is a new mode called 5v5 which is a kiddie version of madden.
  Big heads, five players 
 and a small field. All you need for a boring dull game of Madden
  
  Overall it just fails to impress...
  It is definIely worth a rent though.
  You will most likely 
 be playing it for 20+ hours.
  
  THANK YOU FOR READING MADDEN 09 REVIEW
  PM ME IF YOU THOUGHT MY RATING WAS WHAT IT DESERVED
  Oblivionownn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calebks
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  Yes the game has a few problems. Yes it has locked up on me in the middle of games, in the middle 
 of browsing menus, etc.
  
  It is far too easy to return kicks for touchdowns online and playing against a computer.
  Sometimes 
 when you break a tackle everyone slows their pursuit of you and you sometimes get free touchdowns 
 because the defense just lays down.
  
  But where else will you find a licensed football game? I mean this isn't a perfect game but the 
 online updates have made it bearable and worth playing for any true football fan.
  
  The controls can be a little slow. For example, you have to raise your hands a good half second 
 or so before you want to catch a ball to even have a chance at it. Which makes catching a lot more 
 difficult than it has been. And it makes the WR and DB training camp activities a lot more difficult 
 than they used to be.
  
  Overall the online experience of the game has been more than rewarding because you are forced to 
 play against a real human in a different room. Their is an immediate balance because they have 
 no idea what play or formation you were looking at just a minute ago, and then you have to effectively 
 form a gameplan and exploit the weaknesses of your opponents in real time. Truly rewarding especially 
 when you pull down the W.
  
  I hope the true fans have not given up on this game because it still has a lot of great moments, 
 especially in online games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo2flood
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I've only have one other Madden game for the wii, Madden NFL 2007. It was a terrible 
 game so i reverted to Madden 2005 for the Gamecube until i saw a video of this game. I thought 
 it would be fun so i went out and bought a copy. I think it is the most fun (funnest isn't a word) 
 Madden I have ever played.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Unlike Madden 07' there are very few glitches. The only glitch i found was in Total Control Simulation 
 on Franchise mode. In the actual game, Madden and Al Michael commentary is unmatched, it makes 
 you feel like your watching your game on TV. The concept of All-Play where it simplifies the game 
 of football for begging is a very nice add on to the game (I remember it taking a month for me 
 to get Madden) For experienced users it has the plays by formations, and it is very easy to audible 
 or to switch the play around. But the one thing that makes this game really fun is the "Call your 
 own shots" mode. Once you are at the line of scrimmage you can create custom routes for your wide 
 receivers which have helped me a lot versus CPU defenders in close games. For Multiplayer, the 
 new 5 on 5 mode Is VERY fun. I have spent countless hours playing with friends 5 on 5 in mini tourneys. 
 The 5 on 5 mode alone can get you to buy this game if you love multiplayer, but the party games 
 are very fun as well.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  This is the only aspect of the game which is sub par. I feel at times like I am playing a PS2 game. 
 Of course, this is due to the wii's graphics card, which is minuscule compared to the PS3 or PS2. 
 If you have an HD TV i recommend getting the wii HD component cables. It helps A LOT with the graphics.
 
  
  Overall:9.5/10
  
  This is a very fun game, with drastic improvements from years past. If you have not gotten a madden 
 game for the Wii, i highly recommend getting this years edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joshee27
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game its fun and challenging theres many different game modes you can do like superstar 
 and its fun to play with pros you can do seasons and a lot more fun stuff its fun to juke out people 
 and do cool moves once you get the controls down its fun for biginers you can use all play then 
 turn ot off when you get better and 5 on 5 mode thats just like a real game but only 4 downs you 
 have to gat a TD you can have big heads in 5 on 5 so its a fun game all the  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: copp62
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  America's favorite sport comes back to gaming systems and makes its mark. as football returns it 
 brings some new additions like 5 on 5 and for the first time All Play. the game has a huge huge 
 problem though. it's way way way too easy. i normally play on all pro but i had to play on all 
 madden this time and it was still too easy. and it's no fun beating a team 52 to 7. the game really 
 needs to work on that. i know wii is a family console but that does not mean they can become weak 
 on the wii. i mean this is football not soccer (sorry soccer fans) . but the game kinda makes up 
 for that with the controls. throw to pass and all that. one problem is that i couldn't figure out 
 how to do audibles. i did what they said but it didn't do it. the game offers a new 5 on 5 which 
 is pretty good i guess much better than 2 on 2 but 2 on 2 is still there. which is good to have 
 i guess. and the game offers online which i've never played online before but i know it's there. 
 the game also offers celebrations in which you shake the wii mote (and numchuck) and the player 
 gets a big boost and if somebody walks in on you doing a celebration then you're going to look 
 like a huge fool. 
  
  so if you don't know if you're going to get this game then get it i mean football is football either 
 way and even with some huge promblems the game still manages to be more addicting every time you 
 play it. and by the way superstar mode is the same as last year and another huge promblem is you 
 can't make your on team or player which truely sucks. so i give Madden 09 All Play for the wii 
 an 8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  The Madden series has been around from quite some time. We have seen it develop from simplistic 
 playbooks and cheesy graphics to a sophisticated game engine that now has the ability to learn 
 how you play. I have been a fan of these games, especially since their releases in the early 2000s. 
 Unfortunately for Wii owners, the game today is not that vast of an improvement over even Madden 
 2006.
  
  The game still contains most of the same modes you would hope to play, from franchise to mini-camp. 
 In addition, Wii-owners can enjoy a 5 on 5 (big head) , simplified version of the game, which plays 
 similar to backyard football. It is good for about 5 minutes and then you question why they put 
 time and effort into a childish addition.
  
  As far as opening this up to a large group of gamers, there are some nice improvements available. 
 The All-Play option allows someone to play with a sort of handicap or assistant built into their 
 action. Passing icons are simplified, actions are minimized for results and explanations are often 
 and clear. I quickly turned this off, but I can appreciate it for players that would want to use 
 it.
  
  Going online is another nice feature. Nintendo has been working on its servers since the 1st online 
 games were released and is now able to support the type of live action this game entails with minimal 
 lag.
  
  My favorite of the new features though is actually the Call-Your-Shot. With this, you can change 
 a player's route before snapping the ball (also without running the clock) . You don't get anything 
 special for completing the pass to that receiver, but it will throw up a graphic that says Shot 
 Called. It is a new way to audible/hot route without completely changing the play.
  
  Now comes the massive disappointment. The celebrations are just ridiculous. Why add in a basically 
 useless feature, you may ask. That's because other record-keeping and bonus item features were 
 eliminated. There are no longer player and game cards that you can collect for savings and boosting 
 player stats. Mini-camp is now simply there to practice skills with no true reward at the end. 
 You no longer have game goals, like passing for a certain number of yards or scoring a touchdown 
 injured. Some of the core elements that have been in the game for years have now been eliminated 
 for the Wii. And the quiz game does not make up for it...
  
  Also what is up with the graphics? I know the system does not have the same capabilities are the 
 PS3 and 360, but seriously. Some Wii games look stellar and this just looks like there has been 
 no evolution since the Gamecube at all. The crowds are far from attractive and the player models 
 are still too pixeled and undefined. And what happened to the videos? Give me what you used to 
 provide on the previous generation system. The incorporation of the Miis is interesting as well, 
 but not necessary or impactful for the game.
  
  All in all, it is still a Madden game. Luckily I did not purchase 2008 so this seems more new to 
 me than if I had. There is only a little more polish than compared to 2007 and much more could 
 have been done to make the game more equitable with the other current generation systems (even 
 without the same graphics capabilities) . EA has to try harder next year and not let these massive 
 discrepancies continue for Wii-owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bwags
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so maybe that's a little harsh, but I wanted to emphasize that this game is not for those who 
 own a 360 or PS3. I feel like I hopped in a time machine and traveled back to 2004 cause I swear 
 it's the same graphics! The mechanics are simple, but some of the more complex motions, such as 
 catching the ball and breaking up a pass are hit and miss. The All-Play feature basically dumbs 
 down all the controls where it can be played with just the wii-mote. This mode was obviously put 
 in place to allow those who cannot comprehend the absurdly difficult mechanics of the other versions 
 to be able to pick-up and play. While this is a nice feature for my wife, grandmother, and children, 
 I found it mediocre and even a bit unfair when going up against someone using the traditional Wii-Mote/Nunchuck 
 combo. The new route-design feature is nice, but even that is not enough to save the repetitively 
 dull gameplay. The AI in the game is clunky and uncoordinated at best, and if you can't go undefeated 
 on All-Madden, you probably shouldn't be playing. Franchise and Superstar mode look like they've 
 actually gone backwards in the series, offering less options than previous entries in the series. 
 Other options, such as 5-on-5 is fun, but even that dulls out quick. Madden 2009 All-Play is what 
 it is - a Wii football game for youngsters and oldsters who don't understand the full mechanics 
 of football. If you own another console buy it for that system and don't waste your money on All-Play 
 (unless your 7) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockySquirrel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  PROS:
  
  Applying the Wii to Madden is a GREAT idea.
  
  5v5 mode was a fun addition.
  
  It's challenging and fun to play with the ALL-PLAY option toggled OFF.
  
  
  CONS:
  
 
  BUT, there wasn't enough polish on the standard NFL game mode to make me entirely happy. You play 
 the game, but there could have been a lot more polish to make it seem like a real NFL broadcast.
 
  
  1. The commentary is almost useless.
  2. Voice acting errors. Historical team errors.
  3. No stats auto-presented at halftime.
  4. No instant replays automatically displayed for scores 
 or big plays (like in a game broadcast) .
  5. The celebration mode is totally ridiculous (do they think only children play with a Wii?)
 
  
  I also missed the ability to create an uber-player for my favorite team (usually named after me!)
 
  
  Anyway... please try harder next year EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satanscabanaboy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  To be honest with you, constant reader, I wanted to hate the Wii version of Madden 09 with every 
 fiber of my being. And I almost pulled it off. The night that I got it I played it for about forty-five 
 minutes before fighting the urge to chuck my Wii-mote through my trusty Sony Trinitron. I mean, 
 it was the same flippin' game from last year, only dumber. I'd made up my mind that same night 
 that in the morning my Wii copy was headin' back in exchange for something a little less lame. 
 In the morning, however, (in true me fashion) I left for work sans terrible Madden game. Taking 
 this as a sign, I decided it'd be best to give it one more shot. And am I glad I did. My proverbial 
 socks have been completely and thoroughly rocked off. The Wii version succeeds where the others 
 fall short; overall fun. I love the brighter colors and retro fields, (a shout out to the original 
 Madden) and the five-on-five mode is enjoyable if not a tad unnecessary. Yes, the commentary is 
 old and, yes, the franchise and superstar modes are the same, but, hell, if you're looking for 
 a game that's just plain fun, give Madden NFL 09 for the Wii and shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archaespegal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  Madden 09 All Play is a great game of football there is no doubt about it. Some would say it's 
 the same madden as before with the same franchise and all. But who cares it's a great game now 
 and it was then, only now EA has added some cool new features to expand gameplay. One big feature 
 this time around is call your shots which enables you to create your own in game audibles buy pushing 
 A then drawing out the route you want your reciever's to go. I found this works really well and 
 adds so much to the game. Next you now have online with the Wii and thankfully the Wii Code is 
 nowhere to be found. EA has went and added "Personna's" or basically gamertags that you create 
 for your specific wii console. Online works very well on the Wii and I only noticed a slight slow 
 down here and there. Graphics are a little better in some area's and worse in others. The player 
 models look a little better but the stadiums and crowds look dated. I think EA should have focused 
 a little more on pushing the Wii to it's max with the graphics so it will feel kind of next gen. 
 One huge flaw is the weather effects or lack there of. When you select rain or snow there is none 
 to be found. It just makes the grass white.. So the grass is white but there is now snow falling 
 from the sky, makes you wonder if EA thinks grass makes it's own snow.... But all in all only minor 
 issues the game is still great and is worth buying, you will spend hours on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcross7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I have a 360 and a Wii. I bought Madden 08 for the 360 and while the graphics were much better 
 than the PS2, the game felt like the same game as previous years, just minor tweeks. Really, the 
 formula for the game hasn't changed on any platform and for me, it's a bit stale. But I like the 
 gameplay with the Wii-mote better than with the traditional 360 controller. Call your shots is 
 an amazing feature that rocks! It really adds something new to the gameplay - something the other 
 games can't say.
  
  All-Play - well I don't play it, but it doesn't subtract from the hardcore game play, you simply 
 don't use it. And I can see how others would easily be able to play.
  
  Presentation - OK, graphics are not good, but there are good elements to it. I actually like the 
 arcady elements added (the streak to passes, the streaks of the players at full speed) . I like 
 that it's bright. Hate the dark fields on the 360. Hey it's different. The Wii refs and stuff, 
 well, that's a little annoying, but not that bad. The celebration stuff gets old. 
  Hopefully they'll push the Wii's graphic capabilities next year.
  
  Other Modes - I never think 
 the other modes are much use for me. I just like franchise and that's adequate for me. 5-on-5, 
 well it fun for a bit. Nothing more than a mini game mode.
  
  Madden is a great franchise, the Wii and Madden are headed in the right direction, if they spent 
 more development on it, it could really be something. As it is, gameplay it's fresher on the Wii 
 than the other two consoles. Graphics clearly not where it should be on the Wii. But there's alot 
 of fun to be had. If you want the same game, go get Madden on the 360 or PS3. If you are looking 
 for a fresher gameplay, go for the Wii. Either way, you have nothing to lose. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MurderaX3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Madden is wrecking all of there games
  
  
  
  
  
  
  LET ESPN MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN 
 MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN 
 MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN 
 MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN 
 MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN 
 MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!!
  LET ESPN MAKE FOOTBALL GAMES AGAIN!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyJoe91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Madden 09 all-play is great and you should buy for the wii .I got tell you, the difficulties of 
 the game. First the bad parts of the game. There is no weather in the game and the back tracking 
 rewind are not in the game. However, the good is call your shot that a cool thing they add it in 
 .I mad there is no 40 yard dash and bench, press it will cool with the wii remote. In addition, 
 they do not have rings. Also, Madden I. Q. franchise it same thing .I think they should make more 
 like 360 ps3 verison, how that be a great game. And they should add the classic or play with the 
 game cube controller. Online playings is great and 5 on 5 it great addict fun and quick .all play 
 will make the game easy for new madden for wii it help you in the basic of the game. If you love 
 football and have the wii, buy it and it cheaper then the 360-ps3 games or verison.
  
  i like that you can download the lastest roaster, that great for the game. the game is like a rookie 
 with potential in a few years. So i will wait next year to see how fix it on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thore33
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  I found i couldn't agree more with the Gamespot review on this one. This is the first time i bought 
 a football game on the Wii, and i would rather play my old-school xbox's version. There just isn't 
 any presentation and the graphics are pathetically outdated. The motion controls are flakey on 
 defense. Offense works well though. 
  
  In general, I see way too many bug related items that drive me nuts and makes the game seem shoddy. 
 The few replays you get are via "challenging a play" but the camera they use is in the endzone, 
 even if the play is in on the 50yd line. Another one is the few on field celebrations have players 
 disappearing magically. Also, i've seen multiple times where the "downs/to go" are wrong in the 
 playcalling screen, which is what you use to decide what play to do. 
  
  I guess after seeing how the game has progressed over the years, I feel very disappointed. Do I 
 play the game? Yes, but I feel this game reminds me that I should have just bought the Xbox 360. 
 Another 3rd party game that is shoddy on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyv2003
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Pros - Same fun and addictive gameplay as Madden 07. Glitches and bugs from Madden 08 have been 
 fixed. Solid multiplayer experience. Very intuitive and responsive motion controls. More fluid 
 animations. 5-on-5 can be a fun multiplayer distraction. Call Your Shot is a great addition.
  
  Cons - Still not pushing the Wii from a technical standpoint. Forced integration of mii referees, 
 and celebrations. Very odd in-game presentation choices. Trying to appeal to hardcore and casual 
 Madden players at the same time leaves some holes for both. No improvement on older modes.
  
  For Madden's 20th year anniversary, the team at Tiburon/EA has put forth one of the most valiant 
 efforts yet. It's still not a perfect experience by any means, but one I could easily recommend 
 to a good number of people. When Madden 07 was released on the Wii, many were anticipating how 
 the game would play with the Wii Remote and nunchuck. The product turned out to be very fun, and 
 this continues with Madden 09 (let's just put Madden 08 in the back of our minds **shudders**)
 
  
  When you first turn on Madden 09 All Play you'll first notice that not a whole lot has been changed 
 in the menu presentation. The most noticeable feature or lack there of is you can't use 'point-and-click' 
 for menu navigation. It's a small gripe, but it's so much easier and faster to point to your selection 
 instead of scrolling through it. To clarify point-and-click controls are still used for calling 
 plays in-game, which is so much better than scrolling through with an analog or d-pad. The menu 
 looks no different than the Wii Maddens of the past, which is definitely something they should 
 look to improve. It needs a little flare.
  
  I know that menu presentation is a minimal part of the game so let's move onto some of the bigger 
 portions of the game. Most of the modes you've seen on Madden are present: Play Now, Franchise 
 Mode, Party Mode, Play Online, Superstar Modeetc. One of the new additions that you'll first notice 
 when scrolling around is 5-on-5.
  
  5-on-5 isn't a mode that you're going to play for hours on end, but it's still pretty fun. It reminds 
 me of the backyard football series that give kids a more simple way to throw around the virtual 
 pigskin. This isn't a mode that you'll want to play by yourself either, as it's pretty boring using 
 the CPU for competition. If you have a friend with you, and you don't want to play a full game 
 and want a light distraction, then 5-on-5 serves its purpose.
  
  Madden 5 on 5
  5-on-5 Is A Solid Mode For What It Does
  
  Ok, now that we've talked about the menus, and the 
 new 5-on-5 mode let's get to the 'meat' portion of the game. If you've played Madden 07 then you'll 
 be right at home with the controls and gameplay of Madden 09. Besides taking out the double juke 
 (I'll never let it go) , all of the controls have been refined and seem more responsive than the 
 previous installments. The largest gameplay addition in Madden 09 All Play is of the same name 
 'All Play'. When you first start up a game, the controls will actually default to the All Play 
 controls (minor annoyance to me) . This basically is a more simple version of Madden, where the 
 nunchuck isn't used and all you have to worry about is the motion control parts of the game. For 
 those who are just starting out with Madden, or are looking to move up a difficulty level will 
 find All Play useful.
  
  Once you've gotten into an actual game, this is probably where you'll see more of the changes for 
 Madden 09 taking place. The first obvious presentation change is the integrations of Mii's as referees. 
 It's kind of fun for your 'Mom' mii to call holding on you but it really doesn't give a true football 
 experience; although only the most pure Madden enthusiasts will find fault. I just happen to be 
 one. Call Your Shot is probably the best new addition to Madden. Everytime you call a play and 
 get to the line you get the opportunity to have receivers run custom routes. Imagine having the 
 field as a telestrator, only you get to tell the receiver to run any kind of route you want to. 
 If you know how to read defenses it's a highly powerful weapon; one could say over-powered.
  
  The next in-game presentation gripe I have is how they've decided to change the lettering up 
 for down/yard updates. Tiburon thought it would be a good idea to use a huge yellow font that looks 
 like something from a Madden back in the 90's. I guess they're making sure grandpa or grandma can 
 know what down it is. Again, it's not a major complaint, but it keeps it from being a more polished 
 presentation. The final and my guilty pleasure from the game is the celebration mechanic. There's 
 nothing greater than sacking your friend and then drumming your Wii Remote and nunchuck in his 
 face in celebration. Not only is it fun in real life, you'll get a ratings boost for the player 
 celebrating. While the addition can be fun, just like the mii referees it takes away from being 
 a valid virtual football experience; it should have just been made an optional choice.
  
  Madden 09 Celebration
  Forced Celebration Animations And Big Yellow Fonts Team Up
  (Screenshot 
 Credit: Gamespot)
  
  Once you've played some games, you're more than likely going to try and find different modes to 
 diversify your playing experience. For most Madden vets, you'll more than likely be shifting towards 
 Superstar or Franchise mode. Both of the modes are pretty 'meh', meaning they haven't been butchered, 
 but at the same time haven't been improved either. They're actually close to carbon copies of previous 
 Franchise and Superstar modes, only with new player pictures and a couple of different gameplay 
 options. Next year, Tiburon should look to bring some more additions to these modes or it will 
 go from being 'meh' to being "bring me something fresh or I'll stop buying these games new". Once 
 you decide to take your skills online against others you'll find that Tiburon/EA have brought a 
 stable online experience. A word for the wise, buy a LAN adapter for your Wii if you're having 
 connection problems. I know it's more money to spend, but if you're having connection problems 
 it's likely due to this and not the game.
  
  I tend to save the technical aspects of a game for last. In Madden 09 All Play's case this is a 
 good thing as it's not impressive by any means from a graphical standpoint. Playing this game in 
 16:9 widescreen format on a big screen television is not recommended. I don't know how Tiburon 
 pulled this off, and I know some won't believe me but the game looked better on my 20 SD 
 television than my HDTV. This is unacceptable as there are plenty of other marquee Wii games out 
 there that look just fine on my HDTV. Although the game might not look pretty, it runs smoothly 
 when in motion. Tiburon might not have put time into improving the textures a whole lot, but they've 
 added some great animations. All of which give a better football simulation; better gang tackles, 
 tackle breaks, catches etc
  
  There are some odd graphical glitches to point out as well. Like when when you are switching sides 
 (offense to defense, and vice versa) , the players don't leave the field, they just automatically 
 change. This is a small presentation choice Tiburon might want to look into. And why did they make 
 Jordy Nelson of the Green Bay Packers a darker hue than his real life counter part? Come on guys/gals, 
 pay more attention to the greatest football dynasty ever than that (Finally got in my shameful 
 Packers plug for the review) .
  
  The sounds of Madden are no better than the graphic criticisms I've mentioned. Whoever added the 
 sound effects for this years Madden needs to get back to the basics. There are too many times, 
 especially during gang tackles that the sound effects just seem off. I believe I referred to a 
 gun being fired in my first impression of the game. One audio cue that I do like was some of the 
 player chatter that's been added. Specifically the fact that these new audio cues are streamed 
 through the Wii Remote. Like when a lineman gets into the backfield, you'll have teammates sending 
 you an audio warning through your remote. It's a pretty cool feature, and has come in handy for 
 a couple of situations.
  
  Madden and Al Michaels are back, so take that for what you will. I should note that I use the 'On 
 Field' setting for audio so I don't even listen to the commentary. In the spirit of good journalism 
 I did play a couple of games with commentary, so Madden's famous quips are back with only a few 
 new additions that I noticed.
  
  In summary I can highly recommend Madden 09 All Play to just about anyone. It was pretty ambitious 
 of Tiburon/EA to try and bring Madden 09 All Play to a larger more diverse audience. For the most 
 part it's a solid first effort. They have left some gaps that should be addressed though. First, 
 make all of the crazy new presentation additions optional. Next, they should add more deep modes 
 for the casual fans. I'm sure that people who aren't hardcore Madden players want more out of their 
 $50 than continually doing 'Play Now' or 5-on-5. How about an All Play online mode, or a stripped 
 down All Play Franchise Mode?
  
  If Madden 09 All Play improved more on their older modes I'd probably be giving the game a higher 
 score. With an unchanged Franchise, Superstar, and Online mode it's hard to say that Madden 09 
 All Play is a whole lot different than Madden 07. If you think a somewhat more refined control 
 scheme is reason enough, or the addition of Call Your Shot sounds cool then Madden 09 All Play 
 is worth a buy. Or if you have an insatiable need to play online (pretty sure it's hard to find 
 an online game of Madden 07) . If you're new to Madden then the game has a good offering albeit 
 one where you'll want to tackle the more complex modes after awhile. So anyway, for those who have 
 to have a numbered rating for a review, here you are 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangstaa9
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  GOOD: Its a madden game, Kid friendly
  
  
  BAD: frustraiting controlls, way to kid oriented, Franchise and superstar are basicly the same
 
  
  At first glance this game seems like a game that a 3 year old would look at to learn the alphabet 
 but the more you play the more you come to enjoy all the pretty colors. The only thing I really 
 do in maddden is franchise and super star and I was dissapointed that they made almost no improvements 
 to them. Like all sports games you can't play it all day but you it grows on you. Trades a unfair 
 and rarely benifit you. The thing I think destroyed this game was the controlls. You would be surprised 
 on how many time you miss field goals and extra points. you'll thorow to the wrong reciver at least 
 once a game and you'll get sake because you can't throw it soon enough. But in the end its a madden 
 game so it cant be that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scifi_fan
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I use to hate the Madden game because you had to use so many controls on the console version. I 
 personally preferred the NFL Blitz games. But with the awesomeness of the Wii controls, I decided 
 to buy Madden NFL 09 All-Play for the Wii.
  
  I bought it for two reasons, first because Brett Favre is on the cover (and I'm a Packers fan) , 
 and second the controls of the Wii controller make a game like this easier to control and simpler. 
 I'm obsessed with this game, I've played a couple of time per day since it came out.
  
  The "Call you Shots" feature is really awesome because I like the fact that you can alter the play 
 you've selected. 5-on-5 mode is cool too because it's a much faster paced game than a normal game 
 is. Also, it's a little easier to sack the quarterback than in a normal game.
  
  However, there are some shortcomings. I can only play online mode as a guest because my e-mail 
 address is 3 (or 4) characters longer than it allows. This is a real shame. Also, I wish there 
 was a feature that allowed you to turn off the Celebrations feature in Franchise mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireboltjjl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  An amazing, new, and fun all play game for wii. Not like the letdown of NCAA 09. The Call Your Shots 
 feature is really helpful and needed. Online and party mode is just outstanding. Get this game!!! 
 The graphics are pretty good for the wii. Motion controls made it easy and exciting to play. An 
 enjoyable game for any novice or pro. Please get this really awesome, amazing, fun, enjoyable, 
 family / pro friendly, addictive, good gameplay, superb, perfect, just right of a game.
  
  Review:
  
  An amazing, new, and fun all play game for wii. Not like the letdown of NCAA 09. The 
 Call Your Shots feature is really helpful and needed. Online and party mode is just outstanding. 
 Get this game!!! The graphics are pretty good for the wii. Motion controls made it easy and exciting 
 to play. An enjoyable game for any novice or pro. Please get this really awesome, amazing, fun, 
 enjoyable, family / pro friendly, addictive, good gameplay, superb, perfect, just right of a game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincam2
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This Madden is my favorite one to date on any system. That does not mean it is perfect, on-line 
 passing can be annoying and there are some other niggles here and there. 
  
  It is a really fun and very accessible game though that has many new features the best being Call 
 Your Shots which is awesome. Wii controls are accurate and well thought out and makes the game 
 more immersive and fun. 
  
  All Play is only an option but believe it or not my girlfriend actually likes playing this with 
 me because of it. My girlfriend would never touch football games before but loves the 5 on 5 mode 
 and that is starting to make her start playing the regular mode. You can't put a price tag on that 
 and that's why the game is a 10 for me.
  
  EA finally delivered! I want to see the same dedication in the next Tiger Woods and Fifa for the 
 Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: incredibletlee
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  First off, Madden, in general, is an incredibly addictive game, and this one is no different, in 
 fact, its better. Obviously it is the next installment in the long running series, so the graphics 
 must be better (although it is almost impossible to notice) . 
  
  Now, to the good stuff. "Call Your Shots" alone makes this game a must buy. Now if u don't know 
 what "Call Your Shots" is, it is not a mode, but a feature during play. It allows the user to create 
 your own routes in the middle of the game for your receivers using the wiimote. If u feel like 
 having your receiver run a zig-zag route, u can do it whenever with "Call Your Shots". 
  
  Now the roster is updated, although very poorly in some places. I mean, Micheal Strahan is still 
 in the game, and he retired at like the end of May, and yes, the cover man is not in the game either, 
 which although u cant blame them for not putting Favre in the game, it is a little disappointing. 
 
  
  One major bad thing about Madden 09 though, is that the superstar and franchise modes (my favorite 
 things) , are almost completely unchanged, which is a huge disappointment. 
  
  One other major disappointment I have about the new madden, is the failure to change the "big hit" 
 controls. When i play Madden, i usually play as a cornerback or a safety, and the "catch' feature 
 is preformed by putting your arms up (with the wiimote in hands, obviously) , and the "big hit" 
 feature is controlled by pushing your arms forward. These controls are constantly mis performed 
 and mistaken for the other, and when you are covering a wide receiver deep, playing as the safety, 
 it can be frustrating to accidentally big hit, instead of putting your arms up to intercept the 
 ball, and flying forward and giving up a touchdown pass. This is a problem I have been suffering 
 with since Madden 08, and i hoped they would fix it, but they did not. 
  
  FINAL STATEMENT:
  Overall, this game is a must get for any football fan, and even for people 
 who don't know too much about football because it is extremely addictive and the "Call Your Shots" 
 feature brings some new, needed life to the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galbryn
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  This is my first Madden game. I had played others, but never committed to buying one. Well, this 
 year I waited until the last minute and went and picked it up. I am very happy I did. This has 
 got to be the most fun I have had playing a football video game. That being said, it isn't for 
 everyone.
  
  Those new to the series will enjoy this game immensely. It is very easy to pick up and simply start 
 playing. Even those with little knowledge of the sport can jump right in. This truly is a perfect 
 game for that. With the different difficulty levels a novice can jump right in and challenge a 
 veteran and still hold their own because the game seems to adapt to the players' different skill 
 levels. This is very refreshing to see.
  
  But the hardcore football fanatics may find this game a bit too shallow. Let's face it, the truly 
 hardcore will probably enjoy the XBox version better. The better graphics, more complicated gameplay, 
 and no "All Play" will be more up their alley. But honestly, there are things here even the fanatics 
 will enjoy. The Franchise mode and Superstar mode is great. I think this is where the hardcores 
 will gravitate towards. And of course, let's not forget you can always change the difficulty settings.
 
  
  In the end, this is a great game. The controls are fun. The graphics are good for the Wii. It is 
 very easy to pick up, yet can be challenging if you want it to be. This is the perfect balance 
 for a sports game. I fully recommend it to any Wii owner who happens to be a football fan.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bornabuckeye
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  PROS:
  
  ~controls work fine.
  ~graphics are some of the best seen one the wii to date
  ~ton of game modes. This isnt some stripped down port
  ~online works seamlessly
  ~All- Play 
 is a huge success
  ~Call your shot mode is the best thing to happen to madden
  
  Cons:
  
  + as good as the graphics are, the are no match for the other consoles
  + fans and stadiums 
 are just blurs
  +no replays or play analysis
  + really wish they had super sim mode
  
  
  Overall Madden 09 in a must own. 
  
  Id like to tell you a story. Yesterday I played Madden 
 09 with my wife... Ill restate that, i played madden with my wife. The new all play control style 
 allowed her to play against me and be competitive. I was the browns and she was the ravens. I played 
 the advanced scheme she played all plays remote only control scheme. I picked all of my plays, 
 she picked John maddens plays and i beat her 14-10 on a last minute kickoff touchdown return.
 
  
  
  THIS IS A CHANGING MOMENT IN GAMING HISTORY!
  
  This game is loaded to the brim with game modes, it has a 5-5 backyard football game that is really 
 fun and enjoyable. about 20 minigames and a trivia game. All of these added to the exhibition, 
 season, and superstar modes, guarantees you will play this game for a long time. 
  
  The graphics are outstanding for a wii game and make the game easily the best sports games on the 
 wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: follis12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  I was excited when NCAA was released for the Wii, and equally disappointed when I got it home. 
 I actually considered getting a 360 just to have access to the new, great football games. I saw 
 EA's previews and I knew a lot of effort went into the non-Wii versions.
  
  Madden 09 changed my attitude. This is a great game by any standard. The gameplay is alot of fun, 
 especially the five on five feature - it sorta reminds me of Tecmo Bowl and the simple fun. So 
 far, the online has worked well also, but I've only played a couple of games.
  
  EA succeeded in making the game accessable to the casuals without making it seem too easy or pointless, 
 and Maddenites will still enjoy the advanced play which is put together better than ever. I'm still 
 amazed at the difference in this game compared with NCAA. After playing NCAA, I was sure Madden 
 on the Wii would be a dog - its not, its great, go ahead and get is one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyman222111
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  The controls with the wii wiimote and nunchuck are a great idea but they need to have an alternate 
 kind of controls like the classic controller or gamecube controller for those kind of people who 
 just want to play the game and not get frustrated with the wiimote for not doing what it should 
 have done. but i like that there is a good football game for the wii finally. The next great sports 
 game for the wii is the new mario super sluggers. The franchise mode is great but i can't get a 
 good trade off. When i offer someone a person i get someone a lot worse and i can't get a good 
 deal for any player. The superstar mode is great if you want to put yourself in the game. The online 
 play just made madden better. The best part of online play is that you don't need a friend code, 
 you just need the persons name. Overall this game is great with some improvements 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyder2k5
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 12, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  The game is almost good... I won't give it a bad score maybe I am just a traditionalist but the 
 controls are awkward and non responsive. So I cannot tell you how the rest of the game is... I 
 tried it and the controls would have been great but some overly respond while others don't work 
 that great at all... The game leaves a lot to be desired and should have been tweaked... The control 
 scheme seems rushed if anything. I even tried the Advanced to see if it was more tradition with 
 no such luck... I am getting a 360 soon so I will get it on that console. Anyhow if you like the 
 control play it if you think this is an easier type of Madden its really not if you are already 
 used to the usual kinds... I love Madden and the Wii they just don't mix very well in my book and 
 the camera is zoomed out and thus the graphics while are ok show their age just a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luffy513
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  If you may have thought Madden 08 for the Wii fel short last year, this game sure makes up for 
 it. This year they've changed the look of the game to a style that fits the Wii while still looking 
 great.
  
  This year's installment of Madden is bright and colorful, from the lush-looking football fields 
 to the brightly-colored jerseys from the players. Nothing looks too grainy, and it establishes 
 a look that can hold it's own against the PS3 and 360 version. In short it looks drastically different 
 between it's competing next-gen systems, but it fits the game just the same.
  
  Gameplay has seen some improvements. Motions seem to be more responsive than Madden 08, and the 
 most noticeable difference in the new All-Play mode. It's not near as simplistic as last year's 
 game "Family" mode where you just let the computer control your player as you only made a passing 
 motion. You still control the players, but the game automatically choses the best player to pass 
 the ball to by little lights above the players head. Green means the player is open, while red 
 means they're not safe to pass the ball to. The first time I played the game, I was worried that 
 this mode didn't have an option to turn off, but you can toggle it when selecting what team to 
 play as. Traditional passing works the same, as you simple use the d-pad to select the player to 
 whom you wish to pass the ball, then make a passing motion to do so.
  
  The collision detection in this game is 10x better than the last game, with a lot less clunky action 
 resulting from tackles and other physical happenings on the field. The game also feels slightly 
 more fast-paced, which is great and really helps you indulge yourself into the game.
  
  The soundtrack is pretty good, with the exception of the usual rap-crap tracks that I can thankfully 
 turn off while turning on all the classic NFL tunes.
  
  There are also plently of minigames to play with friends, 21 to be exact. You can also participate 
 in NFL trivia. A new mode, 5-on-5, is a good edition to the Madden series. It's a simple 5-on-5 
 game with a shorter field, with larger and faster players. You choose from 4 types of plays before 
 each hike by using the D-pad, and the first team to 5 Touch Downs win. It's fun and doesn't take 
 too long to complete, so it's a nice mode to get out of the tradition Madden football.
  
  Overall, the upgrade from 08 to 09 is worth the jump if you own a Wii. I'd definately recommend 
 this version over the 360 and PS3 version.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
