-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/madden08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some notable improvements and tweaks to the control scheme.
 New &quot;weapons&quot; feature is a neat addition.
 Solid online play that doesn't come encumbered with friend codes.
 Party mode has lots to offer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Family-play option isn't going to be useful to a lot of players.
 Presentation is seriously antiquated.
 A few irritating glitches and bugs pop up now and again.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 14, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.8, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 835 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Aug 14, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's not the revelation that last year's debut was, but Madden NFL 08 is a worthy follow-up and 
 a fun game in its own right. 

  It's safe to say that when Madden NFL 07 made its debut alongside the launch of the Wii last year, 
 it was a real shot in the arm for the franchise. With development duties handed over to EA's Canada 
 studio, the Wii version took the existing framework of the PlayStation 2, GameCube, and Xbox versions 
 of the game and then turned the whole thing into a festival of gesture controls. Not only that, 
 it did so well, transferring all the various motions and mechanics of football into a motion-based 
 control scheme that made sense. In some respects, Madden NFL 08 manages to live up to being a sequel 
 to such an innovative game, with some tweaks and additions to the various motion controls, as well 
 as the addition of more minigames and an online multiplayer mode. By the same token, several aspects 
 of this year's game also disappoint. The graphics have seen practically no noticeable improvement 
 and the presentation is still lacking. Additionally, some irritating bugs and glitches rear their 
 ugly head from time to time during gameplay. Still, 08 is great fun, especially when played with 
 other people. If you liked last year's game, you'll certainly enjoy things this time around.  

 
  For the most part, Madden's much-vaunted control scheme has remained the same. However, there 
 have been some tweaks to how a few of the mechanics work. Big hits and ball-carrier power moves 
 are now mapped solely to the Wii Remote, instead of the remote and the Nunchuk in tandem. The power 
 move has actually been rebalanced to depend on what kind of running back you've got. Power backs 
 will bowl over defenders, while scat backs will use more nimble maneuvers to duck around their 
 opponents. Defenders trying to rush the passer or get to the running back behind the line will 
 now rip and spin past blockers when you move the remote back and forth in either direction. Also, 
 certain actions, such as kicking and swatting at passes as a defender, feel a bit more responsive 
 this year.  

           It's year two for the Madden franchise on the Wii, and this latest edition is a predictable, 
 but very fun sequel.      

  Some non-motion controls have been added as well, such as a strip-ball feature mapped to the 1 
 button, which will knock the ball from a carrier's hands when timed correctly. There's also a new 
 mechanic that lets you focus in on specific receivers before the snap by zooming back and pressing 
 a button that corresponds with a specific receiver. It's a neat move that has a bit of a risk-versus-reward 
 feel to it because if you double up on one receiver, you potentially leave another open. Beyond 
 these updates, the core controls are functionally identical to last year.  

  That's hardly a bad thing, given that last year's controls were incredibly fun to play around with, 
 and they remain so here. If, for some reason, you find the Madden control scheme daunting, a new 
 option has been included called family play. For all intents and purposes, this is literally a 
 halving of the control scheme. You simply select the family-play control option and remove the 
 Nunchuk plug from the remote. From here, the game becomes all motion controls. The computer takes 
 over movement of the players, and all you have to do is manage the motion-based controls via the 
 Wii Remote.  

  It's a really strange system for a couple of reasons. One, it's hard to believe most people would 
 be so vexed by having to use an analog stick to move players that this option would be helpful 
 to them. Two, the computer isn't really talented enough to move players for you. Quarterbacks on 
 the verge of getting sacked sometimes don't even really try to move out of the pocket, and runners 
 tend to have trouble moving past blockers when running between the tackles. Sure, you can stiff-arm 
 and spin manually, but the artificial intelligence seems to have periodic issues with turning the 
 corner to find the open holes. At the very least, the average player would likely do a much better 
 job than the CPU does. While there might be some measure of appeal to this mode for people who 
 have absolutely no idea what they're doing with the game, anyone who takes the time to learn the 
 proper controls won't have much use for the family-play option. Considering the deluge of tutorials 
 to be found in the game, it shouldn't take long to learn.  

  The gameplay is still a lot of fun on the field. The new "weapons" system from the Xbox 360 and 
 PlayStation 3 versions is on hand in this version as well. You get all the same icons that depict 
 whether a cornerback is a shutdown corner or a press corner, as well as whether your QB is a smart 
 QB, a rocket arm, or an accurate passer. Interestingly, the differences in players and play styles 
 don't seem quite as pronounced in this version.  

           Online play is a great addition -- especially since you don't need friend codes to play. 

  Then again, the AI in this game has a rather antiquated feel all around, so maybe that's not entirely 
 shocking. It's not that the AI is awful by any means; in fact, it's decent enough, save for the 
 family play quirks. The main issues come from balancing problems. Specifically, the running game 
 can be overpowered in Madden 08, but the passing game feels a little underpowered. Much as in the 
 360 and PS3 games, the defensive-back AI has a knack for gluing itself to receivers, so it can 
 be difficult to get receivers open deep. Conversely, any team with a good running back should have 
 no problems eating up huge chunks of yardage against would-be defenders. The defense sometimes 
 seems powerless to stop running backs as they juke and power through the opposition. That isn't 
 necessarily a huge knock against the game because it's still a lot of fun regardless of whether 
 you run or throw, but it does make it decidedly less realistic than its counterparts on other platforms. 

  There are also some glitches to wrestle with from time to time. Sometimes snapping the ball too 
 hard or fast will cause the QB to pass the ball instantaneously to the default receiver on the 
 play, which often leads to an easy interception. Holdover issues still pop up again and again, 
 such as the offensive line bunching up into a pile that looks like a mass of vibrating, electric 
 football players. Likewise, defenders and wide receivers get hung up on one another when they cross 
 into each other's routes (with no pass-interference calls, mind you) . These are issues that have 
 plagued the older iterations of Madden for quite some time and are really starting to stick out 
 like a sore thumb by now.  

  But you can't really find much fault with the amount of content in Madden 08. With the franchise 
 mode, superstar mode, minigames, and online play, it's unlikely you'll run out of things to do 
 anytime soon. Though the franchise mode has gone basically untouched, it's still incredibly deep 
 and has tons to do over the course of the 30 featured seasons. Superstar mode has seen a bit of 
 adjustment, with the whole "randomization of your created player's parents" aspect of the mode 
 cut altogether, as well as an added ability to pick from any of this year's rookie class in lieu 
 of a created player. Do you want to experience the life of a superstar, such as Calvin Johnson? 
 Or JaMarcus Russell? Or, god forbid, Brady Quinn? Now you can. The mode itself is still a little 
 hackneyed in its concept of what the life of a superstar player would be like, but it's less silly 
 than the last couple of attempts. If only EA would get rid of those stupid movie roles...  

  Minigames are as fun as ever, and now there's a whole party mode dedicated to them. You can play 
 all four of the games from last year, including YAC Attack, Kicking Combine, and 2-on-2. There 
 are actually 22 different minigames this year, though many of them are just the games featured 
 in the minicamp drills, such as Precision Passing and Chase and Tackle. With these minicamp games, 
 you simply take turns against other players. It's a little bit of a bummer that there's no new 
 or unique minigames in this year's Madden, but the older games, combined with the minicamp challenges, 
 are plenty of fun when played with a group of friends. The party mode also contains a couple of 
 new modes, including a standard game of football that comes included with a telestrator feature, 
 as well as a trivia game where you and your friends can test your knowledge of the sport. The trivia 
 game in particular is awesome if you've got a room full of pigskin prodigies with you.  

  Of course, the big addition is the online action. It's only for one-on-one play, and you can't 
 play any of the minigames online. But considering there wasn't any online play of any sort last 
 year, this is a good start. Getting online and playing against others is a snap, especially given 
 that Madden 08 doesn't use friend codes of any kind. You just hop on, sign up for EA's online service, 
 log in, and start looking for games. You can keep a friends list, check out leaderboards, and hit 
 up lobbies to chat with other players before diving into a game, although chat options are limited 
 to canned text phrases. The online performance of the game seemed solid through most of our time 
 with it. Every matchup with a good latency rating featured little to no lag and proved plenty of 
 fun. Although if you do end up in a laggy match, then good luck getting much of anything done. 
 Onscreen action tends to lag anywhere up to a second behind your control motions, which pretty 
 much wrecks the whole experience. As long as you are wary of the player you match up with, you 
 should have a good time online.  

           It's safe to say that this graphics engine could use a complete overhaul.      

  One 
 area where this year's Madden feels like it's sorely lacking is in presentation. Mainly, everything 
 feels tired and recycled in the audio and graphics departments. This game still uses the same aging 
 graphics engine that the older console versions of Madden have been using for years, and it really 
 feels like it's time for a change. It's simply inexcusable for there to be tons of players that 
 look identical to one another or for the player models to still be squat and doughy-looking. It's 
 also inexcusable that the animation is so haggard. Some of the improved branching animations from 
 the 360 and PS3 versions of the game seem to have been added here, so you do get some of the awesome 
 gang tackles and things of that nature. But, to return to the vibrating blockers and the bunched-up 
 receivers or defensive backs, a lot of work still needs to be done. Additionally, there's actually 
 a glitch in the game that sometimes blurs the entire screen after a cutscene for the next play, 
 which makes it difficult to see what's going on. Menus don't even look especially good. In fact, 
 some look like placeholder menus that somehow made it into the final game. At least the frame rate 
 stays steady at nearly all times and never dips much, if at all. On the audio front, you get the 
 same rehashed commentary from Al Michaels and John Madden, as well as the same on-field sound effects. 
 You also get another batch of modern rock and rap songs on the soundtrack. At some point, someone 
 is seriously going to have to inject some life into this game's presentation because it's getting 
 majorly stale.  

  In the end, Madden NFL 08 has its share of flaws but ultimately is a great game because of the 
 new features added and because of how much fun its predecessor was to play. Save for a few glitches 
 here and there, little of what made last year's game so enjoyable has been lost here. The addition 
 of the party mode and online play also gives you even more ways to enjoy it. You can't call Madden 
 NFL 08 as impressive a game as its predecessor, but it would have been hard for it to improve without 
 totally revamping the play experience again. As it is, it's a great follow-up with a few quirks 
 that are mostly forgivable. For fans of last year's game, or those curious for the first time about 
 football on the Wii, Madden 08 is worth checking out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (68 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sportsmen2008
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I have played a lot of Madden games over the years and this one on the Wii is the best! 
  
  This was the first game I got when I got my Wii. I always loved sports games, and Madden was always 
 special. The Wii controls really took a great franchise to a new level. Somehow it made this game 
 even more statisfying snapping off crisp passes, making a swim move, or reaching up to grab that 
 winning TD! 
  
  I love the ability to customize everything, in franchise mode to really make it your team! I do 
 wish they would let you build your own stadium, they left this out I think. 
  
  The graphics are good but could use an update because it has not changed much in the last few years. 
 Also get rid of the boring commentary, and insert some action packed announcers! The music was 
 very good this year. 
  
  The game is just fantastic to play! Get this one for cheap and then upgrade when they really add 
 something new! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyrupe
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:24 am PT
Review:  It's graphics are incredible and the wii controls actually work! The season mode is great 'cause 
 you can practice with your players to make them better and there's a lot more stuff you can do 
 as well. Unlike a lot of football, basketball games you have to work the ball down the field or 
 like in real life, the long bombs can get intercepted. The controls make sense for the most part 
 (there's one or two that don't make sense) and that makes it so that anyone can play. To throw, 
 you make a throwing motion, to swat down a pass you swing your remote downwards and to jump up 
 and block a pass on defense you stick your hands in the air like you were trying to block a pass 
 on defense. Renting it first might be a good idea if you aren't used to the wii but as you can 
 see, it's pretty strait forward. ----------Timmitty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This'll be a good trivia question for you to ask a gaming know-it-all in a few years' time. What 
 was the Wii's second online multiplayer game in the UK after Mario Strikers Charged? Then you sit 
 back chuffed as they say Pokmon Battle Revolution, and you reply, "wrong, it was Madden NFL 08".
 
  
  Yes, the fact is that due to the complete lack of popularity of American football in this country, 
 the Wii's second fully online game will probably not get the attention it deserves. Which is a 
 shame really, because Madden NFL 08 is probably the best American football game we've played.
 
  The game improves on last year's edition in every way possible. The motion-sensitive controls 
 feel more accurate; there's a new 'Family Mode' that lets younger gamers just concentrate on the 
 gesture-based throwing and dodging actions without having to worry about the analogue stick too; 
 there's an all-new Party Mode (with Mii support) containing loads of mini-games - such as the one 
 in which one player has to kick a field goal while the others shake the Remote and Nunchuk rapidly 
 to make the wind blow.
  
  
  Touchdown Or Touched Up?
  
  The most amusing addition by far however is the Telestrator. If you're playing a multiplayer game 
 and make a great play, you'll be given the option to enter Telestrator mode. This is basically 
 an Instant Replay mode like in other sports games with the added condition that you have a time 
 limit. During this time you'll be able to draw on the screen. Obviously, what you draw is up to 
 you: it can either be circles and arrows explaining the play much like Madden himself, or it can 
 just be rude pictures involving monkeys and poo. If you're on the receiving end you have to shake 
 the Remote and Nunchuk as fast as possible to make the timer run down quicker. It's a hilarious 
 mini-game that turns a normal everyday touchdown into a battle of banter.
  We realise that a sizeable proportion of the UK couldn't care less about American football. If 
 that means you, then Madden NFL 08 isn't going to do anything to change your mind. If it does interest 
 you however, either as a casual observer or a diehard gridiron addict, then this is the best football 
 game yet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edyugi
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 16, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  INTRODUCTION
  
  Let me start out by saying that this is a thorughly entertaining game. However, it has some very 
 serious fundamental erros that effect my ability to enjoy this game as much as i would like to.
 
  
  MOTION CONTROLS
  
  The controls were what that got me most excited about this game. I thought that the game would 
 use innovative controls to make you fell like you were actualy tackling, ripping, catching, swatting 
 or blocking. In a way- I was right. The catching and swatting mechanics are pretty realistic, but 
 ripping past blocks feels more like arm flailing and the "big hit" mechanic isn't very realistic.
 
  
  Another concern is that the controls are either to sensitive or not sensitive enough. For example, 
 sometimes I shift my nunchuck, and I call an unwanted audible. Others, I move my remote up for 
 a snap and nothing happens.
  
  My largest concern is that sometimes it takes a second for my players to react to my commands. 
 This may not seem like much, but in the fast paced action of football, you can't rely on that second.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  First, I would like to note that this is using All-Madden setting, on default AI settings. 
  
 
  I would liek ot start with passing the ball downfield. This is a smooth and simple system, but 
 half the time I cannot see anyone but my prime reciever, so if he is covered, I have to guess which 
 secondary will have the best chance of making the play. The running game is little better. Constantly 
 I am faced with blocker losing blocks at the exact moment I try to cut off them, or the quarterback 
 stbornly refusing to hand the ball off. Pass coverage is nearly impossible. This is largely due 
 to the fact that the camera is focused on the ball, so I cannot see who I am covering (with the 
 exception of superstar percepective) . Then, when you try to deflect a pass we come back to the 
 poor reaction time of this game. Usualy I rush on defense. Rushing is basicly pressing forward 
 on the nunchuk and waving your arms in a dangerous manner. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Last year, the Madden Football series made its debut on the Nintendo Wii, with great results considering 
 it was a first effort on a console that features a wildly different control scheme than the competition. 
 This year's game brings a couple changes to the mix to make it more accessible, and thus more family-friendly. 
 On the whole, Madden 08 is very close to what we saw last year, with a few of this year's latest 
 features thrown in for good measure. 
  
  
  There are some big changes to this year's game, most notable being the addition of online play. 
 In addition, this year's version includes an improved Superstar mode that includes an option to 
 play as some of the high-profile rookies from this year's draft class, as well as a franchise mode. 
 Rounding out the mix are an assortment of party-game options, from a Telestrator mode to mini-game 
 competitions and even trivia.
  
  Essentially, Madden NFL 08 for the Wii looks as good as you'd expect from the PlayStation 2 or 
 Xbox versions of the game, and isn't much better-looking than what we saw from last year's inaugural 
 effort on the Nintendo platform. The player models look somewhat grainy, especially on a big-screen 
 HDTV, and the interface is far less flashy than what you'd see in the Xbox 360 version. The presentation 
 as a whole is leagues behind what we're seeing on the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions, which is a real 
 shame.
  
  What makes Madden NFL 08 look good, even when compared to games on more powerful hardware, is the 
 superb animation in this year's game. When you first see a defensive back leap through the air 
 to swat away a pass, or cringe in response to your halfback getting bowled over by a punishing 
 tackle, the football fan in you will go nuts. The improved tackling animations alone are enough 
 of a reason to make the jump from last year's game, at least if you're a fan of big hits and painful 
 collisions. But as a whole, the cross-platform versions aren't really comparable visually, as the 
 Nintendo version's strengths are in the unique control scheme.
  
  This is a football game where you can come pretty close to feeling what it would be like on the 
 field with the amazing athletes of the NFL. You'll hike the ball with a flick of the wrist, lob 
 passes while firmly gripping your remote and swinging your arm, and stiff-arm defenders with a 
 quick thrust of the controller. The appeal here is that you get more of a sense of satisfaction 
 for well-timed passes and running moves since you're utilizing kinesthetic control.
  
  You can play Madden NFL 08 in the same fashion as last year's game, using the analog stick on the 
 nunchuk to maneuver your player, or you can opt for trying out the new family play controls. This 
 option takes movement out of the equation, allowing you to detach the nunchuk and concentrate entirely 
 on the motion sensor-driven commands. Receivers will run their routes automatically, and running 
 backs will follow their play layouts exactly, trying to hit the holes that should be opened up 
 by their linemen. Quarterbacks, as you may expect, will drop back to pass, but won't really take 
 blitzing defensive players into account.
  
  These family play controls are almost like setting yourself to AI mode, as you're watching as much 
 as you are playing. It isn't too far off from what you will find in Wii Sports, however, so if 
 that's more your idea of an ideal sports game, then this might be for you. It's analogous to how 
 the movement in Wii Sports' Tennis and the baserunning and fielding in Baseball are controlled 
 by the AI, leaving you with only the fun tasks: swinging the bat and the racquet. If you've played 
 last year's game, or if you have any kind of experience playing sports games, you'll probably prefer 
 the standard controls.
  
  This family mode play seems a bit misguided, since people who have no knowledge of football won't 
 be interested in playing Madden anyways, because it's not the control scheme that throws them off, 
 but the required knowledge of the game. Even if the game plays itself, some people simply don't 
 know what a screen pass is or what play action means.
  
  The party modes that are presented in the Wii version of Madden NFL 08 are more likely to be well 
 received than the simplified control scheme. You can play rounds of mini-games against your friends 
 and family, rushing the ball, trying to sack the QB, throwing deep passes, and so on, alternating 
 between players to see who can rack up the highest score. There's even a nifty trivia game for 
 groups of players to test their knowledge of the gridiron. The Telestrator mode is a godsend for 
 trash talkers, and it can be an absolute blast when playing with friends. Of course, you may want 
 to ask people to restrict the drawings to X's and O's instead of what we encountered: poop, genitals 
 and lots of curse words after big plays.
  
  If you've been playing Madden religiously for years, you'll be able to jump right into this year's 
 game with no problem, but there's a boatload of new tricks to add to your arsenal as well. It's 
 been a common complaint about Madden games of years past that once an opponent picks up on a money 
 play, or targets a speedy wideout, they can abuse you all game long. You can highlight receivers 
 with ease now, calling for double coverage on Randy Moss whenever you face a brat that wants to 
 exploit the Brady-to-Moss duo of this year's New England Patriots, sure to be a favorite online.
 
  
  The level of depth goes a lot deeper than just calling for double teams, though. You can quickly 
 and painlessly shift your linemen, call for linebacker blitzes, adjust coverage, and so on, so 
 you're never stuck without a response to an audible or an offensive scheme that looks like a mismatch. 
 On the other hand, you're going to want to exploit mismatches on offense, and the game will even 
 point these out to you by highlighting them, so if you've got a second-tier defensive back lined 
 up on Steve Smith, you can know exactly when to make the opposing team pay.
  
  Adding to the depth of the game are the new player weapons. Weapons are essentially special attributes 
 for your superstar players, like a super stiff-arm, the ability to bulldoze opposing players, or 
 the ability to run perfect routes. Smart QBs and smart defenders can actually trigger their special 
 move to see the opposing team's playart at the line of scrimmage, giving you a distinct advantage, 
 either allowing you to pick apart the defense, or snatch an interception from a complacent QB. 
 The weapon system is very much like what All-Pro Football brought to the table this year, but as 
 they say, imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.
  
  We weren't too crazy about play on the defensive side of the ball. AI defenders are absolutely 
 glued to their assigned receivers, making it very difficult to get a decent passing game going, 
 even against what should be a soft secondary. The running game is far friendlier, and with a decent 
 back, you can rack up some fairly astounding yards on the ground.
  
  the online aspect of Madden is still lagging behind what gamers should be expecting from their 
 sports titles. A lot of this seems to rest on having to play on EA Nation, Electronic Arts' online 
 player matching and community service. The games we played were laggy, which wouldn't be so bad 
 except for how it interferes with the motion-sensing gameplay. When your movements don't match 
 up with the animation 1:1, the game becomes far less enjoyable. Of course, the worst part of playing 
 games online is usually the players you end up facing, so if you have a problem with people pulling 
 the cable to disconnect prematurely, you'll have a hard time here.
  
  Madden NFL 08 for the Wii is a solid follow-up to last year's game, but still not quite where we'd 
 like it to be. Last year's game impressed us with its innovative control scheme, which really embraced 
 the possibilities made available by the Wii remote. Considering the strong debut we saw last year, 
 we're not quite as impressed by what's been added to the experience. This is still a very fun package, 
 and the addition of online play makes it well worth a purchase by any Wii-owning football fan that's 
 psyched up for another year of NFL action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackjack54
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 08 is fun but lacks content. You can't create a team or on super star mode you cant 
 change the persons look. Multiplayer is not verry fun unless you are haveing a party. The game 
 looks like it is from gamecube. Playing it is fun but it gets boaring after 2 days. Great Music 
 but you cant chose what song to listen to. Super star mode is horribile. The only good thing is 
 training camp. Quick play is fun but it also gets boring after a while. I hope next year Madden 
 09 on Wii is better than 08 or it will fail with wii. Also it is too easy.
  please do not buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MMAKing623
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I think that Madden games for the Wii are better than Madden games for any other console. 
 The only problem that I have with it, is that they seem to recycle content. My friend has Madden 
 08 for the Xbox360 and the content differs from Madden 07. It seems that all of the "John Madden 
 Quotes" seemed to be recycled. Other than that it's a great game. I didn't get to check out the 
 Wi-fi yet, but the career mode is classic. I love this game, the only problem is the recycled content. 
 If I were to give this game a rating I'd give it a 8.0, because this is a great game! This game 
 has fun innovative controls * (much better than Madden 07) * They changed some controls and at first 
 I thought it was just stupid, but after playing I realized that it helped my gameplay and helped 
 me get better. The teams are realistic and the game is well designed. If you have Madden 07, I 
 wouldn't buy Madden 08 unless you expect to play the online multiplayer. If you don't have Madden 
 07 for the wii, then get your butt out to your local game store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shige-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  The Madden NFL series has had it's up and downs. This game is definitely an improvement, however 
 it still isn't reaching up to it's true potential.
  
  There are several aspects that should of and could easily have been improved.
  
  - Multiplayer
 
  : The coop play on this game is horrible. It's nice that you can do a 2 player match using "Play 
 now" but this is as good as it gets.
  Not being able to play togheter in franchise mode, nor create a self made tournement is bad. What 
 also lets this game down is the Online Play, which seems to be a very good idea, but not even this 
 is close to being used to its outmost potential. You can play a single laggy match 1on1, but if 
 the developers would have given this a second thought, having enabled a 2on2 option in multiplayer 
 would have made this game so much better.
  
  - Gameplay
  The Gameplay is very good. Graphics, controles everything very well considered and well made. Perhaps 
 they also should have taken multiplayer into such regards. 
  
  - Game Events
  The developers of Madden NFL should really take a look at games such as FIFA and PES. Madden is 
 both messy and dissapointing when it comes to events such as Cups, League etc. Whilst games such 
 as Fifa and Pes makes the interface very easy and it's very easy to create a cup, league where 
 you can almost have as many human players as you want. Whilst in madden the best you get out of 
 this is a 2 Player "Play now" multiplayer. Also in franchise mode, who wants to freaking train 
 every single player? Bootcamps? BOOOORING!!!. This game focus way to much on the certain details 
 as mentioned, boot camps and stuff. Who really wants to sit for hours throwing a damn ball through 
 some rings. The game should of been made much more simple. 
  
  Example : Tournement - League --  Choose how many teams and how many human players ---  Choose 
 teams ---  then play!!!
  
  Overall this game seemed to be but was not as great as expected. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy_Monkey480
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  This is the first madden for the wii! And it does not disapoint. The Wii remotes controls are tricky 
 at first but get easier through time and practice. Vince Young is on the cover! This is one of 
 my favorite madden games of all-time! The graphics suck which is not EA sports fault its Nintendo's! 
 Anyway the passing alot of fun it also quick throws are alot easier, Rushing is easier the passing 
 but the stiff arms is kinda hard. Online play is just like every other game. Also this EA Sports 
 introduce "family play" no clue what it is tho (lol) . On a side note probably the next player on 
 the madden cover will be Tom Brady. Also looks like the madden curse skipped Vince Young cause 
 he made it to the playoffs! But was injured at the end of the season so maybe it did not skip (lol) . 
 Overall this is a game you can not miss out on if you are a true madden fan!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veixsinx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Dejavous? Madden08 introduces a brand new way to play madden. The player weapons were wicked cool, and 
 the muntiplayer was great. Madden08 is strong in many areas but weak in some.
  
  
  The good: Well, madden08 has VERY good controls. I loved the way you had to swing the wiimote to 
 throw the ball. It was really great. Im not really a football fanetic, but i love this game!
  
  
  The bad: Hmmmm well if you were playing on 3rd down, the screen would get really blury. I 
 coundent see so i always failed to convert on 3rd down. Also most of the time it was hard to stiff 
 arm or juke.
  
  
  Overall this game gets a 8.5 out of 10.0. Look forward to my next review on Luigis masion for GC. Peace 
 out. Later gamers
  
  
  
  ~Veixsinx~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saioke
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  it's hard to believe how great madden is on the wii. excellent controls, online play, and alot 
 more!
  
  although online play does have slight lag problems its still a good time grabber. madden has a 
 great AI system that will feel like you're actually playing online if you feel the need to not 
 get beat by another player. there's also party mode and mini games which gives you the option to 
 use you're created miis! there are a few glitches that occur in the game such as a blurry camera 
 but minus the gliches madden would be a great game. 
  
  madden has not really changed if you look at other consoles. same game modes and everything else.. 
 the only thing that really changed was the rosters... if you never played madden before, you may 
 really enjoy this game!
  
  
  
  pros:
  good online play
  party mode and other mini games
  great AI
  
  cons:
  glitches that occur every now and then
 
  graphics could be better
  bad lag problems online
  nothing really changed from other consoles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: severndigital
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Madden '08 for the Wii, what it could've been and what it isn't, almost out weigh the pros of the 
 addition to the over a decade old franchise.
  
  I understand that we can't have everything. At least not yet. But so much could've been done with 
 this to make it unique for the wii besides hiking and passing.
  
  I must admit, once we went through the training sessions this game was very fun to play. But I 
 just couldn't shake the "man this would be cool if ..." feeling.
  
  I was hoping for some address the ball actions or some sort of a crouch behind center motion. but 
 instead I have the same voice "Hutt Hutting" at me through the wiimote no matter what team I play 
 for.
  
  I think they hit the nail on the head with the Fair Catch gesture. I just wish there was more of 
 those types of movements in the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: a55a551n5_cr33d
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  This is my first madden game that I got for Wii and it is my all-time favorite madden game on any 
 system. Any football fan would like this game. There are also may bonus features, although the 
 lack of create a player was disapointing.
  
  Gameplay-9: The controls and gameplay work very well. To snap the ball you pull the Wiimote up 
 and use it in a throwing motion to throw. The only flaw that I have ever found, is that when you 
 are on defence and go for an interception, you may tackle them instead and get a pass interference 
 called on you.
  
  Graphics-8: They arent the best graphics I have ever seen, but the good Gameplay makes up for it.
 
  
  Sound-8: Madden games always have good crowd and announcers, but this one doesnt have any significant 
 differences.
  
  Value-9: for 50$ it is a great game for any Madden lovers, or anybody that like motion controls.
 
  
  Final Score- 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wesker2412
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  08 is an awesome game first I will give you the positive part of 08. The positive is that you can 
 costimize almost anything including prices for tickets, merchendise, food, and parking. You can 
 also create a player and make him a hall of famer. You can also change the apperence and name of 
 the best players for example Tom Brady, Toni Romo, and Peyten Manning. there are also alot of great 
 football songs on 08. You can play online but as good as that may sound ther is a dark side to 
 it.
  Now it is time for the bad. One bad thing is the online it is very bad the reason for that is it 
 is VERY VERY SLOW. Another bad thing is that they took off the create your own team which takes 
 out some of the fun. One more bad thing about 08 is that no matter how many good songs there are 
 there are also some really anoying ones in the bunch. But all together with the good and bad 08 
 is one of the best wii games out there so far. So if your a football fan put this one at the top 
 of your list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dankodefense
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  You know when you see commercials for multi-platform games like Assassin's Creed and CoD4 and they 
 flash the Xbox 360 symbol at the end. I have not yet been able to understand that, the games are 
 available and are great on the PS3 as well. However this game deserves just that type of commercial 
 for the Wii. I have owned every Madden since Madden 99 on the Nintendo 64. There has never been 
 a better or more enjoyable Madden game than this. The graphics are not up with the 360 or PS3 but 
 the game is developed rather cleverly and you do not really notice this. There are minimal cut 
 scenes during game play and while you are playing you are having to much fun to notice the lower 
 end graphics. The controls handle far better than I ever would have imagined. The only complaint 
 i have so far on the controls is the odd stiff arm motion will be read as a power move. However 
 like the Xbox and PS3 version this game has one vital flaw. On the other consoles fumbles occur 
 at a rate that would make you think someone poured lube all over the ball. On the Wii however face 
 masking penalties are what kept me from giving this game a 10/10. Both the 5 and 15 yard varieties 
 of this penalty can occur on: ankle tackles from behind, or shoulder to waste tackles that cause 
 the offensive player to fall forward, even in one situation I received a 15 yard penalty for face 
 masking against a player who did not even record the tackle. As a football fan i know that I could 
 have received a 5 yard penalty for this player but 15 yards allowed the drive to continue and eventually 
 led to a 54 yard TD pass so it bothered me a little more than it should have. Even with this one 
 flaw I love this game more than I have put into words in this review and anyone with a Wii that 
 enjoys football needs this game or if you feel that getting the 08 version is to late since the 
 season is almost over wait for 09 I'm sure it will deliver just as well as this game did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half_Jaw223
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  The Best of all the football games i've played. Using the wiimote to pass, kick, taunt and juke 
 is an amazing concept, but ends up being very challenging. and the fact that my tv brightness is 
 sh*t i find it hard ,but Fun!
  i love online play! its amazing, i love playing with people in florida. but the fact that the wii 
 doesn't have a microphone means you are limited to set ammount of chat words. But i reccomend it 
 to any family looking to entertain there children. you'll laugh , you'll cry and you'll get p**sed 
 off when your brothers team wins. Very good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobert66
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for a long time. I played 07 on the PS2 and I had fun making 
 my own team for franchise mode, customizing my player for Superstar mode and playing in a lag free 
 online mode. So I get this game, pop it into my Wii and I was not impressed. No create a team, 
 which I can live with. You can't customize your player for Superstar mode (what if i don't want 
 a red afro) whereas in the 360 or PS3 version, you can customize everything about your player and 
 the NFL Combine is an actual NFL Combine (with the 40 yard dash and benchpressing) . The online 
 mode has a serious lag, too, like I'll make a movement and a second later my player moves. Despite 
 all of these shortcomings, there is still some fun to be had here. The multiplayer mini-games are 
 a blast with friends (especially 2on2) and the motion controls are very responsive. If you want 
 this game for Wii, but you have a 360 or PS3, too, get Madden 08 for those instead of the Wii. 
 Hopefully next year, things will be similar on Wii as they are on the other systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6411
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  It's safe to say that when Madden NFL 07 made its debut alongside the launch of the Wii last year, 
 it was a real shot in the arm for the franchise. With development duties handed over to EA's Canada 
 studio, the Wii version took the existing framework of the PlayStation 2, GameCube, and Xbox versions 
 of the game and then turned the whole thing into a festival of gesture controls. Not only that, 
 it did so well, transferring all the various motions and mechanics of football into a motion-based 
 control scheme that made sense. In some respects, Madden NFL 08 manages to live up to being a sequel 
 to such an innovative game, with some tweaks and additions to the various motion controls, as well 
 as the addition of more minigames and an online multiplayer mode. By the same token, several aspects 
 of this year's game also disappoint. The graphics have seen practically no noticeable improvement 
 and the presentation is still lacking. Additionally, some irritating bugs and glitches rear their 
 ugly head from time to time during gameplay. Still, 08 is great fun, especially when played with 
 other people. If you liked last year's game, you'll certainly enjoy things this time around. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BVP16
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is great, No not just great amazing, fantastic. There is so much too it. The 
 online is fantastic, and what I play the most. The party mode is awesome! There is all the awesome 
 madden mini games like kick return, punt return, quarterback presence, and a ton more. The soundtrack 
 in madden 08, is the best out of all the other maddens. The controls are the best I've ever played 
 in a madden game. The rosters are updated all the time, with up to date injuries and suspensions. 
 If you are a football fan at all you have to get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Depx
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  As far as getting in a game and playing, this is as good as any other Madden, except with the fun 
 Wii controls. Outside of that this game has its good points and some very ugly points. 
  
  Ill start with the good stuff. Of the 3 party game sections offered, the trivia and mini games 
 are good fun, the other isnt worth mentioning. The trivia offers up some challenging questions, 
 and of the few times I played it, I havent seen any repeats. The mini games are either the same 
 or slight variations to the mini-camp stuff youve done before. All party games are 4 player. 
 
  
  This years Wii Madden has online play. It works most of the time, and its like playing 2 player, 
 except you cant say anything to the other person at all... fun. Other than that online mode offers 
 nothing else to get excited about. 
  
  Franchise mode is where things go downhill quickly. To sum it up, it wasnt finished. From various 
 crashes, to parts not being done at all or finished, its a mess. The funniest part of this is the 
 EA Radio with Tony Bruno is gone from last years game, expect its still mentioned in emails as 
 being in the game. The stats menu does not sort at all. Sometimes when you change menus or start 
 a game the Wii will crash (this is the first console game Ive ever played that crashes, insane) . 
 While most of this mode works, the flaws make you not want to play it at all. 
  
  Superstar mode would be great expect the camera angles suck horribly and you cant fast forward 
 to the plays youre involved in. Hopefully someday they will fix these 2 issues and itll be the 
 best mode on the game. I stopped playing this mode after one game.
  
  Other stuff - no create player mode (wtf) , no madden points (yay) , still no way to let players 
 play at odd positions, like say WR at QB, or WR at DB/DB at WR, etc, etc.
  
  Overall this game just wasnt finished, all there is to it, big letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Guy_07
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY 8/10- THE gameplay is great. THis game will prove that the WII is capable of great gane 
 play. There are 2 different `season' type game modes, Franchise and HALL OF FAME. IF you make good 
 play thE TELESTROMPTER comes up and you show your play. THIS GAME HAS LITTLE ADDITION LIKE THIS 
 WHICH MAKE THE GAME BETTER
  
  CONTROLS 9/10- THE CONTROLS ARE AWSOM. FOR EXAMPLES TO TAVKLE YOU JUT RUN INTO THEM BUT TO LIKE 
 CRUSH THEM YOU EITHER TRUST THE NUNCHUCK OR WII REMOTE FORWARD. ANOTHER WAY TO GET BY DEFENDERS 
 IS BY FLICKING THE WII MOTE (stiff arm) OR NUNCHUK (juke) FORWARD. THESE ARE NOT EVEN HALF OF THE 
 MOTION CONTROLS IN THE GAME!!!! 
  
  GRAPHICS 8.5/10- NOT MUCH TO SAY ABOUT THE GRAPHICS OTHER THAN THERE GREAT!!!
  
  SOUND 9.9/10- 
 THE SOUND TRACK IS AMAZING. THE ANOUNCERS ARE GREAT! EVERY THING YOU WEOULD EXPECT FROM NFL!! THE 
 ONLY BAD THING IS THE REFEREE IS MUFFLED
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: B1kmatt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a little better than what last years had to offer with the addition of the online play, 
 the party mode, and the new hit stick motion (which is now easier to pull off and is just plan 
 fun to use) . The only real disappointments is that the graphics don't seemed to have been upgraded 
 since the last installment and the AI seem stupid at time (missing blocks and ignoring runs) . Madden 
 also still has all it basics NFL Superstar: Hall of Fame, Franchise mode, and Mini camp that should 
 keep any football fan buisy for a long time. In closing this game really is good and if you are 
 a football fan an you happen to own a Wii why not pick up a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Others may not agree but i really did not enjoy this game. First off it doesn't have the intensity 
 a football game should. There is no rumble when you tackle someone and the commentary is weak. 
 I feel they tried to add new features while forgetting to keep some of the old. The controller 
 is also too sensitive in some cases. Like when you snap the ball you will all of a sudden throw 
 a pass and it gets picked off. The online play really sucks too. It takes a million hours to get 
 a match and the game lags a whole bunch. It's very frustrating. The new trivia mode isn't even 
 worth it. The only good thing about this game is the playlist of music. Other than that it's a 
 waste. Madden 07 was great so i recommend buying that instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiMan21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 08 Is ok, I've played better Madden games, But this game was pretty bad compared to 
 some of the other madden games.
  
  Graphics: The graphics for the Wii version of Madden 08 was probably as bad as they can get on 
 the Wii, From what it looks like EA could have done a lot better, By what I can see from Mario 
 Galaxy, The Wii is capable of producing some graphics, Ea just didnt use it in 08. Lets hope in 
 09 they do a lot better.
  
  Gameplay: The Gameplay for Madden 08 was surprisingly good, I was a little dissapointed about the 
 graphics but the Gameplay was fun. Its pretty addictive if your a madden fan, and if you haven't 
 played a madden game for the Wii, Then your in for a surprise. Its better than the Ps3 Version, 
 but not the 360 version ( IMO) .
  
  Multiplayer: The Multiplayer for this game is Medicore, It uses EA's server aside from the Friend 
 Codes ( Which I'm sure everyone is happy about) , So you dont have to spend all that time punching 
 in the 16 digits. Its pretty fun once you get into it and if your good, But the time I've spent 
 playing it, It gets pretty laggy and can get almost as bad that you cant play it.
  
  Controls: The Controls are pretty well done! (I'm happy to say that this game has something good 
 about it) . So all you do is choose what player to pass to and with a little flick of the Wii-Mote 
 passes without hesitation, Moving the Wii-Mote side to side Left to right, Makes the played do 
 a stif arm, And When your on the Defence side pushing the Wii-Mote forward Towards the screen tackles 
 the opponents. These easy motions makes this game happy to call it madden 08 for the Wii, Without 
 these features, This game would be a total let down . But This makes it number one out of the series.
 
  
  Overall Rating: I'll give this game a 7.5, Because the Dev's could have done alot better at making 
 this game, they lack a lot of the purpases of the Wii, and they graphics look like an early Ps2 
 game. Because of the laggy multiplayer and the graphics, Maybe brought it down a full 1.0 rating. 
 If they made it alot better I would say one of the best games ever made for the Wii by far. :D 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Deepblue
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  The good: Great controls. Nice features. For hardcore gamers and beginners alike.
  
  The bad: Disappointing online play. Old presentation. Boring audio. ////
  
  Madden 07 for the 
 Wii was supposedly a breakout game in the Madden franchise. When the franchise seemed to be dying 
 a slow painful death and suffering from recycling, Madden 07 revitilized Madden in many ways by 
 use of the Wii-mote controller. I wasn't able to get around to playing Madden 07 for the Wii, but 
 have decided to pick up this year's Madden 08 to see what the waggle controls do for the Madden 
 franchise. Being a big Madden fan and football gaming fan, I was excited to try Madden with the 
 new controls and the online play. I have to say I am satisfied with at least one one of the two 
 things I was looking forward to the most. The controls are tight, responsive, intuitive, accurate, 
 and makes the game a little more realistic by making you feel more involved physically in this 
 brutal sport. On offense you snap the ball by jerking the Wii-mote toward you, as if you were receiving 
 the hike from the center. Once you are ready to pass you may take off by holding down on B, or 
 pass to one of your receivers which are chosen by selecting one of the 4 directions on the d-pad, 
 or by the A button. Once you select your receiver you must flick the Wii-mote forward to make your 
 pass attempt. Flick it hard and your QB will shoot a bullet. Flick it lightly and your QB will 
 put a little touch on the ball to make it float gracefully through the air. Having to do these 
 multiple tasks before being able to release the ball makes the passing game more challenging and 
 more tense while trying to avoid the defensive rush. Running the football on offense is pretty 
 simple. You hold down on B to sprint, shake the wii-mote left or right to stiff arm, or press A 
 to juke. You can have total control of your receivers as well. You can run your route and when 
 the ball comes your way, lift up both the wii-mote and nun-chuck simeltaneously to make a catch. 
 The control scheme certainly makes you feel more involved in the game.
  
  On defense you are able to rip through the O-line as a D-lineman by flicking the Wii-mote toward 
 you, and are able to dive with C, or do shift moves by pressing Z on the nun-chuck attachment. 
 On special teams, when kicking the ball, you aim the arrow in the direction where you want to kick, 
 and swing the wii-mote towards you while trying to keep it as straight and steady as possible to 
 make an accurate kick. The harder you swing it towards you the harder the kick will be. With the 
 controls not being a disappointment, I am sad to say that the other aspect of the Madden Wii franchise 
 I was looking forward to was the online play. This would be my first online experience with any 
 Madden game. First off, finding an oponent is usually pretty easy. It's rather or not you'll be 
 able to connect or stay connected to your oponent that is the frustrating part. I have connected 
 to an oponent in a matter of seconds at times, and at times I have tried for almost an hour with 
 no luck. If you're able to get in the game, you'll have to deal with the constant lag and slow-down. 
 It really isn't anything that makes the online play unplayable, but it's pretty close. You'll be 
 able to get used to it. My record so far is 5-2. I did not lose any of those two games by the way. 
 The connection was lost somewhere in the middle of the game and I was charged with the loss. But 
 if you're able to get used to the lag and slowdown, and are able to make it through the entire 
 match without being cut-off, then you may enjoy Madden 08's online play..... somewhat.
  
  Graphically Madden 08 for the Wii looks like a last gen game with minor improvements. The game 
 has some weird glitches such as the blur effect during in game play. Audio wise you'll hear the 
 same boring commentary that you have heard the last 5-6 years (or more) from Al Micheals and John 
 Madden. There is a music soundtrack with pop rock/rap.... which didn't appeal to me at all. But 
 if the music in Madden 08 is your cup of tea, then good for you. The game has a good bit to do. 
 There is party mode which is like a number of mini-games that you play against other people by 
 taking turns in certain events. If your grandma wants to play, and she's a Madden noob, let the 
 old lady play it on family mode, which is a watered down beginner's control scheme that uses only 
 the Wii-mote. There are tutorials for every phase of the game and every single positiion in the 
 game. That pretty much says it all about Madden 08. A fun game with great controls, nice features, 
 old presentation, and disappointing online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aelleant1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I think the Madden 08 for Wii it's the best version avaible... Forget the next gen graphics, the 
 Wiimote controls let u do all the football's gestures u want!
  
  It's so cool to play and with the online mode u can match up against any friends you want! Or u 
 can climb the EA Nation Ladder.
  
  Another cool thing is the Career mode that let's you play as a Rookie that need to step up in the 
 team and need to be the next star in the NFL... You have to choose an agent, advertise contracts 
 and hollywood scripts answering some IQ questions.
  
  I think every football fan MUST play this game a couple of time, he'll never forget... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  First off, Madden NFL 08 is a really great game, I've always liked Madden NFL, but I like even 
 more with the New online mode.
  
  Another new mode is called Famliy Mode, this mode is where beginners can face the pros, with the 
 beginner only needing to use the Wii-mote, and the pro can still use the Wii-mote and the Nunchuk.
 
  
  Madden NFL 08 also has a new icon system, this will actully show you who has certain abiltys, like 
 Payton Manning's Strong Arm, and so on.
  
  Madden NFL 08 on the bad side the controls are little bit jumpie, like when I snap the ball the 
 QB would throw the ball to the goto guy, so I don't know how or why it does that but I think that 
 it could be fix for next year.
  
  The difficulty is Just Right, if I said it was any Harder then I would be lieing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blowtrees
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Madden 08 on the Wii is pretty much like you'd expect. Last years game with updated control schemes 
 and rosters. I wouldn't expect anything less from EAsports, if it's not the newest best $$$ console, 
 the game simply doesn't get the attention it deserves. I do enjoy the blur effect the game displays 
 on big plays like 3rd and long in the redzone though, it does cheaply make the graphics seem much 
 better than they really are. The crowd still looks like cardboard cut-outs and most edges are a 
 bit grainier than smooth. Now aside from the PC version (potentially the best of all, but since 
 nobody plays on the PC, EA never makes a decent game) , I don't excpect 360 quality. But EA releases 
 two game versions, new Madden and updated Madden, and they do it to every sport.
  
  Now I'd never played Madden 08, let alone play it on the Wii but it scores points for being really 
 easy to pickup and play. The greatest difficulty I had was trying to play without constantly thinking 
 I had a playstation controller in my hand. I simply can't tackle or catch without a button to mash. 
 The 'Big Hit' feature used to tackle feels sluggish and is rediculously easy to miss with. I really 
 like the option of hitting high or low however, something the hit stick on ps/xbox lacked. Other 
 than that I think the only way to tackle is to just run into the guy and the computer automatically 
 tries to tackle. Both that and the catching/ swat ball movements are controlled by motion via the 
 Wii remote. But at least my lack of defensive prowess helped the AI keep it close. Close as in 
 whoopin it's arse by 32 instead of 64. The AI doesn't seem to have gotten any improvements and 
 I quickly dominated All-Pro. All madden usually beats me 2/3rds if the time, but I've never been 
 very good anyway. Luckily the AI is still tweakable via the options to make it better or worse 
 at different aspects of play. Calling plays has been simplified but your standard playbooks are 
 still available. I think the navigation to choose plays is cluttered though, and you end up wasting 
 prescious seconds scrolling through formations. This results in using the simplified playbooks 
 more often and is somewhat limiting in terms of playcalling. But since playbooks are customizable 
 and audibles/hot routes will be used more often then the plays you actually choose, this is somewhat 
 of a non-issue. Even with a different controller I don't see why you can't stick with the standard 
 playcalling everybody is used to and works well. I guess my biggest quarrel is that your opponents 
 formation isn't displayed in your playcalling screen, leaving you to anticipate and guess based 
 on situations, instead of just counter it. That can be tough for people who don't understand the 
 nuances of football.
  
  Your usual game modes are back and expanded upon, my favorites still being Superstar and Franchise. 
 Still they feel the same and after a season or two it's extremely easy to put down and not pickup 
 ever until you find somebody to play against. Online play shines here, but my experience is limited 
 to getting beatdown by guys who've done it all before. The audio doesn't seem changed at all, although 
 this years soundtrack features more variety. All in all this version gives what you'd expect and 
 is as entertaining as any other madden. Maybe even a little more fun with the interactive controls. 
 More than once Iv'e stood up and pretended to be a real quarterback. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinofan01
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. Some things could be better but the amount of fun you get out of it 
 makes up for it. The only bad things about it are the graphics are o. k. and other consoles have 
 more options. You wont really care about it though. It has some good online for the wii also. Anybody 
 can play this game. I never really played a madden game before but this game really got me into 
 the madden franchise. Ultimately a great purchase. Get it early though you don't want to get it 
 when a new version of madden comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraZySeahorSe
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay The gameplay for fantastic is amazing, it's just as good as the 07 version with a good 
 inprovements. The family mode is good for people who aren't used to the Wii controls, and the multiplayer 
 mini games are great. They provide endless fun between trivia, telestrator, and the mini camp challenge. 
 It's great football.
  Graphics They are what is expected. Nothing special, but something respectable for sure. They do 
 their job.
  Sound I'm really getting sick of Madden music, but other than that everything is great. Madden 
 and Michaels are an unbelievably funny tandem for laughter, they can say the dumbest things; its 
 classic Madden. Sounds from the field are fantastic, the big hits and grunts when players get crushed. 
 It's definetly an improving sound.
  Value The value for this game is huge! Between the new multiplayer mode, franchise, Hall of Fame 
 Rookie, and the crucial addition of online play, you'll be playing Madden 08 for awhile. Nothing 
 against the game, but unfortunately the value is shot because next year a more dated game will 
 release called Madden 09. That's the only thing that takes away from it. Madden 08 (Wii) - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_harris
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  This is a graphics only review. This is not a gameplay or feature set review.
  
  To begin, the folks over at Tiburon/EA ought to be dragged out into the street and scoffed at and 
 have balloons filled with yellow paint hurled their way. Especially the art department.
  
  While the screens and footage from the nex-gen consoles is inspiring, the Wii visual output is 
 far from inspiring. It's a distant, really distant, third. I've heard all the hype, read the reviews, 
 and seen gameplay footage. But when I booted up my Wii, threw the game in, and A'd my way into 
 the practices, mini games, and started up a Superstar, I was floored with how bland it all looked.
 
  
  First of all, the player models look phony. Artificially ripped physiques with pointy elbows, narrow 
 heads, and blurry team logos and jersey numbers. The helmet reflections were too bright, causing 
 you to miss seeing the team logo altogether in some shots.
  
  Second, the field turf, stadiums, practice fields, and other scenery are remarkably low tech. I 
 get the fact that the Wii can't counterpunch with the PS3 or 360, but come on!
  
  Finally, all presentation strengths aside, the game just doesn't pop like '07 did. The newness 
 of the control system helped sell Madden 07 to Wii owners, but they were playing the graphical 
 equivalent to an Xbox. In '08, they still are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilight_King85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  this game is fun for the whole family with family play... its pretty fun for the family but dont 
 play it by yourself.... the online is okay but not great the graphics are good and the movement 
 is the same the kicking is still hard!!!!!! the modes are really fun they still have the same modes 
 except for family play and a couple other ones. its a really fun game. its one of the best sports 
 games for the wii if you dont have this rent it first but if u like all the maddens bye it  
 online isnt the best online game for the wii but the wii has like no online games so i would buy 
 it for the online as well.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyKung-Fu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  ok now i know this game has some diffrent controls but diffrent isn't bad. it will take some time 
 to learn the controls you'll be a-ok. i have some advice for people who cant get the controls down. 
 1. have patience. 2. choose a position in the hall of fame mode. 3. practice that position in the 
 learn madden mode. 4. try to play through the hall of fame mode. 5. dont bother with onine play 
 untill later. if you stick with that you should be ok and if your no play the family play option 
 it feel awkward but hey its a start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USAFA2006
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible. Not graphics wise, b/c you can't compare it due to the diff. in hardware, 
 but actual gameplay. The motions required for the game to work are ridiculous and don't work half 
 the time.
  
  sometimes the player does what you want, other times they've got minds of their own. the worst 
 part by far is the kicking game. Half the time it doesn't kick and so you try to redo the motion, 
 only to have it cut you off and do a half-@$$ kick that screws you.
  
  The control scheme leaves much to be desired. The trivia is nice, as are the mini-games. But again, 
 it all comes down to the control scheme. Without havinng relaible motions that can 100% do what 
 they are meant to do, its never going to be a complete game.
  
  And let me just add this, my friends who both own a wii and are great at any game on there involving 
 a decent amount of motion (mario strikers, wii sports, dragonball z: tenchaichi 2) can't even consistently 
 pull off moves and are shocked by just how glitchy the entire control scheme is.
  
  I've played plenty a-Madden in the past, and this version for the Wii has to be rock bottom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mplross
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  THis is my first madden game. and i must say, i am very impressed with it. I told myself that i 
 would never play this game. My friends be playing it and i could never understand why, it looked 
 so boring. Yes, i have tried getting into it before, but I still wasn't impressed. SO when i heard 
 about the wii's version, and about its intuitive and interactive gameplay, i decieded to give it 
 another chance. Now i can't get enough. I definately recommend this game for the wii to anybody 
 who, just like me , was never too stoked about the whole madden bandwagon. Yes the graphics is 
 not as great as the 360 and ps3, but they are still pretty sharp. and graphics don't make the game, 
 gameplay does!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battles14
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 28, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  I think I'm one of the few people who didn't check out Madden '07 on the Wii. I wanted to give 
 EA a year to work the kinks out, and I knew that the '08 version would be a sleek, well-oiled machine. 
 Like so many other people who have reviewed the game, I was utterly disappointed. It seems that 
 so many aspects of this game were neglected, and it just shows a lack of professionalism on the 
 part of EA.
  
  For the last four years, I've been playing Madden on PC, so I've been used to various glitches 
 in the first run of the game. The beauty was that a patch was usually released to clear up these 
 issues. When you design a game for a console, however, you have one chance to get it right. That's 
 why you make beta versions, and demos, and hire playtesters. That way, stupid minor issues can 
 be identified and fixed before the game is produced. The laundry list of problems with this game 
 shows that either EA was amazingly lazy, or more likely, they don't care about quality as long 
 as you shell out $50 for the game.
  
  Many of the glaring issues have been discussed by other reviewers. The blurry field on 3rd down. 
 Graphics that just beat out Nintendo 64. Depth chart and statistic screens that look like they 
 were copied from the original Madden. But other flaws represent a seriously broken game. Sometimes 
 after finishing a game in franchise mode, I'm sent back to the main menu without being able to 
 save and must replay the game. I discovered all these issues in the first 5 hours of playing the 
 game, and there's no excuse for leaving them in the final product.
  
  Unfortunately, Madden has become such a behemoth that EA can keep shelling out crap and not have 
 to face any real repercussions. By the time you realize how bad the experience is, you've already 
 broken the seal, and all you can get is the trade-in credit. I haven't decided if I'm going to 
 return the game or not, but if the franchise mode issue continues, I might not have a choice.
 
  
  After a few years of poor showings on both the PC and Wii, Madden '08 has finally sapped my confidence 
 in the franchise. For at least a few years to come, my $50 will be better spent on other games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  This game was okay. You must get this game if you are a die-hard Madden fan, and you have a Wii. 
 Well I had it for about two months, but I sold it last week. All in all, it just gets boring after 
 a while, and EA's online play is just plain aweful. From right now (November 4, 2007) it might 
 last you until Super Mario Galaxy. This game is either too easy, or too hard. If you are worried 
 about the controls, they are a bit iffy sometimes. Well the controller layout is pretty much the 
 same as Madden NFL 07. So yea, if you LOVE Madden, then this is a must buy, but if you just THINK 
 that you will like it, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ako389
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 24, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Um considering the review Gamespot gave it I was really looking forward to it but after spending 
 only a few hours on it I became rather bored. Don't get me wrong it's fun and all, but you feel 
 dissappointed with it. It seems to shoot to high and is quite repetitive. It's good to play when 
 you have friends over but not a big crowd pleaser. The party maode is extremely repetitive. I personally 
 prefer to play games with my friends because its not the same old thing unlike the party mode. 
 I would personally rent the game, and see if it's to your taste before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waw003
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  They changed the controls from 07 to 08, which is different but okay. The glitches are horrible, 
 and I had to dock points because I didn't experience any with 07 on Wii. I played thru a season 
 on franchise up to the Super Bowl. Then, the autosave stopped working. The game froze my whole 
 Wii up, and my two playoff victories wore lost when I got it back turned on. As a big fan of NCAA 
 football games, I'm accustomed to glitches, but that one hurt. They removed the Madden Challenge. 
 The online is a nice addition especially without friend codes, but I experienced a lot of lag. 
 I don't know if it was the internet or what since I couldn't ask my opponent if they were having 
 trouble, but I'm leaving Madden alone until something better comes along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shanerfin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 for Wii was one of my most hyped games of the summer. I had preordered it and extremely 
 excited to pick it up. Thats day finally came. On Auggust 14th I went to my local gamestop and 
 picked up madden 08 at midnight. I went home to play it and was pretty dissapointed. The controls 
 were weird to me, And I could'nt throw a bullet pass for my life, and all my passes were intercepted. 
 Finally I got the controls down and was having fun with the game, so I went for franchise mode. 
 Then to my notice the game would freeze and I could'nt turn my wii off. The only way to turn it 
 off was to unplug it. I tried again and there is no way around it. The game was in perfect condition 
 never taken out of my wii, so I could'nt figure out why it kept freezing. So overall, Madden 08 
 wii is a fun game but you need to get used to the controls and hope like heck the game does'nt 
 freeze. Plus I only got about a weeks worth of fun, so just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Try as it may, Electronic Arts just cant seem to get Madden right for the Wii.
  Madden NFL 07, the series Wii debut, was rushed for the consoles November 2006 launch and it 
 showed  the graphics were last-gen and the game was threadbare, in spite of its ground-breaking 
 motion controls.
  Now, Madden NFL 08 has arrived. It looks much better and is loaded with more modes of gameplay. 
 But this version also has more control glitches, and its first attempt at online multiplayer comes 
 up short.
  For every positive gain, it seems Madden NFL 08 is sacked for negative yardage.
  EA Nation 
 is a well-designed front end for Nintendos first online Madden. It bypasses the clunky Nintendo 
 friend codes, which makes finding an opponent and jumping into a game a snap. But lag is a major 
 problem, leading to maddening gameplay  on-screen players react a second or two late, and you 
 often accidentally choose the wrong play during freeze-ups.
  In all modes, gesture controls are improved, particularly with high and low Big Hits by thrusting 
 the Wiimote and nunchuk, respectively. And passing still is as simple as simulating a throwing 
 motion. However, a major glitch often makes your quarterback automatically pass to the primary 
 receiver as the ball snaps  wasting critical third-down plays.
  The graphics are more pleasing, with background images purposely out of focus, allowing the Wiis 
 modest hardware to concentrate on player models. Unfortunately, a new hiccup randomly causes everything 
 to go blurry for an entire play, making you wonder if you need an eye exam.
  There are plenty of game modes to keep you and your friends busy for hours  like the new Party 
 Mode, with 22 mini-games including trivia. The highlight is using John Maddens trademark Telestrator 
 to draw on the screen during replays. Sadly, its not available in any other modes. Theres also 
 Family Play, with simplified, one-handed controls using only the Wiimote.
  New Madden Player Weapons designate which athletes have superstar skills. This has on-field uses, 
 such as allowing you to hit a button to focus defenders on your foes Spectacular Catch WR.
 
  But the amusing Madden Cards are gone, which means no more wind gusts during field goals or unlimited 
 timeouts.
  The game sounds great, as usual, with Madden and Al Michaels calling the action. Quarterbacks also 
 recorded their voices for pre-snap chatter.
  Franchise play has been polished, and the enhanced NFL Superstar: Hall of Fame mode lets you micromanage 
 a players ascension to Canton. But the game has too many moments when it acts like a buggy tech 
 demo.
  On the Wii, Madden 07 was a big gain on first down. Madden 08 gets stuffed at the goal line. 
 Now, its third and goal, and EA has work to do if it wants to score with Madden 09. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casinater
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Controls At first I was really disappointed with this game. My kicker wouldnt kick, random fumbles, 
 the QB would just hurl the ball almost instantly after the snap and cause an interception, and 
 other glitches . I was having all kinds of problems. Then I began adjusting the way I played. If 
 you just take your time and not freak out just swinging the remote then the game works quite nicely. 
 I have found the key to having precise controls is to do every move clearly and distinctly just 
 as the instructions say and this will remove most of your problems with glitches and such.
  
  Graphics Pretty disappointing considering that the Wii is capable of better. EA could have 
 done a way better job of improving the graphics for this one. Also they could have tweaked the 
 player animations to make them better as well.
  
  Sound Pretty good. The hits and kicks and things sound pretty good. Ben Roethlisberger sounding 
 like Vince Young is a little annoying.
  
  Overall This is still a very solid game of football. After adapting to the controls it can play 
 very nicely and be quite enjoyable. I haven't played online yet so I am unable to say anything 
 about that, but head to head with a friend is very exciting. I would definately recommend picking 
 up Madden 08 if you have a Wii and are looking to have some football fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lakmobes
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 25, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  After Playing More, I am Tired, it is so buggy, too many random problems to list. How the hell 
 could they release this. The controls can work, but everthing else is horrible. The Controls work, 
 in the game. But instead of using the pointer in the menus, you have to use the control Pad/D-pad. 
 This is rather tideous, compared to the ease the pointer provides. I haven't played everything, 
 but the game seems to lend itself more to big offense, rather then solid Defense.
  
  glitchy yes. But Not as some people made it seem. Personally, it still feels more like a port, 
 rather then a complete revision on the Wii. Which is disappointing.
  
  I reallly Have found the mini games fun, but the Mii's seemed to just be tossed in at the end, 
 rather than built into the game, and I would have rather they just left it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnshy
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  up til this year I have played it on the ps2, so this was my first experience with anything else. 
 I must admit I am having a lot of fun with the wii controls, especially running the ball. juking, 
 power moves, stiff arms, covering the ball.. all of it is very intuitive and a heck of a lot of 
 fun to play. my major negative comes from the fact that the animations, commentary, the brief player 
 analysis, etc. is all from the 06 version of madden. it's very annoying to hear al michaels and 
 john madden say the same exact stuff for the 3rd game in a row. as a steelers fan I am tired of 
 them talking about big ben's rookie season. I am sure that if I was playing this game on another 
 system I would've grown tired of it almost immediately as I did last year when I thought 07 was 
 almost identical to 06, so I am thankful I switched systems, but next year EA, c'mon, do something 
 new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stilesman
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 is better than 07 even though it has it's shortcomings. First of all the graphics have 
 been cleaned up a little but just a marginal improvement from 07. The controls also are about the 
 same as 07 with several new motions. The gameplay runs as smooth as ever but has some bugs in it. 
 First of all on no huddle's their is always a false start penalty which is really annoying, their 
 is also the occasional freezeup while navigating menues and also a few create modes missing and 
 little things like that. The online mode is pretty sweet unless you have a bad connection which 
 causes lag and the ea messenger mode is limited to 20 different phrases instead of chat. If ea 
 would have taken a little time to fix these bugs this game could have been excellent instead of 
 great. If you can get over some of the sloppiness in this game though you will find a pretty good 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unewman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I dont mean to sound like a pouting child but I really thought that this game would be much better 
 than what it is. I will not waste time but dive straight in to my problems with this game. If you 
 are reading my review then you probably have already read the gamespot review, so I will not repeat 
 mostly what has already been said because I agree with that review. Everyone knows that graphics 
 are a problem with EA and madden games on the last gen systems and it has continued its legacy. 
 The players are no better this year and I know that a change can be made because look at what 2k 
 sports did to NFL 2K 5. This year madden really made me wish that they could release 2k 5 on the 
 wii.
  
  With that being said I cannot stand that the line commands on offense is down on the d-pad but 
 on defense it is up on the d-pad. I dont understand why the linebacker commands are down and the 
 defensive line commands are up. It makes no sense what so ever when on offense the line commands 
 are already set to down. It makes sense for them to be down!!!! I also dont know why EA left the 
 glitch that if you are on a defensive lineman and try to move the line the player that you are 
 on will not move.. until you move to another player. This makes for a hassle and makes you take 
 as much time to fix the problem as it took to select a player last year with the cursor in the 
 07 version. Create-a-player should be in any football game made there's no excuse because it prevents 
 you from creating yourself and putting yourself and others in the game.
  
  I also dont understand why EA took out the loud crushing sound that was made when you hit someone 
 with the hit stick. This years version just doesnt give you that same feeling that last years 
 did when you pull one off. If you also notice the crowd is not as loud this year, which also decreases 
 the feel of the already suffering atmosphere. I wish I would have rented this game first before 
 buying into the hype. I love sport games and I was hoping that a really good one would have been 
 released this year on the wii, but if EAs other sport games coming out this year is anything like 
 this we as wii owners will have a long sorry year. The only really good thing about this game is 
 that you can update your rosters online, and it is playable. to some. I wish that I wouldnt have 
 supported EA this year and bought this game, its games like this that make you wish that games 
 could be bootlegged like movies. I hope someone from EA finds this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismarra1
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 19, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is great and is also challenging, but the graphics do not live up to the ps3 and 360 
 versions. Almost looks like the graphics from the xbox and ps2 versions. Still a good game. Madden 
 07 was good, but 08 is better. Some very very annoying glitches that cost me some points but i 
 am sure they will fix it next year. Sometimes, glitches can make the game more challenging, making 
 it more fun. I still love playing it and it is worth the money. Do NOT get it at gamestop because 
 it is less expensive at best buy or circuit city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicrosoftISdumb
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I love the madden series, I love sports, and I thought I would like the next installment of Madden. 
 But boy was I wrong. This Madden 08 version for the Wii is so bad I can't believe EA is even allowed 
 to release a game like this.
  
  Let me just say, this game has more bugs and glitches in it then I have ever seen in any other 
 game.
  
  I would never give a game this rating, unless it was unplayable. This game will frustrate you so 
 much because of the glitches. Do NOT buy this game. Let me list some of the glitches that I and 
 many others are witnessing...
  
  1) No huddle = offsides glitch... WTF! Why even have the option to use no huddle if when you use 
 it you will be punished with a 5 yard penalty. I've accidentally hit the no huddle button after 
 a penalty and my response is.. Crap, now I have to waste a timeout or lose 5 yards . Thats insane!
 
  
  2) Kicking doesn't respond. I always find myself doing the kicking motion over and over again because 
 it won't translate on screen. Sometimes I even do the motion perfectly and at a moderate pace and 
 lift the control nice and high to make sure I get full power and what happens? I get a half a$$ed 
 kick that goes 30 yards.
  
  3) Quarterback goes to handoff and forgets to handoff the ball. Pretty explanatory, it's happened 
 to me a couple of times. The quarterback goes through the motions as if he's handing off the ball 
 and all of a sudden he doesn't give the ball to the running back. Now your quarterback is all nice 
 and ready to get nailed and probably fumble the ball... oh ya, and when this glitch happens you 
 can't throw the ball to a receiver, you can only run. I also saw this same glitch on youtube, except 
 the dude's quarterback wouldn't respond to the wii's nunchuck and the quarterback actually ran 
 out of bounds by himself.
  
  4) Pause/option button doesn't work glitch. I was just playing a game and the pause button ( + 
 button on the wii) wouldn't work. Just to make sure I wasn t going insane (at this point I was 
 already insane) I pressed that + button a good 20 times and nope, the game would not pause. The 
 only way to make it pause was to disconnect the nunchuck from the Wiimote! That's so dumb!
  
  5) Your batteries are low... you should change them glitch. Wasn't that so nice of you EA to 
 have a screen pop up telling me that my batteries are low. Well I listened to that pop up screen 
 and changed my batteries during and online game and what happens? I lose the game! It took me less 
 than 5 seconds to switch batteries too. I was also winning until that happened. Thanks.
  
  6) Guy jumps out of bounds and jumps back in bounds glitch. My bro can also be the witness on this 
 one, we got a good laugh at it too. The wide receivers momentum was going out of bounds, heck, 
 he caught it out of bounds. Then as he was falling to his feet he defied the laws of gravity and 
 he moved in the opposite direction (in bounds) and landed. It was a completed pass. Unless football 
 players are using some new technology.... this is a glitch.
  
  7) We shall pick your play for you glitch. Do you like that glitch name? I do. This glitch happens 
 online. Say you want to go to a shotgun formation, so you go and find shotgun in the playbook and 
 you press A once and the lag of the online takes that A command and executes the pressed A as if 
 you pressed it twice. So in essence, you select the shotgun formation and the online lag selects 
 your play for you. This has happened many times.
  
  8) Hut hut hike... crap my arm is spazzing I will throw it glitch. In this glitch you hike the 
 ball and as soon as you hike it you throw the ball to your selected wide receiver. This glitch 
 is a defenders dream... easy interception.
  
  9) Lets go to Narnia glitch. This glitch has been in Madden forever. I can't take it anymore. How 
 can a fricken human being run through a wall? I'm pretty sure you can run through any wall in Madden, 
 anyone can notice this when they run pass the goal posts, towards the crowd. Madden defies all 
 logic!
  
  10) AUTOSAVE DOESN'T WORK IN FRANCHISE MODE!!!! WTF!?
  
  11) When playing a game in Franchise Mode, after the game, you'll periodically be sent back to 
 the main menu and the game will show in your franchise as if it has not yet been played.
  
  12) The Swat challenge in Mini-Camp is nearly impossible because the game confuses your interception 
 motion with some sort of lunge forward so that you're completely out of place and can't recover 
 until two more balls have been thrown motion.
  
  13) When running plays out of certain formations, your quarterback lines up well to the right of 
 your center.
  
  14) On third down, when you skip the close-up view of the ball, the screen becomes blurry for the 
 following play.
  
  15) Playing in certain game modes resets the skill level in your settings from whatever it was 
 set at before to Rookie.
  
  16) When the batteries run low during an offline game, once you replace them (but before you press 
 A to rejoin the game) , the game will continue on its own with the battery message still on screen, 
 so you're unable to control your players.
  
  17) The game will periodically freeze on the always wear your wrist strap warning screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkzkxkzzk
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  Controls
  I skipped the 07 version for the Wii because of the a lot of complaints regarding the accuracy 
 of the controls. I cannot compare 08 to 07, but I can say that the controls are very accurate on 
 08. My player does exactly what I do with the controllers. If some of you are having trouble with 
 them, then either you are an incompetent console football player or maybe you are playing on a 
 flat screen that is is introducing some lag. The controls do take a lot of practice to master, 
 so I suggest using the practice mode and go through the tutorials before you ever play a game. 
 The controls are very accurate and fun if you take the time to learn them, unlike the same old 
 button smashing on PS3/360.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are pretty bad even by Wii standards. The cut scenes look pretty good, but on field 
 characters are disappointing. The glitch that the Gamespot review referenced with the blurry screen 
 is avoidable if you don't hit the A button like it says to on the screen. Hopefully EA will actually 
 use the power of the Wii next year.
  
  Conslusion
  Fun, innovative and a nice change of pace from the boring PS3/360 version. You really have to like 
 football and understand that this is the Wii version, which obviously didn't get as much development 
 time as the other versions, then you will have a good time playing this game. I guarantee your 
 non-wii playing friends who have the PS3/360 version would get their ass handed to them when they 
 can't mash buttons on their simplistic gamepads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petercaviar01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  can will shorten the time for when all the good games come out in the next couple of months. the 
 graphics are all right nothin 2 fancy not bad but still play worthy... the only thing that i find 
 annoying is that everytime you do a huddle instead of making another play is you get a penalty 
 somehow when one of your guys moves to early, this is on online play i dont know about franchise... 
 plus the online play is really great doesnt have chat but has lil pre made messages that you can 
 send one another and has ranked and unranked just wish you can choose the kind of weather you want 
 for the game its always sunny no winds etc... plus if its laggy it sorta slows down and if your 
 tryin to get rid of the ball youll probbably get sacked when its lagging and you hiked which is 
 also annoying... m 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 815mdavis
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  So madden for the wii is an exciting game that offers quick fun and some quick frustration as well. 
 The fun Comes in by strengthening the controls over madden 07. It also offers some decent graphics 
 and online play. Where the brawlin footballer falls a little flat is when it comes the minor technical 
 issues it has. For instance at the beginning of a snap your quarterback will randomly throw a pass 
 right on hike, which could lead to some frustration in the latter half of the game. The good thing 
 is even though these bugs are within the game they shouldn't appear to much throughout. The overall 
 package is allot more improved compared to the half decent 07 from last year. Thankfully there 
 are many things to keep you going like the mini games within the game which are up to four players. 
 If your a knowledgeable football jokey than you will also love madden trivia. These are the many 
 things that help keep maddens head out of the water for the Nintendo wii. And as madden has been 
 going this is probably not the best of the best so hopefully madden 09 will be the shocker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamusAran210
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  This game, in many ways is a lot worse than the gamecube 07 version as well as the PS3 and 360 
 version of 08. First things first, the graphics aren't any better than last year's version. The 
 controls ar a bit hard to master especially the Low Big Hit feature. Second complaint, EA took 
 out the Vision Cone. The game much more exciting and realistic with it in. Another thing. Super-Star 
 Mode should be called Stupor Star mode. It is a bore compared to last year's version. You cant 
 get tattoos, cut your hair, or even customize your build or equipment. The only + was the ability 
 to customize your attributes. The fact that EA didn't make the same improvements to the wii version 
 as it did to the PS3 and 360 makes me think that EA isnt considering Nintendo, or much less the 
 Wii seriously. The controls are cool, but the 07 version is a better deal for the gamecube because 
 of madden cards and the customization. This game makes me doubt that next year's version will be 
 any better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prometheus92
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 20, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  I'm sure we all loved the previous Madden's with the game's ability to pick-up-and-play with no 
 hassle. I present to you Madden 08, the worst Madden that has yet to hit a gaming system.
  
  Graphics - 6.5
  
  Graphics look good for players and animations are nice. But the game 
 has a serious shortfalling when it comes to graphics of fans (which are 2d) and the coach will 
 calmly pace up and down the side of the field even if your quarterback throws an interception returned 
 for a touchdown. Again, as with all Maddens, your halfback or quarterback will get glitched and 
 caught behind one of your own blockers, giving the opposition enough time to sack/stuff you or 
 take away what would be a sure-fire touchdown with your running back. One of the worst parts of 
 the graphics are that on third downs, the graphics will blur. I don't know why, if this is something 
 put in to stress the player to make the play, I don't know, but its annoying.
  
  Gameplay - 2.5
  
  Gameplay is abyssmal. You'll have a very difficult time getting used to the 
 controls as far as passing and moves are concerned. The manual doesn't list how to do half of the 
 things you can do in the game, which uses 'free motion' controls, which are absolute sh%t because 
 even the slightest motion to a different direction will probably screw up your play/kick. Also, 
 it is impossible to intercept a pass because they want to to swing the controller up, which by 
 the time you turn around and realize that the ball is able to be intercepted, its too late and 
 the WR will catch it with no problem.
  
  The Wii remote is hard to control on this game, and is unresponsive at times. You have to try to 
 hike the ball two or three times before the center actually hikes it. When you finally do have 
 the ball, your quarterback will usually for no reason bullet it to the primary receiver, which 
 more than often results in a linebacker interception for a touchdown. Kicking is another nightmare. 
 When you try to kick, it usually takes 6-7 times of swinging the remote (for me) to kick the ball, 
 and when it does, it usually kicks as I'm bringing the controller down which causes me to miss 
 an extra point/field goal or make a kickoff about as short as a man with crutches can kick. Trying 
 to bullet pass is unbelieveably hard in this game. It is also nearly impossible to catch in the 
 game.
  
  Stats are meaningless in this game except for speed. I've seen Casey Hampton get kicked over by 
 a fullback on more than one occasion. A cornerback with a 65 rating can cover a 99 ovr receiver 
 and make an interception. The game makes you fumble way to much to be considered remotely realistic. 
 I had one game where my kick returned fumbled 3 times on kickoffs, two consecutively and taken 
 back for toufchdowns. A player with 99 awareness will not face the right direction, and will usually 
 miss a tackle or forget to break up a throw because he can't turn around, and it gives up huge 
 plays. But then again, since EA made it impossible to run an offense other than using the halfback 
 (which has a high chance of fumble no matter if the carry rating is a 99) YOU HAVE TO RELY ON DEFENSE 
 TO WIN A GAME.
  
  Other than the aforementioned, another thing that trashed the gameplay is the taking away of the 
 following :
  
  Create a team
  Create a fan
  Create a player
  Tournament mode
  Vision cone (thank God)
  a couple of other things that I cannot remember at the moment
  
 
  The odd thing is that ALL OF THESE FEATURES ARE INCLUDED ON THE PS2 VERSION! WHAT!?! EA was really 
 half-@$^&amp; ing this game.
  
  Superstar mode is close to what the previous Maddens, but they made one huge flaw. I understand 
 that EA wants to immerse the player in realism, but setting such a sh^%*tty camera view is just 
 terrible. They actually let you choose between whether or not you want to run the other side of 
 the ball (offense or defense) or let the CPU play it for you.
  
  Online play is terribly laggy, and at times will randomly disconnect because of connection problems. 
 It'd be nice if there were more than just 2 players allowed in a head-to-head game. =/
  
  Franchise is the same pretty much, and quite a few options were again dropped, like pricing food, 
 advertising, etc.
  
  Sound - 6.0
  
  Soundtrack is okay, nothing really any good though. They finally made John Madden a little smarter 
 as an announcer, aside from his usual 'If you score points you'll win the game'. One of the things 
 that dragged down the sound is that if you listen closely, you'll notice no difference in the voice 
 of Vince Young and Peyton Manning... go figure.
  
  Value - 2
  
  If you like listening to the soundtrack and can somehow master the impossible controls, this game 
 is for you. Other than that, rent it at your own risk, but you might soon realize that you've been 
 scammed out of $3.50. Get it for the PS3 or Xbox360, because the Wii version is trashy. If you 
 are another proud owner of the Wii, beware, because you might want to reconsider having this trash 
 clog up your memory on the Wii.
  
  FINAL SCORE - 4
  
  Pros - Music, player sounds other than quarterback, animations, if you so desire, it can make an 
 excellent drink coaster.
  
  Cons - Poor interactivity, impossible controls, stats meaningless, loss of a lot of gameplay options, 
 horribly laggy online play, unresponsive controller at times, too expensive for a game of such 
 little substance.
  
  Bottom Line - Don't buy, wouldn't personally rent, EA Sports needs to do a better job on the next 
 Madden or they could see the end of the Madden franchise on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegoods470
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I just bought this game and im still not sure what to think of it. I must admit this is a fun game 
 to play, but there are a lot of downsides. Lets start with the positives: Controls make you feel 
 like youre really in the game, party mode is pretty fun, and thats about it. Now for the negatives: 
 the graphics date back to Madden 06 with virtually no improvement, passing is pretty much impossible, 
 there are glitches when the screen becomes hazy and u cant even see, no Create-a-modes, and even 
 the rosters arent right. Overall the game is fun, but their are to many downsides to make it great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonethos
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Basically this game has improved controls from 07, but lacks features and has more bugs.
  
  No create a player, team or playbook. There are some strange bugs as well, like the game kicking 
 you back to the main menu after a franchise game without saving.
  
  Adding in party modes for non-gamers at the expense of features that football fans come to expect 
 is inexcusable.
  
  But, on the bright side, they fixed the kicking. The passing is crisper and more responsive, and 
 the control mapping makes more sense. It's too bad that in increasing the passing sensitivity, 
 they also caused many players to throw the ball immediately after the ball is snapped. So, the 
 player must be very careful. The franchise mode is deep and fun, but for some reason you cannot 
 sort your stats. That's just insane. Online is a nice feature, but their servers don't have enough 
 bandwidth, or something. It's just really laggy online. And when someone quits on you (as most 
 do when you're beating them) you don't automatically get the win. That's pretty dumb. Graphically, 
 the game looks pretty bad considering the hardware it's on. I have no illusions of the Wii outputting 
 graphics like the 360, but no game should look like a PS2 game released in 04. This does.
  
  In the end, EA just got very lazy with this game, sent it out unfinished and untested. They 
 complain that people give them a bad rep, but with games like this, they earn it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srbbnd
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Being a solid Madden fan I was extremely impressed with the transfer of Madden 07 to the Wii. I 
 was expecting the same impressive evolutionary change with 08.
  What a load of crap this game has turned out to be. Graphics are horrible and the game play has 
 changed for the worst. The superstar abilities works like a charm in NBA Live but in Madden it 
 just seems to occur at random times. What really excited me was finally Wii had a average game 
 that could be played online. The first thing I did was make a user account which was free. Ya thats 
 right free. I thought I was on my way to thousands of hours of free multiplayer heaven. Everything 
 was going good until glitches started freezing the screen every-other second. I cant speak for 
 everyone... I have a fast cable wireless connection for my Wii and I don't want to buy a lan adapter, 
 but the online gameplay is a joke. Everyone I play has the same problem or their education is that 
 of a 3 year old. With that said nothing reads in time making passing impossible. Running is your 
 only chance online. The most successful users have found the outside run with Bush or Alexander 
 is your only chance of hope to getting a true touchdown with online play. The intelligent programmers 
 at Tiburon changed the turbo button to be B, but B also rushes offensive plays. Since online there 
 is so much lag you will automatically rush the offensive play if you do not let go of B 5 seconds 
 before the play is over. This would not be a problem, but a glitch in the game always causes your 
 O-Line to be offsides. So every time you do this you have to call a time out which you will notice 
 every user doing online.
  When you hike the ball to throw a pass you automatically will throw the ball to a receiver unless 
 you hold to controller to your head, because of the lag. You will look like a child with down syndrome 
 trying to kick the ball, because it takes you so many attempts for it to read. Just trying to finish 
 a game without it freezing is a miracle. Also the whole point of playing online is to talk a little 
 trash... right. Well you have a selective list of messages that you can choose. Nothing to extreme 
 for the Wii crowd. I think the most negative one is stop messaging me . Everyone online has these 
 same problems and maybe EA just needs to fix a few things, but it is ridiculous to release a game 
 of this popularity so early with so many problems. Why do people keep buying into these crappy 
 generation games and giving them good ratings when nothing has changed for the better! It is time 
 for the EA Madden series to sale the ownership over the NFL, to a programming company that can 
 make a working game. All I can say is I am very disappointed with the graphics, gameplay, glitches 
 and very bitter about the quality of online play when I was expecting so much of online play for 
 the first time with the Wii. I will be returning my copy as soon as possible. This game is okay, 
 but let me make a comparison. This is like McDonalds saying they are going to release a new double 
 cheeseburger sandwich. However, McDonalds says this double cheeseburger sandwich is the best double 
 cheeseburger on the planet. However, once you buy this double cheeseburger for $2 instead of $1 
 you find this is the same double cheeseburger on the $1 menu and you are missing the pickles. All 
 I can say is don't buy this game or wait to see if they release another version that fixes the 
 severe amount of glitches. Lame 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thordain0011
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Let me make myself clear here, Madden 08 for the Wii is a great Multiplayer game this year with 
 Party Mode , online play, and some good improvemants to the actual gameplay with the weapons system 
 which, while not as good as the 360 version, works well. The problem I have is that EA did not 
 bring in what it promised to along with some features I expected from Next-gen Madden. No Owner 
 mode. No create a player, create a team, or even create a playbook modes. In Franchise, ya can't 
 build new stadiums, move your team, or change uniforms. Superstar, if your drafted by the Texans 
 as a OL, they want you to protect David Carr. Just too much is missing here.
  Music: Great, some songs I could do without, but you can turn off any songs you want so, no problems 
 there.
  Graphics: They might have improved a bit... I think. Not enough of a change here.
  Fun: Lots if you have parties every day just to play. If not, eh.
  
  Overall: A solid game, 
 but a note to EA. GIVE ME SOME MORE FEATURES SO MADDEN FOR THE WII ISN'T TREATED LIKE A HANDMEDOWN 
 FROM NOW ON! I WANT GOOD MADDEN!
  Maybe next year, this will be a must buy game. But not this year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashbergh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  I didnt get to play last years Madden so I came into this game with an excitement i havent felt 
 for a game in a while. The first thing that hit me was the grafix and how bad they were. This is 
 the most dissapointing thing about this game. Guess I expected to much?? The controls, however, 
 were amazing. After a game i feel like id done something. You dont spent 35 minutes mashing buttons, 
 you work for yardage on offense and try to put up the wall on defense. All in all, this is a pretty 
 good game that is in desperate need of a graficall overhaul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mustang92382
Rating: 2.2
Date: Aug 15, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I been playing video game football since the days of Tecmo Bowl, and this ranks up there in terms 
 of Pro Action Football for SNES (think that's the name) and NFL Football for NES bad.
  
  I could deal with the graphics looking last-gen but the gameplay and controls are horrid. Fumble-itis 
 is in extreme amounts here, even covering up the ball in one half Deuce MacAllister fumbled FOUR 
 times. The passing mechanic is horrible, either with having to rocket the ball or if you try to 
 go for a lob pass it may not register. The DBs are definitely unforgiving in this respect and I've 
 seen LB's make jumps only Terrell Owens or Randy Moss should be able to make to intercept.
  
  The running game definitely suffers from the offensive line bunching up like electronic game 
 board pieces.
  
  And as for online.... played four games, two horribly lagged so bad that they eventually disconnected 
 and I'm running on 6.0 MBPS DSL, the second was a lag nighmare, and the fourth, I was so disgusted 
 with the controls I turned off my Wii to prevent myself from shattering my Wii-mote.
  
  My apologies to the person I cut off on, but this game is wretched.
  
  I love the Wii's innovative 
 control schemes but not in this game. Give me a gamepad any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioMellow
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 15, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Last year when I played it, I was in awe of how fun it was to play on the Wii. I overlooked the 
 graphics and just figured they'd fix it this year. They didn't. Now I know the Wii isn't the graphic 
 power-house system but from some games I've already played I know it can produce very nice looking 
 visuals. The control tweaks they did, we're nice. The online I'm sure is great but haven't had 
 a chance to try for myself. But come on... Why make a great game and get lazy in the visuals department? 
 C'mon EA. Anyway, as I agree with the idea Gameplay over graphics I can't help but feel some developers 
 just aren't trying. Yet overall, this game is better the last year. Worth another 50.00 dollars 
 better, well no. Atleast its improving and lets just hope someone looks at the game next year and 
 says Maybe its time we stop scamming people and make this game look the best it can on the Wii 
 . We can only hope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ojharvey
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  Flashes of new and innovative game play, moments of great design, a desire to want to love this 
 game but I can't. I like it, it can be fun, but I can't quite recommend it to others when I know 
 how good it could have been.
  
  Controls not tight and responsive enough  often youll perform a move you didnt intend to or 
 youll have to perform a move multiple times because it didnt recognize it the first time. I invited 
 some guys over that have 360s and it was embarrassing at times because youre trying to explain 
 the game and the controls just arent responding. It almost seems like this is year 1.5 instead 
 of 2 on the Wii. Is it just me or did last years version seem better in this area? Either that 
 or maybe I was just excited about the new controls that I didnt notice it as much.
  
  Text is way too small to read and windows are way too small  examples with text issues are emails 
 in the superstar mode or in the study opponent screens in dynasty mode but these issues seem to 
 be the theme overall with the design. With the windows why do they only take up a small area in 
 the center of the screen why not blow them up and take up most of the screen? You end up straining 
 to read something for no reason.
  
  Graphics are disappointing  this is the 2nd year on the system and it feels like we are going 
 backwards.
  
  Kicking with the remote needs to be more sensitive. Half the time I think Im going to jack myself 
 in the jaw trying to get full power on kickoffs and stuff.
  
  Blocking is a disappointment  control seems poor. Much better in the 360 version.
  
  Total 
 Control Simulation is a great idea and works well. It would be nice once you stop the simulation 
 and enter the game if you could do the reverse and exit the game and keep simming. Maybe next year.
 
  
  Party mode is a good idea but suffers from the same lack of precision with the controls as I mentioned 
 above. Some of the modes are a lot of fun, others not so much.
  
  Things that are just silly  mapping the 1 button to strip the ball, who can realistically reach 
 that during game play? Also, create some new post-game celebrations already would you? Ive seen 
 the same thing for like 4 years now. Seems to be a lot of offsides penalties called on you for 
 no particular reason.
  
  Overall, the game is pretty good, but not good or great and definitely not worth $50. There are 
 a lot of fun moments and times when the game is really enjoyable but there are other times when 
 its frustrating. Definitely a long way to go before the innovative controls of the Wii catch up 
 with the classic overall look and feel of the other systems. Companies like EA need to realize 
 that something as different as the Wii doesnt lend itself well to their every year were coming 
 out with a new version of the same game no matter what approach and change their strategy. The 
 game has a lot of good ideas but the implementation is poor and the game is not polished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joebizkit
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Not the Prettiest, but just plain FUN! I have to admit, I did not play last years game on the Wii. 
 I did buy this version and the PS3 version, and I will be frank, I have always, thought games should 
 be made for one sole purpose, to play, and be fun while doing so. This game, gets it done, it isn't 
 the prettiest (doesn't look like the Reggie Bush commercial) but is solid on all fronts, it has 
 a little more of a learning curve, but is highly entertaining. I am glad I bought this version, 
 I just wish, EA would have done the smart thing and givin' me the NCAA on this console to.
  
  I will rent the Xbox version if I make up my mind to trade the ps3 in, before I buy it. I am 
 tired of being stuck and felt like I was mugged for 60 bucks, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmperorIng
Rating: 3.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  EA left out many features on the Wii, very buggy, very slow, and lackluster presentation. What 
 happened to Front Office mode that I heard about? My Shrine?
  
  Franchise and Superstar are completely untouched since last year, if anything have lost features 
 from last year.
  
  No Madden Cards, No Madden Challenge, Dumb controls, Buggy controls, No Tony Bruno Show, No Stat 
 sorting, No Create a Player, No Create a Tea, and No Create a Fan. Weak Online, saving problems, 
 often when you snap the ball you also pass to the designated receiver as you snap, very annoying. 
 Corners glued to receivers regardless of stats, Recycled animation, recycled audio, **** soundtrack, 
 ugly presentation, slow loading. Running backs rated 80 can run over 99 linebackers. 99 receivers 
 can't beat 73 corners. Passes seem slow. Dumbing down of features, dumbing down of options (very 
 limited sorting, one-way cycling in certain parts) . Sprint button has been changed to dive button, 
 which is annoying. Very small motions make audibles, quite aggravating. Very limited features. 
 Weapon feature is pointless. Party mode is no fun. Family play is useless. AI is verging retarded. 
 Juke, big hit reactions are very slow. Huge Step back from last year
  
  Buy the 360 or PS3 version if you absolutely have to buy one, or buy last year's madden and use 
 create a player to update the roster.
  
  The game is broken, no one can be more disappointed than me, trust me
  
  Good Things: Updated 
 pictures, online is available, cleaner logos, trivia is fun, game is still fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf8j
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Madden for the Wii is a revolution in controls for football games. To be honest, i had doubts before 
 buying this, but i was wrong in doubting as it turned out to be better than i expected.
  
  The gameplay is great. Everything is fairly easy to learn and remember, even if you hadn't played 
 '07 for Wii, and the control scheme is intuitive. All the controls are responsive, and add a new 
 feeling to your Madden experience. Franchise mode is fun, and its easy to work on your team. The 
 graphics have a bit to be desired. The player animations are no-where near 360/PS3, and look to 
 have not improved at all since 07. Rent this game first if the graphics in the game are highly 
 important in your choice whether to buy or not. Also, if you are looking specifically at the images 
 in the image section, they are no where near accurate as to what they actually look like. The real 
 game has far better graphics than the screenshots, but they still have a bit to be desired.
  
  Sound, im not sure how they can improve it, other than allowing you to change the pitch/speed/mess 
 with John Madden's voice. Or have him tell you something useful for once.
  
  Id say this game is 100% worth buying. With the new online, and the normal everlasting madden replay 
 value, this game can last you a good amount of time. If you have any doubts after reading this, 
 i'd say rent it first, but i can assure most of you, you won't regret buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nighthawk7000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Madden 08 really puts you in the game, as you are supposed to. As soon as you play, people who 
 have and haven't played 07, should look at every detail of the controls. I always start out with 
 a good old fashion match of the Patriots vs. Eagles. I set it to evening time, and started to play, 
 the graphics weren't as good as the 360's or ps3's, but i was emersed into nunchuck juking, stiff 
 arm tingling gameplay... and graphics! The teleprompter almost everyone has been dying to try is 
 sadly only in party mode and requires two or more players offline. You can't even select when you 
 want to use it. It has to be a replay. It doesn't matter though. The NFL superstar mode has been 
 well adjusted, yet there was something missing. You couldn't get a haircut, or tattoo! But no worries, 
 you can set it without out scrolling through random parents. One minor glitch in the game that 
 happens maybe once every game, is the fact that when it shows the players run to the line of scrimmage 
 mini-cutscene, it will blur out ocassionaly when its over. You can easily see past it, it's just 
 annoying though. Franchise is the same pretty much, and now you can use just a wii-mote and no 
 nunchuck! You don't have to run, the game does it for you, all you have to do is hike the ball, 
 throw the ball, spin, strip, and stiff arm! If i want to have a nice relaxing game, that makes 
 me feel like I'm actually watching football i do that... it also makes it quite easy to multi-task 
 and defense is a breeze... in fact I'm using right now. You can use the basic controls in any mode 
 except mini-games and superstar mode. Won of the best features has to be online multi-player. When 
 you play in a match, you have to adjust a little. There isn't a bad amount of lag. In fact it's 
 pretty much only when your selecting plays and ocassionaly during a play and it's half a second 
 long. The best part has to be that the multplayer doesn't require any codes at all! They have pre-written 
 messages and trying to get a friend is pretty much hitting the A button twice. The tackles in this 
 game are completely revamped. The sounds and how you get hit are gruesome. you also have the choice 
 of where you hit someone... legs or from above! They got rid of the madden cards though, but that's 
 no big deal. Because of the missing teleprompter in other modes, very minor glitches, but amazing 
 graphics for the wii, awsome sounds... diffrent QB voice overs, incredible controls, amazing online 
 play, 22 MINI-GAMES, a monstor amount of new game updates, the much better settings, incredible 
 AI... you can't run down the same route so easily now... is why i give this game a 9.7! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rounder617
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 14, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  OK so I go to bestbuy to pick up the game at Midnight and it was awsome. I get home around 12:30 
 turn on my wii put it in and put the pionter at madden 08 click and click start and i goes to the 
 safety stap warning mumbo jumbo and it freezes I WAS PISSED. So then i restart my system do that 
 crap all over again and it finally works. So my brother and i want to play each so i go right to 
 play now im the browns hes the clots (what a match up) We played 07 so we knew the contols and 
 we were off the graphics were good not the best i seen on the Wii compared to RE4 but ever gaming 
 is not ment for graphics its ment for playing. The controls were sweet best out of all the games 
 but if you havent played 07 take the controls lesson it will help you out a lot. The online is 
 fun to I like it could have more playes liek 4 or even 8 not 2 but. And they have a lot of fun 
 mini games for everbody in the family could play even my mom and my dad could play it (but they 
 werent that good) . This game is a must buy for a sports fan like myself or just a Wii owner. That 
 is why I give this game a 9.2 out of 10. P. S. I beat my brother with the browns 28 to 14 Quinn 
 is like a 78 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitmanbball
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This is a great sports game on Wii but a little bit more control in the gameplay department could 
 have brought this game to greater heights. I'm going to start out saying the good points of the 
 game. Online play is great the lobby is quick and easy for me at least. The power symbols really 
 show what each player is capable of. The audio couldn't be any better. This game has great value 
 to last several months of football. Now to the bad parts of the game are the responsiveness from 
 the actions you've showed it tends to lag. The graphics are about original xbox worthy. Again with 
 the gameplay, don't expect to jump into this wii title thinking you can jump into franchise and 
 tear it up. This game will take time to perfect. Plenty and plenty and plenty of time you need 
 to put into this game to be a top player. Overall this is a top sports game and deserves picking 
 up but again give it time.
  
  Wii Friend code: 7105-7242-6708-5749
  Nickname: Richard
  PM me please 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 14, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  you know last year madden 07 for the wii i thought not so bad did not bug me at all on the graphics, 
 but this year it does, i am playing the game one time the game goofed up on the graphics could 
 not even tell the players are player s at one time then it came back to normal graphics i thought 
 what the heck, even 07 did not do this, the fumble s in the game is a pain, madden 08 is a good 
 game dont get me wrong, but i am still thinking where is my 49 bucks worth, i did lose my frist 
 game due to the two fumbles which trun in to 10 points by the gaints to win the game, over all 
 on the wii this year for me is the graphics, it seems like the wii is getting worse, be my last 
 right up front buy for madden for the wii, rent rent rent, i am going to rent madden 08 for the 
 360 and see if any diffrents thanks 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
