-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Major League Baseball 2K9
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/majorleaguebaseball2k9/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Wii Remote motion-sensor controls feel right.
 Believable animation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A few issues with the controls when hitting and pitching.
 Truly ugly visuals.
 Play-by-play is dull and generic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 18, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.9, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 36 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Genre: Baseball Sim
Date: Mar 3, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
MLB 2K9 for the Wii is still a flawed distortion of baseball, but it's definitely a better bet than 
 its Xbox 360 and PS3 cousins. 

  Scientists have long pondered the existence of other universes in which the physics are totally 
 different than they are here. In these strange dimensions, up would be down, fast would be slow, 
 and Major League Baseball 2K9 would be a realistic depiction of the national pastime. However, 
 in our own mundane reality, 2K Sports' latest look at the grand old American game skews baseball 
 so much that you seem to be viewing the diamond action through a fun-house mirror. Although the 
 Nintendo Wii version of the game is superior to its Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 counterparts due 
 to the catchy, motion-sensing controls and some much-improved on-field animations, this remains 
 a frustrating experience that never quite feels like real baseball.  

           You'd best make sure the Wii Remote is securely fastened to your wrist.      

  Most 
 features are identical to what they were in MLB 2K8 for the Wii, so you still have the options 
 for single games, franchise play, playoffs, situational play, and the home-run derby, as well as 
 matches against buddies on the couch. The Internet support offered in the 360 and PS3 versions 
 of the game has been dropped on the Wii, as has the living-roster frill that lets owners of the 
 other consoles automatically update their lineups based on what is taking place in the real Major 
 Leagues. The interface has been refurbished with the addition of nested menus, so despite the wealth 
 of options they're easy to navigate. Some items aren't where you might expect them to be, but after 
 you spend about five minutes figuring your way around, you can navigate the interface with the 
 Wii Remote almost as easily as if you were using a mouse.  

  Hitting, pitching, and fielding are carried over largely intact from last year, with Wii Remote 
 movements and the Nunchuk handling just about everything. Taking swings is accomplished by wielding 
 the Wii Remote like a bat, swinging it as if you were taking real cuts. Getting good wood on the 
 ball is tough, though, because you have to time your Wii Remote swing to coincide with pitches 
 crossing the plate and also target one of nine boxes in the strike zone by moving the Nunchuk's 
 control stick. This is a real test of your reflexes, given that fireball hurlers such as cover 
 boy Tim Lincecum don't give you a lot of time to figure out where a pitch is headed. The game is 
 unforgiving when it comes to pitch location. If you predict an inside pitch, for instance, and 
 get a ball low and away, at which point you'll either whiff or slap the ball weakly to the opposite 
 field. As you might expect, this presents you with a pretty stiff challenge at the plate. It also 
 presents your forearms with a repetitive motion that can be rather ache-inducing over the course 
 of a nine-inning game.  

  Stepping onto the rubber has its issues as well, but for entirely different reasons. Whereas hitting 
 is perhaps a little too difficult, pitching is far too easy. You select a pitch type and location 
 with the Nunchuk and hold down the B button on the Wii Remote to begin a windup, then pull the 
 Wii Remote back and flick it forward to emulate the motion of releasing the ball. That's it: instant 
 Nolan Ryan. The only challenge comes from a collapsing red-yellow-green target that you have to 
 hit when flicking the Wii Remote forward, and even it doesn't seem to affect your pitch too much. 
 Even though you're supposed to time your release to keep you in the green, firing while in yellow 
 or red rarely seems to result in a mistake in which you lob one down the pipe. Catchers also work 
 with you, calling pitches and picking locations. They do a reasonably good job of switching up 
 pitches and moving the ball around, too, so the end result of all of this is that you can pitch 
 on automatic. Considering that you rarely have to worry about 450-foot consequences to a mistake, 
 you can easily paint corners and mow down a dozen or more batters in just about every game.  

 
  Fielding also runs pretty much on autopilot. You move fielders around with the Nunchuk and throw 
 to bases using the D pad on the Wii Remote with little muss or fuss. It can be a bit challenging 
 in the beginning to coordinate your actions; it feels awkward using both hands and two separate 
 controllers to pull off plays that you would normally make with a gamepad. But after a few innings, 
 it seems like second nature. And better yet, the Wii version of MLB 2K9 isn't afflicted with the 
 strange fielding animations that plague its sister games on the 360 and PS3. For example, infielders 
 rarely double-pump for no reason, which results in much fewer botched double plays and absurd infield 
 singles. Even the overall pace of fielding is much more realistic here. Outfielders take their 
 time on routine tosses into second on grounders hit for singles, and infielders move more naturally 
 when they make plays.  

           No amount of animation can mask the ugliness of the player models.      

  Unfortunately, 
 though these superior animations help the baseball feel of the game, they do virtually nothing 
 to improve its cosmetic appearance. This is an ugly game, loaded with jaggies and weird visual 
 glitches such as blimps floating by overhead with absolutely no details at all, looking like weird 
 holes in the sky. Players don't look much like their real-life counterparts, either. General body 
 size seems to be dead-on, although the faces are often so generic that they might have been picked 
 out of random police lineups instead of Major League rosters. However, audio is actually better 
 here than it is on the other consoles, largely because it has been scaled down to match the Wii's 
 technical capabilities. All that is provided here is a generic play-by-play from Gary Thorne, that 
 consists largely of single-line observations about what the catcher is calling for and comments 
 on good or bad swings. The soundtrack doesn't seem to have been cut down for the Wii, though. You 
 get blitzed with the same bizarre, kitchen-sink mix of tunes here as you do on the other consoles, 
 with the music varying wildly between Europe's "The Final Countdown," Latin hip-hop, and Judas 
 Priest's "You've Got Another Thing Coming." The only difference here is that the music often plays 
 in the background during at-bats, apparently to compensate for the pared-down play-by-play.  

 
  MLB 2K9 for the Wii isn't a great baseball game, but superior controls and animation make it a 
 bit better than its 360 and PS3 siblings. Nevertheless, considering that you have to accept some 
 serious trade-offs when it comes to the ugly graphics, difficult batting, and a more limited feature 
 set that lacks online multiplayer, it's arguable whether this is really a step up. Like Chicago 
 Cubs fans say every September: Wait till next year.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MrG31
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 20, 2009 12:15 pm PT
Review:  First ever review: This game has no flash and the graphics and sound are not very good, but I still 
 found it to be pretty fun. After having played for two days, batting is still a bit of a challenge. 
 This may be part of the fun. In most MLB games it's easy to score about 20 runs a game once you 
 get used to it. I think I struck out about the first thirty times I was up to bat, so even making 
 contact felt pretty good. Eventually, making contact became pretty easy, but scoring more than 
 a couple of runs was pretty difficult. Luckily, pitching is extremely easy. Striking out almost 
 every batter is not a stretch. It'a a good mix between the difficulty of batting and the ease of 
 pitching resulting in close games that's makes this game pretty enjoyable despite the poor presentation. 
 I also found the commentary to be pretty good. Steve Phillips isn't the most vivacious announcer 
 to begin with so it's a good representation of real life. Plus, it has good controls and that's 
 what the Wii is all about. I'm sure The Show blows it away, but this is the only sim available 
 so you gotta take what you can get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weberlarry1
Rating: 0
Date: Mar 29, 2009 7:56 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Major League Baseball 2K9 User 
 Reviews for Wii - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, 
 iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; 
 } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Top 5 deadliest 
 computer viruses    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjones78
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 8:54 am PT
Review:  I'm vowing to never buy a 2K Sports production ever again. No responsible company would release 
 a product this unfit for public consumption. It's nothing new for those of you who have purchased 
 this title before. 2K Sports obviously thinks they can just take a dump in a box and sell it as 
 a Wii title.
  
  They just don't care about the Wii version. That's obvious. They changed the look of the game finally, 
 but I'm not sold on the functionality of it. They made batting extremely difficult which is probably 
 a good thing because it was way too easy in the past. Everything else is exactly the same as the 
 2K MLB games I was buying when I had a regular XBox. 
  
  I'm convinced that stealing a base in this game is just broken as I can't seem to do anything with 
 baserunners. They assigned one button (B) two functions (decrease lead-off and powerswing) at the 
 same time while you bat. The overall ratings for each player were just transported over from the 
 2008 edition so if someone had a breakout year last year, they are just ignoring it. Statistics 
 are just a mess and completely inaccurate. 
  
  New commentators, but they are still saying inaccurate things that make no sense at times. The 
 music was always strong in the MLB 2K titles, but this year is my least favorite. 
  
  2K Sports should be boycotted by Wii owners. They obviously think that the people buying these 
 games are 5 years old and thus won't care about this stuff. But the funny thing is, if you are 
 a kid you will never get a hit in this edition thanks to complex batting functions. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
