-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Manhunt 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/manhunt2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Compelling stealth mechanics that require real skill.
 Execution moves serve as a grisly reward for a job well done.
 Gritty visual design sets just the right tone of anxiety and dread.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 In most of the executions, you can't really see what's going on.
 Loose gunplay isn't as tight or as satisfying as the sneaking.
 The story isn't very scary or foreboding.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 30, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.1, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 775 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: Rockstar Toronto
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Oct 29, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's not as shocking as you'd expect, but Manhunt 2 still satisfies your primal instincts. 

 
  A lot has been made about Manhunt 2's supposedly ultraviolent content. Like its predecessor, it 
 depicts its share of grisly murders, gruesome decapitations, and a few swift kicks to the genitals 
 for good measure. It's visually less grisly than the original Manhunt: The much-ballyhooed blurring 
 added to the most extreme acts often makes it difficult to see exactly what bloodthirsty rages 
 you're subjecting your victims to -- particularly in the Wii version. However, don't take this to 
 mean that Manhunt 2 doesn't deserve its M rating: There's plenty of gore, sex, and adult language 
 to go around. There's also some solid stealthy gameplay to back up all the eviscerations. It's 
 got its share of problems (we'll get to those later) , and it's not quite as rewarding as the original, 
 but there's a lot here into which patient gamers can sink their teeth. This isn't a series of random 
 bloody tantrums -- it's a calculated study in what drives a man to madness and to what extremes he 
 will go to discover the truth.  

           You wanna stay alive? Stick to the shadows.      

  That man is Dr. Danny Lamb (not 
 a randomly chosen name, certainly) , an asylum inmate who manages to escape, thanks to a freak electrical 
 malfunction. He doesn't remember much, but he's able to fill in bits and pieces through flashbacks, 
 and with the help of fellow inmate and constant companion Leo. As Danny begins to remember more 
 and more, he finds himself getting to the bottom of a medical experiment called "The Project," 
 as well as just how involved he was in its development. The plot is missing the degenerate thrills 
 of the first Manhunt, but it still has a script only Rockstar could pen. The raunchy quips you'll 
 overhear from the game's self-described "hunters" are sometimes creepy, often hysterical, and always 
 worth a listen.  

  Just don't expect anything as memorable as your encounter with Piggsy in the original Manhunt. 
 Aside from the very nature of stealth gameplay (you always fear getting caught) , there's nothing 
 scary here. You're still fighting for your life, but unlike the original's protagonist, Danny could 
 simply disappear if he so desired. The danger is secondary -- a result of his need to find out exactly 
 who he is and how he ended up this way. Uncovering the truth and revealing the past makes for an 
 interesting tale, but it's not as engaging as the snuff film premise of the first, nor does it 
 really ever take off, remaining content to mostly smolder until it pops its highly foreshadowed 
 surprises. At least as far as the Manhunt games are concerned, fighting to stay alive is more compelling 
 than fighting for your sanity.  

  It's still an interesting story that is accentuated by an appropriately dirty and dank visual design. 
 You'll explore a raunchy, sticky sex club; gritty gas stations; and slummy warehouses; all places 
 that seem like you could catch some nasty disease just by looking at them. A scratchy, slightly 
 blurry filter gives everything the faint haze of scan lines, as if you're watching an old VHS tape. 
 That effect is particularly pronounced in the PlayStation 2 version. That isn't to say that Manhunt 
 2 rises to the occasion from a technical standpoint. Animations and character models look terribly 
 dated. Some environments are also washed out and textures aren't detailed. The Wii release tends 
 to maintain a better frame rate than the PS2, though there are occasional slight pauses when the 
 Wii accesses the disc, an issue that also crops up from time to time on the PS2 -- just less often. 
 Aside from these differences (and a few others to be noted shortly) , the two versions look more 
 or less identical.  

  The doomed ambience is further accentuated by a minimalist sound design that features an eerie 
 soundtrack and limited environmental noise. Silence is put to good use here, creating moments of 
 tension when you must remain perfectly still and making the occasional eruption in the soundtrack 
 even more effective. The voice-overs are good too, not just from the leading men, but from the 
 random hunters you overhear. You'll hear guards in the sex dungeon whine about their sexual frustration 
 or masked patrolmen taunt you to come out of the shadows, and most of it's acted with just the 
 right amount of coarse charm.  

  There are lots of shadows in Manhunt 2, which you'll be hiding and waiting in for a good portion 
 of the game. You control Danny from a third-person view, avoiding the watchful eye of enemies and 
 attempting to pick them off one by one. The easiest way to do this is to hide in a dark corner 
 and lure a foe over by throwing a brick or punching the wall. The noise will attract nearby hunters, 
 who have a tendency to walk over and stare straight at you for a moment before shrugging their 
 shoulders then walking away. This is your chance to perform one of the infamous execution moves -- the 
 violent showcase of Manhunt 2's visceral action.  

           Can you tell what's going on here? Neither can we.      

  There are three levels of 
 executions, depending on how long you hold the execution button. Functionally, all three levels 
 result in your adversary's untimely demise. But in this game, you want to kill with style, and 
 a level three execution is literally a bloody mess. Once you release the button (or thrust the 
 Wii Remote in the appropriate direction) , the slaughter begins. On the Wii, you'll also jab the 
 Wii Remote and Nunchuk over the course of the kill in a manner that more or less imitates the moves 
 you're performing. The execution you perform depends on the weapon you have equipped and whether 
 there are any interesting environmental features nearby. You might stab the hunter in the back, 
 kick him in the crotch, then slam a manhole cover on his head. Or perhaps eviscerating him with 
 a crowbar is more your thing. Or if you're a pyromaniac, you may prefer to douse him in gasoline 
 and set him on fire.  

  How all this looks will depend on the version you are playing. On the Wii, the entire scene is 
 rendered through a blurry red filter that gives you a merely vague idea of what's going taking 
 place. The movement and splattering sound effects make it clear that no one wants to die a death 
 quite that painful -- you just don't get to see the details. As a result, you'll be paying more attention 
 to the motion prompts at the top left of the screen than trying to figure out the onscreen action. 
 On the PS2, the filter is less blurry and blinks on/off so you can see more of the grisly kill -- much 
 more of it. The PS2 version also features a geometric pattern that flashes at the beginning and 
 end of the execution. The more visible kills make this version far more satisfying because the 
 simulated motions with the Wii Remote can't compare to the clarity of the PS2's gruesomeness. Still, 
 pulling off an execution move can be rewarding on either version because they often cap several 
 minutes of patient sneaking and nail-biting stillness.     

  The stylized filters visually express Danny's rage and confusion, so they're cool from a story 
 perspective. But they linger for a few seconds after the execution is over and you are deposited 
 back into the level proper, which is a big frustration in a stealth game where you need to stick 
 to the shadows. That moment can mean the difference between life and death. Manhunt 2 is often 
 very unforgiving of your mistakes, and a couple of hunters with nightsticks are tough to handle. 
 Forcing you to wait for the filter to clear so that you can see where you are going is an unnecessary 
 annoyance in a game that requires so much precision of movement.  

           Boom. Squish.      

  As you would expect from a stealth action game, you can hug walls 
 and peek around corners. On the Wii, peeking is handled by tilting the Nunchuk, which is a clever 
 design move that feels just right. There are some other mechanics at play too, such as your need 
 to be perfectly still should a hunter get too close while you're lurking in the shadows. At these 
 times, he might be inches from your face, and you need to ensure that you stay completely hidden. 
 On the Wii, this means holding the Wii Remote perfectly still (a natural solution) , whereas you 
 press a contextual button on the PS2.  

  There are a number of nagging gameplay issues, with enemy artificial intelligence sitting high 
 on the list. Enemies get stuck jittering between objects, forcing you to unstick them by grabbing 
 their attention. They'll occasionally run past without noticing you or patrol a 3-foot-square area 
 over and over again for no apparent reason. Another big annoyance is specific to the Wii: The A 
 button is given too much to do. This button is mapped to using weapons, climbing, picking up bodies, 
 executing targets, and more. You may want to execute your foe, but God forbid if you happen to 
 be standing on a dead body because you'll pick it up instead -- and the ensuing animation will turn 
 you from murderer to victim. And speaking of buttons, the Wii version doesn't let you skip cutscenes. 
 Considering stealth games always benefit from some trial and error, this is a grievous offense 
 because you are forced to watch the same scene multiple times if you have to reload.  

  Danny can hold his own somewhat in standard melee combat, as long as he is armed with the right 
 weapon. You'll use clubs, knives, shards of glass, and plenty of other instruments. On the Wii, 
 you attack your foes by swinging the Wii Remote and Nunchuk, but on the PS2, you mash a button. 
 In both versions, melee fisticuffs are deliberate affairs, and you should only expect to handle 
 one enemy at a time with ease -- if that. If you attract the attention of more than one, it's better 
 to run back into the shadows. Mistakes will cost you: Some weapons will knock you down -- and it 
 takes forever to get back up, which almost always spells certain death.  

  There's also a small assortment of firearms in Manhunt 2. Shooting enemies isn't as gratifying 
 as beating them to a pulp, but headshots still produce a smattering of blood. In most of these 
 circumstances, you'll be hugging a wall or crouching behind an object, popping out to take potshots. 
 The Wii again proves itself to be a natural home to shooting mechanics here, letting you aim with 
 the Wii Remote and firing with the B button. On the PS2, you enter aiming mode by holding L1 and 
 firing with R1. Danny is not a weapons expert, so perhaps accordingly, the controls handle loosely. 
 Nevertheless, shooting doesn't feel as precise as you would like, particularly on the Wii, where 
 the jittery targeting reticle never lets you feel quite in control of whether you'll land that 
 elusive headshot. It's also not as challenging as the proper stealth elements mostly because your 
 foes have the aiming skills of a third grader with a water pistol, and have a tendency to unload 
 one clip after another into walls.  

           Whatcha gonna do when they come for you?      

  Yet there's no doubt that fans of 
 sneaking will get a lot out of Manhunt 2. Aside from the occasionally flaccid gunplay, the game 
 is highly challenging, especially so on the appropriately titled insane difficulty level. Some 
 of the level designs are truly tricky, such as one in which a helicopter's spotlight keeps you 
 constantly on the move. This isn't for everyone; if you're prone to fits of frustration when playing 
 games like Splinter Cell and Hitman or expect to recover from mistakes easily, Manhunt 2 won't 
 do you any favors. But if you're into that sort of thing, you'll enjoy the 15 hours or so of gameplay 
 it provides and may even want to try unlocking the alternate ending.  

  It may not have the same primal impact as the original Manhunt, but the sequel features plenty 
 of tense stealth gameplay to complement its violent subject matter. The clarity of that violence -- and 
 some Wii-specific annoyances -- makes the PlayStation 2 version the superior one. But either way 
 you slice it and dice it, fans of the original will have something new to chew on with Manhunt 
 2, which is a good, sneaky adventure.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (43 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 3:30 am PT
Review:  Manhunt 2 seems to trust almost everything to its incredible shock factor, but after 15 minutes 
 of gameplay it's not working anymore. End result is just an average action game that tries to be 
 intimidating.
  
  Story is not clear even after a few hours of gameplay, which is all the more reason to push you 
 away to play something good on your Wii like Super Mario Galaxy or Metroid Prime 3 for example. 
 Although Manhunt has "2" in it, it has nothing in common when compared to the original game. You 
 play as a scientist named Daniel Lamb, who has gotten himself in a mental institution and when 
 a riot starts he escapes with a friend along. Manhunt is now on, because the Project (whatever 
 that is) wants them both dead. It's now up to Daniel to hide in the shadows and find out what's 
 really going on.
  
  Graphics are horrible: everything is muddy and blurry. Wii can do much better than what Manhunt 
 2 has to offer. It doesn't help much either that the game uses colors quite economically: everything 
 is mostly grey. Sound design on the other hand is great. Voice acting is solid and all the sound 
 effects are appropriate and effective.
  
  Controls are stiff, but functional. Problem is that the different executions are made by the Wii 
 remote and you don't have enough time to see what you are supposed to be doing. This makes most 
 executions to just fail utterly. Also because of the censorship you don't see much of the executions 
 anyway so this takes most of the shock effect away right from the start.
  
  Game is completely linear and you need to play it just the way the game wants you to play it. You 
 can't do any experimentation. When this is combined to the fact that the game uses checkpoints 
 it's pretty clear what happens. You need to play those same sections again and again until you 
 figure out what you are supposed to be doing in order to proceed.
  
  Manhunt 2 is not a bad game, but it doesn't do anything that other games hadn't already been doing 
 a lot better on the Wii. The game trusted too much on its own shock value and now the time has 
 done its job: Manhunt 2 is not worth your time and money anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joedirt1
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  It is about the hardest and most retarded game I have played in awhile and frustrating you will 
 go crazy. even after I played the 3rd level 8 times so far I can't beat it the execution controls 
 suck and usually don; t work. Also you can't skip movies. If you want this game play it on PS2 because 
 it is screwed up on wii. You will watch a long video then fail the level not be able to skip the 
 video and fail again and again until you throw your remote and break the game. The game just plain 
 sucks. DO NOT PLAY IT!!! VERY OVERRATED! I ended up throwing my remote taking the game out and 
 taking it back to blockbuster that same day. I highly reccomend renting it first if you do not 
 like this review If you do rent it you will find out how bad this stupid game is. The only thing 
 good to say about this game is the weapon selection. The weapons are what actually kept me playing 
 the game like knifes, syring, hammers ect. BUT they break which makes me wonder how a knife or 
 hammer breaks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roboms
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  Manhunt 2 for the Wii is a decent game. It's got some good ideas, mostly what has carried over 
 from the original. Unfortunately there is a lot of polish missing from what could have made it 
 better.
  
  What you have to keep in mind before playing this game is that it was band from being released 
 for quite a while because of its intense violence. Now what is key to realize here is that it was 
 eventually released, so they must have done something to get it out there. What they did is almost 
 undo the game's main appeal. Manhunt and Manhunt 2's main piece of originality and intrigue, basically 
 its claim to fame, is it's sneak up behind death scenes. 
  
  Through most of this game you are sticking to the shadows avoiding being seen and sneaking up behind 
 your targets one by one killing them in different ways. The longer you sneak up behind them in 
 the ready position the more violent the kill is, which also changes depending on he weapon you're 
 using for the kill. What has happened with manhunt 2 though is a sensor issue where they flash 
 the screen a weird red tint so you can hardly make out what is taking place. I mean it too, there 
 are some kills where you will have no idea what happened. This added censorship is what I think 
 is hypocritical of the point of the game, which is to be violent. I mean, you can attempt harder 
 kills with which the only benefit is a cooler and more violent death scene, however with the censorship 
 its nearly pointless. Throughout most of this game I found myself just doing the quickest death 
 scene kill or even skipping the death scene kill all together and just fighting the guy out in 
 the open. 
  
  What I don't get is how violent the game still is while the fun of the unique kills is made null. 
 You can still shoot people's heads to make them explode, still light them on fire and there is 
 still implied violence everywhere. 
  
  The controls are decent while at times a bit clumsy. Aiming with a gun is sometimes difficult, 
 almost impossible when you're out in the open trying to pop off a kill before someone gets you 
 first. Also the fact that picking up items, bodies and interacting with things is the same button 
 as attack doesn't help either. One other little problem I had is the fact you can tilt the nunchuck 
 to either side to lean around corners. This is a cool unique feature, however I found when I was 
 relaxing or leaning back while playing I would get stuck standing in place leaning to one side 
 because i had the nunchuk at an angle or resting on my leg. I actually thought the game had messed 
 up a few times because of this.
  
  The only other main flaw of the game is it's AI. The enemies seem completely motivated by randomness. 
 There are times when I'll see an enemy just run into a room for no apparent reason and stop dead 
 in his tracks just to start walking around normally. At times their walking patterns are impossible 
 to memorize because they are just plain buggy. You will see the enemies in this game do nearly 
 everything weird you can think of. Get stuck in walls, run in circles, seemingly dance. Most of 
 the time you will find you have to face them out in the open just to fix them. Also, the AI is 
 just plain dumb. If you are spotted you just have to run into the shadows and you're basically 
 in the clear. Most of the time you can kill someone right behind another enemy and they won't even 
 notice. 
  
  Now besides these flaws, and the uninspired fight-club knockoff story, the game is well, just plain 
 fun. Sneaking up on people to kill them is interesting and unique with what should have been good 
 visual reward, but it's still cool. The best part in my opinion are the stages where you walk down 
 halls with different types of guns and just blast people's heads off. There's a large array of 
 weapons and ways you can kill off the enemy with each of them. Using the Wiimote and nunchuk to 
 fight are also a benefit to this version as it just feels fun. 
  
  All in all Manhunt 2 is decent. I mean, the story isn't anything great, and the censorship kills 
 are ironically this games main element of demise, but it still manages to be fun. There isn't much 
 difficulty though, so I only recommend this game for a quick fun playthrough. Maybe a rental or 
 something you borrow from a friend or find in a bargain bin, but nothing to buy for over 15 bucks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: despa1r_fact0r
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 21, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Manhunt 2
  Nintendo Wii
  
  Story --- This games follows the events of Daniel Lamb and Leo Casper escaping from Dixmor Asylum 
 for the Criminally Insane. Daniel has no memory of the last six years, so as you venture through 
 this game you uncover why you were in the the mental hospital.
  
  Graphics --- Sadly this game has last gen graphics, but they do not hinder the game play. The cut 
 scenes were also choppy and blocky.
  
  Sound --- The voice acting was excellent and the soundtrack was great but, and I expected nothing 
 less from Rockstar. When you preform an execution you can hear the gurgling from the victims. 
 
  
  Controls --- This has some of the best 3rd party controls for the Wii. Both the nun chuck and the 
 Wii-mote control both of your characters hands. The executions were simple to perform, and pick 
 up the motion sensing excellently. When you pick up a firearm you point at the screen (which has 
 a pointer) and you fire with the "B" button. 
  
  Game Play --- The game play was fun and frustrating at the same time. The stealth executions were 
 great and the best way to stay alive throughout this game. After you beat the game there really 
 isn't any reason to replay this game. 
  
  Over All --- This is a good "M" rated game for the Wii. I have to say the blocking out the executions 
 was a good thing, because it kind of seemed like Daniel Lamb really was insane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 1, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  This was a very overhyped game and I was very excited to get it when it came out. I beat the game 
 in abotu 2 days back when it first came out on the WII and I paid the $40 for the game hoping it 
 would be great...
  
  Game had a great sense of psycho atmosphere and I enjoyed that aspecty of the game as I like the 
 psychotic killer blood and guts type of horror game. But the main portion of why people enjoy Manhunt 
 is for the greusome and reallife execution scenes. Now I have never played Manhunt the original 
 game but saw a video of the executions and ti looked sweet! Using the Wiimote in this game is great 
 and very reallistic but the executions are dark and overblurred to where you can't see a single 
 thing when you are killing someone, takes all the fun out of enjoyign the game.
  
  Otherwise the game was fun and enjoyable. I would suggest this as a rental as it can be completed 
 in a short amount of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptObvious1031
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  After working my way about 3/4 of the way through this game and seeing many a blurred death scene 
 I'm starting to wonder what the big deal is. There's more blood and violence in many other games 
 I've played and they're not blurred out. Too many uppity self-righteous bleeding heart left wing 
 hippy types over reacted on this game without even giving it a fair chance.
  
  The game itself is good. For the Wii, the graphics are decent though the whole "watching through 
 a cheap camera" thing gets old especially when playing on an LCD TV and you think it's your TV 
 screwing up! Relace HD players, the game is SUPPOSED to look like that.
  
  The dialogue and voice acting are convincing, the script is pretty much a direct rip off of Fight 
 Club and if you can't figure that out by about the 3rd chapter of the game... go rewatch Fight Club. 
 The first rule of Manhunt2 plot is we don't talk about Manhunt2 plot.
  
  Since the hackers and modders found a way to remove the censorship, PSP and PS2 gamers can have 
 an extra illegal bonus of seeing all the gore in full glory. Great for you... but you stupid schmucks 
 got the game pulled from the shelves of 70% of the stores... even the Wii version which wasn't hacked! 
 Way to go, thanks for ruining it for the rest of it. Jerks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystians
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Story: 7.5
  
  The story is not very compelling, but it's solid. basically you are Daniel Lamb who escapes from 
 an asylum due to an electrical malfunction. He does not remember much but slowly as the story progresses 
 he starts to remember things. 
  
  
  Gameplay/Controls: 7.5
  
  The one fun thing about the game is the "sneaking" you get to do. The controls are good, except 
 the gun fights are very weak. But one thing I noticed is that this game is not as violent as people 
 say it is. The whole UK banning the game is seriously offensive in my opinion. I was expecting 
 something much more violent and crazier. But nope I am pretty disappointed there. The developers 
 should also have not mad the assassinations so blurry when they are performed. But it's OK. 
  
  
  Graphics: 8.0
  
  The graphics are pretty good. But knowing how the Wii performs they 
 could have been better. 
  
  
  Sound: 8.5
  
  The sounds are great at times. It's really funny sometimes listening to the characters talk, they 
 say some pretty messed up things. 
  
  Replay value: 7.0
  
  I will not likely get back into the game for a while. But it's not too bad. I might sometime later 
 when there is nothing to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Judah6
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing this game finally I didn't know what to expect because I herd all these 
 negative things about you can't see the killings in the game because it's too blurry or the graphics 
 isn't that good it's crazy But what I found when I started to play the game it isn't that bad and 
 it does have blood but in a dark gruesome way and I love how you can sneak up behind the person 
 and viciously kill them I like how alll you have to do when you behind that person is hold the 
 A button for a certain amount of minutes and did a better kill then before or holding the Wiimote 
 and the nunchuck and be able to cut his head off, it's a vicious game and it's definitely not for 
 Kids anybody the is at least 18 years old should give this a try don't listen to others about this 
 game see for yourself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 14, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Manhunt 2 for the wii is fun to actually kill someone more like real life with the wii remote. 
 Manhunt 2 has a pretty interesting plot line and you wind up hiding in the shadows allot. There's 
 allot of things I hate about this game like its only single player, (multiplayer would of have 
 been crazy if was built into this game) . Also the game really short for me because I can easily 
 beat in less than 9 hours of game play. The special kill can sound cool, but can't see them good, 
 (too dark and too much blood in the way) . I found over 50 glitches in this game like cp's walking 
 through walls, cps walking off building's and killing them self's and cps with no heads still able 
 to kill you!!!
  anyways the story of the game follows around a guy named Danny who made a experiment in which he 
 put a crazy man's part of a brain into his brain, in which made him have to minds, (one nuts and 
 one sane) . You job is to kill the people in which, (your confused) you think are doing bad thing's 
 to you, (not the case) . The people that try to capture you or kill you are like some person wearing 
 1960's clothing and have weird faces, (some enemies are perverted and where animals masks and carry 
 clubs) . In the near beginning of the game some of these perverted cps you go to their hideout and 
 see there weird club. In this clubs basement you'll find something out of the hostel movie down 
 there, (people killing people for sport) . The graphics for this game look like something based 
 on grand theft auto vice city.
  
  Anyways overall this game is not worth buying ever it's too bad.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukiat
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is real brutal, ok, if you are really bloodthirsthy, you can define this game like perfect.
 
  This masterpiece of rockstar its something like Splinter Cell, just for the fact of the sneaking, 
 but this game have something special: THE BRUTALITY.
  Yes, that makes this game unique. Some of the super tyhings of this game have we can see the excecutions, 
 yeah, is thruth, you can't really bsee what's going on sometimes, but when you can see its really 
 cool.
  The gameplay its just right, you can learn it in a half-hour, in the first you dont know what a 
 f**** are on going on, but later it's really easy.
  The graphics are fine, not so expectacular and not bad, just fine.
  The sound its not the best 
 on this game, but it has his touch.
  The value on this game as superb, and thats help a lot.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokedude2000
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 1, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  The killing is not realistic. The sound is okay. You can not see what you are doing half the time. 
 Also the game has only two speeds really slow and really fast. Besides if you want to see killing 
 rent a horror movie because they can make movies more horrifing and realistic then games. I saw 
 a really grafic movie it's called Pee-Wee Hermans Big Adventure. Check it out if you dare. I'm warning 
 you do not watse your time and money on something as worthless as this game. Save you money for 
 a good game like super smash bros Brawl or just about anything else. I have seen graphics better 
 on the nintendo ds and gamecube. The game can be amusing for a while but the game play is too easy 
 and after awhile it loses your intrest. The best part was at the begining when you get peed and 
 pooped on. If that does not make you not want to buy it go ahead and waste your money. Just remember 
 you don't get the time you wasted on it back so use your time wisely
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegame1980
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Manhunt is back and while it's visually less grisly than the original there's still plenty of gore, 
 sex, and adult language to satisfy fans of the first. 
  
  Dr. Danny Lamb is locked up in an asylum but manages to escape during a freak electrical malfunction. 
 He doesn't remember much and it's up to you to help him figure out why he's there and what's happening 
 to him. Through flashbacks Manhunt 2 fleshes out Danny's past and clues you in on what's happening, 
 as Danny begins to remember more and more, he finds himself getting to the bottom of a medical 
 experiment called "The Project," as well as just how involved he was in its development. 
  Uncovering the truth and revealing the past makes for an interesting tale that is accentuated by 
 a dirty and dark visual design. A scratchy, slightly blurry filter is placed ontop of the games 
 visuals which helps to further draw you into the gritty world of Manhunt. 
  
  The game also uses an eerie soundtrack with limited environmental noise creating moments of tension 
 when you must remain perfectly still in order to stay alive. The voice-overs are good too! Random 
 hunters you overhear will whine about their sexual frustration or taunt you to come out of the 
 shadows. Sending chills down your spine as you hide in wait in order to strike at the right moment
 
  
  You control Danny from a third-person view, avoiding the watchful eye of enemies and attempting 
 to pick them off one by one. The easiest way to do this is to hide in a dark corner and lure a 
 foe over by throwing a brick or punching the wall. The noise will attract nearby hunters and this 
 is your chance to perform one of the infamous execution moves. The violent showcase of Manhunt 
 2. There are three levels of executions, depending on how long you hold the execution button down 
 for each more violent then the last. For example a level three execution is literally a bloody 
 mess. The Nintendo Wii makes great use of the Wiimote functions for this game especially during 
 these executions. You'll swing, slice and jab the Wiimote and Nunchuk in a manner that more or 
 less imitates the moves you're performing. The execution you perform depends on the weapon you 
 have equipped and whether there are any environmental features nearby. You might stab the hunter 
 in the back, kick him in the crotch, then slam a manhole cover on his head, or perhaps stabbing 
 him with a crowbar is more your thing, or if you're a pyromaniac, you may prefer to douse him in 
 gasoline and set him on fire. PLENTY of cool stuff :)
  
  While the original Manhunt on PS2 showed every evil execution kill in full gory glory the Wii does 
 not. The entire scene is rendered through a blurry red filter that gives you a vague idea of what's 
 going on. The movement and splattering sound effects make it clear what's happening you just don't 
 get to see the details. As a result, you'll be paying more attention to the motion prompts at the 
 top left of the screen than trying to figure out the onscreen action. Which dosen't detract from 
 the game at all and in fact makes it more enjoyable since you'll actually be performing these moves 
 further pulling you into the game. DEFIENTLY NOT recommended for the kiddies. The ESRB slapped 
 that M rating on there for a reason and it's clear to see why.
  
  As you would expect with a stealth action game, you can hug walls and peek around corners and on 
 the Wii, peeking is handled by tilting the Nunchuk, which is a clever design move that feels just 
 right. There are some other mechanics at play too, such as your need to be perfectly still should 
 a hunter get too close while you're lurking in the shadows. At these times, he might be inches 
 from your face, and you need to ensure that you stay completely hidden this means holding the Wiimote 
 perfectly still which creates some very intense moments for Danny and you. 
  
  Unfortunatly there are some gameplay issues that come along with this fun filled slaughterfest, 
 like enemies that get stuck jittering between objects, forcing you to unstick them by grabbing 
 their attention, or enemies who patrol a 3-foot-square area over and over again for no apparent 
 reason? Not the brightest AI in a game but nothing we as gamers haven't seen before. They can get 
 annoying, but never does it bring the game down from being fun.
  
  Aside from the occasional dumb enemy AI the game is highly challenging, especially so on the appropriately 
 titled insane difficulty level. With a running time of 15 hours or so there's no doubt that fans 
 of Manhunt and action game fans will get a lot out of Manhunt 2. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisgopher
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I hardly played through the game, but I just couldn't anymore. You might say that I can't give 
 a review if I didn't finish the game. Well, you're wrong. Most of my negative feelings towards 
 this game are shared by many others. I'm just going to break down a list of the good and the bad.
 
  
  Good:
  
  - The assassinate kills were thrilling to pull off.
  - Finding a mace and hitting people with it.
  - Sound effects were cool. Murder has never sounded 
 so real.
  - Motion controls, while simple, were neat to play with.
  - The AI and the stealth aspects: listening for your enemies, hiding in the shadows... Made you 
 feel like this was happening for real.
  - From what I could tell, the storyline seemed okay. 
  - Drowning chumps in a toilet.
  - Being 
 pooped and peed on in the very beginning of the game. It made me laugh.
  
  Bad:
  
  -The graphics are terrible, and I mean really terrible. It pains me to look at this game. It's 
 like looking into the past at a PS1 game. I'm a guy who can usually play games no matter what the 
 graphics look like, but this game slowly drained my soul with it's cruddy character models.
  
  - The whole game feels sluggish and awkward.
  
  - During your assassination kills, the 
 screen goes so blurry that you can't even see what the hell you are doing. All that appears on 
 the screen is a sea of red with barely visible human silhouettes. This was my biggest problem because 
 for a game that was all about brutality, they cut out the most brutal parts.
  
  - Your character has 2 speeds: crawl and cheetah. 
  
  - The game just plays slow. When I anticipated 
 playing this game I thought it would be an exciting murder-fest, but was left out in the cold when 
 there were barely any lackeys to kill. 
  
  - The damage factor seems to be against you. The point of the game is to be sneaky and make kills 
 to your advantage, because if you get ganged up on by 2 or more guys, you're pretty much screwed. 
 Which I can expect because that's what would happen in real life (unless you were Bruce Lee) . But 
 once you get a cool weapon like the axe or the mace, you still have to put effort into killing 
 people when in reality all you would have to do is hit someone once to put them down.
  
  The game has it's up and it's downs; and while the ups are good, the downs just make you want to 
 go cry in a corner and never pick up a controller again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  For what it's worth, Manhunt 2 is a violent game. Not at all as vulgar or gruesome as the first, 
 but still with a fair share of meaty tortures, deranged villains, and naughty language. While the 
 PS2 and PSP versions use the game's high intense violence to create a much broader sense of what 
 Manhunt was trying to initiate, the Wii version has obviously been toned down to much greater lengths, 
 creating a somewhat "easier on the eyes" version. It's still violent, just not as much as the other 
 versions.
  
  You play as Dr. Danny Lamb, a former doctor who went crazy and is now being confined inside an 
 insane asylum. The reasons behind his confinement are not well known at first, but as you progress 
 you will learn more of his back-story and how Danny winds up there. With the help of his friend 
 Leo (and a minor electrical malfunction) , the duo set out on finding how Danny ended up in the 
 asylum and just who he is. You will eventually learn of an experiment known as "The Project" and 
 Danny's ambitions get much more violent when he is that much closer to finding out just what it 
 is and how it affects him.
  
  The story seems to take a front row seat this time around, relying on storytelling more so than 
 actual combat and gameplay. It works fairly well, with a story that accentuates on grisly torture 
 and uncovering the truth for all the characters. It primarily runs on adrenaline thrills and there 
 are times when the story seems to just run around in circles at times, mostly when it is about 
 to reveal a shocking revelation, only to be confronted by another character who has another side 
 story. There is so much to pay attention towards to get the full effect of what Rockstar was trying 
 to perfect in Manhunt 2, but based on the first game's premise of just killing for the entertainment 
 of others, this version's story feels more deranged (if you can believe that) , killing others to 
 believe you are not insane.
  
  So what exactly do you do in Manhunt 2? You must navigate your way around the various locations 
 without being seen in an effort to uncover the secrets to your past and just what "The Project" 
 is. The combat does not exactly take brains to function, although it is apparent that is not the 
 case for the enemies. Standing in shadows is a lifesaver and enemies evidently cannot see you when 
 you are standing in one, just minimal feet away. It's almost hilariously bad that you can lure 
 a hunter over to your position and he will look right at you for nearly 20 seconds and than just 
 walk away like he never heard or saw anything. It's the perfect time for you to get behind them 
 to perform a brutal execution. Rinse and repeat and you got the basic core gameplay of Manhunt 
 2.
  
  The executions range on three different levels. Depending on how long you hold down the button, 
 you can perform a more brutal, nastier move. Choosing which move to do is almost pointless considering 
 they all kill your enemies, but the diversity helps change things up a bit. Rather than pressing 
 buttons on the other versions, the Wii version forces you to thrust the remote in the direction 
 depicted on screen and then move the nunchuck and remote together in fluent movements, making you 
 imitate actions like you are actually holding the weapon and performing the kill. It's fun, but 
 the excitement gets taken away due to the fact that EVERYTHING is censored on the Wii version. 
 All executions are red and blurry and it is never possible to see what ever is going on, taking 
 all the fun of actually moving your arms to perform a kill. Depending on what you prefer, clarity 
 or movement could be your decision in choosing which system to buy the game for.
  
  What makes the Wii version so much less enthralling is the lack of originality it pursues. For 
 example the A button is literally the only button used throughout the game, minus the actual hand 
 movements. You use it to run, climb, throw, pick up objects, and kill. The game relies too heavily 
 on it, and when there are times when you are faced with a killer and tons of objects, you might 
 actually pick up an object instead of attacking which results in an immediate death. It should 
 also be mentioned that the Wii version has no option of skipping cutscenes, so if you happen to 
 die right after a long showing, well good luck, you will be seeing it again. This gets extremely 
 frustrating incredibly fast.
  
  Not to mention that combat never feels completely in sync. Hand-to-hand combat is useful when faced 
 with one enemy, and it's as simple as jabbing the Wii remote at the enemy, but faced with multiple 
 enemies you will never have the advantage and will surely die. Using firearms is a different story, 
 which requires you to simply aim the remote and shoot, although not as perfect as you might think. 
 The targeting reticule never actually stays steady and it is always a chore to try and center it 
 good enough to hit an opponent. It's much easier to shoot than in the other versions, but actually 
 hitting the enemy is an entirely different story. To make things worse, there are times when the 
 hunters run around like chickens with their heads cut off (or they will wander around an area with 
 a dead body for minutes, hoping that the killer is still sticking around) , and shoot wildly into 
 walls. These hectic actions only make combat that much more frantic and impossible to master.
 
  
  Manhunt 2 also barely looks acceptable on the Wii. It's obvious most of the time was spent on the 
 previous versions, and the look shows. Character models looks horrendous, with continuous bland 
 characters and shapes constant throughout. The screen also emits a weird haze, which gives off 
 a cool old-school videotape vibe, but also makes everything look crappier in the process. The locations 
 help make up for the lack of enemy originality, and you will spend countless hours roaming in truly 
 grueling places, such as abandoned warehouses, sex clubs, and other places deranged psychopaths 
 visit. The Wii version also suffers from slowdown when entering new areas and some battles can 
 cause stuttering which just makes death an almost constant occurrence.
  
  The sound is not as over-dramatic as the visuals, but for both good and bad reasons. All too often 
 the enemies will yell or scream in the same docile tones, which makes it impossible to differentiate 
 between the types of enemies and who exactly is after you. Yet again it is all too repetitive in 
 its nature, and the times when the game goes completely silent is a nice welcome change from all 
 the monotony and also sets an earthly vibe perfect for the grueling game.
  
  There are so many questions to be asked about Manhunt 2, but the most important is not why the 
 game had an A-0 rating, it's why Rockstar didn't spend more time refining the features. The story 
 is great and there are plenty of moments when you will be surprised at what is happening, but the 
 combat just takes one step back to make it worth a mention. The stupidity of the enemies and the 
 inability to see what exactly you are doing when the time for an execution commences takes all 
 the fun out of fighting. The game gives off a chilling vibe, but it's for all the wrong reasons. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shrektheogre
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Definitely to Manhunt is the answer. I was reading a lot of bad reviews on this game and owning 
 the first, (which was really good) I was beginning to wonder if I should purchase Manhunt 2. I 
 am happy to report that I did purchase it and I am glad I made that decision. Forget all the hype 
 around the violence in this game, it's a well thought out plot so far. Forget how the M version 
 has the main execution scenes "blurred", you still get the idea via the great sound effects in 
 this game. The fun part about the blur is that you can picture what is actually happening. You 
 know what they say about imagination. Wow! Way to go Rockstar! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubledToKe420
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  All you have to do is move the wiimote and nunchuck fast in different directions to fight. No camera 
 control. Boring weapons and boring story line! worst game i've played in awhile!
  Graphics:
  Those of a psp or ds
  the gore is that of a supernes..... pixilated crap
  Sound:
 
  like a dieing old cat
  Replayability:
  why play it even once
  Value:
  25Cents or less
  
  I rented it for 7.99 plus Tax and I'm pissed about it
  Don't rent it don't 
 buy it but do recommend it to your worst enemy
  i have to have 100 words but i can barely bring myself to typing more
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuramak
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  The game some you just get lost in the game.
  It is really no clear what you should do.
  And there is no way to figured out (I don`t know why there is no guide for wii)
  Just the person 
 who made the game would think about the axe and the familiar face.
  The AI is really bad, sometimes the AI will keep running to the wall. 
  Sometimes the game is 
 to hard, so you start over and over.
  So the game does not flow like Resident Evil 4, what is really bad especially for a horror game.
 
  Same of the control (when it works) are really nice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: converse08
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  this game is fun for those who like to kill and be part of an actual action. for the wii it is 
 a full out murder fest but make sure to tell everyone to stand back or they might get hit. like 
 the game explains before playing you could hit someone or something so make sure everyone and everything 
 is out of the way before you begin. i give this game a seven point five because it could have more 
 action and thrill but it is overall a good game to have so i recommend getting it for wii. in my 
 opinion though the makers could have went a little further with the whole gore and murdering but 
 if you are sqeemish about blood it isn't all that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok seriously, this game really isn't that bad. Frankly I don't feel that it's much "worse" as far 
 as gore factor, foul language, or nudity then the first Manhunt. But apparently an example needed 
 to be made, and now we have a Manhunt 2 that would be more appropiately rated Teen then Mature. 
 Beyond that, this game really isn't that fantastic, it's not that bad, as a matter a fact it's 
 about the same as the first. 
  
  First off the graphics look horrible on the Wii. Putting this game next to Metroid Prime 3, Super 
 Mario Galaxy, or Twilight Princess would be a death sentence (no pun intended) . I've always had 
 a problem with Rockstar's graphic engine. You might figure that the game would look way better 
 then the first because of the period of time between them, but it appears that its the exact same 
 engine. The characters are poorly animated, details, they are jaggy, it's almost as ugly as the 
 N64 days. Some of the areas are pretty good looking, although the "naughty shop" at the begining 
 of the game really isn't that naughty. Every execution is cencored so that you can't tell what's 
 going on at all. You just get a vague idea from the cries of pain. Although there is a sense of 
 horror in not seeing the executions, but it looses it's horror pretty quickly. 
  
  The sounds are music are pretty good. The sound track it's self is pretty haunting. I would have 
 to say if they released a CD of it I'd probably pick it up. The sound are pretty good. Nothing 
 out of the ordinary. The voice acting isn't fantastic. A lot of the same tracks are used over and 
 over again. So all the F bombs are intact. 
  
  What seperates the Wii version from the rest is the control scheme. Although the over all controls 
 haven't changed much since the first game (another thing that could have been updated) . All of 
 the executions are done but moving the Wiimote in a certain direction. Which is cool.... if you 
 could actually see what's going on. However the controls are pretty basic. It's really not as deep 
 as the other stealth games on the market. In fact Manhunt 2 can't compare to Metal Gear Solid or 
 Splinter Cell with depth of controls and variety of game play. The balance of difficulty swings 
 pretty hard. Basically if you mess up Manhunt 2 doesn't back down. But with the some what questionable 
 control scheme, with it's poor response time and bad camera angles, you're sure to get sacked. 
 
  
  What keeps this game going is the story. You'll probably play through it once and then not again. 
 If you hang on the story is worth it. It reminicant of something like Saw. Basically you are an 
 escaped mental patient (Daniel Lamb) who cuts, slashes, slams, smashes, and explodes his way through 
 current time and his own memories. Along for the ride is part of his violent psyche. Also you get 
 to learn about his violent roots and past by finding out about the secrets of the research facility 
 that spawned him. 
  
  All in all Manhunt 2 doesn't live up to the huge mess that it caused and the example that was made 
 of it. It's hard to take this game seriously as a mature title, but I wouldn't recommend it to 
 little kids. This is why rating systems are in place. Movies have them. Comic Books have them. 
 Now games have them. If you read the back and decide it's not for you or your child them put it 
 down. Otherwise leave the gore to us horror fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: die_hard_halo
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  You first start the game with you having to sneak past a couple of cells where if you are seen 
 they will spit, piss, and throw fieces at you. That kind of set the mood for this game. It also 
 requires patience and someone willing to spend time on it. it's also a pretty scary game. i can't 
 give you any examples but it is. but uh yeah. but yeah i can't tell you much more because i only 
 rented it and i didn't get to play that much. umm this thing is supposed to have a minimum of a 
 hundred words so i'm going to keep talking until it lets me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mutatedbloodelf
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent for people who get a immense pleasure from violently murdering someone because 
 some idiot in your ear told you to. This game drags on for so long with no variety all you do in 
 this game is try to find away to get the most gruesome murder possible without getting busted by 
 the guards. The characters are stupid and your enemies are not smart, cool, intelligent, or at 
 all interesting to fight. Fighting in this game is so horrible, all you do is beat the crap out 
 of a guy with what ever you might be holding. Having the ability to make kills more gruesome by 
 a meter is one of the most disgusting and horrible ideas in a video game, I didn't start playing 
 video games to live out some sick murderous fantasy, but the Rockstar must have thought that is 
 what gamers like to do so gave us this disgusting disgrace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I know what your thinking why do i not like this game here are the many reasons. The controls are 
 sloppy. The camera angles are often messed up or completely weird to end up getting me killed or 
 spotted. The wii remote controls are very unstable and is bad against these foes. And i know the 
 wii is not a graphics power house but please get better graphics at times it looks choppy like 
 ps1 or 64s graphics. Oh yeah the frame rate is terrible in this game 
  and just stops the fun of it all and also gets you spotted and most likely killed. Oh the only 
 redeeming feture is that you dont have to play the game all that much since there is cutscene after 
 cut scene so yeah it is a terrible disaster to a great franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stayinalive84
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 11, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Meet Daniel Lamb. He's crazy. Insane. Not playing with a full deck. Loco en la cabeza. But hey, 
 can you blame him? He's been locked up in a corrupt mental institution for God knows how long. 
 Between all the beatings, shocks, and serums, how could anyone not go nuts? However, such things 
 are the least of Danny's worries; he's suffering from amnesia as well. It's not all bad, though. 
 Thanks to a breach in security, he and his pal Leo have escaped. With his memories resurfacing 
 sporadically, ol' Danny-Boy is back and feeling just peachy. Of course, things would be better 
 if those goons in suits would stop hunting him. Or if Leo would relax. Or if he could just stop 
 killing people
  
  Old habits die hard.
  
  Needless to say, Danny has a lot of issues. Since you'll be playing as him throughout Manhunt 2, 
 you're going to become well acquainted with his fractured mind and his perception of reality. As 
 he wanders around in psychotic stupor, he'll lead you through the putrid ruins of his past, ranging 
 from his abandoned home, an assassination, a governmental conspiracy, and even the filthiest depths 
 of a fetish-themed slaughterhouse and everything in between. Indeed, there are plenty of risky 
 subjects being addressed here. Unfortunately, the dark themes are pathetically crafted. Danny is 
 clearly playing the role of a Poe-esque unreliable narrator, but he comes off as a timid fellow 
 (when he's not murdering people, anyway) with no charisma whatsoever. Since his nameless victims 
 have no personalities (other than the occasional threat or swear word) of their own, you won't 
 feel guilty about crushing their skulls. The only remotely dynamic part of this half-assed story 
 is Leo, who adds little to a highly predictable plot.
  
  But hey, you're not looking into Manhunt 2 for the story, right? You're probably just curious as 
 to what the all controversy is about. Considering the amount of graphic violence being portrayed, 
 it's little wonder why this game needed to be toned down before it could be released on the consoles. 
 Danny can wield several weapons during his quest for sanity, and every one of them can be used 
 to kill. See that baseball bat? There's a reason why it's lathered in blood. The sledgehammer makes 
 a wonderful thud when it connects with someone's face. When heads explode, their poorly rendered 
 brains get spattered along the walls. That's not even including the unique executions that you 
 can pull off; imagine impaling someone with a giant hook, then hoisting him into the air like a 
 living pinata. How about using some scalpels to pin your victim to a chair, then giving him some 
 dental work with a rotary saw? Or how about shoving someone into the whirring gears of a machine, 
 and hearing him scream in agony as he is crushed? Even if these particularly gruesome scenes are 
 censored due to blurred cameras (the temporary aftereffects of which make the gameplay awkward) , 
 there's little chance you'll miss what's happening onscreen.
  
  That's assuming that you'll actually get the opportunity to do any executions. Doing so requires 
 that you hold down the A Button and slowly walk up behind your target. The longer you linger, the 
 more devastating the result will be. Unfortunately, you'll be too distracted to enjoy the imagery; 
 since you have to follow a bunch of on-screen control prompts to succeed, you'll focused more on 
 them than the actual task at hand. The controls are remarkably responsive, but that's due to the 
 simplicity of the necessary movements. Regardless if you're swinging a fist or a weapon, you'll 
 need to make the necessary motions. The only inkling of fine-tuned controls is shown with the guns. 
 You'll have to hold down a button on the Nunchuck attachment while using the Control Stick to move, 
 the WiiMote to aim, and the B Button to pull the trigger. While this would have been awkward enough 
 as it is, the controls are slippery and unreliable. Since you have to use the on-screen reticule 
 to turn, Danny will saunter off into an undesirable direction or let his aim waver. Such shortcomings 
 could have been forgivable, but the sheer amount of gunplay needed to beat the game makes it tedious.
 
  
  Of course, those problems are probably just a way to balance out the difficulty. The supposedly 
 fearsome agents hunting you down are pathetically inept. You could completely surrounded by enemies, 
 and yet they'll only hit their mark a fraction of the time. You'll have plenty of opportunities 
 to reload your gun, take aim with the crappy controls, and administer a headshot. Surprisingly, 
 the AI is more dangerous when they aren't packing heat; if they're just working with their fists 
 or simple weapons and see you, you'll be dead before you can get off a single attack animation. 
 Your success in Manhunt 2 depends on your stealth skills. You'll have to wait in the shadows or 
 out of sight until you see an opportunity to strike. Much of your strategy will involve your surroundings; 
 your foes can't hear your footsteps over loud music or heavy machinery, nor can they see well into 
 poorly lit areas. However, that can be attributed to the crappy AI; even if you're hiding in an 
 obvious spot, your foe will give up the chase and wander off. It's little inconsistencies like 
 these that make the gameplay seem dull.
  
  It's not like the gameplay is enthralling to begin with, though. Yes, you'll be exploring some 
 of the seediest and gut-wrenching areas ever seen in a video game, but everything is portrayed 
 in a bland and dated style. Your enemies, be they suited agents, assassins, or military thugs, 
 are made up of blocky character models and lack facial features. Take the sex club/dungeon, for 
 example. You'll see stuff that you'd think only a Hostel or Saw movie could get away with. Despite 
 the screams of anguish and the sound of a buzz-saw sending guts splattering onto the concrete floor, 
 the level is remarkably cramped, short, and linear. Sure, there are plenty of shadows to hide in 
  the lighting effects are terrific  but there's no heightened sense of fear or tension. Instead 
 of coming off as threatening or foreboding, these areas seem more like a collection of half-assed 
 FPS levels. Of course, that could just be the result of all the glitches that you'll have to endure. 
 Between the awkwardness of picking up objects, being able to run through objects, or getting trapped 
 inside walls and falling into some inter-dimensional pit of doom, it's obvious this game needed 
 a few more weeks to get itself sorted out.
  
  It's a shame, really. Despite its infamy, Manhunt 2 has little going for it. Yes, the game is utterly 
 violent. You'll get to see people dying in ways you'd never think possible in a game. However, 
 the blurred executions and motion-based prompts take away much of the thrill. While Danny's hands 
 are continually covered with fresh coats of blood, he and rest of the cast look like a bunch of 
 Timesplitter rejects. The levels are gruesomely themed, but their simplicity, brevity, and linearity 
 are disappointing. The sheer amount of glitches, questionable controls, laughable AI, and easy 
 stealth mechanics make the game seem like a poor rendition of Splinter Cell. The story has a lot 
 of potential as a psychological drama, but the bland characters and poor writing kill any of its 
 entertainment value. Wii owners, do not be tempted by this game's supposedly mature content. In 
 terms of quality, Manhunt 2 has little to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srbbnd
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  For Wii owners who are tired of Harry Potter, Carnival Games, Cooking Mamma and games that are 
 made specifically to target Mother's pocketbooks Manhunt 2 is a must have for any Wii owner.
  
  Manhunt 2 got some good free publicity by first releasing this game rated AO and having to 
 change it to M. Even with the M rating this game is still quite shocking. It does boggle my mind 
 that you are able to drown someone in a toilet with old feces but there is no female nudity when 
 the story revolves around snuff films.
  
  With that being said the language and violence do not disappoint. One of my favorite scenes in 
 the game is having a shootout in an adult theatre with an adult film on in the background "with 
 no female nudity". The game allows for three different types of sneak attacks. The longer you hold 
 the A button the more violent the kill will be. However, this is more difficult then you would 
 think even though this game is based on stealth.
  
  The concept of stealth is ridiculous in this game, but the same can be said about any video game 
 that revolves around stealth with mentally handicapped AI. Hiding in the shadows is a must and 
 the AI will not be able to spot you as long as you're in the shadows.
  
  Controls are extremely frustrating and this is probably the hardest experience I have had trying 
 to shoot a gun in any video game. Although, it is nice to have a game where you can't shoot someone 
 in the head from a mile away with a pistol. Vision definitely could be better, and Rockstar could 
 have taken some pointers from Resident Evil 4. 
  
  I have saved the worst for last which is graphics. Basically, no change from the PS2 to the Wii. 
 What a disappointment. However, if you have a Wii you know it's not about the graphics it's about 
 the game play... Or at least that is what you have to tell yourself when you go to bed at night.
 
  
  In conclusion the game could have been much better, but because of the platform it is on specifically 
 the Wii it is a must have for any adolescent or adult looking for some good old fashioned American 
 violence. So go rent the game and save your money for Bully when it comes out.
  
  
  P. S. This game should get a bad rating I'm going to give it a good rating, just in spite of angry 
 mothers, politicians and people who frown upon our generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shortster1
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I have 10 things that I hat about this game and I can name all of them
  
  1. It blocks out all the executions.
  2. The graphics are lame.
  3. Too repetitive
  4. Bad 
 control (especially for guns)
  5. WAY TOO SHORT
  6. Really bad AI
  7. Too easy
  8. Bad acting
  9. Really weird (at some points, you will just say WTF!)
  10. Too many delays
 
  
  If you are looking for a brutal game for your Wii, just wait because this game blows. You cant 
 even see anything when you do pull a cool execution because the screen goes all red, the motion 
 sensing controls aren't very responsive, and the aim sucks. Sure the aim sucks but the AI sucks 
 so much with the controls it evens them out so the game is easy. Everything gets repetitive and 
 a lot of parts are weird, if this game was 10$ sure get it, but just get another game for now so 
 don't waste your money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  http://www. projectcoe. com/nintendo/games/manhuntII_wii. html? var1=sc3
  
  I could easily defeat the purpose of this review by lambasting the whole videogame violence controversy. 
 Well forgive me when I say to hell with that, because I want this piece to be an honest testament 
 for why censorship in gaming absolutely sucks. When it comes to the entertainment industry, I'm 
 all about having a choice. In that regard, I wanted the option of playing Rockstar's Manhunt 2 
 in the form that wasn't altered with stupid camera blurs, masking what are obviously gruesome executions. 
 I'm also like many other gamers who feel like they're being controlled and told what to do when 
 we can't play what we want to play. I'm 22 years old damn it, let me and the rest of us adult game 
 players enjoy some unhindered virtual violence!
  
  The first Manhunt was released quite a few years ago, and there's a reason why the grotesque violence 
 wasn't censored, no press. Because developers had never really attempted the concept before for 
 obvious reasons, the game went relatively non-scrutinized. Well lo and behold, when the world's 
 ignorant people cry wolf at the previous fact that you could castrate someone with a set of pliers 
 in Manhunt 2, the BBFC and ESRB took notice. The result was the game's outright banning in the 
 UK, and a retail-unfriendly AO stamp for America. Well thanks a lot ratings boards, because you 
 effectively dismantled everything that was rightfully intended in the game, and we are left with 
 what is available now.
  
  Daniel Lamb is a victim of The Project, a top-secret experiment. One night a lightning storm causes 
 a power surge in the asylum he calls home, and it opens/unlocks all the inmates' cells. Before 
 you know it, Lamb's buddy Leo summons him after he kills a nurse trying to treat him, and off you 
 go to your escape. What I especially love about the game's intro is how disturbingly atmospheric 
 it is. Nevermind that you're literally urinated on and violated by fecal projectiles as you slowly 
 make your way to join Leo, just the way the game is presented really gives you that feeling of 
 dismay and terror. Even when you run, the camera shakes in a way parallel to the TV show Cops, 
 which further authenticates the criminal experience.
  
  Still, and it can't be emphasized enough, the name of the game of Manhunt 2 is dispatching all 
 in your way by multiple possible means. Returned are the Hasty, Violent and Gruesome executions 
 that can take place if you manage to catch someone by surprise with a weapon in hand. It's simply 
 unfortunate that the results feel anything but the same as before. That is because in order to 
 receive the retail-approving M rating, Rockstar had to program camera filters which add a series 
 of colorizations to any execution Daniel/Leo does. There may be a few that don't hide your actions 
 as much, but in most cases, you can't distinguish a damn thing, and even blood isn't visible. Sure 
 you hear all the nasty sounds that you'd expect when intuitively gesturing the Wii controllers 
 for your actions in what is a violent game, but it doesn't mean anything when the visibility of 
 your deed is smothered. Sure the filters look cool on the surface, but I was after what's underneath, 
 and it blows that I couldn't dig it up, especially for environment-based kills like exploding a 
 dude's head in a fuse box. Making matters worse, the filter shrouds your on screen vision even 
 before you initiate a kill, and it often impedes keeping track of your prey's movement patterns. 
 I often found myself losing an execution sequence because of that because the enemy would turn 
 around.
  
  I also wish Rockstar extended more effort into the Wii version on a graphical scale. Other than 
 a few exclusives like seeing Daniel/Leo's bloodstained bodies, the visuals are decidedly last-gen. 
 The game has a certain level of polish that certainly isn't achievable on the PS2, but the two 
 are a little too close for my liking, which makes Manhunt 2 seem like a typical PS2 to Wii port 
 with motion control. Thankfully that control isn't shabby though, even if the filtered executions 
 are a major disappointment. You play through the 15-level campaign as Daniel and Leo, and they 
 feel a little stiff, Manhunt 2 feels fairly natural to play. The nunchuk analog commands movement, 
 and you run by holding Z. C locks onto targets, and when you happen to be approaching an enemy's 
 backside, holding it and A beckons the execution severity progression. If you have a weapon drawn 
 (D-Pad down cycles through your stuff) , swinging the Wii remote has your character do the same, 
 or you can just punch with both controllers. The game also introduces climbing, which is a key 
 function in a number of situations. I didn't particularly care for the shooter gameplay though. 
 You hold the C button to bring up your crosshairs and use the Wii-mote's IR to aim, but there're 
 a couple problems. One, there's no option to tweak sensitivity, making it a bit slow, and two, 
 lack of true manual aim makes auto lock-on annoying when you're trying to pinpoint areas. That 
 doesn't happen with the sniper rifle or crossbow, but you only use each once in the game. 
  
  Truly the Manhunt franchise is meant to represent action stealth, but in 2, it doesn't do that 
 too well. It's because that being sneaky, hiding in the shadows and taking out sources of light 
 is the main idea for the first one-third of the game. After that, you're introduced to gun fights, 
 and from then on, you really aren't encouraged to kill enemies in silence since a pistol or shotgun 
 is plain convenient because your enemies couldn't hit the broad side of a barn if they wanted to. 
 Seriously, I finished a level that greeted me with a small army of gun-toting morons in a theater 
 by simply running to the doors in the back and escaping. I didn't fire off one shot or get hit 
 more than twice. Apparently they didn't want to come after me because they were too distracted 
 by the porno that was playing on screen, no joke. Even worse, I once ran into a couple of pistol-wielders 
 from behind, shot each of them twice, and not only did they continue walking away from me, but 
 they were whistling as if nothing was going on. It also can't go unmentioned that an enemy really 
 searching for you in the shadows can still be perfectly avoided by holding a white dot still with 
 the remote's IR, making him believe you're not there. Seriously, what the hell? You know how AI 
 stands for artificial intelligence? Well apparently that I doesn't quite exist in Manhunt 2, which 
 essentially makes it a shooter with some stealth elements that no one should really have any trouble 
 beating. Rockstar, I understand the frustration with the filtered executions, but for goodness 
 sake, more QA testing should've gone into the core gameplay.
  
  Despite all of this mixed positive and negative, the audio production in Manhunt 2 truly lends 
 it to being what it's capable of on the emotional side of things. The music is heavily inspired 
 by the dread and hopelessness of Manhunt, and the sound department did a wonderful job. The voice 
 acting is for the most part very well-done, as both Daniel and Leo exemplify very unique personalities. 
 Even the effects with landing punches, cracking enemies with a crowbar or whatnot, and the guns 
 are all very compelling. While the fact that the tale which Manhunt 2 attempts to strike fear in 
 you with is laughable due to the rather pitiful predictability, the game is brought to life by 
 everything that you hear.
  
  Who really knows what Rockstar ultimately intended here after all the drama Manhunt 2 caused with 
 the open displays of gratuitous violence. Even if having to go back to alter the Wii controller-driven 
 sequences bore a lasting effect on polishing up the rest of the game, there really isn't any excuse 
 for how the rest of the package turned out. By no means is the game bad, really. I definitely enjoyed 
 myself, just not the whole time. The game is easy, feels broken with less-than-intelligent enemies, 
 and is very short in the eight to ten hour range of play. Sure there's a new mission available 
 after you beat the game once, and two possible endings, but it doesn't help when the experience 
 altogether feels too ill-contrived to begin with. Nevertheless, I thank Rockstar for their first 
 real Wii endeavor, but the hype I felt for Manhunt 2 prior to the censoring ultimately left me 
 disappointed. If anything, I recommend a rent for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  After only releasing one, and I mean ONE game for the GameCube, it looks as though Rockstar Games 
 is starting to increase their support for Nintendo systems with games like Manhunt 2 and Bully: 
 Scholarship Edition. In Manhunt 2, you try to hide in the shadows, making noise to attract enemies 
 who will not see you if you are still. Once they walk away, you sneak up behind them, and then 
 execute them. There are three levels of execution. The longer you hold the A button down, the more 
 gruesome the execution. Many of the executions have been heavily censored, which is unfortunate, 
 but it's not the developer's fault. Upon receiving an AO rating, they had to do something to tone 
 down the content, or risk not selling the game at all. Guns also make up some of the gameplay, 
 and in certain levels, is the only thing you use to shoot down and decapitate enemies. The length 
 of the game varies. There are 15 main levels with a secret 16th level that is unlocked after beating 
 the game. Each level can take anywhere from 15 minutes to an hour to complete. Some particular 
 parts in the later levels are quite challenging, especially when there are more than five enemies 
 confined in a small area with little shadow to hide in. The story starts out rather interesting, 
 gets dull mid-game, and then surprises at the end. I'm not gonna spoil anything. If you are looking 
 for a stealth game for the Wii, then this should hold you over until a better one is released. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  Rockstar is no stranger to controversy. In fact, you could say they are the masters of it. One 
 could say they even get a masochistic pleasure out of making games that have Jack Thompson, uppity 
 politicians and soccer moms seeing red.
  
  Rockstar has apparently gone too far this time. The game was scheduled for release sometime in 
 July, but they suffered a devastating delay thanks to the ESRB rating the game AO. This effectively 
 banned the game, because the three major console manufacturers will not allow an AO game to be 
 published on their system. Even so, retailers will refuse to carry AO games.
  
  Rockstar was intent on getting the game published, anyway. So, they made a few alterations, and 
 a couple of exclusions regarding what Manhunt is known best for: the executions. Aside from the 
 removal of a pliar-induced castration, they have added a blurring effect over every single execution. 
 What they've done was remove pretty much all the color except for black and red and have shaken 
 the camera, so you really can't see too clearly what is going on. The end result is a less than 
 satisfying feeling of sadistic accomplishment, and that's what the Manhunt games are all about.
 
  
  The first Manhunt game had you stalking your stalkers and holding down a button long enough to 
 see more severe executions. The tension was increased because you were afraid your stalker would 
 turn around, or you would be spotted by someone else before you could pull off a higher level execution. 
 If you could pull it off, you were treated to much more blood, gore and brutality. Since you can't 
 really enjoy the same kind of detail in Manhunt 2, the incentive for pulling off riskier executions 
 is all but gone.
  
  With the Wii version, there is one saving grace. When you have your character getting ready for 
 a kill, you'll see an on screen icon that will show you how to move your remote or nunchuck, and 
 then you move them depending on the icon shown for that level. Then, a series of icons will flash 
 on the screen, and you mimic the movements accordingly. This translates in you becoming part of 
 the physical action of killing someone, and you may want to bother with trying for higher levels 
 of executions to enjoy acting out a longer killing sequence, such as bludgeoning someone to death 
 with a nightstick.
  
  The disappointments don't just stop with the censored executions, either. The story isn't as great 
 as the first game. You start out playing as Danny Lamb, who finds himself escaping from a psych 
 ward with no memory of who he is. He follows one Leo Kasper, who helps him escape, and teaches 
 him how to be a cold-blooded killer in order to survive. The game will alternate gameplay back 
 and forth between to the two characters, and usually will have you playing as Leo during flashback 
 sequences. The storytelling could have used better direction, because it's disjointed at times, 
 and doesn't really follow through with important details as well as you would've hoped. Plus, there 
 is a very easily predictable twist later on in the game, which is also highly unoriginal.
  
  The game plays out just the same as the first Manhunt. You stay in the shadows and you pay 
 close attention to your radar, so you're not being spotted by your hunters. You draw them close 
 to you by making noise, either by throwing something, or rapping on a wall. They'll come to investigate, 
 and since they all apparently suffer from cataracts, they can't see you standing there in the darkness. 
 There is one new change, though. If they are close enough to you, they'll try to peer closer in, 
 and then the screen will show a white dot, and then a circle will close on it. You have to stay 
 perfectly still, or the white dot will move, and if it touches the circle, the hunter will spot 
 you, and you'll either have to fight or run.
  
  Manhunt 2 also uses a good bit of the Wii's motion-sensing interface. To punch, you swing the remote 
 for a right punch, and the nunchuck attachment for a left punch. You can even do a 1-2-3 combo, 
 and that's a lot of fun to do when you need to fight and don't have a weapon. At times, you'll 
 be required to chop a head off a body with an axe, and you stand over them and bring the remote 
 down overhead just like you're swinging an axe. The only thing disappointing about the general 
 controls is that when you're throwing an object, you press the B button instead of making a throwing 
 motion with the remote. It just seems like they overlooked this opportunity.
  
  The biggest flaw with the controls, though, is during the gunplay. When you have a gun equipped, 
 you have to hold down the C button in order to use it. It then switches to an over-the-shoulder 
 view, and you move the aiming reticule around with the remote. If you're close enough to the target, 
 you can get a headlock for a headshot, but if you don't have steady hands, the lock is too easy 
 to lose. There are also times when you may enter aiming mode when you're against the wall and because 
 of how you're holding the remote, your movement or aiming could become completely screwed up, requiring 
 you to exit from aiming and try again. 
  
  You can also take cover behind walls, tables etc., and pop out from behind them to shoot and get 
 behind cover again, but as said before, unless you have a steady hand, it can be too easy to lose 
 your headlock. Sniping is also pretty loose, as moving the crosshairs around is way too floaty. 
 It tends to move around much slower than you want at times, and other times it keeps moving when 
 you want it to stop. So, whereas it's more fun to kill people with melee weapons on the Wii, it 
 would probably be more fun to shoot people on the PS2 or PSP.
  
  Graphically, this game pretty much is embarassing to look at by today's standards. It's clear that 
 no work was put into the Wii version to make it look any better than the PS2 version, and even 
 then, it seems like it's using the exact same engine as the first game. The developers seemed like 
 they were happy with ugly textures and low polygon counts, which would explain why no 360 or PS3 
 version was even considered. 
  
  The audio is also rather dismal. The hacking and bashing and cutting and sawing is actually quite 
 satisying, but the sound quality of the voices leaves much to be desired. The audio for the gunfire 
 is also incredibly weak. The game's overall sound just makes you wonder if you have something going 
 on wth your speakers.
  
  And perhaps the biggest disappointment of all is the last level. The first Manhunt had such an 
 incredibly climatic finish, and also had one of the most freaky and disturbing bosses. Not so much 
 here. Without spoiling anything, you'll just be left going, "Is that it?", and as the credits roll, 
 you'll find yourself wearing a humungous frown from cheek to cheek. Supposedly, there is a an alternate 
 ending if you play through the game pulling off only Level 2 and 3 executions, but very few will 
 be compelled enough to play through this game again.
  
  One can blame the ESRB for destroying what could have been a great game, but now that the focus 
 of executions has been diminished, the flaws become more apparent, and it's easy to see the core 
 game of Manhunt 2 is nowhere as good as its predecssor was. This also leaves the question to be 
 asked, "Should the greatness of the first Manhunt have been preserved by not making a sequel?" 
 Many people will come to the conclusion that yes, it should have. If a Manhunt 3 is ever made, 
 it needs to reinvent itself as a game so it can stand on its own two feet if the ESRB forces Rockstar 
 to edit itself again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_chub
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't as bad as it is led to be. This isn't any more offensive then the first one was, 
 and they cut out everything when you kill someone. The camera gets all distorted and you can't 
 see anything. The game is defintely violent, but not any worse then GTA similiar games. I personally 
 don't like Rockstar type companies, I think they are ruining our culture. The game is just like 
 the saw movies, or hostel. It is just meant to be entertainment and it is. Maybe it is bloody and 
 pointless, but for some reason people still like them... who cares, it is all entertainment. If 
 you can't handle it, then don't play it. But don't complain because other people like to play games 
 like Manhunt. It is a video game, stop complaining about a game, movie, etc... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamprey263
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  ABOUT THE VIOLENCE: The violence in this game doesn't even compare to the first. The execution 
 filters added to the ERSB M rated version have taken away the thrill of the kill. The only reason 
 I felt the AO controversy even began was because of the sexual themes in this game, accompanied 
 with the violence. MORE ON THE FILTERS: I'm not too upset by the filters because they block out 
 the violence. I'm more upset that the filters make playing the game more difficult. Much like the 
 first Manhunt, Manhunt 2 requires you closely follow your victim and charge up your execution to 
 a more heinous level. Well, as you charge up your execution, the screen becomes darker and more 
 contrasted, making it more difficult to stay behind the target. At worst, you'll step on their 
 heals and they'll notice you, usually meaning most your victims will be taken out with hand to 
 hand combat. ABOUT CONTROLS: The Wii controls work well in several circumstances. They really make 
 hand to hand combat work well. I don't know how this compares to the PS2 version as I haven't tried 
 it, but it's a lot better than how hand to hand combat worked in the first Manhunt. The Wii controls 
 also work well for the guns, but also have their problems, such as making it difficult to aim up 
 or down beyond the view of the screen. And since the the Wii controls lack a second analog, the 
 camera is a chaser camera, meaning you have no control over it. GameCube control support was not 
 offered. Camera controls become an issue when you're using a lot of cover (back against the wall) , 
 as the camera always faces the wall you have you're back to, but turns 180 degrees when you take 
 your back off the wall. Another control issue I had was that the nunchuck is programmed to peek 
 out left or right depending on how you tilt/twist the nunchuck on its side. This has at least been 
 a problem to me, as I don't always like sitting upright when I play, and instead am reclined to 
 one side of my sofa. This position often causes my character to stop in his tracks as this function 
 is activated, making playing in a relaxed mode rather complicated. GAMEPLAY: This game is not as 
 much as a stealth game as the original. You can still pull of executions like the original, but 
 being (as I explained before) that executions are more tough to perform because of the camera filters, 
 you'll be using a lot of hand to hand combat. The traditional stealth mode is also killed by the 
 wide use of guns available in many levels. In fact, a good half of this game is devoted entirely 
 toward using guns and nothing else. STORY: Basically, the story starts with an escape from a mental 
 asylum, with the main character accompanied by his imaginary friend. The plot from that point onwards 
 focuses on the main character figuring out his original identity, and how he ended up where he 
 did. The game is rather short, and should be able to be beaten within a day or two. It's still 
 an entertaining story. Nothing too original, but just run of the mill enough to be okay. GRAPHICS: 
 The graphics in this Manhunt are not as polished as the graphics of the previous Manhunt, though, 
 more of the efforts went into the actual look and feel of each of the environments, which is where 
 most of the visual appeal comes from. FINAL IMPRESSIONS: I remember reading a couple years back 
 that the Manhunt sequel was on holds. Many people questioned whether it was the violence that was 
 holding back its production, but instead we got answers of how Rockstar wanted to bring it to the 
 next gen consoles because the creators wanted to create more gore with more graphic realism, such 
 as mapping out all the guts in the body to be spilled or some such statement. Well, that's not 
 the case here, and when I started seeing footage on YouTube, I knew that wasn't the case. Still, 
 I expected a game on par with the original Manhunt, but this wasn't it. Instead, this is just a 
 cheap knockoff sequel to the name, with none of the vision of the original. Nevertheless, it wasn't 
 too horrible to play, it was just a letdown. CONTROVERSY: The controversy surrounding this game 
 might have been the best thing to come out of this game. While it got rated AO, many felt something 
 was wrong with the ESRB rating system as it basically banned the game with the no AO policies that 
 each of the console makers have regarding third party games on their systems. My view abou thtis 
 is that one of the biggest problems the ESRB has is that it doesn't have a NC-17 equivalent to 
 their ratings. Instead, the AO not only encompasses the upper end of age appropriate content, but 
 also encompasses pornography as well, which each of the console makers will understandably stay 
 away from, thus the no AO policy. The significance of the NC-17 rating is that it allows non-adults 
 (17 years of age) to view mature content not legally pornographic in nature (as you must be 18+ 
 to legally view pornography) , but still mature enough that people 16 years of age or younger can't 
 view it. And since it's legally distiguishable from pornography, console makers might be willing 
 to allow such games to be made should the ESRB designate an additional rating classification. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomMooreBox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok manhunt 2 is a great game. If you liked the first, you'll be surprised, familiar ( to a certain 
 extent) and perhaps a bit disappointed in the kills. Which in this arena of gaming means alot. 
 I love manhunt 2. It's great fun. What the developers compromised was the in your face brutality/ 
 deaths from the last game. The payoff essentially. But I have to say it was dealt with properly 
 within the confines of the world. Kudos. The story is different but no less powerful then the last. 
 It's provocative. The new settings and the weapons are fun. The environmental kill opportunity's 
 add some flavor.. If you're a fan of the first game and still have a ps2. do not miss it. If you're 
 on the fence about buying it based on reviews. Buy it. for everyone else rent it. Then you'll buy 
 it. Manhunt 2 ladies and gents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  So after buying the game yesterday, after reading months of updates, previews, movies, reviews 
 and all the other build up, I finished it tonight. Normally, i'd finish a game and go about my 
 business but after reading all the reviews across the board from different sites i felt compelled 
 to throw my opinion out there - in case someone gives a damn. And by reviewing this game, i mean 
 THIS game. not the original. For so many people who this will be there first time jumping into 
 the series.. and trust me it gets old hearing about the original this.... and the original that. 
 This game... right here. that's it =)
  
  First let me say that this is not a title for everyone. Obviously by the nature of the game itself 
 i does deserve the proper setting. not your 8 year old's before bedtime game time. Secondly, the 
 difficulty curve has and remains to be higher than others. Patience is a virtue as you wait out 
 the perfect time for a kill... BUT those things aside, pop in the disc and jump in...
  
  The game features were pretty basic, choose your difficulty (sane / insanity) and it sends you 
 in... there are settings available, One of which i found interesting. I personally did NOT care 
 for the noise FX this time around... as they werent prevalent enough to make a large difference 
 like static would, so really it ended up looking like my cables were loose. SO i switched off... 
 preferred the crisp clean look as danny goes running through some of the seediest and grungiest 
 of environments. Which leads to the point of the graphics.
  
  The graphics (in wii terms thus far) would score an 8. Great lighting... nice detail, but still 
 some of the usual flaws of jag's, and facial detail that are subtle enough to let go of. The character 
 designs are varied, although after some of the levels go on you notice quite a few families had 
 twins. better yet quintuplets. But a far cry from bland... the models seemed quite, well... twisted. 
 which fits....
  
  Gameplay was great... enjoyed the dynamics of the game, BUT im not gonna lie... this game DOES have 
 its faults. and they WILL irritate you a time or two. Characters stuck in what looks like a Polka 
 Dance by a wall, which leaves you no choice but to move and be spotted by said dumb*** dancing. 
 Other times characters will simply walk RIGHT by you in broad daylight (Broadcast Interrupted and 
 the following chapter. repeatdly.) But on the whole, there's nothing like timing the perfect moment 
 as they round the corner and BAM. you know the rest....
  
  The for the most part stays the same throughout, BUT i have to say i was mildly disappointed at 
 all the guns incorporated. There were times where it was just to damn easy to grab a gun and throw 
 a headshot to every. single. person. that rounds the corner. and later levels the guns are simply 
 essential as hordes of gang members come 4 at a time in tight quarters. even then... headshot. headshot. 
 move on...
  
  One thing i hate hearing now is the reviews saying how he's simply killing for the sake of killing 
 and why should anyone care, and how it's gone from a survival standpoint to the predator and that's 
 a knock to the game? IT'S THE POINT OF THE GAME! we're talking about a psych patient who is trying 
 to understand his urges to kill and his neccesity for going after those who put him in that state. 
 NOT a guy who is dumped in the middle of a Snuff film. So please... the more you realize that this 
 game is seperate.. a whole new premise that will play itself out over time. you'll enjoy the game 
 a helluva lot more.
  
  And of course everyone's favorite... the executions.... after the release of the news of a new verson, 
 I almost stayed in denial of the censoring until i saw it for myself.
  and it is, entirely different. His pychosis does truly build (which i thought actually adds to 
 the tension of stayin in stance those extra moments as the screen begins to twist with red more 
 and more until you release the attach. The Gruesome kills, for the most part, are hard to see. 
 you can tell, but you cant. And actually the hasty and brutal kills do in fact show a good bit, 
 such as the hasty crowbar attack, as he plunges into his victims back... so the violence is there. 
 in full force. Head shots lead to explosions of brain, and wearing someone's head on your hand 
 like a boxing glove is anything but tame.
  
  Honestly, was the game worth the wait? Absolutely. Every minute. It's exciting, interesting, difficult, 
 and (dont deny it...) the wii controls are sickly entertaining as a feature for the wii version. 
 Don't miss this game. give it a try... enjoy it, and get ready for what's to come. Don't linger 
 on the thousands of words that the game sites, or i, or anyone says. it's worth a play through... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sc00bYd00bY
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Well it's not as scary or intense as the first, but it still satisifies, to a point. The executions 
 are great, but wish on both versions there was more to be seen. Other games have more gore and 
 violence then this so i was quite dissapointed when i played to find it wasnt was i thought. However, 
 i like the Wii version better because doing the moves yourself, well with a controller, but still 
 life like, makes it quite enjoyable. Rockstar games has produced many games like this, but less 
 violent, i think if the gaming systems had allowed the adults only rating this game would have 
 done a lot better. I was not going to buy it for that reason, but who can turn down killing in 
 such grusome ways. I definately think that Rockstar should put out more games like this, maybe 
 in a different genre, like scifi or more horror, but if you like to kill people in cooler ways 
 than Splinter Cell this game is for you. The story is lacking a bit, but makes up for it in the 
 gameplay. The graphics are not the best in the world, but the gameplay makes the game, in my opinion. 
 Rent it, buy it, just get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkingkongx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  I liked the first Manhunt and I was excited to hear that there would be Manhunt 2. This game is 
 good. It has a good twist-type story and it is still violent in spite of the grainy effects applied 
 to the executions. My only problem with the execution blurs is the fact that the effects on the 
 Wii are more covering than the effects on the PS2 and PSP versions. I wish they would have just 
 applied the less obtrusive one to all versions. Thats all I'm going to say about that because that 
 seems to be everyones main focus.
  
  The gameplay is good, you really have to be stealthy in this game, much like the original, but 
 it pays off when you get the kill. I found quite a few glitches with this game, but maybe its just 
 me. There were a lot of instances where the enemies would get stuck between the environmental items 
 and run in circles or just stand there and not move until you make them (which isn't the way it 
 was supposed to be, its an obvious glitch) . And when you run to the shadows after you have been 
 discovered the enemies sometimes stay engaged to battle but stand in the fight stance looking at 
 you but kind of freeze .
  
  This game was pretty short but I saw it more of an interactive movie than a game, which is a good 
 thing. The story is there and has a good premise. It is a nice moment when it all comes together 
 in the end.
  
  The executions are cool. You follow the on-screen prompts to make the action happen. Which is fun 
 if your in a well lit are of the game to see whats happening. If you're in a dark area it is hard 
 to see the kill.
  
  If it was just me or if you can get around the occasional collision detection glitches and stuff 
 like that, then this is a pretty good game. It's worth buying, gameplay wise and to show Nintendo 
 that we want these kind of games, they say the Wii is for everyone, make games for all gamers, 
 not just kids and non gamers.
  
  Now I guess I'll touch the controversy. I'll make it short. This is a good game and people should 
 experience it before they judge it, as with all games. The violence comes with the horror genre 
 in any art form, and yes video games are art. Console companies are the ones that restrict AO games, 
 not the ESRB or anyone else. Someone needs to come up with a way to tell these companies that they 
 shouldn't restrict this anymore, that's why I thought they put parental controls on their systems. 
 We didnt have parental controls a few years ago, thats when we needed the companies' restrictions, 
 they need to update their policies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I love this game on the PS2 but the wii version has some really cool weapons that are not on PS2. 
 The blurred effects for this version are worse than PS2's blur which is not bad at all because 
 you see everything. The controls are a 10/10, graphics are the best on wii, and the story is amazing. 
 I waited 4 years for this game and I think it is a great game. I say if you want good fun buy it 
 but if you are a wimp stick to kiddie games that the wii usually gets. I gave this a 9.5 because 
 its not as good as the PS2 version but it is a great game. I hope there is a Manhunt 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunter8man
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I was very, very, very reluctant to spend anything more than a rental on this game. But after the 
 ongoing criticism that Rockstar and the game is receiving, I went against my better judgment and 
 purchased the Wii version. I'll say now, that I'm glad that I did. What I found was a game very 
 much like the first Manhunt, but I can also understand the criticism that this game is just an 
 excuse for graphic executions. In the Wii version, you might be able to see less than you would 
 on the PS2 version, but it's actually not too bad. I like to use my imagination to think what I 
 did to my victims. In a way, it reminds me of Fist of the North Star where they would blur the 
 screen in psychedelic colors when someone was graphically killed. The real question I have is that 
 a lot of these executions don't seem that much worse than the last game. The Wii control scheme 
 is better than I thought it would be, and it definitely mimics killing someone with the weapon 
 of choice. Want to stab someone in the gut? Then rapidly move the Wii remote back and forth. Want 
 to smash someone's head with a toilet cover? Then move the Wii remote and Nunchuk up and down. 
 On to the negatives. On the Wii version, the controls keep the executions fresh, but you still 
 might tire of them after a while. And I can't believe I'm saying this, but I think I understand 
 where all the complaints about this game came from regarding its rating. I still think the ESRB 
 was overreacting about the violence in the game. The problem I see with it isn't the violence, 
 it's the context of the violence. It almost feels like you are just going around pointlessly killing 
 people. That has to do with the lack of a good plot. There is a plot, but I think the ESRB looked 
 at the game, and considered it overkill. I'd still want an AO version of the game anyway.
  
  Manhunt 2 is very much like the first game, but I feel that the experience is better with the 
 Wii version. It's really up to what you want. Same controls, but able to see a clearer view of 
 the executions. Or interesting control schemes, and less clarity of the executions. If you've got 
 a good imagination (or by someway you can actually see what the hell is going on) , then this is 
 the version I recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulfood4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  If you played the original Manhunt you already know what to expect, a gory stealth/action game. 
 But you still may want to hear the story outline. Manhunt 2 starts you off as Daniel Lamb, a follower 
 of the Project, who is locked away in a Asylum. The game begins as soon as an power outage opens 
 all the cells in the Asylum. You soon find yourself paired up with Leo, another playable character, 
 killing the Nurses and imates. You were forced into the Asylum after you volunteered for a new 
 expirement and everything went wrong. Now you suffer from amnesia, trying to figure out what happened, 
 you go after the person who is the founder of The Project, Dr. Pickmen. The whole game revolves 
 around stealth in the first few levels, cause after that you find yourself some nice firearms. 
 The controls are really simple, move the analog stick to move around, switch weapons with the down 
 pad or - button, swing nunchuck and/or wiimote to swing weapons, hold A to lock on to preform a 
 stealth kill, C to lock onto to target and/or aim gun, B to shoot guns, Z to run and 1 to go into 
 1st person. Follow motion controls to preform stealth kills.
  
  The executions are probably the main draw for this game, but sadly they have been censored. The 
 gore has been toned down as well, even though you still get to see someones brain splatter on the 
 wall after getting a headshot. The censoring is probably everyones biggest complaint, but mine 
 would have to be the camera. You cant control it at, so you cant look up or down steps, or around 
 corners. Its quite annoying and you never get use to it. The AI is another problem for the game, 
 sometimes theyre beyond stupid, running back and forth for no reason, and just walking right by 
 you. But those problems shouldnt hold you back from playing one of the best Wii games out.
  
  The story is immerseve as well are the characters. The enviroments are amazing, ranging from 
 a brothel to a subdivision. And while the graphics arent amazing, they are slightly better than 
 the original Manhunt, they still hold up pretty well. So for a bargain price of $40, if your over 
 17, i say pick it up. Many complaints are of the censoring, now if your some person who cant play 
 any game without loads of gore, then maybe this title isnt for you. But if you dont mind, this 
 game has some pretty good stealth techniques and decent gunplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHeMoX
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  If you like Manhunt 1, there's a good chance you would have enjoyed Manhunt 2 for Wii. Unfortunately 
 the whole Nintendo policy has ruined this game. What fun are these kind of executions when you 
 see absolutely nothing? I mean... this is a violent game and violence shouldn't be glorified, but 
 what's the point in having executions when you have absolutely no idea what's going on?
  As for the violence itself, if you are familiar with Bioshock, you won't exactly be shocked about 
 the level of violence at all.
  
  Perhaps getting a bloody execution as a reward sounds pretty stupid to some and in a way it probably 
 is, but again this was originally a game aimed at only a mature audience. Not the mass market of 
 mainly casual gamers.
  
  Everybody knows that not everyone is into bloody horror movies with violent scenes. Unfortunately, 
 you can think of this game as a horror movie with a lot of blurry censorship each time there's 
 something violent going on...
  What fun would Children of the Corn or Hellraiser be when everytime a violent scene is about to 
 start, the lights go dim and screen goes blurry?
  
  Rockstar Games shouldn't have made this censored version on this platform. I know it's mainly Nintendo's 
 policy stopping the original version of Manhunt 2, but those wishing for some more mature games 
 on the Wii probably should simply sell their console and buy a PC instead...
  
  The game itself isn't bad, it's even quite a bit better than Manhunt 1 in my opinion because of 
 the better story and more gameplay options. Manhunt 1 got boring too fast because it became repetitive.
 
  
  Games like Manhunt 2 shouldn't be censored like this... it's like Doom3 getting blurry the moment 
 a monster pops up in your screen, it just shouldn't be, no matter the violence or horror. And even 
 with all the censorship, this is not a game meant for a younger audience and as far as parents 
 buy games for their children, this should definitely still NOT be something to buy as Christmas 
 present for a 12yr old. So really... what's the point of the censorship here?
  
  The graphics in this game won't exactly blow you away, but for Wii standards it's very acceptable. 
 Same goes for animations and sounds. (Sound FX are uncensored by the way making the overall experience 
 still pretty violent actually.)
  A lot in this game was done really well and the story telling is good. It's a great twist on the 
 original game idea.
  
  All in all I was still pretty disappointed about how the censorship turned out in this game. But 
 nevertheless it's still just about the best stealth game on the Wii platform. The game has some 
 flaws, but nothing really too annoying. Controls for example are great, but will take some time 
 to master still. Difficulty of the game isn't exactly easy either.
  
  They've expanded the ways in killing people with so called 'environmental executions' and added 
 some more things, but basically the game isn't all that different from the previous game, pretty 
 nasty and very cool done.
  
  It's hard to give a game like this a score because it's censored. Eventhough it's basically ruining 
 the game, it's not a very valid reason to bash a otherwise good game. All in all it's a neat game 
 that I will play for a few more days, but I'm definitely going to sell my Wii in the near future 
 because of the Nintendo policy. I thought Wii controls would be awesome in a game like this and 
 eventhough it is, censorship ruins it all. We can't really blame Nintendo for it's anti-violence 
 policy I guess, but it's the second time they let some of the hardcore Nintendo fans down. This 
 time around the more mature part of Wii gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kobz
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  I definitely agree with Gamespot's review as compared to 1 up where they gave this game a 4 ish 
 rating. Overall, I found this game to be quite engaging and suspenseful. The mechanics and gameplay 
 are similar to the first Manhunt, so if you liked that one you'll definitely like this one. Contrary 
 to those who feel this game isn't as suspenseful or the storyline as strong as the first, I disagree. 
 There are many sequences where your character explores various buildings and rooms, and the fear 
 of coming across an enemy was quite intense for me. You still get that same feeling of dread of 
 coming across an enemy, then quickly hiding in a dark area as the enemy stares right at you. I 
 also thought the protagonist's storyline of trying to figure out his past to be intriguing though 
 not revolutionary in any sense.
  
  I do agree though that the graphics are sub par even for a Wii release. Games like Red Steel, which 
 pushed the Wii to the max graphically, proves that the system can showcase some serious eye candy. 
 Therefore the blocky and muddy graphics are quite disappointing as it could have been done easily 
 on the original Gamecube. The blurry kill scenes are also a disappointment, as the original Manhunt 
 kill scenes are far more explicit and gruesome.
  
  Overall, I liked this game and its similarity in mechanics and tone to the original Manhunt worked 
 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake0457
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Every gamer knows the controversy surrounding Manhunt 2, the infamous game that was banned in so 
 many places. Now, after all the censoring, blurring and filtering has been done, Manhunt 2 doesn't 
 seem like it should cause any controversy at all, at least not on the Wii. The game starts out 
 in the asylum and gives you a brief tutorial on how to move, perform execution moves and use weapons. 
 From there, you are more or less on your own, set out to figure out why things are happening to 
 you, and killing anyone who gets in the way. That sounds good, but the problem here isn't Manhunt 
 2's gameplay, its the execution animations, which have been distorted to the point where you can't 
 tell what weapon you're holding, let alone what you're doing with that weapon. Considering the 
 controversy surrounding this game, the lack of execution brutality is extremely disappointing. 
 You will still hear the splattering, gushing noises, and the addition of the Wii controls certainly 
 makes it feel violent... but you won't see any of it. This is quite possibly the biggest complaint 
 with 2, because it feels like a half-assed attempt to push the game to shelves on a Nintendo system. 
 The game is still good beyond this, however, and the stealth elements work quite well and have 
 a satisfying feel whenever you manage to pull off an execution move. You creep through shadows 
 with a number of creative and appropriately gruesome weapons, all of which can be used for melee 
 attacks as well. There is a good variety to the weapons, and the moves for each weapons exe moves 
 vary, and they all make terrific use of the motion controls to make you feel like you are really 
 using a similar object. The audio in the game is well done, but nothing spectacular. The squishing 
 and slicing of human flesh is realistic but the weapon sounds everywhere else just sound muted 
 and synthetic. The dialog is average, some voice overs are good, some are just terrible, the writing 
 is fairly well done for a game of this genre, but some of the characters don't sound at all like 
 they look. The game is fairly challenging, not because of the games AI, which is simple and predictable, 
 but because of nature of the levels which often force you to find ways around the game's incredibly 
 powerful enemy attacks. Its fun and definitely feels tense and adds to the games atmosphere. The 
 graphics are the weakest point of the game by far, even for Wii/PS2, the graphics just look ugly. 
 Character models and environments all look like something from an average Dreamcast game, textures 
 are blurry and boring, and the game seems to have trouble animating sometimes, as characters will 
 skip around and have a lot of strange spaz-ish attacks from time to time. All in all, Manhunt 2 
 is still a good game, it's just not what you were expecting, and it's definitely a game you will 
 forget quickly. It's a step in the right direction, hopefully any future sequels will go unedited, 
 and improve upon 2's flaws to make a truly unique and classic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tootergray34
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Manhunt2 is a game of stealth... not so much gun action... well unless you want it too be. For the 
 most part of the game you will be highly outnumbered and have to lure out the bad guys to execute 
 them in extremely gratuitous fashion. The worst part of the game would have to be the story line... i'm 
 about 3 to 4 hours into the game and I can already tell what is going to happen... and to be completely 
 honest I knew way before then. But I didn't really get the game for a good story I got it for a 
 great action/stealth game and where the story lacks the game picks up in great action and also 
 a very scary atmosphere.
  
  One of the backdraws of the game is the executions... the screen flashes so much I feel like i'm 
 going to have a seizure most of the tiem and you can't really tell what is going on. The game also 
 rips off on some situations from the movie Hostel which isn't a bad thing, but anyone can pick 
 it out.
  
  For a mere 40 bucks this game is for sure worth your hard earned money. Especially since it is 
 Halloween and I including a lot of other people want to be scared out of their gords this holiday 
 season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconerX
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Well here it is, Manhunt 2. That game that caused all that fuss and got banned for being too gory. 
 After playing this game i wonder if it was banned because it was too ****
  
  No joke this is among the worst games you will ever play. EVER!
  
  Lets begin at the start 
 shal we, the Origional Manhunt. A game full of dark, nail biting, paranoid, amazing atmosphere bought 
 to life by its unique presentation. Not to mention the cctv footage of mass gore!
  
  Manhunt 2 has none of these things, from the very start when you hear the narrator you become aware 
 of the events and how they will pan out before they have even happened. The atmosphere is taken 
 away straight away that the plot and gameplay in this game have to be among the laziest ever thought 
 of.
  
  As you begin your rampage in the asylum (you are a mental patient) you must use stealth and use 
 the dark spots to your advantage. The thing you will notice almost straight away is the graphics, 
 were talking graphics of almost 10 years ago. Every character looks and moves as if they are a 
 box. The detail in the characters is just appaling and the level design lookslike it would be more 
 at home on the snes then the Wii/ps2. The game is just bad and the base of the game is the deaths. 
 Now anyone who plays games to simply go around killing people in a graphic way for no reason other 
 then they can might get some sort of messed up nerotic joy from it, for all of about 6mins. You 
 can barely see whats going on and the ones you can just make no sense at all. It feels stupid and 
 pointless.
  
  If this game was not uncut and was released at its full version it wouldnt save it.
  
  Have 
 we really gone through the evolution of games and storylines aswell as the evolution of interaction 
 and graphics to end up with this?
  
  This is just a game to try and cash in on morbid people who enjoy game violence like with the origional 
 or like the superb gta's. Do yourself a favor, just go watch Saw or Hostel, at least those are 
 slightly entertaining...
  
  Manhunt 2 is possibly the worst game of the year and will be appearing in your bargin bassment 
 bin sometime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  You might remember a game from a few years back called Manhunt. From the same studio that brought 
 you Grand Theft Auto, Manhunt was an ultra-violent, VERY tense stealth game that pitted danger 
 around every corner. Hailed as an interactive snuff film, the game got a decent enough following 
 to warrant a sequel. And it has FINALLY hit the shelves. But is it a worthy follow-up to the pant-wetting 
 original?
  
  I'd have to say so. In fact, there are numerous areas where it surpasses it greatly. First off, 
 you play as Danny Lamb... and you awake in an asylum and you can't seem to remember anything. That's 
 where Leo Kasper (your cellmate) teaches you the ropes to escape from the asylum. And that's as 
 far as I'm gonna go. The story, in my opinion, is WAY better than the original. The first game 
 kind of felt like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, while Manhunt 2 feels like SAW. The story is much 
 more of a psychological horror game than the first. This game doesn't just send a chill down your 
 spine... it gets into your head. This is largely due to the solid voice acting and consistently 
 creepy atmosphere.
  
  The gameplay isn't wildly different from the original. It runs on a solid, stealth-based engine 
 where your radar only tells you enemy locations and the amount of sound you make. You can sneak 
 up behind someone with one of the many weapons, and depending on how long you hold the button down, 
 you perform a gruesome kill. Despite the amount of censoring done to the kill animations, they 
 are still pretty DAMN violent. A bit of blurring isn't going to make you ignore the splashes of 
 crimson, or the disgusting sound FX. And yes, the wii controls make the experience more satisfying. 
 Now there's environmental kills where you can lead your victim to an object in the area... and 
 then USE IT. Whether it's a phone or a manhole, these new kill opportunities are great. You can 
 also perform kills from above... so these new abilities make you feel more powerful than you were 
 in the original. That's not to say that you can easily own anyone you come across (trust me... 
 you can't) , but you're definitely more able this time around. Whenever you're engaged in melee 
 fights, the wiimote &amp; chuck are used for some good ol' fashioned fisticuffs. Also, IR aiming 
 is used whenever guns are availible. It's an intelligently-designed, thrilling game throughout.
 
  
  Some critics complain about the supposedly archaic AI. I didn't really find a problem with it. 
 Games like Splinter Cell and Metal Gear set such a high standard... who's to say that this game 
 has bad AI? Sure, you might find predictable movement patterns... and sometimes it can be easy 
 to escape from them. But I think it's decent enough AI, because the game never feels too easy.
 
  
  The graphics are where the game suffers the most. Sure... the wii version looks a tad sharper with 
 improved lighting, but muddy textures and blocky models are everywhere. The one thing that saves 
 the graphics from looking too bad is (once again) the terrifically creepy atmosphere. The kill 
 animations are great... even though they're distorted.
  
  Overall, with the slightly budget price of $40... you can't really go wrong with Manhunt 2. The 
 Wii doesn't have enough of these games! It's an exciting, compelling package all around. You can 
 see the amount of care Rockstar took in crafting this game. Plus, alternate endings give you incentive 
 to play through the game again. If you're tired of RE4 and want another rated M thriller, this 
 one's for you. Rockstar's an extremely talented company and I anxiously look forward to their next 
 project.
  
  *the wii gets a couple extra weapons not found in other versions* 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
