-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mario Super Sluggers
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/mariosupersluggers/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fun multiplayer arcade baseball action.
 The Mario gang's all here.
 Kid-friendly baseball adventure mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Less challenging, complex, and pretty than its Gamecube predecessor.
 Lousy camera makes single-player pitching unpleasant.
 No good alternative to motion controls.
 Nonsensical post-game stats.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 27, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 681 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Namco Bandai Games
Genre: Baseball
Date: Aug 25, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's not another Mario sports gem, but Mario Super Sluggers still has a rough, unpolished appeal. 
 

  Mario sports games are well known for presenting arcade versions of popular sports that are easy 
 to pick up and play, yet complex enough to satisfy skilled players. Mario Super Sluggers is the 
 progeny of the GameCube's great Mario Superstar Baseball, but alas, this apple falls far from the 
 tree. A number of changes skew the game toward simplicity and accessibility, and in many ways the 
 game feels like it's been jabbed in the thigh with a strong dose of performance-diminishing Mario 
 Party extract. Many will likely enjoy the redesigned challenge mode and motion-sensitive controls, 
 but those hoping for another engaging arcade sports title will be disappointed.  

           When you swing and miss, the game will always tell you if you were early or late. Helpful! 

  As you might expect, Mario Super Sluggers is all about the motion controls. Cock the remote back, 
 then sweep it forward to swing your bat. Lift it up, then flick it down to throw a pitch. Shake 
 the remote to run faster. Wiggle it to throw the ball in the field. Add in a button or two and 
 you've got yourself the main control scheme. You can play with or without the Nunchuk; the former 
 scheme is best for folks who want to control base runners and fielders, the latter for those who 
 don't mind leaving some decisions up to the conservative AI. Either way, you'll be shaking your 
 arm a lot, though much of the game is structured to accommodate frequent flailing (more on that 
 in a minute) .  

  You also have the option to hold the remote sideways and eschew motion control altogether, though 
 you'll have to learn it the hard way since you can't use this scheme in the tutorial. The sideways 
 style does give your wrist a rest, but the D pad is much less responsive than the analog stick, 
 and you'll often find yourself overrunning bases since the button you tap rapidly to sprint is 
 the same button that tells your runner to advance. The remote and Nunchuk combo is the best of 
 the lot, but it makes one wonder why they didn't just enable the GameCube or Classic controller 
 as well.  

  Taking the field in exhibition mode is the best way to get a pure Mario-style baseball experience 
 in Super Sluggers. The computer can provide a stiff challenge when set on a high difficulty level, 
 and building your roster and lineup to capitalize on chemistry between your players is a fun exercise. 
 Chemistry enables players to perform special defensive moves, like a quick buddy throw or a home 
 run-robbing buddy jump. If the batter and the player in the on-deck circle have chemistry, then 
 the latter can launch Mario Kart-esque items into the field to try to disrupt the defense. These 
 additions add a neat arcade twist, and multiplayer games can get pretty heated. Super Sluggers 
 offers good, competitive fun for a group of good-natured opponents, and it is certainly at its 
 best when played by two or more people at a time.  

  The single-player challenge mode was one of the strengths of Mario Superstar Baseball, and in it 
 you traveled from stadium to stadium playing baseball games and recruiting new players by completing 
 certain in-game challenges. This mode has been reworked for Mario Super Sluggers. Where previously 
 you would go to Mario Stadium and play the plumber and his team a few times, you now go to the 
 Mario Stadium area and wander around a bit. You'll startle balled-up Nokis, wake up Monty Mole, 
 defeat a few Magikoopas, and break a Pianta out of a barrel. Different team captains have different 
 abilities, each of which must be brought to bear in each area. To vanquish foes and convince locals 
 to join your team, you'll have to complete short baseball challenges like "throw different pitches" 
 and "get a double play." Separated from actual baseball games, these challenges become much shorter 
 and much easier to accomplish, not to mention easier on your elbow.  

  Whether or not you'll like the challenge mode really depends on your perspective. Folks looking 
 for some light, baseball-themed Mario fun will probably enjoy it. The minigames sprinkled throughout 
 play like goofy tests of your baseball skills, and a few remote-twisting puzzles add some extra 
 variety. Pretty much every iconic Mario character you can think of is in here, quipping and griping 
 as they are wont to do, and winning them all over to your side will require a substantial amount 
 of adventuring. However, if you're in the market for more actual baseball action, then challenge 
 mode just won't fit the bill. Along with the aforementioned omissions, the quest to earn each character 
 a star rating by completing a number of diverse challenges is no more, replaced by just one condition: 
 Play on a team that beats Bowser.  

            You can pitch again almost instantly after your catcher receives the ball, making it 
 possible to bamboozle the batter with super-rapid pitches. Weird!      

  One strike against Mario Super Sluggers is that the production values aren't noticeably better 
 than those of Mario Superstar Baseball. Attention has been paid to the character models, but everything 
 else feels neglected. Many stadiums have wacky obstacles in the outfield, but none of them are 
 as lush, intricate, and well designed as the GameCube's Peach Garden. Activating your star power 
 while pitching or hitting triggers a short power-up cinematic, but it's never anything more than 
 some bland red and orange flourishes. Particularly onerous is the single-player behind-the-mound 
 pitching camera that makes it very difficult to tell where your pitch is when it crosses the tiny 
 plate in the distance. People who didn't play Mario Superstar Baseball may be more forgiving, but 
 the whole presentation has a fuzzy, unpleasant, phoned-it-in feel.  

  Despite its many shortcomings, Mario Super Sluggers is good enough to offer some solid entertainment 
 to the right gamers. Collect-'em-all Mariophiles will dig the new challenge mode, and Wii party 
 hosts will enjoy playing frantic multiplayer games. More serious baseballers will find satisfaction 
 in facing off against one another, but will find the rest of the package wanting. While there's 
 certainly fun to be had, it's a shame Super Sluggers couldn't find that balance between accessibility 
 and complexity that has made past Mario sports games so successful.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (35 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: superfatman23
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  My review for Mario super sluggers Mario super star baseball was just plain fun and simple Mario 
 Super Sluggers just feels the same except with added motion controls like using the wii remote 
 as a bat was cool but did not improve anything it felt like playing the same game but with different 
 rules there were several things i liked 1 i like how the characters get their final smashes like 
 in brawl or mario strikers charged 2 thing is i like the addition of the mix donkey kong characters 
 and mario characters 3ilike the use of items and party mode but other than that mario super sluggers 
 sure could have used a better campaign mode and some wifi added in the game feels dul and lifeless 
 compared to mario superstar baseball give this game a rent and see if you like it or not because 
 this game was just disappointing for the mario franchise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioboy333
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Now the first game i never played. gamespot gave it an 8. Now this game is the second mario baseball 
 game. I think it is still good. here are the very good things about this game. The controls are 
 simple. the graphics look good. the bat design i really like. Who ever came up with that design 
 knows about good designs.
  
  The stages are very fun to play in. The minigames are not that fun, but worth playing. The specials 
 are fun to use. Now, there is a thing called a toy field. this game is very, very, very, very fun to 
 play. the rules are simple. i will not explain the rules through, but it is fun. Also the story mode 
 is okay.
  
  Now there is some bad parts to this game. the game is to easy to play. It is fun, but to easy. it 
 is not much of a challange. Even doing speical things like a super jump is easy to do. Even though 
 it involves timing. Now never pick the easy mode and not put mercy. Then the game will go on forever. 
 I scored a homerun on my first hit, first time playing this game.
  
  So this game is worth playing. i like the game so rent it first see if you like it
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheYoshster
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Mario Super Sluggers is the sequel to Mario Superstar Baseball, and this time with Wii Motion Controls! 
 
  
  The game play is much similar to a regular game of baseball, but there's a twist! Each of over 
 40 playable characters have their own special abilities whether it's Batting, Pitching, Fielding, 
 and Running. To add on to the abilities each stadium has it's own unique characteristics that can 
 either help you or make things worse like the Ice Crystals in Peach's Ice Garden, or the Pirhana 
 Plants in Yoshi Park. Also to add on there's Chemistry that can allow special Buddy Moves to help 
 you prevent Home Runs and a runner from advancing.
  Finally there are Error Items such as fire balls, Koopa shells, and mini boos to help you.
  
 
  The motion controls work out pretty well, using the remote to bat, pitch, and throw. There are 
 2 control systems that if you don't like having just the Wii Mote, plug in the Nunchuck to make 
 Fielding Manual Control.
  
  There are a variety of characters to choose, from Mario to Bowser, Toad to Hammer Bro, and Koopa 
 to Boo. This time the you can have more than one Toad or Dry Bones on your team, as long as it's 
 a different variation. The total amount is over 40.
  
  The music may even sound familiar in some cases, like the music in Peach's Ice Garden, DK's Jungle, 
 and Yoshi Park. The tunes are overall decent, as they set the mood, especially the reoccurring 
 Luigi's Mansion tune that has appeared in probably 4 games now.
  
  The challenge mode is rather fun, as it will give you a basic understanding of the game, and it 
 is a easy way to unlock characters. The story is full of challenges that take advantage of the 
 wii mote, and you'll have to conquer various Scouting Missions in order to gain members for your 
 team, in order to defeat Bowser. Overall it will take at most 8 hours to complete the whole thing, 
 but it's worth unlocking the characters.
  
  Overall Mario Super Sluggers is a nice game for family and friends, and once again, another memorable 
 Mario Sports series game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  Mario titles no matter what genre they are have a certain rep that they need to up hold. It was 
 only a matter of time until Mario entered baseball, a sport that is difficult to re-create as far 
 as a video game expierence was concerned. Wii sport, while basic, brought back a more of a baseball 
 feel since you could actually take a batting stance or a pitching stance and proceed to mimick 
 the motions. Granted you could fake it and attempt the game sitting down. But the true Wii sporters 
 would play along so to speak. 
  
  There have been a couple of baseball sims since then but we all knew (or in this case thought) 
 that when Nintendo came along and attempted their own hack at it, it would be a good product. We 
 were wrong. Mario Baseball is truely Wii sports with slightly more detailed characters from the 
 Mario Franchise bringing little to the table that Wii sports already brought. If it's broke don't 
 fix it, but there could be a little more change in game play here and Mario Super Sluggers doesn't 
 deliver.
  
  The controls are very basic. You "swing" your Wii mote like a baseball bat. Once you discover the 
 timing (which takes maybe two swings) you will connect with pretty much anything thrown at you. 
 If you hold back your swing (which the game doesn't always registar) then you can power up your 
 swing. This is of course aided by a target that tells you where the ball is going to be thrown. 
 Which kind of takes away from the aiming portion of the swinging, but even then as long as you 
 swing 3/4 of the time you will connect with the ball. You have special attack available to you, 
 but they really don't spice up the game too much. 
  
  Pitching is exactly the same as Wii sports, so if you've been living under a rock, you should know 
 how to do this. Fielding is also exactly like Wii sports. You have little control over the rest 
 of your team mates. Stealing doesn't really require any waggling at all. 
  
  The graphics are ok. But they aren't up to snuff. Galaxy and Brawl proved that Mario is capable 
 of good graphics on the Wii. These are slightly more detailed the Mario Kart Wii, and that was 
 a major complaint of mine. There is no excuse for Nintendo to be putting out less then good graphics 
 for their games. Of course the usual mario sounds and themes are here remixed with some new ones 
 thrown in. The little voiceovers that there is in this game is shotty at best. 
  
  Mario super sluggers is made up of fields that are supposed to change the game play and make it 
 more arcade like. That being said the fields do a poor job. They actually do little and make the 
 game less fun that it could be. 
  
  All in all this has been a poor year for the Wii, and Nintendo being it's major publisher has been 
 worse. This game along with Wii play, Wii music, and Mario Kart hasn't been good for the system 
 of the companies street cred. It appears that the Wii is only capable of making mediocre titles 
 at best. Hopefully next year will be better for the little white box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ppchese07
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  Mario super sluggers has a awesome multilayer yet the challenge mode is way too short. I also think 
 seventy-one payable characters is pretty awesome but that's including different colors of characters. 
 Night and day time fields is just something to keep this game alive. Also this game has horrible 
 to awesome mini games because some are pretty horrible and some are pretty awesome. Toy field I 
 consider a mini game and its kinda retarded. But it's always super fun to play a good (Not fair 
 because of items like pow block, bom-om, mini boos etc.) baseball game. Daytime or nighttime no 
 matter what's on the baseball field. I give this game a rock hard solid eight because of these things. 
 By ppchese07 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  In this game you pick one of the big nintendo characters as a captain and play ball. There is a 
 story mode but you are just Mario and you have to form a team but you got to complete little missions 
 to get them. It is easy unlocking characters if you just get a character that you don't have and 
 if you get him or her on your team then you have unlocked them. The games story mode is hard because 
 the controls are messed up and hard to use in the game. The baseball staduims are really amazing 
 to play at and has changed from the first one. The graphics has also changed in the game then the 
 first one. The game also has some minigames which help you learn the controls and help you beat 
 the game more. There of course is a toy field which is no point to play at so why did they add 
 it.
  
  The good of the game is that everything has evovled. 
  
  The bad of the game is that the controls are very terrible. The game is hard in story mode. The 
 story mode is messed up.
  
  Overall this game should be rent first. I rate this game 8.0 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  The only reason I rented this game was because I needed to play a baseball game and MLB Power Pros 
 2008 was all out. Now, I'm not saying this game is bad, I'm just saying that with a little improvement, 
 it could have easily been a 7 or an 8.
  
  My favorite part of the game is that ther are pleanty of different characters. There are many different 
 combinations for you to set up. Some are obviously better than others, but besides that, it's a 
 great way to get you sucked into the game.
  
  Some of the weaker areas of this game include the shallow gameplay. It's very repetitive. Also, 
 the game jumps from insanly easy, to glaringly difficult, and back then forth.
  
  One last thing which makes this game a little better is that there are many different minigames. 
 So, all in all, I would say rent it first, unless you're positive about this game. In some ways 
 it's better, and some ways worse. In the end, It's up to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Out of all Mario sports games released up to this date Mario Superstar Baseball was by far one 
 of the most engaging of all due to its huge array of characters and good challenge offered by the 
 CPUs on the single-player mode which made the lasting appeal of a solo adventure much better when 
 compared to the other installments. However, a few flaws didn't allow the game to reach an even 
 better status among fans but since Mario sports titles have a tendency to come out every once in 
 a while we were all sure we would eventually see the Baseball branch of the series develop much 
 more.
  
  Three years later Mario Super Sluggers is released despite the barrage of complaints coming from 
 many gamers the Mario sports series is still alive but despite all possibilities created by the 
 Wii's controls it doesn't look like developers really took their time when developing the game 
 this time around.
  
  On Mario Super Sluggers Mario and his peers hit the Baseball fields of the Mushroom Kingdom and 
 compete against each other. When it comes to features the game offers a surprisingly good amount 
 of changes when compared to its predecessor. Not only do characters have special batting and pitching 
 special abilities, that were available on the previous game, but they now also posses fielding 
 powers. Wario throws a super fast laser ball while Mario becomes gigantic.
  
  Chemistry also comes in play much more often in this game. As the ones who played Mario Superstar 
 Baseball should know, when characters who like each other bat one after the other they will have 
 their overall stats slightly improved, and this time around when characters who have chemistry 
 are fielding close to each other they will be able to perform buddy moves and perform extremely 
 high jumps to steal home runs or throw the ball at incredible speeds directly to one of the bases. 
 Items can also be used as the teams will sometimes gain green shells, bananas and other kinds of 
 power-ups to use after they hit the baseball.
  
  Speaking of hitting baseballs, the controls are where the game truly disappoints. For starters 
 let's just say that they aren't even as good as the amazing controls featured on Wii Sports Baseball. 
 Two years after the release of a baseball game with such nice controls one would expect Nintendo 
 to take a step forward and improve them to give players an even better experience but unfortunately 
 the controls have been extremely simplified. Waggle is all that it takes to pitch, bat and throw 
 the ball while fielding. The speed of your movement will not affect how fast the ball will go and 
 the motion won't change its effect. Pressing the A button or moving the control stick will allow 
 different pitches but the system could have been much improved due to the Wiimote.
  
  The game also suffers when it comes to the outfield camera. After the ball is hit by the batter 
 the camera will quickly switch and you will gain control of one of your outfielders but the game 
 isn't specific to show you which one of the characters you are controlling. The selection of the 
 character you should move is done automatically and you won't be able to change that, so allowing 
 hits because you got confused when fielding will unfortunately happen more frequently than it should.
 
  
  The single-player mode of the game is powered by a silly storyline. Mario and his friends go to 
 some sort of Baseball Island but just after they start enjoying the wonders of the sport Bowser 
 Jr. takes over the place and the island is suddenly filled with his minions. In order to clear 
 the single-player you will have to visit 5 stadiums that belong to certain captains and perform 
 scouting missions. Once you enter the stadium you will control your character as if you were playing 
 an RPG game, as you encounter the characters of that stadium you can try the scouting missions 
 they have to offer.
  
  The scouting missions range from hitting a home run to eliminating a player by performing a buddy 
 move. Indeed they are quite fun but in the end of the single-player mode you will be extremely 
 disappointed because there just isn't enough baseball being played in the game, most of the time 
 you will be going through mini-games. The scouting missions generally serve the purpose of a tutorial 
 in order to explain the player all the vast array of in-game options. I feel this could have been 
 avoided by the playing of a single tutorial match right after you begin the adventure.
  
  In the end you will spend around three from five hours to recruit all the characters, something 
 that is not necessary to beat the single-player mode and you will undeniably have tons of fun despite 
 all shortcomings. Overall the single-player mode lacks challenge, something that made the previous 
 game so awesome.
  
  The multiplayer mode truly makes the game shine. You and your friends can pick nine characters 
 out of the more than fifty available on the roster and form the teams, creating a decent team takes 
 a lot of strategy and testing the different characters. The options for the multiplayer mode are 
 quite varied and the lack of stadiums that was present on Mario Superstar Baseball has been strongly 
 addressed as the game has some incredible fields to be played like Luigi's Mansion, Daisy's Cruise, 
 DK Jungle, Wario City or Peach's Ice Garden. Most of the fields can be played either at night or 
 during the day, something that will slightly alter some of the field's traps.
  
  The game also has a very engaging Toy Field mode where players compete individually on a different 
 but extremely fun type of baseball game. There is a chance you will find yourself playing this 
 mode more than the regular baseball matches. Besides, there is a ton of nice mini-games that can 
 last for hours.
  
  The character models look really good and the whole game is as usual very colorful. The fields 
 have an astonishing look and it is pretty easy to notice that the textures and effects were really 
 explored. It may not be the best looking game of the system but it does a very good job when it 
 comes to looking good. The soundtrack is mind-blowing as some fields have old-school themes that 
 have been remixed to new and more modern versions without losing its charm. The original tunes 
 are also great and make Mario's baseball games even more exciting.
  
  Sadly the game lacks an online mode, something that would probably increase its general quality 
 by much. Mario sports games like Mario Kart Wii and Mario Strikers Charged have the Wii's best 
 online modes and the same could be easily expected from Sluggers and the decision of leaving a 
 mode so important for a multiplayer based game out of the package is indeed very strange and makes 
 us wonder if the developers didn't rush its production.
  
  In a nutshell Mario Super Sluggers could have been much better if the controls had been improved 
 and an online mode was made. In some areas the game just overflows with high production values 
 but in others it just feels totally rushed. If you are a fan of the Mario sports series and are 
 looking desperately for a good multiplayer experience on the Wii then that's your game but Mario 
 sports games look pointless to you after so many releases then you must stay away as Sluggers won't 
 come even close to changing your opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windmaster42
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game it was fun, entertaining and has great multiplayer the story mode is fun but 
 it can be annoying
  I can't really say there isn't anything majorly wrong with game the characters are great, the stadiums 
 are awesome, the minigames are tedious but are cool. I would say that this is one of the best multiplayer 
 games out there because its got a mode called toy feild which I think is great with friends it 
 almost hilarious so if you get this game I would advice you have some friends to play with or else 
 it will get boring fast. what I think is great is how well they got the motion control to work 
 its great although it can fail on you sometimes. the special moves are cool too its of course like 
 any mario sports though and if its done by your opponent it can be what you least wanted to see. 
 other than that I would defiantly recommend this game to any nintendo fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofreak156
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  mario sluggers. The awsome sequel to mario superstar baseball. Like 60 playable characters make 
 the game fun and exiting. [i have every player just did that tonight] . there is also like11 ballfields 
 [including day and night] my 2 favoitre characters are goomba and blooper [you unlock blooper by 
 doing all the pratices]
  
  
  1. gameplay
  the gameplay is easy with the wii remote but kinda diffacult with the nunchuck. i like the dashing 
 feature to make you run faster. throwing is as simple as just shakeing the wii remote
  
  2. graphics
  the graphics are some of the best graphics of a game i've seen in a while. bowswer 
 looks awusome.
  
  3. levels 
  there is 4  all-star [4] . i personly can beat every level 
 by more than six every time .
  
  4. objective 
  the objective is just to gather a bunch of teammeates and fight bowswer he is really easy. im working 
 on getting everybody in wario city on my team.
  
  5. reccomendation
  i would reccomend this game to any body who like mario and baseball or the wii in general.
  
 
  
  the end
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunchtiket
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  this game has been out for a little while now it's time for me lunchktiket to review it.
  
  
  control: the controls are great. It controls a little like wii sports with the motion controled 
 batting. the pitching is a little different though. You need the nunckuk to pitch a curve ball, 
 but I wish you didn't have to have the nunchuk to curve. the fielding is easy. If you play without 
 the nunchuk you automaticly run to a fly ball, if you play with the nunchuk you will have to run 
 to it on your own. When I type this the controls might seem a little difficult and complicated, 
 but in real life it's much easier.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good and are improved a lot from the previos installment mario superstar 
 baseball. If you want to know more about that game Go to my profile I reveiwed it all ready. the 
 graphics are average for a wii game. The ballparks look good to.
  
  Gameplay: The game plays well and can be fun at times. Though challenge mode is very short so it 
 makes the game less fun. The major flaw in this game is the difficulty. The game Is overly easy!!! 
 the game is very easy and I beat it in 6 hours. Toy field isn't that fun and the minigames are 
 lousy.
  
  How it compares to the other games in the series: the first game was great. It is not as good as 
 the first installment but is still kind of fun. 
  
  Overal the game is not that good but is still fun. I would not buy it especially at 50$, but it's 
 worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: methodkiller335
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Its not just another Mario sports title which relies on mini games! Actually that is exactly what 
 it is, with one little big feature, a story mode with good movies. Unfortunately, the story mode, 
 or challenge mode is god awful easy ,which is why I'm not calling it challenge mode, and some of 
 the puzzles are just stupid and why exactly are they in a baseball title? Because its Mario. The 
 game will be fun for the first 30 minutes until you realize its crap and the mini games, which 
 the game relies on are crap too. Lets get the good things out of the way, a lot of Mario characters 
 to choose from! Oh, wait that's all the good things? Now the bad: the camera for the pitching makes 
 it weird and unpleasant. Cheep Mario special moves or what ever they called it in the game like 
 Bowser pitching a bullet bill. I must say though that challenge mode was actually pretty fun seeing 
 how all the Mario characters come together, Nintendo that is what we want, a game featuring all 
 those Mario characters, in which you can play as like five of them including Peach and Donkey Kong! 
 We don't want another Mario teaches **** or Mario (insert spin off title here) .
  
  Good: Challange mode (hardly)
  
  Bad: Controlls, Cheep character moves, very very very easy, 
 broken camera while pitching, ect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tal-Pal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  at first the game is hard to get used to but as soon as you get used to the controls it is in my 
 opinion one of the best game ever made the games great ball parks and a ton of characters to chose 
 make it unique to all other baseball games from. it will never get old and with the new feature, 
 chemistry game play is a lot funner and the challenge mode makes it all the more fun. it makes 
 you work for the characters witch is in my opinion makes it challenging and fun with the different 
 ball parks for each captain and each new park is unique to the character this game is a must have 
 game for all wii lovers, mario lovers, nintendo lovers, or baseball lovers and with the wiimote 
 and nunchuck it makes game play all that great I suggest that you get this game great to play with 
 friends family or alone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortalgamer83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  mario super sluggers is a very fun game that does not get enough epreciation as it should. sure 
 there are some things that are not perfect about it but all games have something wrong with them. 
 first off ill tell you the good things: there are over 41 which does not include the different 
 colors of characters, you can play as your mii there are 9 stadiums which all except bowser jr. s 
 castle can be played at night and all except bowsers castle and luigis mansion can be played at 
 night, also the controls are simple to lean. now for the bad: sometimes the controls are not resoponsive 
 to exactly how you pitch the ball and the characters also seem to run very slow which is a problem 
 when the ball is hit right between the left and center fielder. the last major problem with this 
 game is that it does not have wi-fi which would be really fun. even with the bad things about this 
 game that i said this game is still a very fun, must buy or at least try mario game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Jiggs_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Mario Super Sluggers is the Sequel to Mario Superstar Baseball. Now, Everyone is bombing the game 
 for one reason: no Wi-Fi and Short challenge mode. That's all everyone cares about. Now, I'll go 
 into detail about the games Good and Bad features with the readers.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is extrordinary with multiplayer, and also pretty fun IMO in single player. With 9 stadiums 
 to choose from, the game is very fun to play - Multi or Single Player. ;) 7.9/10
  
  Graphics:
  Graghics are really amazing, especially for a Wii title. Even though they won't win 
 an award, they are perfect for this game. They aren't really blocky like in Mario Kart Wii, but 
 not too experienced like in Brawl. They are just right! 8/10
  
  Roster:
  MSS features the original roster from MSB, and also features 10 new characters, which features 
 your Mii. Generally So Much better than the Roster in MSB. 9.8/10
  
  Challenge Mode:
  Sadly, I don't think Ninty put second to none attention for this challenge mode. It's really short 
 and repetitive at times. Hovever IMO theres good replay value and is overall very fun from beginning 
 to end. 6.5/10
  
  Replay Value:
  VERY LARGE IMO. Especially with the amazing multiplayer option! Even single player games are addicting. The 
 replay Value in this game for me is an A+! 9/10
  
  Controls:
  I don't know why everyone has a problem with this. I find the controls pretty neat and polished, 
 atleast for me and the Wiimote + Nunchuck combo. You can also use the Wiimote Upwards and sideways, 
 which I haven't tried. The controls are generally nice. 8.4/10
  
  Music:
  Nothing Comepletey Memorable, but it fits the game great. Also, I personally like most of the music 
 in the game, especially Peach Ice Garden's music. Super Mario 64 music FTW! 8.1/10
  
  The game for me is overall a really nice and fun game, despite short Challenge Mode and No Wi-Fi. 
 It is DEFINATELY Underappreciated, and should have more positive attention.
  OVERALL: 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Poke-Bros
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  This game features mario and his crew in another adventure with amarican favorite sport. Baseball!
 
  Your main goal in this game is to recruit as much team-mates as possable, and well play ball!
 
  Like any other mario game big, ol'bowser shows up and ruines everones fun, and tries to take over 
 Baseball Kingdom.
  Once again mario and friends have to teach the big meanie and his son Bowser Jr. a lesson on not 
 to be greedy.
  
  This game features old friends like pianta and noki, and also some new friends such as... umm well 
 the miis!
  Each player has a special ability to help them in the outfeild and batting.
  
  The downside of it is it's very short and easy story mode, and easy unlockables. Although the game 
 is not the most challenging of all mario games, it's pure fun!
  
  If you really wanna have fun with this game try playing it with friends for a real challange.
 
  
  So if you have lots of friends who play wii with you,
  You should buy this game.
  If you only own one wiimote and barley play wii with any friends then I don't recomend buying this 
 game. But it's still worth renting.
  
  Well I bought this game for two reasons:
  
  1. I liked the funny AD on TV
  2. I love most mario games
  
  Over all this game gets a 7.5 
 maybe even just seven out of ten. Not the best of mario games but not bad.
  I personally like the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 15aaronl
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good rent, but only if you have a friend or someone to play it with. It becomes 
 really annoying when you swing the remote to bat or pitch and it does NOTHING! IF you manage to 
 hit it, then the problem becomes the out fielders. Throwing the ball to your designated bas it 
 really hard. You have to press the corresponding base with D-pad. (left D-pad 3rd base etc) . So 
 yeah all in all rent it and buy it only if your a die hard mario or baseball fan. Though there 
 is one more positive thing that cant make up for all the horrible gameplay though. The amount of 
 charaters there are is quite enjoyable. I have never played a game as winged Kopatroba.  
 Dont play this gam it makes you crazy I cant even write a full review I have to put a bunch of!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saberwolf102002
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  This game needs a lot more love in my opinion. Even though not too many people like the Mario Spin-off 
 games (Mario Party, Mario Golf, Mario Tennis ,etc.) , Mario Super Sluggers is better than you think 
 it is.
  
  Story:
  Mario and friends sail to Peach's new island simply called Baseball island to (obviously) play 
 some Baseball until Bowser and Bowser Jr. (AKA Baby Bowser) come crashing into the island and taking 
 it over with their minions running amok. Its up to Mario to round up an all-star Baseball team 
 and defeat Bowser to save the island.
  
  Controls:
  Lot of motion-sensitive controls may seem tiring (only if you overdo it) but it makes you feel 
 like you're really playing Baseball. Now with the rest of the controls, it depends on what type 
 and there are 3 types (technically 2) : Nunchuk, Wii Remote upwards, Wii Remote sideways. With the 
 Nunchuk, it'll be satisfying for those who want complete control over their team, Wii remote upwards 
 will satisfy those who want it plain and simple with few controls and sideways will satisfy lazy 
 people who don't wanna use the motion-sensitive controls XD
  
  Gameplay:
  Its just your average Baseball game but with Mario characters and features from Mario Kart and 
 Mario Party alongside previous features from Mario Superstar Baseball.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics in this game are MUCH better than Superstar Baseball and also adds a little more brighter, 
 relaxing touch to the game. As for the cutscenes, it lacks a TAD BIT of the gameplay graphics but 
 its nothing too dramatic and looks kind of similar to the Super Smash Bros. Brawl cutscene graphics
 
  
  Sound:
  No complaints here. The voice-acting, music, sound effects all blend in really well with the game.
 
  
  Fun Factor:
  In single-player mode, it won't be as much fun as it should be in multiplayer due to its lack of 
 challenge but may keep you busy unlocking all the unlockables in the game. As for multiplayer, 
 this is where the game truly shines! Multiplayer mode is a blast with friends who are new to the 
 game or veterans of Superstar Baseball.
  
  Bad Side of the Game:
  Mario Super Sluggers lacks online play, which there is no excuse to why it shouldn't have online 
 play in the first place.... I personally think it would be fun if it had online play. The challenge 
 in the single-player Challenge mode doesn't live up to its name considering it can be beat with 
 in an hour or two. The game itself also doesn't seem to appeal to other hardcore or casual gamers 
 and makes it seem unnoticeable and underrated in my opinion.
  
  Overall:
  Mario Super Sluggers will satisfy most veterans and newcomers to the game. Aside from the lack 
 of online play, challenge in single-player mode, and appeal to hardcore and casual gamers, Mario 
 Super Sluggers is most definitely a must play!
  
  Score:
  8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scootergogo
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 13, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  I was disappointed that the game was so short. I beat the game in 30 minutes. I won 2 baseball 
 games and the game was over. I also didn't like how there was no wifi. IT would have made the game 
 a whole lot better. After you beat the game and the credits come all there is to do is to unlock 
 more characters for multiplayer games. IF there was wifi I would play it all the time. Those are 
 some reasons why I don't like the game. But I have to say that I still enjoyed playing it and I 
 thought it was fun. I liked using the wiimote and nunchuk controlling. It made the game a bit more 
 realistic to baseball. It was like playing a better version of WiiSport's Baseball game. I would 
 say rent this game instead of using your money to buy it. If you have parties or if you have friends 
 over a lot, then you would enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CenetaurmanE52
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 10, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  No snazy intro, lets just get this review over-with.
  
  Super Mario Sluggers, as a whole, isn't a bad game. The controls are ok, it's got some nice visuals 
 to look at (though not really next-gen) , and the game has great multiplayer. However though, it 
 also suffers from a chronic case of bad challenge-itus and occasionally glitchy controls. As I 
 said though, it's not a bad game and isn't horrible to buy if you enjoy a good game of arcade-style 
 baseball.
  
  The story in this game is... well, serviceable. Bowser Jr. wants a ball-park of his own to call 
 home and interrupts the vacation Mario, Peach, Weegee, and many others try to enjoy. As a result, 
 it's time to clean up the mess and get your guys together for an ass-kicking and name-taking finale. 
 Frankly, the story is far from impressive, but it's not bad for a sports game. Just don't expect 
 Shakespeare or Steven King quality stuff here, ok?
  
  Gameplay-wise, you choose a team of 9 characters from the Mario universes (and your Mii, if you 
 REALLY want to. The fella really isn't anything special though) , and then you take them to the 
 field. It isn't a point and click here though: You have to decide from their special abilities, 
 power, speed, pitching fielding jumping bunting compatability lions tigers bears OH MY! Many characters 
 are useful in their own ways, though compatibility is really the only thing many people care about, 
 and for a good reason: With them, you can become an anti-home run machine and can utilise the power 
 of ITEMS! There aren't many, but they each work pretty damn well and will be valuable assets to 
 your team. From shells, to fireballs (yum!) , to the POW block, you have many tools with compatability, 
 making it an essential.
  
  This game is unique from other baseball games because it is using motion controls with the Wii 
 (gee, who-da guess?) , and they work MOST OF THE TIME. There are some glitches with the controls 
 (moving the Wii-mote UP counts as an action, and base-passing isn't perfectly intuitive) , but it 
 works well for the most part. It seems to screw up during key moments, and as such is a tad of 
 a disappointment. Another odd thing is that the power of your swing doesn't change: The hits only 
 care about timing, which makes the game a little worse and a tad less flexible. It isn't bad altogether, 
 but the controls need spit, shine, and polish.
  
  Single-player in general isn't that great. The story doesn't draw you in, the challenges are either 
 too frustrating (hitting in center of the field WITH OUTFIELDERS THERE for example) or too easy 
 (hitting to the left and right side, on the other hand...) , and the final game is disappointing 
 (and it's mainly because only the Hammer Bros and some Dry Bones are actually worth anything) . 
 However though, you will try it to get all the characters, and it is somewhat fun. You aren't coming 
 back to it though.
  
  The main draw point of this game is the multiplayer, which is pretty good. There isn't much to 
 go over, just replace the A. I with a human and you have a game. It's really fun however, and some 
 of the names are funny (Luigi's Knights! Peach's Monarchs... wait... WHAT????) , but it's overall 
 great. Sound and look-wise, it's Mario. It's cartoony, but good, and the music is unfitting but 
 great.
  
  (Ugh, I'll be in more detail next time) Overall, the game is a bit above average, but the problems 
 are underlying. The single-player just isn't that good, character balance is questionable at times, 
 and the Wii isn't pulling many strings. As a party game, it's a keeper. As a 1 player game, it's 
 not that good.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 6/10
  Music: 8/10
  Control: 6/10
  Variety: 6/10
  Depth: 5/10
  Single-Player: 4/10
  Multiplayer: 8/10
  Fun: 7/10
  Innovation: 
 5/10
  Difficulty: 8/10
  Balance: 5/10
  Length: 4/10
  Replay value: 6/10
  Cost: 7/10
  Presentation: 10/10
  Extras: 3/10
  
  Overall: 5.99/10 (or just 6/10
  Above 
 Average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: possesed_fox
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  how can a baseball game be so addictive? let's face it even if your a teen like me and you hate 
 the wii controller you've got to love this game because it's just soo fun. let's how great this 
 game really is...
  
  the story mode: you would think that for a sports game that nobody needs a story mode it's just 
 playing baseball after all... but Nintendo proves you wrong. super sluggers picks up the idea of 
 the Mario superstar baseball story mode and makes it just so much better. 1st you recruit every 
 character one by one by completing various challenge so that's one, then there is the fact that 
 you don't need to play the story mode each time for each different captain because you get to control 
 the other them straight threw one run of the story mode. then the story mode requires you to come 
 back later to certain places to unlock the last characters of the level because to unlock some 
 characters you need the special powers of a specific captain easiest example is to unlock Monty 
 mole you need to find him at the beach and use peaches power close to him (i know it's a bit spoiling 
 but it is one the most obvious one anyway so...) 
  
  cast of character: this game is just pack with Mario characters i mean: Petey piranha, dry bones, 
 hammer bros, king boo, Monty mole and blooper just to name a few it even has some donkey kong character 
 and for not to spoil you too much i'm only going to tell you one of the new ones:-WARNING SPOILER 
 ALERT!!- kritter -WARNING SPOILER ALERT!!- (because yes there's more) it has mostly every Mario 
 character you could think of that would make it in any Mario spin-offs and when i say every Mario 
 character i mean it heck it even has changeable colors for some characters allowing you to play 
 as ex: three different hammer bros (fire bros, boomerang bros...) on the same team...
  
  this game is just good no matter how much you may hate the wii remote even that is not enough to 
 keep you away from this awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epic_pets
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Mario has done just about everything from going into space, being a piece of paper, saving princesses 
 and a lot of other outrageous stuff. So why not play baseball with over 40 other Nintendo characters? 
 That is exactly what happens in Mario Super Sluggers as Mario and friends play baseball in over 
 10 baseball Fields with the usual Mario power up's, weapons, and the craziness you would expect 
 from a Mario game.
  
  The first thing you will notice is how nice the animations look in the game. Seeing how nice the 
 animations look people probably were expecting good in game graphics but what they get is gamecube 
 looking graphics. The game looks even worse when the camera is looking at the enitire feild. The 
 game has poor color and is very jaggy when the camera is pointed to the entire feild.. Even for 
 A Wii game the game could of looked alot better then it does. Another disappointment you will find 
 early in the game is it's poor soundtrack. While some of the music in the game was average most 
 of the soundtrack wasn't even fit for a baseball game.
  
  The game doesn't use Nintendo's motion sensing controls as effectively as you would expect. It doesn't 
 matter how hard you swing the controller, it all depends on the timing of your swing. Some times 
 the game doesnt even respond well to your swing. Besides using motion sensing only for pitching 
 and batting you also use it to run across the feild and to attack your oppenets with the weapons 
 you get when you have chemistry with the person that is going to bat after you. Two players have 
 chemistry when the charaters are from the same series and when the people who have chemistry are 
 next to each other out in the field they can perform some special moves.
  
  To learn the game well, you can go to the practice mode were it teaches you every thing you need 
 to know. It tells you the special about the special ability's team captains have and how to get 
 the people out. What it doesn't teach is hot to play the game with the Wii-mote side ways. The people 
 who are playing with the Wii-Mote side ways are going to have to learn by themselves. It seems as 
 Nintendo didn't put too much focus on that game playing swagger as the gameplay is clunky when 
 playing with the Wii-mote sideways.
  
  Once you get the controls down you can head over to the other game modes. There are 5 game modes 
 in Super sluggers which are Exhibition, Challenge, Mini Games, Toy Field and Training. In Toy Field 
 your main goal is to collect the most coins. You get coins by hitting the ball far and by hitting 
 the ball far. You get to decide what kind of pitch the batter gets by hitting blocks but the catch 
 is you also have to pick his weapon. Once he hits it the next player who gets the ball will be the 
 next to bat. In the Mini game mode you play in alot of different mini games that range from throwing 
 pitches to hit enemies to catching items on the field.
  
  The mode where most of the characters and all of the mini games are unlocked is in Challenge. In 
 Challenge you play as either Yoshi, peach, donkey kong, Wario, or Mario and you try to stop Bowser 
 and Koopa from stealing all of the baseball fields. To do that you have to go to every baseball 
 field looking for people to join your team. Before they join your team you have to ethier help them 
 or prove your self by completing their challenge. You get to walk around the fields completing puzzles 
 and some mini games. Once you get enough people you can challenge koopa to a game and if you beat 
 him, Bowser will challenge you next. Once you beat the short story mode you will have all the unlockables.
 
  
  
  All together Mario Super Sluggers is a very solid and fun game. The challenge mode was a nice touch 
 and the game is a blast to play with friends. The no online play was a big let down and so was the 
 no gamecube controler option. I can't comment on how similar this game is to the Gamecube one since 
 I never played that one but according to alot of sources not much was added. But all in all this 
 game is really enjoyable and is worthy of a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedre123
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 6, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  this game was on my to do list to get and see with the success of mariokart on WII i though that 
 i might give this a try, not to mention i particularly liked super strikers. at first i was very 
 happy with what i saw the first game was fun i had lots of people to choose and lots of sidekicks 
 and the first game was great fun. then it occured to me after that game that i really didn't want 
 to play again. for whatever reason after that one game i didn't have any urge to get better or 
 anything. i realized it was the gameplay that was faulty in pitching you throw curve special or 
 normal so there is not much variety and batting is just move and timing. not exactly the innovative 
 gameplay i had expected from this line of games. also fielding is miserable everyone is so slow 
 and unless the ball is right next to you you will have no chance of getting it.
  
  First impression of this game may have been biased but then i played mini games and was really 
 dissapointed. 
  this could be a good game but doesn't quite make it that far 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiwiiyo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  This game is just flat out awesome. It has an amazing multi-player and follows up to it's earlier 
 Mario baseball game, Mario Superstar Baseball (8.0) . the challenge mode may be bad, but if you 
 want to complete the whole challenge mode, than it may take you an extra hour. people complain 
 about the controls, but I don't find anything wrong with them. the only reason this game didn't 
 get a 10 was because this game wasn't much of a challenge for me. I do think the stadiums were 
 better in the first one, But there must have been about 50 characters in this game. So if you like 
 games with with wide ranges if characters, this is the perfect game for you. From King K. Rool 
 to funky Kong to Blooper, this game has people I've never even heard of! And I love that they let 
 you use miis. That's all i have to say, and, read my ssbb review on my homepage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tory2007
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Mario Super Sluggers stars the ever-lovable Mario and his crew of friends. Players make a throwing 
 motion with the Wii Remote controller to pitch the Newcomers to gaming or sports titles will be 
 up and running on Mario Super Sluggers in no time. Simply swing the Wii Remote to smack a home 
 run, or use a pitching motion to toss the ball over the plate. Two, three or four players can pick 
 up Wii Remote controllers and challenge one another to a full baseball game or compete in a host 
 of baseball-themed mini-games. There's even a home run hitting contest. Mario Super Sluggers boasts 
 more than 40 playable characters, all Nintendo favorites. The single-player adventure mode allows 
 the player to explore Baseball Kingdom, tackle dozens of fun baseball challenges and unlock new 
 characters that can be used in any mode. You can also play with your Mii characters in Exhibition, 
 Toy Field and Minigame modes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeman114
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  In 2005, Mario Superstar baseball was released and now Nintendo has made a sequel for the Wii. 
 Mario Super Sluggers have INSANELY good graphics in the cutscenes (there are only 4...) but pretty 
 much the same graphics in the gameplay as the other game. But the gameplay is just as fun if not 
 better than the other one so that probably makes up for it. Challenge mode is a lot easier then 
 the other game, but now it's too easy. The scout and battle missions are pretty much warm-ups for 
 Bowser Jr. and Bowser. The new stadiums aren't really that exciting as the other one, so don't 
 expect anything more than a slightly more complicated Mario Stadium. The new minigames are great. 
 They brought back some old ones like bob-omb derby and Wall ball, along with some new ones like 
 Ghost K and some other one with a paintbrush (can't remember the name) . They brought back all of 
 the old characters from the other game plus some new ones making a whopping 71 charcters!! I suggest 
 renting the game first before buying it. See if you like it and if you don't, well obviously don't 
 buy it. But if you do like it buy it (of course!) . So sluggers is a great game with minor flaws 
 that keep it from being better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grant4500neo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Mario Super Sluggers, sequel to Mario Superstar Baseball for Gamecube, is a game of classic baseball, 
 with some little tricks here and there. Tricks such as "super swings", crazy jumps/fielding, and 
 obstacles in the field.
  
  With (technically) only one difficulty, average length "Story", and relatively easy scout missions, 
 this game does have a disappointing Challenge Mode. I say "technically" because after you easily 
 recruit all the players of an area, you unlock the team for that area. Then you can play that team, 
 at your desire, and play it in four difficulties, relating to: Easy, Medium, Hard, and Very Hard.
 
  
  Exhibition games are the swing vote for this game. Able to be played in 1,3,5,7, or 9 inning games, 
 you can play your friend in a little competition, or you can play and get better against a computer 
 in one of the four difficulties I mentioned before. You can play the games on all the baseball 
 fields you have unlocked in Challenge Mode.
  
  Sequel: 4/5
  "Story": 11/15
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  Replay value: 9/10
  __________________
  35/40... or 8.75/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Ok so this isn't the most in depth baseball game ever (Why no season or playoffs?) However, it 
 is a lot of fun especially with 2 players or more going at it. Single player is fun but with only 
 4 Stadiums and only enough players for 4 or so teams (Teams aren't defined you pick your players 
 when you start) the game feels quite small at first.
  
  However, the controls really shine and the "Mario" quirks and gimmicks actually make the game fun. 
 
  
  Throwing, hitting, and base running are all very natural and easy. There are a few times where 
 you will quick pitch accidentally or swing accidentally but this is due to the Wii being motion 
 sensitive and happens with other games as well.
  
  The Exhibition mode is lots of fun as you pit your selected team against the computers team. You 
 can select the computers squad or just have it randomly generate them. 
  
  Pick players with lots of "MUSIC" symbols next to them so that when they are hitting or fielding 
 they will have good Chemistry (Why they used a music symbol for good Chemistry who knows) . If you 
 have a player behind you in the batting order with good chemistry he can launch items (Bombs, shells, 
 bananas) at the fielders when you hit the ball. This makes the game tons of fun actually and although 
 "Items" to launch are turned off by default you will really want to turn them on all the time. 
 
  
  Other cool things include the ability to toss a teammate a ball with good chemistry and then throw 
 a rocket into the infield or to bounce of a teammate with good chemistry to rob a home run.
  
  The "Story" mode is neat but not that exciting. Its actually more of an in depth tutorial then 
 anything else. Worth playing for a few minutes here or there but so far not that exciting. It includes 
 puzzles and such and then quick and easy baseball challenges. 
  
  Anyways don't look for realism in any way. Many of the stadiums have obstacles or quirks such as 
 ICE. 
  
  But the game is lots of fun anyways and shouldn't be missed. I would say that for motion controls 
 its the easiest baseball game out there to control.
  
  MLB2k8 Blows compared to this control wise. 
  
  Check it out lots of fun if you don't take 
 it to seriously.
  
  I'm a HUGE baseball fan and despite this being totally unrealistic its extremely fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  The good: Great graphics, Awesome 1p adventure mode, minigames are great, lots of characters, good 
 music.
  The bad: Lakitu's voice is annoying, Camera is very annoying in 1p mode, missions are too short 
 and too easy, instruction manual doesn't say much
  
  Game-play: 8/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Value: 9/10
  Tilt: 10/10
  Average Score: 9.0/10
  
  Yes, it's about time, 
 but a sequel to an already great game has come. Mario Super Sluggers is just as fun, just as beautiful, 
 and just as great as the first game. There are many more characters in the game, such as Tiny Kong, 
 K. Rool, Kritter, Funky Kong, and more!
  
  Mario and his friends visit a baseball island to play baseball against each other. While the multiplayer 
 might seem to be the only interesting thing, the 1p mode has been turned into an adventure mode. 
 It's way more fun than MSB's, and has an rpg element to it. You'll need to solve puzzles with each 
 unique captain in a game, and there are many rewards and treasures in the game for you in the process. 
 Collect as many teammates as you can for more fun.
  
  However, the adventure mode missions are too easy and short. For instance, one mode simply has 
 you hitting a sacrifice fly to score a runner. When you do, you'll not only realize that it was 
 easy, but you only had to do it once. This gets really annoying, since the missions lack a challenging 
 detail for older gamers.
  
  Graphically, the game looks better than the first. It's perfect Wii graphics are polished with 
 great movements and clunkyless detail. The music is cool, but Lakitu is annoying. Whenever he says 
 "ball", "Strike", "Safe", and "That's the ballgame", he sounds like a deaf tone italian, and sometimes 
 he doesn't even say what's on the screen completely. It's a big shame they had to change his voice 
 into a scratchy nose picky one.
  
  Overall, Mario Super Sluggers is a great sequel to Mario Superstar Baseball, and easily the best 
 baseball game you'll find on the wii. It's great graphics, 1p mode, music, new powerups, and boatload 
 of characters make it a must have for any Wii collector. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  Mario Super Sluggers is the sequel to 2005's Mario Superstar Baseball for the GameCube. Much of 
 the content is the same, but there have been some changes elsewhere. The game takes advantage of 
 motion controls for batting pitching and even fielding in which the player uses a motion that mimics 
 the real thing. There is the option of using the nunchuck, which gives you full control of fielding 
 and allows you to steal bases. All of the characters from the last game return as well as some 
 new ones for what is perhaps the biggest roster in a Nintendo game to date. Unfortunately, there 
 is no Super Mario Galaxy support, so Rosalina and the star bits, as well as the Toad Brigade, are 
 no where to be found. The challenge mode is less frustrating than in the GameCube game, but it 
 is also a heck of a lot easier. You no longer have to do missions with certain characters to power 
 them up to superstar. Just use them on your team while battling Bowser, and voila, you've got a 
 superstar player! Unfortunately, this game is one of those to suffer from a lack of online support, 
 so if you are one of those who doesn't have a lot of friends who play this game, then your out 
 of luck. If that is the case, your best bet would be to either rent it or wait until the price 
 drops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer874
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  I like it because of the character and the new specials the new places are really cool i understand 
 the graphics are a little crappy but it is still cool!! Maninly my favorite stage in challenge 
 mode is yoshi park i lol that u can use error items to screw up the player in the outfield i think 
 one of the bad things is that after 4 inning in a 9 inning game the pitchers gets tired or if u 
 score 3 points he or she gets tired!
  Lastly, I like how they use in challenge how u can play as all the captain in one challenge! So 
 is Mario super sluggers a good game for you?? i think it is great overall. Are u going to get one? 
 This game is  
 could not think of anything else! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skydancerofchao
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for a mario baseball game since I first played the Wii sports baseball at launch. 
 They have released a few baseball games for the Wii, but none that actually utilize the controls 
 effectively (The Bigs just plain sucks anyhow... there is no content) . Besides, I prefer the typical 
 Mario style and humor for this type of game, as well as the usual slew of unlockables and gameplay 
 modes.
  
  The best part about this game is perhaps its complete lack of learnign curve. You have two options 
 when it comes to playing style; using just the Wiimote or the Wiimote and Nunchuk in tandom. If 
 you choose the former method, there are essentially 3 moves you need to learn in order to play 
 the entire game and it doesn't much take away from your chance to win against a lot of players. 
 If you really want to master the game and play it in more typical baseball fashion then using the 
 Nunchuk add's some special moves and manuvers that can give you somewhat of an edge on the field. 
 Either way the game is just plain fun to play and will gives you hours of enjoyment with friends 
 or family.
  
  A 6.5 to me means that your better off not playing this game, so I don't understand that score. 
 Its not perfect, sure, but it does what is intended in its making. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punisher2515
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Mario Super Sluggers has some flaws, but the positives sure do out weigh the negatives. You get 
 a huge selections of characters to chose from and even more if you change the colors of some of 
 them. The hitting and throwing mechanics work well with the wiimote. There are 3 different control 
 setting to use from, wiimote and nunchuk, holding the wiimote by upright, or holding the wiimote 
 sideways.
  
  A new twist to the game which is fun is the close play feature where on a close play at a bag, 
 the first player/team to hit the A or B button wins the play at the bag. This works well in the 
 game and adds a fun twist to base running which for the most part can be disastrous. Players on 
 base run on contact and it is very easy to get into a double play.
  
  The challenge mode is fun but short. It is filled with many scout missions which help you learn 
 how to play the game and how to play with certain players. The game throws some puzzles at you 
 which is good giving you a different aspect then other baseball games. Unfortunately you barely 
 play and full games except against the bowser family. If the missions were applied to game situations 
 it would be a lot better.
  
  The game is fun, best played in multiplayer as it requires some skill to beat someone who knows 
 what they are doing. The difficulty is just right. You can't go wrong with the character list, 
 and all of the mini games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomguy15
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Mario Super Sluggers is an awesome game, I bought it Wednseday and I love it. It has a 5 game modes: 
 exhbition, challenge, mini-games, records, and toy field. The most impressive of them all is challenge, 
 it sends you too many different locals while finding out puzzles and sends you on an adventure. 
 Of course the real fun is playing baseball, which is all about motion controls. Swinging, pitching, 
 and running all are immersive and i don't know what gamespot is saying when the pitching camera 
 is annoying. Also the graphics are much better than the original especially the scene graphics. 
 and the fields are better and more of a variety, I personally like the luigi's mansion stage. Their 
 is over 40 cahracters to gather. When you play baseball and swing back to strengthen the pitch 
 you sometimes swing prematuraly, also running while swinging the wii remote is tiring. The specials 
 all the main charcters have are helpful and I love the new close play. and the new chemistry moves 
 are amazing. The multiplayer is fun and the minigames are fun (some of them) . The lack of alternate 
 controls is ba bummer but I can't see gamespot's complaints any further than that. Mario super 
 sluggers is an awesome game which is a must buy for those looking for an in depth baseball experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightybrawler
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Mario super sluggers is just like every other Mario sports spin off. A shallow but surprisingly 
 fun 1 player mode, lots of mini games, and a Huge roster of characters. Let's start from there. 
 Including different color options, there are 71 different characters. The single player mode, or 
 CHALLENGE mode, is short and simple, with a lot of mini puzzles and decent mini games, although 
 they can be annoying if you don't know the controls. If you want to unlock all the characters first, 
 just like my little good for nothing little brother, then you should try this unchallenging, short, 
 but fun "campaign mode". It takes about 30 minutes to finish the main challenge, but if you want 
 to collect virtually EVERYTHING in the 1 player mode like I did, it will take at from 1 to 6 hours 
 depending on your skill level. The multiplayer is much more fun though. Did I also mention that 
 there are three control styles? The wii mote sideways, vertically, or the wii mote with the nunchuk. 
 The easiest for beginners is the wii mote in any direction without the nunchuk. To be honest, the 
 graphics in this game really impressed, when compared to most other wii games. The music is still 
 cheesy, and the umpire is pretty annoying. Overall though, this is still a really fun game, just 
 like all the other Mario sports spin offs. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
