-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mario Kart Wii
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/driving/mariokart/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge number of courses, including some of the most imaginative yet.
 Deeply integrated online play.
 Easy to jump into for players of any skill level.
 Fun and strategic trick system.
 Motorcycles provide a great alternative to go-karts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Nostalgia doesn't save most of the classic courses from being boring.
 Items are more unbalanced than ever, especially on new tracks.
 Battle modes are now exclusively team-based and timed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 25, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.2, 69 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 9,625 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Kart Racing
Date: Apr 27, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mario Kart Wii offers varied multiplayer and thoroughly integrated online modes that will keep you 
 coming back for more. 

  One may wonder why Nintendo would add motorcycles and dirt bikes to the game series that popularized, 
 if not invented, the genre of weapons-based go-kart racing. If you're one of the fans who balked 
 at the inclusion of two-wheeled vehicles, a midair stunt system, and motion controls, rest assured 
 that despite these changes, Mario Kart Wii is still very much the game that you have come to love 
 over the years. But even if you haven't been on the receiving end of a blue shell before, the extensive 
 multiplayer options, deeply integrated online functionality, multitude of controller schemes available, 
 and simple gameplay make this latest Mario Kart great fun and quite possibly the most accessible 
 one ever.  

  The main event of Mario Kart is the Grand Prix mode, which in this version pits you against 11 
 other computer-controlled competitors in a race to the finish on a four-course cup event. Grand 
 Prix lets you select from three different engine sizes/difficulty settings, and there are initially 
 four cups available, with four more that are unlockable by conquering their predecessors. This 
 makes for a total of 32 different courses, of which half are brand-new for the Wii and the rest 
 remastered versions of classic stages from previous games. This combination of both new and old 
 provides a solid mix of novelty and nostalgia, but overall, the stylistic differences highlight 
 two of the game's greatest flaws.  

           Waluigi Stadium is just one of the returning tracks, and unlike some of the other classic 
 tracks, it looks and plays better than ever before.      

  One of the major new features is the midair stunt system, which is activated by flicking the Wii 
 Remote at the very moment you leave the ground from a ramp-assisted jump, making your racer perform 
 an extreme-sports-style trick, such as a 360-degree spin, which upon landing rewards you with a 
 considerable speed boost. To facilitate this new mechanic, most new tracks include huge half-pipes, 
 rampant ramps, a multitude of moguls, and a plethora of pits, all of which are deliberately placed 
 to encourage extensive stunt work. While this new system itself isn't flawed and in fact injects 
 a great deal of fun and new strategy into the gameplay, its influence on course design has made 
 certain items even deadlier, as you're that much more likely to be blasted uncontrollably into 
 lava or other hazards due to how much time you spend in the air.  

  The second major track-related issue is that the classic courses, while they've never looked better, 
 are much less engaging than their counterparts. While the newer tracks are wild, crazy, and may 
 even change dynamically as Grumble Volcano or Dry Dry Ruins do, the older courses are their polar 
 opposite and are with few exceptions flat, empty, wide-open, and pit-free. Though you may find 
 the occasional ramp or half-pipe haphazardly bolted on to make it play a teeny bit better with 
 the stunt system, it generally seems like Nintendo deliberately decided to make you choose which 
 was more important: stunts or a slightly better item balance. This dichotomy of level design creates 
 a tenuous balance of play styles and is inelegant at best.  

  Mario Kart Wii includes the standard batch of items that players have come to expect, including 
 mushrooms, starmen, fake item boxes, shells, and more. New items include the thunder cloud, which 
 will automatically shrink you after several seconds unless you ram someone to pass it off onto 
 them; the POW block, which temporarily stuns everyone ahead of you and makes them drop their items; 
 and the mega mushroom, which makes you grow super large for a time to flatten other racers beneath 
 your tires. While it's pretty much a guarantee of the Mario Kart experience that no one can stay 
 in first forever, some of the more powerful items such as the blue shell, lightning bolt, and POW 
 block appear absurdly often. It's not uncommon to be hit by several of them in a row or even simultaneously 
 if you're in first place.  

  Much like Super Smash Bros. Brawl before it, Mario Kart Wii includes support for every possible 
 controller configuration under the sun. The game comes packaged with a steering wheel controller 
 shell that allows you to take full advantage of the Wii's motion-sensing abilities for what is 
 perhaps the best purely tilt-driven control scheme available on the market. Though it does take 
 quite a bit of time to get used to, the steering wheel feels quite natural and is very responsive. 
 However, if you're not exactly up to the task or prefer the touch of an analog stick, the Wii Remote 
 with Nunchuk, Classic Controller, or GameCube Controller schemes work just as well, with the directional 
 pads on the more traditional controllers nicely substituting for remote-waggling.  

           Bloopers are back and far more dangerous without the separate map screen of the DS version. 

  Though the fundamental Mario Kart experience has remained generally the same, there are several 
 changes that can greatly impact gameplay. Drifting mechanics in particular have changed dramatically, 
 both to make it easier to perform for beginners and as a countermeasure against the controversial 
 technique known as snaking (continuously mini-turbo boosting on a straightaway) . Mini-turbo boosts 
 are no longer performed by wiggling the analog stick. They are instead determined by the amount 
 of time spent in a drift, and in fact can't be done at all in automatic mode. The type of vehicle 
 you select also affects how drifting works, as go-karts have the ability to super mini-turbo boost 
 by drifting around a turn a bit longer than normal. Motorcycles can't do this, but they can pop 
 wheelies for extra speed on straightaways at the cost of impaired turning and increased susceptibility 
 to ramming attacks. It is worth mentioning that while snaking is still possible to perform -- especially 
 on wide and open avenues -- it is no longer as viable or even as helpful as it once was.     
 

   

  Besides Grand Prix, Mario Kart Wii also includes Balloon Battle and Coin Runners battle modes, 
 which take place on 10 separate arenalike tracks, five of which are new and the rest brought out 
 of retirement. Both of these modes have been changed to two team-only events, which is a disappointment 
 to say the least, but they are still fun and entertaining alternatives to standard racing. Split-screen 
 multiplayer allows up to three friends to join you in Grand Prix or battle. Using Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 Connect, you can play online matches with up to 12 total players with a maximum of two per system. 

           Four player split-screen can get wild and crazy, especially in the battle mode arenas. 

  Online integration is deeper than most other games on the Wii, and you can join matches of any 
 game type with friends as well as strangers from your local region or across the world. You have 
 a persistent score, which is either increased or decreased by your performances, and when seeking 
 out matches you're automatically place with like-skilled opponents revealed on a representation 
 of Earth that uses Miis to show the approximate locations of the competition. In the event that 
 you join a game already in progress, you will automatically be placed in a spectator mode until 
 the round finishes and it's go time. Communication between players online is still virtually nonexistent, 
 but while the ability to smack talk is a vital element of local multiplayer, it's not necessary 
 for facilitating matches.  

  The most interesting online feature of Mario Kart Wii is the Mario Kart Channel, which can either 
 be launched from within the game or saved directly into your Wii dashboard. Using WiiConnect24, 
 you can compare your best lap times against your friends' and the rest of the region or the world. 
 You can also download ghost replays to see firsthand how the top players pull off their times and 
 send your own ghosts to friends as a challenge, and if this channel has been installed in the Wii 
 menu, you can even do all of this without having your Mario Kart disc in the system.  

  Mario Kart Wii features a cast of 25 characters, over half of which must be unlocked through various 
 accomplishments in single- or multiplayer modes. The ability to race as one of your Miis is perhaps 
 the most notable new feature, but as great as putting Chuck Norris or Dr. Gregory House behind 
 the wheel is, some of the newcomers like Baby Daisy and Dry Bowser are underwhelming and disappointing. 
 Unlike Mario Kart: Double Dash, characters don't have items specific to them, but they do have 
 up to 12 personalized motorcycles and go-karts to select from to determine racing stats.  

  Graphically, there isn't very much of a leap between this latest Mario Kart and its predecessor 
 on the GameCube, but there are a lot of little details that add to the experience. Crowds of onlookers 
 are populated by your Miis, and posters or statues throughout the levels can feature them as well. 
 Lighting is vastly improved, and there are a number of nice environmental effects. Electricity 
 crackles around you after you've been blasted by a lightning bolt. However, there is a considerable 
 degradation of graphical quality in split-screen multiplayer -- especially with four players -- and 
 character models are unnaturally shiny.  

           Letting a baby participate in a go-kart race is bad enough, but putting her on a dirt 
 bike is just plain irresponsible.      

  The musical selections, just like the tracks, are a mixture of old and new, and item sound effects 
 are just as they have always been. Characters, as typical of Nintendo games, only say about four 
 or five different phrases, but these become incredibly grating over time because they say them 
 more often than ever before thanks to midair tricks.  

  Super Mario Kart may have originated way back in 1992, but 16 years later, Mario Kart Wii proves 
 that the franchise is just as relevant and fun as ever. The all-new stunt system, simplified drifting 
 mechanics, natural motion controls, and expansive online integration all come together in a single 
 package that, despite a few hiccups, is one of the best and most accessible experiences available 
 on the Nintendo Wii.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (615 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cheaster2008
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This game gets very boring; very fast. It's enjoyable from the start but then it starts to get 
 repetative. ALOT! It's basically 'The same old song and dance' every time. Sometimes mario kart 
 gets me really anoyed so I stop and play F-Zero N64. I have gotten suprisingly de-attached to thisgames. 
 I find playing runescape more fun than playin mario kart wii. Now that meens mario kart wii is 
 bad. Not only is the attention span to keep u occupied poor; but the graphics are not as good as 
 I expected either. No no, they are terrible. I think mario kart 64 is better than this. My life 
 of liking mario was wrecked by this game. Do not buy this game. U will regret it for the rest of 
 your lifes. If you want to play a racing game play F-Zero X (on N64) instead. 
  
  Rounding off comments
  
  Horse manure is more exiting than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theman132
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 12:30 pm PT
Review:  To start off, if you love racing Mario characters on karts and bikes down wacky and fun tracks, 
 you need to get this game any where that has it and buy it! But on the other hand, if you are a 
 stern person that hates cartoons, racing, fun, or great games, do not buy this game buy a book 
 and read. I don't know just don't buy this game. This game has lots of Mario characters like Mario, 
 princess peach, bowser, and the koopas. Plus many more to add to the fun you will be having racing 
 down the plenty, fun, crazy, and awesome tracks. This game has easy controls, so that anyone and 
 just pick up and play. This game has wonderful graphics and it has online play too which is amazing. 
 Plus this game is so fun that you will be playing this game for a long time. But this game has no 
 story which is bad. But you could say the cups for 50,100, 150, and mirror cc could count for the 
 story. The game is also sort of hard when you start the higher cc's. But you only need to play 
 the 50cc to get all the tracks, but then you can't get the other secret characters. But that doesn't 
 mean that this game is not a good family game, but far from it. That is why this game is a must 
 buy! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axman89
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  First off, I've never been much of a serious racer. I've always enjoyed games like Flatout and 
 Forza, but I've always found myself favoring Diddy Kong Racing and the Mario Kart series.
  
  Mario Kart Wii improves on the bullet-proof Mario racing formula in nearly every conceivable 
 way. There are more characters and karts than ever before (not to mention the addition of snazy 
 new motorcycles) , and the level design is nothing short of marvelous.
  
  Above all, MKWII's most valuable asset is it's motion control driving. Virtual steering adds a 
 wildly fun new element to Mario Kart, and the controls have never been easier. The included driving 
 wheel attachment for the Wii remote makes $100+ driving wheels for other systems seem ridiculous 
 and bulky. 
  
  I'll admit, the wacky cartoon feel of Mario Kart may not be fore everyone, (especially if you're 
 prone to motion sickness) but I find it much more interesting than Mario Kart's realistic racing 
 competitors.
  
  If for some reason you have a Wii, but don't have this game, I suggest you cleanse your soul in 
 Valhalla, and then visit your nearest video game retailer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Resimaniac
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2009 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart for the Wii is one of my favourite games ever. It's a must have title for your Wii and 
 It's worth the money.
  
  Let me tell you what I believe:
  
  Gameplay: [10/10]
  - You have 4 deferent ways to play the game! Pick one of those and be the best! (Wii wheel, classic 
 controller, Gamecube controller, Wii remote and Nunchuck combo) 
  - Playing with the Wii Wheel is fun and makes you feel the sense of speed!
  - Bikes are a really 
 good addition in the game
  
  
  Graphics: [9.5/10] 
  - Colourful and beautiful graphics.
  - Some Characters could have been a bit better especially 
 the Kongs
  - Like all Mario Kart games, Courses are very well designed 
  
  Online: [10/10]
  - One of the best online games on Wii 
  - You can add 30 Friends
  - No lag 
 problems
  
  Extras: [10/10]
  - 26 playable characters
  - 32 available courses
  - 6 Karts and 6 Bikes for each character
  
  OVERALL [10/10]
  
  Perfect
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negemite
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 8:01 pm PT
Review:  There's once a time where racing are just racing. When Super Mario Kart came into the picture in 
 1992, we knew something new is going to happen, it's a Racing Game with Mario and Karts that can 
 collect Weapons to attack your rivals. Ever since then there has been many sequels to the series 
 and clones that thrid-party developers made. Now something new is going to happen once again and 
 now it's for the Nintendo Wii.
  
  In this Mario Kart Game you get to select Single Player Mode, Muiltiplayer Mode, and the returning 
 Nintendo WiFi Connection Mode and now supports up to two players. Also there's something new and 
 that is the Mario Kart Channel, you can also put it on your Wii Menu as well. You can select tournaments 
 and post your fast times and downloading ghosts.
  
  Just like in every Mario Kart Game, there's a roster of Mario Characters and some of them are new 
 to the series. Of course you have to unlock all of them by doing certain races or cups. Also there's 
 a new unlockable Mii Character to put your Miis out on the race track. There are also a selection 
 of karts from Light Weighted to Heavy Weighted and from slow to fast, just like with the characters, 
 you have to unlock them. There are thrity-two tracks and eight battle mode tracks total in the 
 game.
  
  Just like in any other Mario Kart Game, you start out in last place and trying to get to the top. 
 You throw weapons to your rival who is neither behind or ahead of you, most of the time it will 
 be the ahead of you. The new additional to the game is the Stunts to gain more speed to your kart. 
 Overall the Mario Kart experience didn't get changed for veterans of the series.
  
  Mario Kart's graphic are normally nothing special, but for this game it's a improvement to Nintendo's 
 Mario Kart: Double Dash released back in 2003. The graphics is not as good as Super Mario Galaxy, 
 but it's still pretty good for Wii Owners to look at. But the graphics are the stepback from Namco's 
 Mario Kart: Arcade GP.
  
  Everyone knows in Mario Kart that they use neither remixes from Older Mario Games, or just new 
 sheets of music. This game's music is quite good for my ears. But too bad you can't put your own 
 soundtrack through the SD Card like in Nintendo's Excite Truck. 
  
  Feels like this game has so many sound effects. It's quite a nice feature for this Mario Kart Game. 
 Unlike most racing games we have been seeing on the Wii, Mario Kart sounds fantasic when it comes 
 to sound effects and such.
  
  Like in Nintendo's Mario Kart: Double Dash there are voice acting of every character in this game. 
 The voice acting are quite good compared to other games with voice acting. But sometimes makes 
 you want to mute the TV when your playing as the Mii.
  
  The controls are amazing, back in E3 2007 they annouced that this game will come with the Wii Wheel. 
 This wheel takes everything in Mario Kart Wii to the next level and it's totally free when you 
 buy it Mario Kart Wii. Also you can buy the Wii Wheel separate for about ten dollars. If you don't 
 like using the Wii Wheel, you can use the Wii Remote, Wii Remote With Nunchuck, Classic Controller 
 and the Nintendo Gamecube Controller.
  
  Even though Mario Kart Wii maybe aimed at casual gamers, but this game is great for veterans of 
 the series. Unlike other Wii Games besides the upcoming Wii Fit, you are forced to buy the product 
 with the Wheel inside it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidnick01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 7:37 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game, I didn't think there was anything better in the world.... that is, until 
 I opened the box. It was difficult to learn and get used to the controls, but with practice I got 
 better. The courses were difficult, at first, but better with time. Honestly, I really like this 
 edition of the classic series, but feel it could have been a bit better...... for instance:
  
  I like the tracks that they chose, but feel they are missing out on a market that could REALLY 
 make Nintendo some money..... DOWNLOADABLE content (such as different track packs, karts, modes 
 for multiplayer or online play) . Adding older, classic tracks that were not decided upon when adding 
 the 16 retro tracks (like GC-Baby Park) .
  
  Bringing back the CLASSIC battle mode, which made Mario Kart so popular on the SNES. The teamwork 
 it involved when you shared a Kart in Double Dash.
  
  All-in-all, it is a great game and I love playing it. I feel that Nintendo could have made it better, 
 and still can if they ever decide to do downloadable content. Hope they make another one for the 
 wii before the next console hits, but i doubt it..... so until the next generation of console hits, 
 we will all have to be happy and take what Nintendo gives us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hazza_M
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 9:05 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii comes with the intuitive Wii Wheel, which makes it easy for novices to compete against 
 veterans, so no one is left in the dust. And with a broadband hookup to Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, 
 players can compete with up to 11 other drivers from around the world for racing dominance. The 
 game includes 16 new courses and 16 classic courses from previous Mario Kart games. For the first 
 time ever, players have the option of racing with either karts or motorbikes. Players can also 
 hit the road as their personalized Mii caricatures in addition to the handful of classic Nintendo 
 characters found in the game. True to the series, the game features tons of racing, plenty of power-ups 
 and oodles of objects for players to use to slow down other drivers. And 10 battle arenas keep 
 players busy between trips around the circuit. Mario Kart Wii supports four different control options: 
 Wii Remote with or without the Wii Wheel, Wii Remote and Nunchuk controller combo, Classic Controller 
 and even the Nintendo GameCube controller. So there's bound to be a configuration that fits everyone's 
 style. Mario Kart Wii launches with a new channel added to the Wii Menu to enhance game play: The 
 Mario Kart Wii Channel. This new channel builds on the online community of Wii owners and lets 
 players compete in tournaments, check worldwide rankings, see when their friends are playing and 
 download ghost data. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sicteliko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 7:51 am PT
Review:  The first thing I need to say about this game is that it is the best game in the series, period. 
 It simply is the most complete and most entertaining Mario Kart game. New to the series are bikes 
 (which provide a nice new gameplay element) , customizable championships for multiplayer, and a 
 very solid online mode. The game features 16 new tracks, as well as 16 retro tracks that have been 
 recreated with new graphics.
  
  Graphics/Presentation (7/10) :
  Very nice and colorful. The tracks and their surroundings look very nice and bright, and the Wii 
 tracks have a very lively feeling to them. That cannot be said for the retro tracks however, because 
 some of them look really bland, especially the SNES and GBA tracks. Unfortunately, the graphics 
 haven't really improved over Double Dash!!, which was released for the Gamecube. Some of the textures 
 are still a bit ugly, and the backgrounds aren't always that beautiful. The game runs very smooth 
 though, except when you're playing with 3 or 4 players (the framerate is a bit lower then) . Some 
 of the tracks, especially Wario's Goldmine and Rainbow Road look amazing, and you will really enjoy 
 driving around them. The menu's are extremely basic, but they do the job, and IR is supported which 
 is a nice thing. The replays are also nice, but for some reason the thrill you're experiencing 
 when driving doesn't really translate to the replay. 
  
  Sound (8/10) :
  The music in Mario Kart can be described as classic Nintendo party game music. That certainly is 
 not a bad thing though, because the tunes are very nice and there are quite a few of them. The 
 sound effects are decent, and they can get very hectic when playing with a few friends. One very 
 annoying thing though, is the sound coming from the Wiimote speaker when you're about to be hit 
 by a shell. This is by far the most annoying sound in any Wii game. Especially in the more difficult 
 cups, or when playing online, you'll curse or scream when you'll hear that sound when you're driving 
 up front.
  
  Gameplay (10/10) :
  This is where the game really stands out. The gameplay is simply amazing. There are tons of karts 
 and bikes, and they all behave differently. Everyone quickly gets his or her favorite kart or bike, 
 and they really make a difference although they are quite balanced. The Wii-wheel is a nice addition, 
 though I'm not a fan of it myself. It does work nicely however, and with some practice, you are 
 just as fast (or even faster due to the more accurate steering) as some playing with normal controls. 
 Actually, when playing online, the fastest players usually play with the Wii wheel. Shaking the 
 Wii-mote gives you the ability to do stunts, and while this is extremely simple, it is a nice addition 
 and it certainly makes the races more fun.
  
  Lasting appeal (9/10) :
  You can play this game for years. Just as Super Smash Bros Brawl, there are quite a few modes and 
 it is an amazing game to play with friends. The gameplay is easy to learn, so everyone can join 
 the game easily and have a great time. The online mode is amazing, it is quite fast and very reliable. 
 
  There is one major thing that you should keep in mind though: the game can get extremely annoying. 
 As in previous Mario Kart titles, there are shells you can fire at your opponent. The red shells 
 are ok, but the blue shells are a major pain. It has happened too many times that I was driving 
 in 1st place, but I got hit by a blue shell (or even two shells in a row) in the last corner of 
 the last lapand I finished in the back of the field. Especially in the 150cc cups, this happens 
 a lot. This really is a shame because you need to win the cups to unlock all characters and bikes/karts. 
 For me, it was that annoying that I stopped playing the single player cups, so I haven't unlocked 
 everything in the game. 
  
  Overall (8,5/10) :
  If you like the previous Mario Kart titles, or when you're looking for a nice game on the Wii, 
 you should definitely get this game. It's one of the best games on the Wii. Due to the extremely 
 annoying CPU opponents, I'd highly recommend playing this game with friends or online, because 
 that is by far the best way to enjoy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fenris1124
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 9:07 am PT
Review:  This game isn't all too bad but it's not the best. After playing every other game in the series 
 I was a let down by the wii installment. But then again the game does have some really nice tracks 
 and karts. So I have made a simple list of the good and the bad.
  
  The Good
  -Some of the new courses are awesome.
  -The music is pleasant and truly unique.
  -Lots of un-lockable 
 karts and cool characters.
  -Online races on wifi are fun and enjoyable.
  -The new bikes add some new flavor to the series.
  -Great game to play with friends especially 
 since the races now features 12 racers rather than 8.
  
  The Bad
  -Some items are really cheap are will irritate you. Such as the lightning, pow box, and the blue 
 spiky shell to name a few.
  -The rubber band AI makes the game easier for beginners to learn, but for veteran players it makes 
 thing frustrating.
  -Poor choice of retro tracks that haven't gotten any better over the years.
  -The other modes 
 have degraded. For one you can not do teams on balloon battles anymore which takes out some fun, 
 and the courses are not too great.
  -Rainbow road is too easy and unimaginative. I know it is not really a problem but in past games 
 rainbow road was either the hardest (SNES) or must fun (DS) course in the game.
  
  The Verdict
  Mario kart wii has lots of thrills to keep you entertained if you don't play it 
 all day. Also if you have friends over a lot this game is great for multiplayer and pretty much 
 anyone can pick it up and play. If you are new to the series I would definitely pick it up for 
 a try. So if you want a game that you and some friends can play over the whole summer then I would 
 buy it, but keep in mind that it still has some flaws.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mage32
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2009 3:24 am PT
Review:  Hi this a mage32 review
  i am quite harsh when i comes to reviewing games so if i say anything is bad its terrible and if 
 i say its great you really should pick it up
  i am doing the review a few months after playing to get a better picture of replay and stuff
 
  and if i put anything wrong please correct me
  
  it doesnt have a story so i cant really put anything about the story, the only sort of form of 
 story is the cups but they dont really count since there is actually story mode i might drop it 
 a few ponits for that.
  
  the sound in this game is well done and while it doesnt have any voice overs t also doesnt have 
 any diologue so that doesnt matter, eachlevel has its own nique music some of them are repeats 
 from old games which is nice for a long time fan like me.
  
  the cup mode is the only single player part in the game apart from the online which i will get 
 onto later, anyway the cup mode is fun if a little rpetitive and it will make you want to play 
 it to get new characters so it is enjoyable but you wont spend that much time on it unless you 
 want max scores which i did so it was fun.
  
  the controls work well i didnt think i can pick anything wrong with it becuase it is flawless.
 
  
  the online this is the meat if the game and where i spent most of time and still do play on it, 
 it is lag free but you do sometimes get disconnected which can be anooying and the best part is 
 its free and you can play with anyone making it even better and also there are regular competitions 
 to take part on which is fun and for each online match you play you can win or lose ponits you 
 start on 5000 and say if you get first place you get another 100 but come last and you lose 100 
 its a neat system ad works well.
  
  the offline multiplayer
  i personally didnt use it that much but when friends come over it can be fun and you have acess 
 to a large amount of gameplay options.
  
  overall i would say to get this game and while its not perfect it is close and you can play this 
 game over and over while only getting slighlty annoyed with the same nature of the game such as 
 similar levels but each one does feel a little unique and getting levels from past consoles is 
 a great idea i just wished they had more.
  
  there is a great deal of unlockable content such as characters and vehicles which is nice and some 
 require alot of time and patience and there is alot to enjoy since there are mulitple modes and 
 its hard to describe just the rush you get when you winn a race you couldnt do for a while and 
 there is something for everyone in this game since for casual gamers there are normal races and 
 for hardcore gamers wanting loads of hours out of the game there is unlockable content and scores 
 to beat so i do say buy it and hope you have fun on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergt1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 3:37 pm PT
Review:  The game Mario Kart Wii is okay to buy. Read the following below to see
  my different category (or what should I say..) of ratings.
  
  
  Graphic (8 out of 10) I would 
 rate the graphic 8 out of 10 because when you keep start to play it, you'll see the real graphic 
 of the game. Should I say that 
  it becomes kind of dull in some areas.
  
  Price (7 out of 10) I would rate the price 7 out of 10 because the price is affordable but I wished 
 that the price would be lower because my mom
  only lets me buy presents that are $60 or less and if I buy something that 
  costs $45, I only 
 get $15 back. My mom rounds the money.
  
  Fun fo the Game (7.5 out of 10) I rate the game itself 7.5 out of 10 because
  this story has no 
 storyline but you get to move teh handle and the character
  will move the way you want it to move. Isn't that awesome just to think about
  it?
  
  Well, 
 that was my review about the game: Mario Kart Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foomf11
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 2, 2009 12:04 pm PT
Review:  When Mario Kart for the nintendo Wii came out on April 27th, 2008, it was expected to be one of 
 the most successful mario games ever sold. And it was. However, in my opinion, the mario games 
 that were made in the 80's are a better use of your time. The controls are tough, the graphics 
 are too colorful, and, of course, the characters are annoying. Luckily, this game has a bit of 
 light. The gameplay will get your attention for a while, and for the most part, the price is fair 
 enough. The chances are you disagree with this review. You can, but keep in mind i have 3 gaming 
 systems, and i have been playing video games for over 10 years. Just saying. Well, that's it for 
 2day gaming fans. I will write again very  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofreak156
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart has an amazing history. All of them are great. mario Kart Wii is no exepction. The wiiwheel 
 is a great addition to the game. Manuel transmission is kind of confusing though. The graphics are 
 okay. Multiplayer is great. But al of that is reedemed by the Online play. The only thing is that 
 the multiplayer is not that good online. There are sixteen new courses. There are also sixteen re-mastered 
 tracks from the older versions of the game. Also Battle mode is great because there are more new 
 wii courses. And there are some old courses from older games. There are a wide selection of characters 
 in the game. the new addition of the motor bike made the game better with the whellies. Also trikkage 
 is new and tricks can give you that extra speed boost right when you need it. Allthough the game 
 is aimed towardthe younger and the noobish. It is still a great family game and for people of all 
 ages to have fun playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auronlb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 9:50 pm PT
Review:  yes i went there one of the best racing games of all time you may be saying "you suck im outa here" 
 but hold up this game IS one of the best racing games out there mario got bored killing snake in 
 super smash bros brawl and went toyko drift on everyone!! bsides that this game is kinda like the 
 gamecube one but still new stuff this game has been remasterd with new colors and etc. to make 
 you hypnotised 0.0 theres alot of people to be good cars being miis are always fun like my wii 
 has bevis and butthead X] other than that the online play is smooth sailing almost always the challenges 
 are fun to get records on owning ppl online is always a kick to the giggle bone and theres alot 
 more to do than that like time trials on every corse as you know comptions to enter in and cars 
 and bikes to unlock but playing 3 to 4 players in your house doesnt get old for quite some time 
 plus power ups as you know makes this game a silly raceing game, now the bad thing is if your looking 
 for a real racing game try (if you have a ps2) gran tourismo 4 that game is pimpin awesome but 
 if you want a silly racing game this is the one for you and theres also a free steering wheel (how 
 generis!) but over all on my review i give it a 9.5.... outa 10 thats all for now if you have anything 
 you wanna say to me email me a ap. vikings@yahoo. com ill catch you later! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mesc420
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is an awesome game. The racing is classic Mario Kart, except the AI is brutal when 
 you're leading a race. Thats really my only complaint about the game. Expect to get your butt handed 
 to you regularly at first. The depth of MKWii is amazing and its sure to keep you playing for a 
 long time. There are 3 classes to pick from, 50cc, 100cc, and 150cc. 50cc is very easy,100cc is 
 medium, and 150cc is hard. 150cc can be very challenging at times, and frustrating at others. But 
 its still a lot of fun trying to unlock everything. There are so many characters, karts, and bikes 
 to unlock its crazy. The wii wheel is cool as well, It works great and is easy to adjust to. You 
 can use the wii wheel, the wiimote and nunchuk, the classic controller, or a Gamecbe controller, so 
 you're sure to find something to fit your style. As far as online goes its great as well, I have'nt 
 noticed any lag or anything, so that always good. This is a must own if you have a Wii. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuryX-4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Well, Mario Kart Wii is a good game, you can play by yourself or play 4 players. It features a 
 Wi-Fi where you can play 12 players or less around the world. It was a good game but there are 
 some things that changed.
  
  Mario Kart Wii has added a Wii Wheel, where you can attach the Wii Remote to Wii Wheel, but if 
 your not interested of Wii Wheel because there is problem or whatever, you can play the GC controller, 
 the Wii Classic Control or something, or you can play Wii Remote with the Wii Nunchuk attached.
 
  
  There are 16 new tracks and 16 old tracks from the old games from the Mario Kart. Nintendo added 
 a trick, if you fly from the ramp or whatever. Mario Kart Wii added a new karts, but for fun, you 
 can play with the bike or motorcycle. You can play alot of characters from the old ones or the 
 new ones, like Baby Daisy, Dry Bowser, Rosalina, and Funky Kong (The 4 new characters, but I might 
 forgot, You have to unlock them too) . You can play Grand Prix, some CC only uses kart while others 
 uses bikes only or both. Theres also a Mario Kart Channel where you can do the tournament, add 
 a friend, check the records, and more.
  
  It maybe the awesome game, there are some few problems. If you play the Grand Prix, CPU might get 
 challenging and mostly gets annoying. When you play 1 or 2 players, the animations look smooth, 
 but when you play 3 or 4 players, the animations look kinda slow. Items are a problem, there supposed 
 to be balanced, but it's unbalance, like Blue Shells, there annoying when they use too much. The 
 Wi-Fi has a few problems. Whenever they fall down, they come back quickly. Its probably something 
 that made it problem. The VR Ratings are stupid, they decrease quickly if you have alot of VR Rating 
 points and increase slowly if you have alot of VR Rating points or you last. (But if you have a 
 low VR Rating, they increase quickly of your first or something) 
  
  Overall, its a must buy. Even though there there are less problem, it still be a must buy. That's 
 all I can say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 10:07 am PT
Review:  Well Mario Kart Wii is an excellent games for your system.
  
  ~Graphics:
  Mario Kart Wii has very good graphics, but they can be improved. However, if you buy the component 
 cable and play this game at 480p you will be fascinated.
  
  ~Controls:
  This game is one of the best for all kind of players. You can use 5 different control options:
 
  -Wiimote only
  -Wiimote + Nunchuck
  -Wiimote+Wii wheel
  -Classic Controller
  -Nintendo GameCube Controller
  
  ~Sound:
  Well, the sound is very exciting. Especially, when 
 you use the Wiimote, you can hear almost EVERYTHING from the Wiimote built-in speaker
  
  ~Lasting appeal:
  Mario Kart Wii is a game which can't be boring. You can play this game for 
 years without getting bored.
  
  ~Score:
  Graphics: 9.0
  Sound: 9.0
  Gameplay 10
  Lasting appeal: 9.5
  
  by Nick 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 5:08 am PT
Review:  Mario has always been a classic character battling with his rivals Luigi and Sonic the Hedgehog. 
 There have been loads of games released for various platforms. Mario has made a few appearances 
 on the Wii before in Mario Kart 64, Mario Galaxy, Mario strikers charge, Mario and Sonic at the 
 Olympic games and more... Mario Kart Wii is a great game for the family, Its interactive fun and 
 you can easily play it with your grandparents! Its really simple controls. Half of the controls 
 is the interactiviity by steering the kart or car in the game by using your hands to tilt the Wii 
 remote from side-to-side. There 32 tracks, 6 vehicles for each character and loads of characters 
 that can be unlocked. You can set up profiles so that each member in the family can have their 
 own profile with their own progress. Now theres also different game modes such as battles where 
 you go around different arenas, and try and eliminate other vehicles. Each vehicle has three lives. 
 There are loads of arenas as well which is great. Theres also ones for collecting coins which is 
 fun as well. And on every race and mode whether its a time trial, cup, multiplayer race or battle 
 you can go in teams with the other members of the family in yours or the opposite team. You can 
 go in teams in single player events too. Mario Kart Wii is paxked with loads of great features 
 as well as the online feature where you can play friends and relatives around the word. Thers stunts, 
 weapons and obstacles you can set for other drivers as you race and battle it out over the world 
 to gain that top place in the leaderboards. Also, you can vote for what track you want online to 
 be next which is good. And you can also download Mario Kart channel which gives you all your rankings 
 and stats as you stack them up against the rest of the world. You can compare race records as well 
 on the Mario Kart channel. Theres so much to say about this game. Its fantastic and is a great 
 classic which has been brought back in a new improved way which has made it one of the most popular 
 Wii games of all time. Its an amazing game that will entertain you until the next-gen console comes 
 out. Its that good. Its fantastic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: farqual1988
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:06 am PT
Review:  When Nintendo said there was going to be a wheel with Mario Kart Wii, I knew straight away it was 
 going to be a great game. The controls should be the basis on which all driving games follow. Sure, 
 it's not for everyone, but I think they are amazing. 
  
  First, the rest of the game. The graphics are nice, usual cartoony Mario and friends, but they've 
 been greatly improved from the glory days of Mario Kart 64. The menus are clean and easy to use. 
 They look polished. The sound and music is great and more importantly won't annoy the crap out 
 of you after a few plays (or hundreds of plays as the case may be) .
  
  Onto the gameplay. The courses sometimes have huge variations, and are really fun to play through. 
 There's a massive amount of characters and karts to unlock which increases it's lastability. The 
 increase to twelve players in a race makes the courses even more hectic, especially at the faster 
 speeds. Multi-player both on the Internet and in your own home is competitive and compelling. 
 
  
  But the controls are brilliant. Shove your remote into the middle of the wheel and you immediately 
 feel comfortably holding it. Not only that but you actually moe it to perform tricks, which I admit 
 gets repetitive at times, but still it's good to see your character do it's own unique animation.
 
  
  Overall, it's a game which you have to own for Wii. It's not going to be up there with the serious 
 games of being action packed and graphically stunning. That's not what it's about. It's just plain, 
 old-fashioned fun which will give you plenty of happy moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNunnster
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 10:28 am PT
Review:  So I've been playing Mario Kart since I was 5-ish and my dad got an N64. Made my life, let me tell 
 you. So I've basically grown up with this series and it hasn't dissapointed me yet. 
  
  The newest installation has some new things that rock and some new things that don't... and a noticeable 
 lack of the team-up mechanic from Double Dash. (Seriously, why would you take that away, now my 
 sister won't play with me!)
  
  Things I like:
  -It's purty. (For the Wii, which isn't saying very much, but the colors pop and the framerate is 
 super smooth.)
  -There are a ton of characters to unlock as well as plenty of karts/bikes to master.
  -The bikes 
 themselves: They are pretty cool and handle slightly differently, it's a fun addition but not a 
 big deal
  -The new tracks are really creative and its awesome to have more people per race.
  -ONLINE! It 
 works really well and the globe thing when it is searching for players is nifty. I like that you 
 can take a friend online with you too. (Hey guys... why would you not have the double-dash feature 
 there... are you slow?)
  
  Things I don't:
  -Lack of the two-people-per-kart thing, but I've said that like 5 times already.
  -The game is 
 REALLY easy and it doesn't take long to play through the 16 new tracks.
  -Most of the 16 re-done tracks are not that fun, which makes me kinda sad...
  -I feel like sometimes 
 the feeling of speed is just lacking, like I'm hardly moving at all but nobody is catching up with 
 me
  -Cheap losses due to a red turtle shell followed by a blue turtle shell followed by some guy as 
 Bullet Bill and then someone drops a banana right in front of you. I cried.
  
  Overall, this game is really fun, especially with multiplayer. The music is upbeat, the controls 
 are solid (use the nunchuk... the wheel just isn't right) , and it is sure to entertain for quite 
 some time. Now all I want is a sequel to Mario Kart DS (as in another for the DS) and we'll be 
 all set! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessmaster13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I'm going to organize this review into four parts. The first being single player, then multiplayer, 
 then online, then an overall description. 
  
  Single Player Aspect
  The single player aspect is one of a typical Mario Kart game. You race in four different grand 
 prixs which have 32 races. There is 50cc, the easiest; 100cc, a little harder; 150cc, difficult; 
 and 150cc Mirror, which can be very frustrating at times. The AI in these games can be very aggravating 
 because they travel in a pack, so to speak. Once you mess up, thats it. You're in last place now. 
 One more thing: in the 50cc races you can use only karts, the 100cc you can use only bikes, and 
 in 150cc and Mirror you can use karts and bikes.
  
  Multiplayer
  The multiplayer is a whole lot more fun then the single player adventure. There is a huge character 
 roster in this game, and you can choose from 32 different courses. All I can say is that the multiplayer 
 is best expeirienced locally.
  
  Online
  The online multiplayer is fun. You can use your Mii if you want to. When you win races or battles, 
 you earn VR. VR is basically a points system that ranks you. There is virtually no lag whatsoever.
 
  
  Overall
  Overall, it is a must-buy for the Wii. Just make sure to get extra Wii Wheels! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 3:21 pm PT
Review:  It was a matter of time before Mario Kart on the wii was released.
  It doesn't disapoint: it's a lot better then the gamecube's Double Dash.
  There are 32 courses, 
 16 totally new, the others from all previous mario karts. Loads of characters, half of which you 
 have to unlock. There's online gameplay, you can race on motorbikes if you like and there are some 
 new items.
  The gameplay is more frantic then ever before, but in the end it still comes down to your driving 
 skills. You can use a "wii-wheel" (which is the wii-mote held horizontally in a wheel-like casing) 
 or a classic or gamecube controller. Both work fine. With the wheel you can do some air-manoeuvres 
 for extra boosts.
  The only criticism i can think of is the selection of tracks which doesn't include some personal 
 favorites of mine like Ribbon Road, Wario Colosseum and Banshee's Boardwalk.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobboElRobbo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 8:18 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite game for the Wii. It isn't too hard, and it isn't too easy. The difficulty 
 is perfect. There are alot of tracks to race on, most which are unique and great. The only annoying 
 track to me is Moonview Highway, getting ran over again and again is frustrating. The coolest addition 
 to the game are bikes, which pretty much cancel out karts in this game.
  
  Basically, the object of the game is to get 1st place in each race (obviously) . You have a variety 
 of weapons at your disposal, both offensive and defensive, that are necessary to win the race. 
 You get them by crashing into shiny blocks throughout the track. There are defensive items, like 
 banana peels, and offensive items, like turtle shells. The further behind you are in a race, that 
 better items you get thus helping you catch up.
  
  There are also alot of characters to unlock, by beating Grand Prix races and by racing staff time 
 trial ghosts. Lots of new karts and bikes to unlock as well.
  
  The online play is also amazing. No lag. There is a nice ranking system as well, the more you win, 
 the more "VR" points you get. The higher your VR, the harder it becomes to get it higher, there 
 will be a point where if you get 2nd, you will lose VR.
  
  The graphics are great for a Wii game, and they give you the perfect Mario feeling.
  
  The 
 only problems I have with the game is that:
  
  -Karts are underpowered
  -No method of communication on WiFi races
  -No way to change vehicles/characters during WiFi, 
 you have to disconnect and reconnect and join a whole new race
  -Wii Wheel sucks... using the remote/nunchuk combo is 10 times better
  
  
  Great game, it 
 is fun for everyone who plays, go out and buy it if you own a Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kistasha1407
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 7:28 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: A+
  Controls: A
  Music: B
  Online: A+
  Variety: A++++
  Replay Value: A
  
  I love a game that has variety and this game has plenty of it. You have so many characters 
 and veichles to choose from and even have the choice of whether you want a motor bike or a plain 
 kart. Second while Super Smash Bros Brawl online play was a huge dissapointment, the online play 
 for this game is nearly flawless. Sure there are a bit of bugs in it but still it doesn't keep 
 you from playing. Third the controls are smooth and once again there is a variety of controls. 
 Personally I like to use a wii wheel because it is so helpful and useful. I don't know why people 
 hate it. It makes the game more comforatable to play. Fourth the gameplay is fun and the replay 
 value is huge. Once again variety plays in this becasue there are so many courses to choose from 
 including old courses which I don't mind either because I love the N64 bowsers castle or the GC 
 DK mountain. Personally my favorite is Rainbow Road since there are alot of turns and jumps you 
 can make which can also speed you up if you do tricks or power turns. Overall I give this game 
 a 10/10. If you like racing party games than this is the ultimate game for you ^____^
  
  -Samura13. deviantart. com
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightsaber6
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Mariokart wii in my opinion is the best mariokart game that nintendo has made so far. Mariokart 
 wii comes with the wii wheel although you dont have to use the wii wheel. You can use the wii romote 
 and numchuck and the classic controler and even a gamecube controller. Mariokart wii has new items 
 such as the super mushroom ,bullet bill and the lighting cloud. There are tons of new carts to choose 
 from depending on what type your charecter you choose is. There are new charecters in mariokart 
 now like cranky kong and dry boswer. You can even use your miis in the races too. There are new tracks 
 and old one from way back to the NES. There are new carts that you can unlock too like the blue 
 falcon from f-zero. You can even play on nintendo wifi and play ethier battles or racing to up to 
 12 people on wifi. Mariokart wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 05mjones
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 9:01 am PT
Review:  This game is plain fun and gripping just like the normal Nintendo offerings such as Super Smash 
 Bros Brawl. First of all the vast range of unlockables suh as characters and new bikes and karts 
 create a sort of storyline as you attempt to win all the Grand Prix's and break all the time trial 
 records. There is a vast range of characters in the game from Mario to Dry Bowser to Koopa Troopa 
 . It also is a great game for multiplayer as you challenge your friends. There is also online capabilities 
 where you can also have a guest and challenge your friends who also have the game. In addition 
 to this there are balloon battles and coin runners where you attempt to put in a good performance 
 for you team. Overall, i would class this game as a must have and would recommend it to anyone 
 who owns a Nintendo Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CChannel
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This game could possibly beat all other racing games mainly because of its multi player options 
 including wifi that barely ever lags. And im not lying i have at times very weak internet and this 
 games works fine. Now the only bad thing i can say about this game would be the hackers that play 
 on line. I know its fun to hack but i mean theres so many and it ruins online play alot. So the 
 final score would be 10 no doubt at all, this game provides a wonderful racing experience for all 
 ages.
  
  Now some of this game is repetitive at times but overall what would you expect its a racing game 
 not an adventure so if your whining about how repetitive it is your probably retarded, but anyways 
 there is a whopping 45 levels, and there all very very fun and challenging in there own ways. This 
 game even has levels that are from previous games, including Mario Kart 64, Mario Kart DS etc... 
 so ya see this is a winner for its genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stalpno
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Warning i am a random person and if you dont like random reveiws then dont read but if you like 
 wacky humour like really wacky you will enjoy this.
  
  This game has been popular ever since nintendo thought of doing something other than smashing mario's 
 skull into bricks. When you think about it this has been the series which made mario someone other 
 than a peach fanatic and a bowser hater and now seems like a real person who actually belives in 
 fun other than saveing the world.
  
  first off there are the characters and they have a wide range to choose from infact so wide that 
 there are more characters than toenails belonging to a deformed catapillar. They have all your 
 favourites like mario, yoshi and dk and new ones like funkey kong, dry bowser, rosalina and baby 
 luigi. 
  
  Now I have loved mario mario kart ever since i got a nintendo 64 7-8 years ago and amazingly it 
 still runs when it should have broken 6 years ago but the first game i got was mario kart 64 and 
 i was hooked like diddy kong on steriods. I loved the items and the characters and then 3 years 
 ago i got a ds with mario kart ds and i was so happy with the improvements and now im even more 
 happy with mario kart wii.
  
  Mario kart wii has many new items like mega mushrooms which enlarge you and make you faster and 
 able to squish opponents. infach you would almost swear that baby daisy is a pancake and run up 
 to eat her until you finaly figue whe you are a meter away that it isnt a pancake and she needs 
 medical atention.
  
  also they have 16 new levels and 16 old ones which if you are a retro gamer will be fun to do your 
 improvered oldies and if you are a weirdo who has been living on pluto eating rocks then you will 
 think the new ones are the coolest and the new ones are very well done. They also have the new 
 rainbow road and if you are new you will think it is physically impossible until you find u can 
 go really slow but then you will be lapped 4 times before you even reach the first jump!
  
  The title screen doesnt give you much to choose from u would have more choices for food in a 1 
 star hotel. you can look at records, do single player, multiplayer, online or online channel and 
 which ever one you pick it will take time to load so if you pick the wrong thing too bad you have 
 just wasted 5 second of your life like you do if you go on wii play cause if you are smart it will 
 be as long as you are on it!
  
  in single player you can do GP, battle, verses mode and time trials and all those are fun but online 
 play is the best cause you an race people from around the world and also online there is very little 
 lag infact the fastest online gameplay i have.
  
  This has good multiplayer to so you can have three mates over to have a shindg until u find out 
 u are out of potatoe salad the you are sad so u just play this with out potato salad and pwns your 
 friends without lifting a finger!
  
  This is a great game so hop out of te rock you have been living under forever and buy this wacky 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karimcheese
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I'll try to keep this short. Simply put, Mario Kart Wii is just another MK but with online play, 
 something that should have been available for Double Dash. It's not good, its not bad, its just 
 the same old Mario Kart we get every console cycle. Don 't get me wrong, I enjoy playing this game, 
 but in my opinion Mario Kart DS is way better than this because it is portable and has the Wi-Fi. 
 Not to mention that it has better retro tracks than the Wii version. Oh and the wheel peripheral, 
 don't even bother its just another gimmick to coax casual consumers into buying the game. Mario 
 Kart 64 will always be my favorite, and then Super Mario Kart at close second. Hopefully Nintendo 
 will put a little more time, effort, and love into the next MK because the formula is just getting 
 stale at this point! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenh6696
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 2:44 am PT
Review:  This version of Mario Kart is very alike the DS version, which I honestly prefer, because of the 
 multiplayer. This version of Mario Kart has new levels, and motorcycles, but the baloon battle 
 has become boring, and you need to use the internet to play with other people around the world, 
 which I can't because my internet has problems. If you're going to buy it, I suggest you to use 
 Luigi and Classic Dragster, then when you've gone pro, use Bowser plus a easy to control car, which 
 ensures you a quick acceleration and heaviness, which can be useful for pushing other players. 
 I like Rainbow road, and and the new Bowser Castle because it's kinda exciting.
  also, for people who like high reesolution games, this is NOT for you. I'd suggest you go for Forza 
 Motorsport 2, and stuff like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchef56
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 10:55 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is another great game. I've played Mario Kart all my life, and this one is just 
 as good as the others. The multiplayer is suprisingly great. There's never been a lag as far as 
 I've noticed, and the rankign system is well made as well. The single-player is alright. Of course, 
 as just like all the other Mario Karts, it is way too easy. I can get gold in all the cups from 
 50cc to extra with no problem. But they implemented something that gives somewhat of an extra challenge, 
 which is getting the star ranking, from 1 to 3, in all the cups, which is quite hard. But for generally 
 playing, it is too easy. I was also disappointed that they still haven't put in 4-player grand 
 prix, and even removed 2-player prix. I know that there's that multiplayer kind-of championship 
 play, but there's just somthing that I didn't really like about it. There's lots of characters, 
 lots of karts and bikes, there all pretty cool, exept for the smaller characters karts. They seem 
 to be all made for younger players, which this game is really good for that age group, but Nintendo 
 needs to realize that they have some older players playing this. Like, I won't pick my favorite 
 character, Toad, because of the horrible selection of smaller karts. But in other words, this game 
 is great for parties of 4, younger kids, and is a blast to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingBoo305
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I recently bought this game expecting it to be like the other Mario Kart games in the series. BUT 
 when i played it, i would not come off it. Admitingly the single player is a bit dry but the online 
 multiplayer on it, couldn't have been better.
  
  The online multiplayer lets you play with up to 12 people including yourself (of course) and you 
 all vote for a track, which is then selected at random. The game runs so smoothly online and you 
 get so involved in it that you lose all track of time. Also i think people get a little bit more 
 experience when they know they are facing a real person who they dont know (or do know if you are 
 on the friends online)
  
  I payed 30 for this game and thought it was a bit expensive, but i do not regret it. The Wii Wheel 
 on the other hand is a very unique and simple tool which allows you to feel like your in the drivers 
 seat. Personally i would recommend the remote and nunchuck, because the Wii Wheel is a lot of fun, 
 but if you want to actually win a race, i suggest not using it, but its up to you.
  
  Anyway the single player mode. It is just like any other single played mode on mario kart, do the 
 grand prix's and unlock new people. There is only one person however that you can not unlock, called 
 Rosalina, off of super mario galaxy. And the way you unlock her is by having a super mario galaxy 
 file on your nintendo wii then completing 50 races, or getting a star in all the 150cc mirror mode 
 cups.
  
  Anyway that is my review, hope you found it helpful and i hope you purchase this game as it is 
 one of the best wii games ever, besides super smash bros brawl.
  
  By the way, if you would like a race then leave me a messege and i will try and get back to you 
 as soon as possible with my mario kart wii friend code.
  
  Happy Karting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorafan62
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2009 4:31 am PT
Review:  This game is so fun and a good mother-son bonding time. (trust me)
  but anyway this game is like all the other Mario cart game but this time you got a wheel.
  Although 
 most people will like remote and numb chuck style better.
  This is probably one of the best wii games out.
  And on wi-fi i forgot my brother wasn't right 
 next to me on the race track but it can be a bit slow while finding people to race.
  But the game play
  the internet
  the new power ups
  are all good.
  But maybe they should 
 have more new tracks not ones form previous games.
  And not enough tracks more baby more.
  But you will very much enjoy the game with all it offers in one disk.
  But a think you will hate 
 is that when your in first place you get it by a turtle shell etc. for doing good.
  But Nintendo out did their selfs again with an almost perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2009 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Before putting this game into my Wii, it was crazy to think that Mario Kart has been around for 
 around 16 years. Ever since the days of the SNES, gamers have had the opportunity to put their 
 favorite Nintendo charaters in a go-kart and race them around while pelting each other with items. 
 As the years (and sequals) have come and gone, Mario Kart for the Wii sticks to that same formula 
 that has worked for years. Nintendo aims to provide you with a fun, multi-player racing game while 
 giving you a ton of unlockables in the usual frustrating and irritating single-player game. In 
 the end, the fun of the game is really all that's important and you will be happy to know that 
 hasn't changed with this release. Mario Kart is still fun.
  
  If you have played and of the past Mario Kart games, you will know how to play this one. The big 
 difference is that this is obviously on the Wii so the controls are going to be a bit different. 
 Just about every control scheme you could imagine is covered here, so even if you don't have multiple 
 'wheel-shells' to use (the game only comes with one) , your friends can still play using the other 
 control options. I did find it most fun to play with the wheel, however.
  
  If only the wheel could save me from the insanely irriating AI characters in the single-player 
 mode. Just like in past Nintendo games that focus on the multi-player (cough.... Mario Party) , the 
 single-player game is here to unlock all the stuff in the game. It's really as simple as that. 
 Because if it didn't serve that purpose, I highly doubt anyone would give the game the time of 
 day unless they were playing it online or with other people locally. One of my biggest pet-peeves 
 in gaming (right behind lack of proper checkpoints in games) is the old "rubber band AI" and Mario 
 Kart is one of the worst offenders I have seen in years. I just got done playing a race where I 
 literally got hit with three big-time power-ups in three seconds all before I was just about to 
 win a race.
  
  The anger that will flow out of you when this happens may shock people around you. My girfriend 
 sounds like a drunken sailor while playing this game and yelling at my TV. It gets to a point where 
 you don't even want to be in first place towards the end of a race because you know that if you 
 are, you are going to get bombarded by cheap hits. Now while this may not be new to fans of the 
 series, this is a problem that should have been taken care of long ago. Nothing is more frustrating 
 than getting knocked back to 8th place from 1st when you are on the way to winning a race because 
 the CPU just decides to play unfair catch-up. Like I said, if you didn't have to play the single-player 
 to unlock stuff, I wouldn't go near it with a ten foot pole. And even now, I tend to take it in 
 very small spurts for fear I might chuck my wheel into my TV.
  
  My only other complaint with the game comes from the actual power-ups themselves. There are some 
 serious balancing issues here and the fact that you only get certain power-ups depending on what 
 position you are currently in is even more irritating when you combine it with the AI problems 
 I mentioned before. It's not as bad when you play the game online, but it's still a problem. Certain 
 items are game-changers and they pop-up much too frequently. And I hate the fact that I am essentially 
 punished for driving well and being in first place by getting another lousy bananna peel item. 
 I know the whole point is to make every race close and make it feel that even if you are in last 
 place, you can have a shot at coming back..... but, it's very irritating the better you get at the 
 game and you have an earned win taken away from you because of un-balanced power-ups.
  
  Other than those two complaints, the game is still fun to play. Sure the whole code trading thing 
 to get into an online game with friends is irritating and WAY more trouble than it has to be, but 
 that is Nintendo's fault, not Mario Kart's. The game is very fun to play in multiplayer locally 
 or online. There is a points ranking system that is rather addicting and there is vitrually no 
 lag at all. As any fan of the series knows, this game is best played with other people and if you 
 don't intend to play it that way (for some reason) , then don't bother with this game.
  
  There are 32 tracks here, but only half of them are new. There are a bunch of characters, karts, 
 and now there are even motorcycles. Like I mentioned before, there is a TON of stuff to unlock 
 (if you can manage to stay sane playing the single-player) , so it's fun to see what character/kart 
 combo works best for you.
  
  The game looks nice for a Wii game, but it's nothing that will blow you away. The same goes for 
 the music and sound effects. Not much about the presentation hasn't been done before, but it looks 
 slightly nicer due to it being on the Wii instead of Nintendo's older systems. Like the gameplay, 
 Nintendo took the "if it aint broke, don't fix it" mentality that has held this series up for years. 
 It's a safe route to take with a franchise that sells like hot-cakes with every release. I would 
 normally rip a company for doing that, but where else is Mario Kart really going to go? At least 
 you know what to expect going in: a fun racing game that is a blast to play with other people. 
 It's really as simple as that. If you are a fan of this series, you will have either picked this 
 game up already or are probably planning on doing so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brenden403
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2009 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is a really solid game. The controles are fun with the Wii wheel letting you turn 
 the wheel like your driving and do flips and wheelies, but for those really hardcore gamecube fans 
 you can use the gamecube controler. 
  
  It has a big roster of characters and vehicles to choose from. You can even ride a motercycle in 
 this one.
  
  Now that it is on the wii you can play online. Online play is unfamilior territory for Nintendo 
 and it seems like they try their best at it. Unfortunately it usually isn't that fun unless you 
 play with friends. It does have some perks though. A skill system lets you gain or lose skill points 
 depending on how good you do. It is also fun to play online with friends. Even so, it's online 
 doesn't match up to Super Smash Bros. Brawl.
  
  They introduce a drivers licence system that lets the player sighn in on a drivers licence that 
 they created. The licence saves statistics like how many times you've come first and what trophy 
 you got on each cup. Racing is always fun and there's lots of cups and classic raceways to drive 
 on. About have of wich is ones they brough back from previous games. It's awesome to see your favourite 
 old tracks for the first bit but they usually get boring and old afterwards.
  
  Pros
  -Fun controles
  -big roster
  -licence system is cool
  -you can drive a motercycle
  
  
 Cons
  -dissapointing online play
  -old feel makes the game a bit more boring after a while
  
  Overall, this is a great game that 
 every Wii owner should have. I give Mario Kart Wii
  
  Gameplay: 17/20
  Story: N/A
  Graphics/sound: 8/10
  Controles: 9/10
  Moneys worth: 3.5/5
  
  Overall 83%
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyrox21
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2009 6:31 am PT
Review:  This is a game made of pure awesomeness. I got this for Christmas at my grandparents' house and 
 I've been playing it ever since i got home! Well enough with the comlements, now with the acual 
 review. 
  This game is defenetly an instant classic with the WiiWeel. It's like Grand Turno and Mario mix 
 together basicly. My favorite Track is Rainbow Road and my favorite Character is my Mii with the 
 Flame Flyer. Now, I know some of you are thinking, '' Oh well this game is just an upgrade just 
 like Brawl. Just new ways to play it, new characters, and new tracks.'' Well what's wrong with 
 new ways to play it, new characters, and new tracks? I think it is great that Nintendo came up 
 with new ways to play it, new characters, and new tracks that's just what they do. Now back to 
 the review. The Wi-Fi gives a great multiplayer touch to it. You can either play with anyone in 
 the WORLD or you can just play with your friends. Though all of this is great, my favorite thing 
 to do is performing tricks. To perform a trick, You have to flick the Wiimote in any way you want 
 wile jumping off a ramp. After this you perform a random trick in which every character has his 
 or her own. Battling is my favorite thing to do. You can choose from coin runner or balloon battle 
 (though when you do Wi-Fi, it does it one after another.
  And now, to topit all off, I give this a 10. For oustanding mutiplayer and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IVANLAPP
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2009 9:22 am PT
Review:  I recently purchased the Mario Kart Wii game, which I thought would be mediocre, but it turned 
 out to be an amazing game. In particular, I really liked the Nintendo WFC setup because it never 
 does some weird things (Don't ask me what!) that other Wi-Fi games do. I also liked the mixture 
 of courses from other Mario Kart games (DS, SNES, GC, and N64) as well as other new courses especially 
 for Mario Kart Wii. I also enjoyed the wide variety of karts, characters, and other things as well. 
 Overall I'd definitely give it a 10/10 rating. It might be really expensive but it's worth it!!! 
 I'd definitely recommend it to a friend. Almost every day I go to the online races because this 
 game absolutely never gets boring no matter how much you play it. It's by far the best Mario Kart 
 game ever. Buy it now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario-nin-freak
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2009 10:52 am PT
Review:  Mario kart wii is my favorite game of all time. It's the perfect difficulty and has got a lot more 
 to it than the other mario karts. Below is a list of good qualities: It has more items (bullet bill, growth 
 mushroom, etc.)
  You can do tricks
  There are more vehicles (including bikes)
  It has twenty-four characters (plus your miis)
  It has 16 new races plus 16 old races (races from 
 the older mario karts)
  It has 5 new battle tracks plus 5 old ones
  You use the remote like sterring wheel (not a joystick)
  You can change the settings (com. player 
 difficulty, etc.)
  You can play against the computer players in battle mode
  Below are the letdowns: They got rid of the special items of the gc. version
  You can't play in 
 double karts.
  Lots of people I hear say this game is dumb, don't listen to them. It's one of the best games you 
 can get. It shows off the for the wii. Above all this game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigiman1443
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2009 10:17 am PT
Review:  This game is AWESOME! So this is just a classic mario game with a wheel (witch iz awesome) and 
 anybody who does not agree with me iz a nerd! This game has all the characters and more and the 
 same with tracks. So this iz just a standerd mario kart game with bumped up graphics, gameplay, you 
 can do tricks now, and you have a wii wheel. There is a story mode where race against CPU's and 
 time trials, teres online witch is practically the same, and there's battles witch you just collect 
 coins and shot people with items witch is way funner then it sounds. There's also ghost races that 
 just take other people times and try to beat them. Some of them a re pretty easy. Unless you're a 
 newby and you're on hard one's like rainbow road and stuff. But I like to race with the Koopa Troopa 
 and go on Koopa Kape. So if you you want an improved Mario racing game or your new to the series 
 this with out question one of the best Wii games ever made and there is no question about not getting 
 it so all in all this is an almost perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buzzcrow
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 13, 2009 4:10 pm PT
Review:  It's not my game, I borrowed it from my brother and I really regret it. My poor brother spent 35 
 on a revolting game and I want to assure people they shouldn't either.
  
  Starting with a good point, the graphics are very good. Not super smash bros. equivalent but Mario 
 and his chums still look pretty good. And bringing all the old stages together was quite cool.
 
  
  The stunt jumps and bikes don't make a massive impact, even though they are new. The new karts 
 and bikes look great, but all the useless info to the side just make it that little bit more upsetting. 
 "Wow!" I said, when I had done my first stunt jump (on a bike) , a few minutes later the hype was 
 gone.
  
  The online play (from watching, not experiencing) is really competitive, you can't just think you're 
 going to win as soon as you buy it, nooooo way!!! There is tons of stuff to do online, including 
 breaking records. If you download the Mario kart wii channel there is an option to break ghost 
 records, which is really fun! But also slightly annoying.
  
  Overall, this is not a bad racing game. Classic, funny and competitive, but that doesn't change 
 the fact that it is very shrouded by the racing and winning elements that you sometimes forget 
 yourself and go "Oh ****" when you come second place by less than a couple of milliseconds. If 
 you are a dedicated Mario fan, buy it as you will, but if you're into it for the hype, then buy 
 it at your own risk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillyeagles123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is a great game that will keep you going for a while. I like that you can choose 
 what type of vehicle you want. You can go with a kart, or if you want to mix things up a bit, go 
 with a bike. Each track presents a challenge in different ways, with each twist and turn and hidden 
 shortcuts, making each race different than the last one. It is also nice to see some of the old 
 school venues added to the mix with a graphical overhaul. The Wii Wheel is a great addition to 
 the game and makes it that much better to race. Each standard Mario Kart character is back with 
 a hunger to win the Grand Prix. You start out with four Grand Prixes, but as you progress in the 
 game, you unlock more, as well as new vehicles and characters. What makes this Mario Kart different 
 from the rest is the new online play. You can race against your friends, the world, or your friends 
 and the world. There are also tournaments and leaderboards to see how you stack up against the 
 world. Being able to race as a Mii is also a nice feature. There is only one thing that I can think 
 of that bothers me about this game. Items are constantly bombarding you and everyone else, especially 
 the leader of the race. But that just makes the game more challenging, instead of cruising to the 
 finish line every time. Mario Kart Wii is a must-have for all racing fans and Wii owners alike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ignition93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 8:25 pm PT
Review:  The world of racing only improves with each Mario Kart game released. Not by a significant amount, 
 but simply a few new ideas to boost the rather bland genre up a notch. 
  
  Mario Kart Wii just does that. It doesn't bring a whole lot of new ideas into the racing fray, 
 but it implements each of its newer and classic ideas in an appropriate matter. Along with its 
 well-implemented ideas, it also keeps the basics of what makes a game good, intact. Allow me to 
 categorize this.....
  
  Graphics: Cut my tongue if I've ever said this on a forum before. This looks good...... when you 
 compare this to other Wii games. It's no Super Smash Bros Brawl, Metroid Prime 3, or Super Mario 
 Galaxy... but it certainly sets a good standard for how a Wii game should look. Modern day textures 
 fill the screen. Bright outlines detail each Mario Character. Trails follow fire, bullet bills, 
 koopa shells and the like making the game have a more Action feel to it. 
  
  Sounds: Just what you would expect from any Mario game. Some songs may get annoying or seem like 
 a Last-Second deal... but then there's some songs that simply have you humming them along in their 
 catchy glory. Without spoiling too much, I will say that Rainbow Road song is still intact and 
 retains its epic feel it's kept throughout the series. As for the characters, not much changes 
 here. All the characters, even the newer ones, keep their same voices and grunts that they always 
 have used in the beloved games. 
  
  Entertainment and Control: The first Wii game to implement a new Wii controller that successfully 
 utilizes it with great accuracy. Thanks Nintendo. As for the fun of this game... the new maps, characters, 
 and weapons never change the old formula for better or worse. The series didn't need too much work... this 
 game didn't have to provide any work to make itself greater then the other Mario Karts. Despite 
 the online component, which works very well, it's still the great, addictive, exciting fun that 
 you expect from a Mario Kart. 
  
  Overall: With modern-day graphics, interesting Mario sounds and songs, and the same control and 
 fun you'd expect from Mario Kart makes this game a must buy for any Wii owner who wishes to have 
 a family-friendly Koopa Shelled fun fest.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperjj3000
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2009 6:08 am PT
Review:  Iv been a fan of mario kart for as long as i can remember and with every new mario kart they bring 
 out the more i love it. Mario kart for the wii is an amazing addictive game that will make you 
 not wanna put you wii wheel down until you have unlocked everything and have every trophy. Unlike 
 the other mario kart games this one allows you to ride motobikes which is a fantastic addition 
 to the game.
  
  You can unlock a number of characters including rosalina from super mario galaxy. You can also 
 play it online through the wifi connection which i must admit i was very impressed with. The game 
 runs very smoothly online and i have had very few problems with it so far. I would say this game 
 is worth the money just for the multiplayer alone. The game comes bundled with a wii wheel which 
 iv only used once or twice as i prefer the wiimote by itself but its great for kids. The game has 
 16 new courses along with 16 courses from previous mario kart games. The only thing that disappointed 
 me was the battle mode, i was hoping for more battle games not less but dont let that put you off. 
 Overall i think this is the best wii game out so far! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAK3434
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 5:28 pm PT
Review:  A truly exalent game, it was a great game. They put the classic racing part of the oridgial game. 
 Alot of people are really glad about the motorcycle part of the racing. THe motorcycles are alot 
 better better then the cars. Most people how play as the carts are uberly nubeish. The many charictors 
 were really good. They made some of the lightwieght charictors way to light (such as koopatroopa 
 and drybones and the babys) but its is good. The few new items are just plain annoying, the really 
 anying items were definitly the blue shells, lightning, and red shells (ofcorse) . The courses were 
 better then all the other courses from the pervious games by a long shot. And theres always the 
 disasoris rainbow road wich you fall of a LOT. I dont like it how they took the challenges out. 
 The battles are not as good as the DS version, the DS version had no timer and alot better stages. 
 The online for this game is really good, it is probuly the best online game on the Wii. Theres 
 up to 12 people who can play at once for online, and theres a ranking board, torniments, downloadable 
 ghosts, and altogether posibly the best game on the Wii, and it has great grapics!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BradleyPalermo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2009 9:20 am PT
Review:  Well, this is going to be my second review, and I'm doing it on Mario Kart WII, which I'd like 
 to point out is better than ones on other systems, It's also an amazing game that includes the 
 wi-fi world and will keep you coming back for more. It has many new charactors to unlock such as 
 Rosalina (from super mario galaxy) .
  
  But the fact that it has so many aspects to it alone is great, and there's an amazing new charactor; 
 YOU!!! After getting 1st in bother 50cc and 100cc lightning cups you unlock yourself to race as, 
 it's really cool because it's your mii from the mii chanel on the wii, but who it is depends on 
 the face on your driver's lisence in the game.
  
  And there are also many new veicles to unlock and ride, that includes cars like the Parana Prowler 
 or the Super Blooper. But how do you unlock anything? All you have to do is do Grand Prixs and 
 get an A or a STAR ranking, depending on the amount of points you have at the end, (60=perfect) ,
 
  
  And that's all I have to say except that's it's an awesome game and I'd recomend it to anyone. 
 A definet must-buy for mario or kart racing fans.
  And lastly, thank you for reading my review. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The Mario Kart formula hasn't really changed much since it started on the Super Nintendo, but there 
 hasn't really been any reason for it to. It's still the best of the not-so-serious racing games 
 out there. Races often come down to blind luck, but it is still fun.
  
  The controls are a simple as can be. Even though it comes with the steering wheel attachment, the 
 game doesn't cost anymore than normal; more proof that Nintendo really cares about it's gamers. 
 Turning the wheel to steer is incredibly responsive. The game can actually be played using only 
 two buttons. The 2 button accelerates and any direction arrow uses the items gathered around the 
 track. There are more complicated controls once a player gets good at the game; the different direction 
 buttons do different things with each item. For example, if you get a green shell, Up shoots the 
 shell forward, down shoots it behind, and holding either left or right keeps it stuck to the back 
 of your cart and protects you from many of the other racers attacks. There are also two controls 
 modes: automatic and manual. This would imply shifting gears, but that isn't the case. Automatic 
 will allow your car to power slide around turns on it's own when you turn the wheel enough. Manual 
 requires you to press the B button, which makes the car hop into the slide. The advantage to manual 
 is that if you power slide long enough, you get a mini-boost out of the turn whereas automatic 
 doesn't have this option.
  
  While the vehicles control great, that doesn't mean the races play out based on your skill at driving. 
 Many races are won more by luck than ability, especially since one of the attacks the enemy can 
 get will blow up the person in first place and can't be defended against. This means if you are 
 winning, there are eleven other racers that have a chance to blow you up anytime they cross the 
 item boxes scattered all over the track. There was one particular race that I was in first the 
 whole time until the last turn. Once I got there, I got hit by three attacks, one right after the 
 other, without any warning. I ended up in eleventh place and this blew the whole tournament for 
 me.
  
  Each racer has their own strengths and weaknesses that make big differences in how you race with 
 them. There are the expected ones like Mario, Luigi, Princess Peach, Toad, and the always under 
 appreciated Koopa Troopa. All of the characters come from Mario games or spin-offs but I would 
 have liked to see some other popular Nintendo characters, such as Link from Zelda or Samus from 
 Metriod. The game starts with thirteen different characters to choose from with more being unlocked. 
 You can also unlock the ability to race as your Mii. I didn't like the fact that the game doesn't 
 tell you what you have to do in order to unlock characters and I had to search the internet to 
 find out how.
  
  My absolute favorite thing about the game is how winning is figured. The tournaments consist of 
 four races and points are given depending on what place you finish in. The person with the most 
 points at the end wins. This means it is still possible to win the tournament even if you never 
 win a race. I don't know why the more realistic racing simulations make you get first every time 
 if a cartoon racing game can have such a great way to handle tournaments. There are eight different 
 tournaments to choose from which gives us a total of thirty two tracks. The first sixteen are new 
 for this game while the last sixteen are from past games, making up a 'best of Mario Kart' list. 
 I would have prefered if there were a few more from the first SNES game since that is where the 
 series got it's start. There are only two tracks from that version. All the tracks are varied and 
 there wasn't one that I didn't like or was too confusing.
  
  Battle mode isn't nearly as fun as I remember from the SNES version. The battles take place on 
 an arena track and the goal is to get to the item boxes to gather weapons and attack the other 
 team. Whoever gets the most hits on the other team wins. It's a good idea in theory, but that tracks 
 are so large that much of the time is spent trying to hunt down the other team. Since there are 
 no battle tournaments and no rewards or unlocks for this mode, it almost seemed pointless after 
 a while.
  
  The online mode is cool, but doesn't stand up to the options in most Xbox 360 games. Opponents 
 are randomly selected based on their user ranking that starts at five thousand and goes up or down 
 depending on race performance. I did like having the ability to play split screen with a friend 
 while racing online against others. There are also tournaments that are started by Nintendo from 
 time to time. I haven't joined one yet since there have only been two since the game came out and 
 none since I started playing. Due to a lack of voice chat, I wondered if I was actually racing 
 real people at all from time to time.
  
  I expected more from the graphics. I know that it's basic graphics are supposed to be part of it's 
 charm, but many things looked rather bland. The smoke and sparks are dull and the explosions don't 
 look good at all. Most people won't mind because this is what was expected, but after playing other 
 Wii games like Resident Evil 4 and The Legend of Zelda, I thought that Mario Kart could have looked 
 much better.
  
  Writing a review on the game almost seems pointless since everyone will buy the game because Mario 
 is on the cover, but the game does live up to it's namesake. It could have been better, but it's 
 still one of the best racing games on the Wii. Also, don't forget that this is one of those games 
 that your friends will expect you to have when they come over to check out the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derekgilreath93
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Hey i have to say that this is one of the best game ever for the Wii console i have enjoy playing 
 this game. First the good parts The game have good multiplying. The best part is that you can play 
 online :) i am getting wi-fi just so i can play online. And their is all kinds of way you can play. You 
 can play with the wii control or the game cube one. Just for the people that got use to playing 
 on the Game-cube. Also i have to say that the diff items you get will help and hurt you because 
 the Computer get the stuff you get. Now the bad not much the only thing is sume times you fell 
 like you get his ever TWO sec and when you fell like that you most likely wont win that race because 
 you will be so pisstoff. And wont win because your so mad. But that is the only bad. Their is alot 
 more good then what i said. But who care just go out and buy the game right now. WHAT are you doing 
 quit reading this and get the game!!!!!!!! NOW GO GO GO RUN RUN OPEN DOOR THE RUN THE GET IN CAR 
 CRANK UP DRIVE TO STORE GET OUT RUN IN GET GAME NOW RUN HOME FOR GET THE  
 YOUR HOME. TURN ON YOUR T. V. THEN YOUR Wii NOW YOU CAN PLAY. :) that was a close one. LOL :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusicMegaFan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 8:38 am PT
Review:  MarioKart Wii Is Amazing. MarioKart Wii Contains All The Things We Love From The Old MarioKart 
 Games. It Includes All The Cars From All The Old MarioKart Games, It Includes Old Tracks And Some 
 Amazing New Ones To Try And Tackle. The Actual Package Comes With A Wii Wheel Which Is Good, Because 
 You Control How Much You Steer (And It Costs Less Money!) . You Get Over 20 Characters To Choose 
 From, Including Mario, Luigi, Wario, Woshi, Waluigi, Bowser, Peach, Toad And All Your Favourite 
 Characters From MarioKart DS, Plus Loads More. You Can Now Ride Bikes As Well As Cars And You Even 
 Get The Choice Of Playing MarioKart Wii With Your Friends! Overall I Would Give This Game 4.8 Out 
 Of 5.0. A Very Good Game That Needs To Be Played By Anyone Who's Got A Wii, MarioKart DS, Or Someone 
 Who Is Just Looking For A Fun Game For Their Nintendo Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kklpo3
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok. This has to be the best Mario Kart ever! Very fun and I can't stop playing! You never have 
 nothing to do, weather you are doing Time Trials, Grand Prix, VS, Battle, playing with up to four 
 friends locally, or playing online, you will never board! There are lots of tracks, form old Nintendo 
 systems, and some new tracks too. Lots of characters, Ghost Races, never ending fun! The Wii wheel 
 ads smother controls, and you can also use the Wii remote and control stick, Wii classic controller, 
 and the Game Cube controller.
  
  One bad thing is that the power ups are very uneven. One time I was in a 150cc race, way ahead 
 on the 3rd lap. Then all of a sudden, a POW, no big, but then a blooper, a lighting bolt, and a 
 flying Koopa Troopa shell hit me, and I was dragged all the way to 9th place. This happens way 
 to often (not this bad) but it always happens when I'm way ahead. But over all, a 9.0.
  
  
  This has been a kklpo3 review of "Mario Kart Wii" please do not copy, re wright, or diss my 
 reviews. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: McMadman94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 9:09 am PT
Review:  Making its first appearance on the Wii, Mario Kart returns with one of the best games on the console. 
 New tracks, new characters, even a new controller along with the addition of bikes means that this 
 Mario Kart has more new things than ever. The gameplay is extremely addictive and you'll keep going 
 back for more. The amount of unlockables will have you playing obsessivly to try and unlock them 
 all and the multiplayer (online and off) adds hours to the fun. This game, like a lot of Wii games, 
 is brilliant when playing with friends and the new Wii-mote steering wheel works very well. Mario 
 Kart Wii is not without it's flaws though. The new stunt feature can be a little flimsy on some 
 tracks and some of the new items can irritate. But, overall, this is a great game. A must have 
 if you own a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyranium
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 7:34 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Graphics - Controls - Music - Online Play - Courses - Characters - Karts/Bikes - Battles - Items
 
  
  The Bad:
  Battles - Item Unbalance
  
  Being a fan of the Mario Kart series, I got this game right when it came out, and I found it to 
 be amazingly fun. I highly recommend it to anyone who owns a Wii.
  
  I'll start with some of the new features. Mario Kart Wii comes packed with a Wii Wheel, which adds 
 a great new way to play. If you don't like the Wii Wheel, you can always just use the Wiimote or 
 GameCube Controller. When playing, not only can you drive a Kart, but you can now roll down the 
 street in a shiny new bike. Although a bit slower than the average kart, they make up for their 
 lack of speed by having the ability to do wheelies by flicking your wheel up (If playing with a 
 Wii Wheel, of course. Controls vary with your controller.) . Wheelies give you a speed boost, but 
 you can't really turn while doing it, so you've got to wait until a straight layaway comes up. 
 Another nice feature is that when coming off a jump, you can shake your Wii Wheel to do a trick, 
 which gives you a boost when you land.
  
  There are 24 characters in the game, 9 of which are newcomers. In addition to that, you can also 
 play as your Mii (wearing either a Racing Suit or Mario Overalls) , giving you a total of 26 characters. 
 Each character belongs to one of three weight classes, each with 6 carts and 6 bikes unique to 
 that class. Your Mii's weight class is effected by its height/fatness, which is also very cool. 
 Every character gives their kart/bike a custom paint job, which is a really nice visual addition.
 
  
  There are a total of 32 courses, 16 of which are new, and 16 of which are retro (old stages brought 
 back into this game) . The music is new and exciting, and the courses are really creative and fun 
 to play on. There are also a bunch of new items, which is really nice, but sometimes items can 
 be unbalanced. There you are, about to cross the finish line for the gold, when BAM! A blue shell 
 pops out of nowhere and knocks you into 12th, while some newbie who was in 12th the whole time 
 wins the race.
  
  The battles include Balloon Thief and Coin Runner. The new stages are, once again, very creative 
 and exciting. Along with the new stages come old stages in previous Mario Kart games. Now comes 
 my only big complaint. "Bomb-omb Blast" and "Shine Thief" no longer reside on Mario Kart Wii. I'm 
 okay with Shine Thief going, but I've always liked Bomb-omb blast.
  
  Online play is one of the best features of this game. You can play with 11 other people online, 
 and you can also invite a friend over to play online with you. There is never any lag, and it is 
 much more fun to race/battle with others from all around the world. You can also hook up with a 
 friend and race with just them online. When you first start out, you have a score of 5000. Based 
 on how good or bad you do, your score goes up and down.
  
  Overall, this is one of my favorite games, and you really should get it if you don't have it yet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxwelledwards
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 2:56 pm PT
Review:  when i first got this game i wasnt too sure about the controls and was thinking, been there done 
 that! but after five minuites of gameplay i was completely hooked!
  
  THE GOOD
  great gameplay and the diffuculty is spot on, enough to keep you entertained for hours! the graphics 
 are spectacular! forget your HD playstation 3's this is good enough! the wi-fi play is what makes 
 the game especially good though, you can play up to 12 people from around the world in normal grand 
 prix mode or battle mode (grand prix is best) , theres no jittery player movemens of of the karts 
 like on mario kart ds where sometimes the karts dissapear and reappear in a flash, none of this 
 rubbish, just like it should be!!
  
  THE BAD
  i seriously cant think of anything wrong, apart from when you play as a mii the voice when you 
 select them and when you overtake something is abit annoying and cheesy! but thats probibaly the 
 only thing wrong, seriously!
  
  This game is well worth the money and the best game on wii, better than mario galaxy in my opinion, 
 get it NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightning_kf
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2009 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Along with Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Mario Galaxy, one would have to expect that Nintendo 
 would release a new version of Mario Kart to the Wii, which they did and delivered....... in CERTAIN 
 areas.
  
  New addition to this title was the Wii-wheel, which you insert the Wiimote and control the vehicle 
 of your choice via motion sensor. It's a pretty nifty device and it works very well, though I don't 
 often use it.
  
  Second new addition are the motorcycles. At first fans were a bit skeptical about it, though at 
 the end of the day, they work very well. The one major difference between the bikes and the karts 
 are:
  
  (a) karts have a 2nd turbo boost to them thus making them faster.
  (b) you can wheelie on a bike thus gaining more speed.
  
  And finally, tricks. Drive over a 
 certain area of the track to gain some hangtime. Right when you make the jump, either wave the 
 Wiimote or use the D-pad on the Classic and GameCube controller to pull off one. Successfully performing 
 one earns you an extra boost in speed when you land. And Nintendo has conveniently placed a lot 
 of areas in all of the courses too.
  
  Over 20 racers await you in Mario Kart Wii. Twelve are already available, the remaining have to 
 be unlocked. Also, on a high note, you can use your Mii to race as well.
  
  32 tracks also await you in this game. Only half of that number is available, the remaining ones 
 are obviously unlocked. 16 new tracks, 16 remastered ones from past Mario Kart games.
  
  Online gameplay? Can't really go wrong with that now can we?
  
  However, despite the many positive 
 features in this game, it also has its flaws. For starters, one can't help but notice how incredibly 
 easy it can be at times, even on the highest difficulty. In the older games, you were constantly 
 being chased by the A. I. and never got a break from them constantly trying to bypass you. In this 
 game, it's almost non-existant. You can easily obtain gold cups with an vehicle on automatic on 
 almost ANY difficulty which is pretty sad actually.
  
  Second problem I have with it, A. I. constantly bombarding you with items. Blue shells non-stop, 
 constant Bloopers appearing over your head, POW blocks, etc. It's nice that they made a new Mario 
 Kart game. Too bad they toned it down to fit more of the "casual" gamer, which I hate saying..... cause 
 we're all gamers. I understand that they did this just so that even a beginner can have a fighting 
 chance to win a race though it's another thing to have an unbalanced item system.
  
  Overall people, Mario Kart Wii is a fun party game for those who want to relive your times behind 
 the controller during the SNES and N64 days. Sadly the lack of a challenge from this game can be 
 a bit of a turnoff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 9:51 am PT
Review:  How many of you were a bit nervous when Nintendo announced that Mario Kart Wii would be released 
 so soon? How many of you started thinking it might be a 'rush job' to fill a gap in the Wii release 
 schedule? How many saw the bikes and thought "oh no, they've ruined Mario Kart"? We'll admit it: 
 deep down, we were worried about all of the above. It turns out we should have known better.
  
  Long story short: it's Mario Kart. It's not some warped, twisted monster that used to be Mario 
 Kart and has now mutated into some horrible kart/bike shambles that's lost its magic. That familiar, 
 addictive Mario Kart gameplay is still there, only now it's even better.
  
  
  Don't Go Breaking My Kart
  There are 12 playable characters when you first start the game, with 
 a whole host to unlock. We won't spoil them just now but, needless to say, a couple of the hidden 
 characters are surprise inclusions who haven't been in a Mario Kart game before. The usual weight 
 classes are back in force, with characters split into light, medium and heavy classes. At first, 
 each weight class has a choice of three different karts and three different bikes, but more are 
 unlockable as you progress.
  
  There are 32 tracks in total, consisting of 16 new tracks and 16 retro ones. Although a couple 
 of the new tracks are curiously similar to ones in older Mario Kart games (Luigi Circuit and Moo 
 Moo Meadows have more than a slight ring of Double Dash!! and Mario Kart 64 to them) , the majority 
 of them are fantastic new additions to the series and have some great little quirks in them. For 
 example, Koopa Cape has a downhill stream going through the middle of the track, so it's worth 
 trying to time your powerslides so you go through the stream and get extra speed.
  
  The retro tracks have been given a bit of polish, so even the SNES tracks look nice and 3D. Every 
 game in the series is represented (except the arcade ones) with four N64, DS and GameCube tracks 
 and two tracks apiece from the SNES and GBA titles, meaning whatever your favourite Kart game is, 
 there should be something here to keep you more than happy.
  
  The Wheel Deal
  There are four big gameplay differences that greatly affect the way the game is played. The first 
 of these is the most obvious: the inclusion of the Wii Wheel. Believe it or not, the wheel actually 
 works tremendously well. Yes, it's just a plastic shell and shouldn't really make a huge difference 
 but it really does add to the atmosphere. What's more, the steering has a larger 'dead zone' than 
 Excite Truck did, meaning there's a reasonable degree of leeway in how you much you can turn the 
 wheel before your kart starts turning. This gives you more control, since turning left and right 
 requires more deliberate turns in that direction, rather than the way it was in Excite Truck where 
 the slightest rotation of the Remote made the truck start to turn, leading to all sorts of slippy-slidey 
 shenanigans as you frantically turned the Remote left and right just to straighten up.
  
  
  
  The game also supports numerous other control methods (Remote and Nunchuk, GameCube controller, 
 Classic controller) , but even though we had our hearts set on dramatically abandoning the wheel, 
 yelling "viva la old school" and using a GameCube controller, the truth is (whisper it) we actually 
 prefer the Wheel. Much like the Wii Zapper gives an extra sense of fun to shooting games, the Wii 
 Wheel simply feels more like you're playing a driving game.
  
  Snakey Breaky Kart
  The second big difference is the removal of snaking. Ever since the N64 game, practically every 
 Mario Kart game has included the ability to get a speed boost by waggling the controls left and 
 right as you powerslide. This has finally been scrapped, and now your speed boost is determined 
 by how long you can hold the slide. So all you do is the usual 'hop and slide', then as you turn 
 the corner a blue spark appears. You can either let go there and get a speed boost, or keep sliding 
 until you get a red spark which gives you a better boost. Since it takes a while before the blue 
 boost activates, this pretty much eliminates snaking, as it's now a lot more hassle than it's worth.
 
  
  Diamond Dozen
  Thirdly, there are now 'tricks' that can be performed during jumps. This isn't as needlessly complicated 
 as it sounds. All it means is that any time your kart goes off a jump (it doesn't need to be a 
 big one, just any time all four wheels come off the ground) you simply flick the Wheel upwards 
 and your character will perform a stunt, getting a nice speed boost when they land. There's no 
 danger of falling off or having to learn tricky button combinations for different stunts or any 
 of that rubbish. It totally changes the way you think about races and is a great substitute for 
 snaking because it allows you to get speed boosts on straights but is simple enough that anyone 
 can do it.
  
  
  
  Finally, the bikes. They were a controversial inclusion, but the truth is they work very well. 
 They don't actually handle too differently from the karts. The main difference to consider is that 
 they only get blue boosts when turning, not red. Although this may seem like it makes the bikes 
 weaker than karts, there's a reason for this: your bike can also do a wheelie on any straight (for 
 a slight speed boost) by flicking the Wheel up. Believe it or not (whisper it again) , we actually 
 ended up preferring the bikes to the karts.
  
  As if that wasn't enough, the online options are the best we've ever seen in a Nintendo game. You 
 can take part in enormous 12-player races, create your own private race room, download challenges 
 set by Nintendo which are then ranked worldwide and download the ghost times set by the world's 
 top 100 racers on any track. You can even use your Friends List to compare your Time Trial times 
 with those of your mates and, if they're slower, send them your ghost data for that lap and challenge 
 them to beat it (they'll get notified of your challenge on their Wii Message Board) . It's an amazingly 
 detailed online set-up and will have you hooked for even longer than Mario Kart DS did.
  
  
  
  Despite all our initial fears, Mario Kart Wii is actually one of the most enjoyable racing 
 games we've played and may even be a contender for the title of 'Best Mario Kart Ever'. Almost 
 everything that annoyed us about past Mario Karts has been tweaked or fixed (mushrooms have more 
 oomph and give a much better speed boost, you can turn off all items in multiplayer races to focus 
 on racing and dispel that annoying 'blue shell syndrome', you can now easily throw weapons forward 
 or back by pressing up or down on the D-Pad and so on) , and it's fantastic fun. Whether you're 
 a casual gamer or a Mario Kart die-hard, this is a truly essential game, and you'll be playing 
 it for months to come... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MFmotion
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 11:02 am PT
Review:  Simply the best Online on wii ...
  If you are a fan of Mario Kart since the SNES. Let me tell you that this game is just right; and 
 you won't be disappointed, specially If you have a broadband access for online play. This game 
 raises the bar for Wi-Fi on wii.
  
  The graphics are quite well.
  
  In this game we have the classic songs, and some well. added to the game.
  
  The tricks, and 
 bikes add a lot to this game, making it a way lot better and competitive.
  
  The great Mii integration that hook's the casual crowd and strong use of Wii's functionality makes 
 the game one of the best console Karts in years. (Ironically with bikes XD) .
  
  And that's it if you like the local play, the online play rocks specially if you have challengers. 
 Always there is someone to play with.
  
  If you have a wi-fi connection and a wii; buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxsuck818
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 10, 2009 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has been one of the best racing game series of all time. However, Mario Kart Wii doesn't 
 really add anything to this great series.
  The only thing it adds it the wii wheel (which you will have to buy 2 of if you don't want to fight 
 over the wii wheel when playing multiplayer) . The wheel's controls are very responsive, handles 
 great, and brings a new challenge to the Mario Kart series. The choice of characters and using 
 the Miis is cool too.
  Sadly, Mario Kart is the same old thing over and over with some annoyances too. First, you just 
 beat the cups and then what do you do... play online, that isn't very fun only if you want some 
 real competition. Also, when you are leading in first place you always get hit by blue shells that 
 you can't avoid. It is the cheapest thing ever! Also, green shells suddenly hit you when you are 
 10 seconds in front of the field! How does that work? And half the 32 tracks are retro ones which 
 you may have already played. And you can tell they are running out of ideas with the courses, most 
 are just dumb concepts.
  All in all, the Mario Kart game is good for someone who can have fun by playing the same thing 
 over and over again. Its pretty cool at first, but then you notice the lack of depth and some of 
 the flaws in the game. So if you are looking a kid-friendly game to play, you might want to check 
 this one out. However, if you get bored of games quickly and don't like the wii wheel, you may 
 want to look into another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nobarai
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2009 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Well, by telling by my blog and my avatar, I'm a huge Mario Kart fan, but that makes this game's 
 shortcoming all the worse to bear.
  
  To start things off: Mario Kart Wii is the series 5th installment (7th if you count the arcade 
 games) , and the 2nd game to feature Nintendo WFC racing. You take command of your favorite driver, 
 a kart or motorbike, then rip it up across 32 tracks and 11 rivals. Sounds decent right? Well..... 
 Let's start with the bad stuff first...
  
  The game has a serious rubberband A. I. problem, which basically means that when you are sucking, 
 the other rivals slow down, and you get better items, but when you are in the lead, your rivals 
 speed up, and you get raped by a multitude of blue shells, red shells, unhumanly placed bombs, 
 and POW blocks. This can lead to swearing, extreme anger, restarted series, tears, and broken game 
 discs.
  
  The game has also had its fair share of hackers. You'll see a fast time, only to notice the guy's 
 using hacks to drive faster, you using lag to fool the game. Online Races are no exception, and 
 you'll find yourself losing VR points just because a guy is low enough to sick an army of red shells 
 on you.
  
  The courses are also kind-of uninspired. Some courses are legendary (Maple Treeway, Daisy's circuit, 
 Coconut Mall, Koopa Cape, and Rainbow Road) , others are bland and boring (Grumble Volcano, Luigi's 
 Raceway and others) . The Retro courses are also boring, and short compared to the new tracks.
 
  
  And racing on local multiplayer is downright frustrating, as the game becomes small, and slowed 
 down when more than 1 other friend. Don't even try racing WFC with a buddy.
  
  Other than those complaints, the game is sound, addictive, fun, fast-paced, and a must buy. The 
 soundtrack isn't too bad either.
  
  But with this Mario Kart addict, after playing sleepless nights of MKDS, racing friends and rivals 
 with R. O. B, the downfalls seem too great, and I can only hope the next installment will fair better.
 
  
  Graphics: B+
  Sound: A-
  Control: depends on controller A for classic controller and GCN controller, B for Wheel
  Difficulty: 
 C-
  Online: B-
  Lasting Ability: B-
  Overall: B- = 8.0 (not an average of the above scores) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tikicobra
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii follows in the footsteps of just about every other Nintendo spin-off; it offers 
 lots of crazy levels, silly weapons, motion controls, and terribly annoying characters. The game 
 comes packaged with the Wii Wheel - a steering wheel-esque attachment for your Wii Remote that's 
 virtually useless and is only good for a more comfortable grip on your control as you constantly 
 turn it left and right to control your character - or, at least, as comfortable as something that 
 you have to hold up in front of your face and move like an idiot can be. In the end, though, it's 
 probably a better idea to use a real controller, like the Classic Controller or the GameCube controller, 
 because before long you'll probably realize just how unresponsive and frustrating the Wii Remote 
 is in Mario Kart Wii.
  
  You might expect Nintendo to do their best as far as graphics go, but they really didn't here. 
 They're not bad, and a lot of the environments look pretty, but there are a lot of rough edges 
 clipping issues, along with some slowdown online. Sound-wise it's a mixed bag. There are plenty 
 of cartoony sound effects to accompany powerups and attacks, and the music is nice and happy, but 
 characters can be extremely annoying, constantly yelling for no real reason and bragging every 
 time they pass you. You'll also hear a lot of horns being honked at random times, which doesn't 
 affect the game, but becomes repetitive and annoying after a while.
  
  After Mario Kart: Double Dash, it really seems like there's nothing else a Mario Kart game can 
 do to make itself even comparable. Double Dash had lots of creative ideas and tracks, where as 
 Mario Kart Wii is just another generic kart racer with too many recycled tracks. And after a while 
 the tracks become too predictable and it's no fun to unlock new ones unless they're one of the 
 very few that are actually creative. It's not that making just another kart racer is a bad thing, 
 but with all the recycled tracks and characters, you might think it is.
  
  The online is basic, but it's fun. You can go up against a group of strangers alone, or you can 
 have a friend join in locally and go up against him too. You can also make friends and go up against 
 them alone, but it's really no different than playing with strangers, and without any sort of text 
 chat, you're limited to what you can say. Playing locally, you'll go up against a cast of characters, 
 plus your friend. The two of you can choose from a wide variety of characters, and even your Miis, 
 and unlock even more from completing challenges. Unfortunately these challenges are either time 
 trials, or require that you earn ridiculous stats online and/or offline, and most of the time it 
 isn't worth it.
  
  Mario and kart racing fans will find plenty of fun in Mario Kart Wii's simple but intuitive gameplay, 
 though the rest of us will most likely find it repetitive. And while most of the unlockables have 
 insane requirements, hardcore gamers will be glad to attempt to unlock them all. The online play 
 adds extra playability, but really doesn't do much to distinguish itself from the single-player 
 levels. The bottom line is that if you're interested in simple gameplay and lots of unlockables, 
 then Mario Kart Wii is the game for you, but don't expect an especially creative experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allan3456
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 11:56 am PT
Review:  As far as racing games go im not much of a fan, but there is something about the Mario kart series 
 that brings out the speed junky in me.
  
  From the fairly large selection of vehicles, characters and tracks (straight off the bat and more 
 to unlock) to the sheer fun factor of hitting DK on the back of the head with a turtle shell this 
 game has a charm which i find hard to get past. 
  
  The game is great in single player, allowing you to challenge your own best times in time trial 
 mode and try for the elusive three star rank in the 8 available cups and 3 modes of difficulty. 
 The Wiiwheel control option is also an innovative delight - although it isnt for everyone - and 
 personally feel that it adds a whole new dimension to the game.
  
  But the heart of this game comes from racing against up to 11 other players online, you can find 
 yourself loosing hours at a time, forever telling yourself "just one more race" and getting a just 
 a little bit competitive. 
  
  Unfortunately, though the game is replay-able to an extent, it tends to get a little repetitive 
 after a while and other games will soon take your focus. Some of the items are very unbalanced, 
 and potentially race turning items turn up far too often which can lead to frustration at times. 
 There is not much worse than being hit with the fabled blue-spikey shell just inches from the finish 
 line and ending up jumping from 1st to 5th in the blink of an eye.
  
  Other those very small complaints I would highly recommend this game to anyone who owns a Wii, 
 it makes for a thoroughly entertaining game with just a few flaws.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2009 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has bee running for several years know, with the game series spanning as far back as 
 the SNES. I started playing at N64 level and this latest installment therefore is a massive shocker. 
 Why? Well read on and I'll explain.
  
  First thing is first. In the N64 version the drifting was simple. Go round corner, twiddle joystick. 
 Admitadely I never really used this much (if at all) which is probably now a good thing, because 
 the drifting which is essential in this game if you want to do well is on crack cocaine. So far 
 as I can tell, it uses some sort of timing mechanism which is sped up if you take tighter corners, 
 but it is really annoying at first because I do what I would expect and get something different. 
 Maybe if I read the manual I could have got round this problem, but the manual I own is german, 
 and I never listened or read in my german class. EVER!
  
  Second comes the lovely stunt mechanism which a fair few praise for it's awesomeness. I call it 
 a giant terd. All it does is speed up on landing when you press a button. (Note I'm reviewing with 
 cube controls) This makes the game force you to do something else on humoungus straights which 
 is really hard on a motorcycle which brings me to my next point.
  
  Whoever decided motorcycles was a good idea deserves to be shot. Then shot again. Then shot once 
 more for good measure. Becuase they are brilliant. In a terrible way. The game apparantly balances 
 play by having cycles only go to orrange sparks, but this is the biggest lie in the universe, because 
 bikes are furiously fast on the straights and bends anyway and go even faster when their wheelies 
 are up. The bikes are also lighter meaning bigger impact on nudges, but because, like a normal 
 person you are in a kart, your too busy trying to keep the game "balanced" and getting orange sparks 
 in the corner that the bike has already finished the damn race.
  
  There are other little flaws, like the questionable decision to get rid of special weapons, which 
 have become kart staple diet and the battle only being team (actually this is a huge flaw, but 
 that sumarises it nicely) but the biggest of all the flaws are the **** levels. None of them are 
 that great, most focousing too hard on the stunt systems and deviating from the point of the game, 
 weapon based racing. Before hand you can focus on the race and be strategical with weapons, but 
 now you need to time drifts, consider weapon stratigical placement, do a few stunts, a couple of 
 wheelies and hold the accelerator down before attempting a straight. And don't think the old maps 
 the game brought in can help either. Aside from frappie snow land, and the two donkey kong maps, 
 there are no classics. They seem to have purposley picked the worst maps. Where's baby park from 
 the cube and it's ridiculously painful violence levels? Where is at least wario stadium and it's 
 massive jump sequences, which would be perfect for this game? Even the battle maps are shoddy.
 
  
  However having now winged myself half to death I would like to say this is a good game. The speed 
 increase, the number of players, difficulty and wifi all play in it's favour, and so long as you're 
 willing to overlook the flaws, you'll enjoy it for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioboy333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart is back with a big roster than ever including baby mario, maerio, peach, yoshi and so much 
 more. The coures are amazing to do. The new stages are fun and also the stages. This game has many 
 diffrent controls. There is the wii wheel which u have to get used to. The gamecube contoler, which 
 my friends say is the easiest. The wii remote and numchuck Hard to use, and the classic contorller 
 that i have never used before. Theere are so many items like the red and green shell, bullet bill, blooper 
 and so much more the added 3 new item called the mega mushroom lightening cloud, and the pow block. There 
 is one thing bad about the game. when u are in first place so many items hit u. that is the only 
 thing. On online u can do many things. Like enter tounaments, race ghosts, and play against friends 
 or anyone around the world. Battle mode is also exiting to play. so get mario kart wii. i promise 
 u will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acfjosh
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2009 10:03 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is back and is slammed into our favourite fun machine, the Wii!
  There's everything here from karts to tracks, Rainbow road to baby mario.
  
  There's all you'd 
 expect. 48 cups, 4 races in each cup win stuff by completing them on different difficulties. 
 
  But they'e chucked in motorbikes, backflips and a whole lotta bumping. And the impressive graphics 
 speak for their clean selves.
  
  The tracks are a lot harder to get around, with a detour around every corner, and with the opposition 
 shrinking, blasting and bombing you it's full of mayhem
  
  The steering is spot on so no need to worry if your a bull in a chinashop. There is plenty of unlockables 
 to keep you happy whilst driving too.
  
  Of course it really shines in multiplayer. The teens vs the Dad and the Mum vs Daughter its enough 
 to make you welp with joy -ahem-
  
  But inviting a mate round to lob green shells at each other on the simply awesome rainbow road 
 is jaw dropping in it's own speedy way. The action is impressive and better than a gran turismo 
 on a PS3
  
  Now online is incredible too. With the Wii's magic you can play up to twelve people with every 
 extra possible AND a whole lotta rankings and online trophies to be one.
  
  You've seen the adverts, you heard me jibber jabber, now go and buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petruvai
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 7:14 pm PT
Review:  The original MarioKart was a really great game and really fun to play with friends. This game is 
 basically the same game with a few additions (that don't necessarily make it better) and the Wii 
 motion controls.
  
  This is another game that you can put on the "fun for parties" category of Wii games. While it 
 is enjoyable alone, it really requires friends (or internet play) . The gameplay is very enjoyable 
 but really doesn't do anything that the original MarioKart didn't do. A few "weapons" have been 
 added, some of which are frustrating and annoying. 
  
  The biggest problem that I have with this game is that Nintendo obviously didn't bother with the 
 visual design at all. Mario Galaxy is the best looking game on Wii, but MarioKart doesn't even 
 look as good as the original MarioKart on 64. Very bothersome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkaar
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 6:34 am PT
Review:  I was wery excited about this game when i heard that you could control it with an actual wheel 
 and im not disappointed. Mario kart has plenty of things for single player to do. The grand pix 
 mode is solid but it really isnt anything groundshaking. The new stunt system is good but really 
 isnt anything to focus on. The multiplayer is fun but i still wouldnt call this a party game. If 
 for some reason you dont have the stearing wheel then mario kart will not be very fun. For my opinion 
 the hole game is based around the stearing wheel, and that is not necesserely a good thing. Mario 
 kart also features online play which i havent played so i cant say anything about it. Maybe this 
 game is a little bit more of a single player game but it still has a solid multiplayer. Mario kart 
 still is a great product and i enjoyed playing it very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyZagaro
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 4, 2009 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I've never really been a huge fan of Mario Kart, but after I played DS I loved it to death. I was 
 hoping MK Wii would be a huge upgrade, but BOY was I wrong. It was a big DOWNGRADE.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  No real complaints here, the game is VERY pretty to look at. The cars in 
 paticular are in excellent detail.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  
  There's a few memorable tracks, but it's nothing epic.
  
  
  Gameplay: 3/10
  
  Remember 
 that downgrade I told you about? Here it is. Remember MKDS, which controlled very fast and fluid? 
 Well, somehow they made a huge mess of it and this game runs like crap compared to MKDS. I'm not 
 joking. Remember Double Dash? That kind of slow and clunky. A WII GAME RUNS SLOWER AND CLUNKIER 
 THAN A FREAKING DS GAME. What the hell, Nintendo?! There's no excuse for this. There's NO EXCUSE 
 AT ALL. Seriously, who's the boy wonder who thought that a slow and clunky RACING GAME would be 
 a good idea?! What's that? 12 racers over 8? This... is not as good as it sounds. With 12 racers 
 in the mix, it gets even worse, believe it or not. Why? Items. It seems almost all the time you're 
 getting hit by SOMETHING, be it a green shell or a red shell or a lakitu or a bullet bill or whatever, 
 12 racers has done nothing but make the whole experience THAT much more annoying.
  
  Controls: 0/10 with the Wii Wheel, 6/10 without
  
  I'll say it right now: The wii wheel controls 
 suck. Seriously. Do yourself a favor and use the gamecube controller. Even WITH the gamecube controller, 
 the game controls are VERY stiff compared to MKDS. This, again, is ridiculous. IT'S THE FREAKING 
 WII! It's only, say, 10 times more powerful than the DS! There's no excuse for this crap. No excuse 
 at all. Seriously, guys, what the hell? Are you THAT lazy?
  
  Overall: 3/10
  
  This is a horrible, horrible disappointment, ruined for the sole fact that Nintendo couldn't take 
 the time to make the game have the speed and fluidity of a god damn DS GAME. If it actually ran 
 good, BETTER than MKDS like it SHOULD HAVE? This game would have been an 8 or a 9 for sure. It's 
 such a shame. Such a giant shame. Ninty, if you're reading this, please learn from your mistakes 
 and make the next MK game run fast.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad4Midna
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off, how the heck is Rosalina a heavy character? and I thoght daisy was annoying b4 but 
 after seeing her in baby form, i know why Daisy's siblings/mom+dad died or somthing. :P. HII I'M 
 DAISY!!!! and BAYBAY DAISAYYYYYYYY!!!!!!!! gosh! shut up!!! they should have never created daisy 
 cuz gosh is she annoying! no offence to all you daisy lovers out there. and rainbow road don't get 
 me started with that!! so annoying!!
  well I guess its just all the same in all the mario kart games. oh well. nintendo really needs 
 to stop working on this mario s*** right now and make a pikmin 3 or a new zelda game or something. 
 seriously mario is like great and all, but its the same stupid b**** geting captured everytime 
 she takes 2 steps out of her castle!! seriously nintendo! I hope they are reading this whitch they 
 probably are not, but seriously, MAKE PIKMIN 3!!!!!
  
  thank you:3
  ~midna 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChamomileBaths
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 5:51 pm PT
Review:  And it's strictly because of its online.
  
  Single player features Grand Prix (choose a circuit which consists of four tracks and try to win 
 them all to unlock stuff and get rated based on your overall performance) , Time Trial (race around 
 a designated track as fast as you can) , vs. matches (race the computer in a single race) , or battle 
 (play computers in a race to grab coins or hit them until they lose their 3 balloons, one hit removes 
 one balloon.)
  
  VS. and Battle mode are available in offline multiplayer which is for up to 4 players on one screen.
 
  
  The real draw for me is that there's online multiplayer. Two players can play on one Wii and join 
 up with 10 other people around the world for some fun competitive multiplayer. You usually are 
 playing people within your skill level. So if you lose a lot at first your ratings will adjust 
 and soon enough you'll find a crowd to suit your skills. Likewise if you win.
  You can choose to play online VS. races or online Battles, just like offline. But you can also 
 take place in tournaments, these differ each month. For instance, the tournament that just ended 
 had you racing Toad's Factory (one of the courses) backwards. You get ranked globally and are placed 
 on a leader board.
  All I can say is that having a friend over and playing some 2 player-on-one-Wii multiplayer is 
 a very fun. To just sit around and be social while playing... I'll be doing this for a long time.
 
  
  For parents, there's no voice chat. Don't worry about your son or daughter talking to strangers, 
 they can't. This is also why the game is more fun while people are playing with yu (someone to 
 talk to) but not more competitive for a player who likes to compete (obviously your screen is halved 
 and the UI is a little overbearing) .
  
  No matter what mode you pick you start by selecting a character, picking a kart or motorbike, and 
 selecting automatic (easy sharp turns) or manual (allows for powerslides with mini-turbos) .
  
  Watch videos and read Gamespot''s review if you want to know how it plays but it's similar 
 enough to old Mario Karts while giving you some new stuff to consider. Very simple and totally 
 accessible for anyone yet deep enough for a good gamer. Plus the weapons always keep everyone in 
 check so even the best racer can be kept close by thanks to overpowering and unbalanced weapons. 
 (they need an options to turn some or all of the off because that's what kills this from being 
 a good tournament game)
  
  Casual fun or semi-competitive fun. This game is capable of both. And it's highly replayable and 
 on top of that the steering wheel accessory which comes packed in makes it totally logical for 
 any non-gamer. (my 67 year old dad picked it up over the holidays and beat the computers on Easy 
 on his 2nd try.)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yukilliom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 8:41 am PT
Review:  Well if your are looking for a game that you can enjoy with your family and friend then you should 
 choose Mario Kart Wii or at least Super Smash Bro. Brawl. Mario Kart Wii bring out the best of the 
 common Wii game features.
  
  For one thing, Mario Kart Wii have many level that you can choose for your skill level. For example:50cc 
 for amatures and 150cc mirror mode for great player. Yor can also unlock addition character and 
 kart/bike for beating the centain cup or unlock ghost expert in time trial.
  
  There also are a battle mode for the people that just want to hit people with item and steal their 
 coin or pop their ballon.
  
  One of the best feature that Mario Kart Wii has is their wi-fi. The wi-fi consist of 2 to 12 player 
 and each game can sent 2 player to wi-fi at the same time, not like Super Smash Bros. Brawl where 
 they limit 1 player per game. So you and 1 of your friend can play in wi-fi at the same time, or 
 if your friend (s) also have this game you can exchange your Mario Kart Wii wi-fi code to face each 
 other. Also the wi-fi have a piont system, where you gain point if you win and you lose point when 
 you lose. The number of point you gain/lose depen of what of kind of people your faceing. Another 
 thing is that the game play online never slow down, not like Super Smas Bro. Brawl where when the 
 internet speed is slow the character move like 10 times slower then normal. I also need to tell 
 you that if your internet connection is slow then don't play wi-fi, because the wi-fi system is 
 going to cut you off and your going to lose point for no reason.
  
  Their are some cons, one of them is that their basily no storyline. Also when you play the game alone 
 it will get boring sooner of later, but that's what friend is for. The last one is that the character 
 and kart/bike are basily the same thing with different design.
  
  Oh yea,1 more thing if you want to challenge me here my number:2363-6644-6342. You need to also 
 give me your number if you want to challenge me, but let me tell i'm pretty good, mine wi-fi point 
 is 8286.
  
  P. S.-Sorry for the bad grammar and spelling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JERMINITIS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:45 am PT
Review:  Wow, where to start?
  From the minute you begin playing this game, you realize what a masterpiece it its. Playing as 
 a single, duo, trio, or quad are equally as fun and exciting. Speaking of how many people are playing, 
 you can always play others online, just in case you aren't overpopulated with nearby friends.
 
  
  As for the game setup, its as easy as it can be to get set up. You beginning setting up your gameplay, 
 and eventually move to the track and racer setup. Many of the tracks are new, yet, Nintendo stayed 
 with some its roots and brought back some of the classic tracks that many have come to love. This 
 time around, you can actually race with motorcycles, which is an extremely impressive touch. Obviously, 
 the game is setup to actually reward you with more racers and vehicles as you progress through 
 the game. Another nice touch is the addition of being able to race with your Mii created character 
 from your Wii. 
  
  In terms of gameplay, you'll have the awesome option of using the Wii remote wheel, which just 
 happens to come with the game when you purchase it. Now, just because it comes with the wheel, 
 doesn't mean you have to use the wheel. There are varying ways of being able to race by using the 
 remote, remote and wheel, or remote and nunchuk. I, personally, use the wheel because it brings 
 something to Mario Kart that has never been used before.
  
  Your online experience can be as fun as you want it to be. Whether you fancy yourself a 'racing 
 star' or a 'battling star', its up to you. Both options are available online. And, both options 
 will always keep you entertained. Also, this game allows you and a friend to log into a game from 
 the same console. True, there are some hackers floating around on Mario Kart Wii Online, but knock 
 on wood, I haven't found any of them yet. Plus, it never takes long once you long into a game before 
 you find a match. And, unlike some other Mario Online games, I have not any problems with lag.
 
  
  All things considered, its easy to see why this game is such a hit. I often find myself playing 
 this game for hours, and the time seems to fly by.
  
  Happy racing, and see ya on the track.
  
  Jerm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquallShadow
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii: The first actual game that almost made me break a controller in pieces. The only 
 reason I am giving this game an 8 is because of its extremely fun gameplay and addictiveness. But 
 all in all, this game gets very frustrating and where luck overpowers skill.
  
  Graphics:8, nothing too bad about them even for the Wii
  
  Gameplay: 9, Like I said before 
 this game is very fun and will most likely keep players coming back for quite some time. Although 
 cheap AI and frequent, and powerful, items will have players questioning their beloved Mario kart 
 series in the past. Before items never appeared as much and more skill was involved to win. This 
 time around CPUs and human players alike are devilishly after those who claim the 1st place throne. This 
 is where luck over powers skill. I'll make a nice example:
  
  SquallShadow: Ok it's the last race, last lap and the finish line is right there!!
  
  CPUs (11 
 of them) : There he is get him!!
  *One CPU throws blue shell *
  *SquallShadow is in 3rd place now*
  SquallShadow: WTF!? (Gets hit by a red shell then lightning) 
 Now in 6th.
  CPU uses Bullet Bill to make SquallShadow plunging into the pit of doom
  SquallShadow: NOOOOOOooo!! Now in dead last.
  
  
  Sound:7, (especially if playing with Wiimote) , 
 that stupid beeping noise that almost never seems to go away after 5 seconds of starting a race. 
 Also those cheers that the characters make (like Daisy) who are constantly saying ,"Woo-hoo, oh YEAH!!!" 
 One good thing is the music which is catchy and kinda fitting for the coruses they appear in.
 
  
  WFC: 9 Wi-Fi has no lag (unlike SSBB) and playing online is much faster and no wait either. Plus 
 the VR (Versus rating) and BR (battle rating) may show SOME skill a player may have.
  
  This review may feel like a rant but it is all true. I like the game but this game may have too 
 many bad moments and varying luck for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagax03
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart wii is the newest installment to the mario kart series. i preferred DD instead of this 
 but it was okay. lets see why.
  
  Story-its just a grand prix. thats it and theres o story so it doesnt count.
  
  Gameplay-Mario 
 kart wii has an addictive yet somewhat flawed gameplay system. for starters the goods. mario kart 
 wii has 3 controller options for the wii. it has rails wiimote, gamecube, or classic controller. if 
 u want to take advantage of the controls take the rails wiimote the wii wheel will help as well 
 for better grip. the controls are the most simple that way. it also has 8 cups and tracks to unlock 
 not to mention alot of characters to unlcok like FUNKY KONG omg funky kong. thats it. know the bads. you 
 simpley dont move fast enough in the game its racing and tracks are way to short not to mention 
 WAYYYYYYY to easy. theres online play but that sucks with it "ranking" system which is rigged. there 
 are 3 modes to play in the begging and 12 chaacters only. its bad and good not to mention the CPUS 
 are way to easy as well.
  C-Good-7.0
  
  
  Graphics/Design-looks great for a wii game very colorful and all that really makes this game shine.
 
  S-Perfect-10.10.
  
  
  VA-Theres very little VA so it wont count.
  
  Multiplayer-Its fun but the split screen when your playing with 4 people is annoying.
  B-Great-8.10.,
 
  
  Music-highly addictive classicle.
  A-Superb-9.0.
  
  
  Overall-7.5 (keep in mind my gameplay matters 50% but since 2 things didnt count it counted 70%) its 
 a good game.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigrut
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  My brother recently picked up a Nintendo Wii, and with it he managed to snag a copy of Mary Kart 
 Wii. For starters, I will say I have never really been that big of a Mario Kart fan other than 
 when I was in college and we used to play it when we were intoxicated. This was on... N64 I think? 
 I don't remember as I didn't own the system. 
  
  Back in those days the real fun came from flat out competition with your friends. The Wii version 
 of the game hasn't really changed too much on that front. You're still playing Mario Kart. It has 
 better graphics, it has some new twists I had never seen: couple of new characters, different karts, 
 some new weapons etc. This didn't really do a whole heck of a lot for me. I was still kind of frustrated 
 with the overall game.
  
  The maps/courses I found to be rather generic, still the random obstacles and the speed boosts 
 etc. The computer characters were not difficult to defeat by any means (not that I believe they 
 are supposed to be) .
  
  Now don't get me wrong, I'm not against the game. I'm just saying not a whole lot has changed. 
 It is still a blast to play with 4 players. If you have a couple of nunchuk controllers I'd recommend 
 those over the steering wheel. I had a difficult time getting used to the wheel compared to just 
 steering with the nunchuk. You can also play without having the wheel or the nunchuk, but I found 
 this to be far too easy to over correct your steering and end up off the course.
  
  To put it short:
  - It's just like old Mario Kart versions
  - It's still just as fun as old 
 Mario Kart versions
  - If you're looking for something new, look elsewhere 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic__323
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  A Mario racing game strikes again but this time, its on the Wii, plus this game comes with a Wii 
 Wheel to make the game more fun.
  
  Gameplay (8/10) : The gameplay of this game is great but it may get hard while you play Grand Prix 
 on any cc especially 150cc which is for the expert players. Throughout the 50cc, 100cc, and 150 
 cc, you will get hit by a lot of items from the Mario characters who are behind, which gets really 
 annoying but I guess you have to deal with it in order to win.
  
  Characters (10/10) : The characters that are currently in the game are Mario, Luigi, Peach, Wario, 
 Waluigi, Bowser, Baby Peach, Baby Mario, Yoshi, Koopa, Donkey Kong, and Toad. There are 24 characters 
 in total in the game, some are hard to get but at least this would be good challenges to attempt 
 to get them.
  
  Sound (7/10) : The sound affects are similar from the previous Mario Kart game which was Mario Kart 
 Double Dash so there really isn't any new sounds that I know of.
  
  Online Gameplay (5/10) : Yes once again, the online gameplay sucks just like Super Smash Bros. Brawl 
 where characters can't really move much to battle and it is like the same thing here, so the online 
 gameplay is not that good but at least you can play with anybody who can maybe be challenging or 
 just play with friends or relatives. There are also tournaments which could be exciting while playing 
 online.
  
  Extras (9/10) : There are things added in this game unlike the previous Mario Kart games like the 
 Mario Kart Wii Channel that allows you to see every record that you have done, you can get a rank 
 up to 3 stars to be the highest and E to be the lowest, also there are some characters to unlock 
 by achieving 1 star or higher in retro cups (old coures from previous Mario Kart games) in each 
 cc in Grand Prix. There are more extras in this game if you play the game for yourself.
  
  Overall (9/10) : The game is really fun, it may be hard but I find it really fun for everyone so 
 I reccommend this game to anyone, it is worth the money because it comes with the Wii Wheel to 
 make the game more exciting. So anybody who has not played this game especially Mario fans, you 
 are missing out on some great fun. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMind
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  
  Picked up the game on release day in US and can't stop playing it, it's video game crack and I'm 
 a hopeless addict.
  
  Graphics: Very colourful, nicely designed cars and bikes nice smooth frame rate, the graphics are 
 bright and perfect for a Mario Kart game. The courses all look very chearful as do the menus. New 
 tracks are great, old tracks have had a lick of paint and fit in pretty well with the newer tracks. 
 It's a step up from Double Dash, but not a giant leap by any means, but it is a better looking 
 game 
  
  Sound: Typical Mario Kart, fun tunes and sound effects, nothing stands out but it does the job 
 and is suitably wacky just like the rest of the game.
  
  Gameplay: ADDICITVE! I have other games I've bought but they are not going to get any play time 
 for ages because I can't stop playing Mario Kart Wii. After being disappointed with Double dash 
 I was worried if Nintendo could improve the series on consoles. Fear not it blows DD away and is 
 the best Mario Kart to date, this is 100% pure Mario Kart, and a great return to form for the series. 
 Only played with the Wii wheel so far and it's responsive, and fun to use (nice and chunky too) 
 some may call it a gimmick but I am more than happy to stick to using the wheel, very nice addition 
 to the game. Takes about half hour to get to grips with but then it feels very natural. Single 
 player is the usual with GP , Time trials. Plenty of cars and characters to unlock as you earn 
 trophy's in single player. But this game was made for multiplayer, it's simply awesome online.
 
  
  Nintendo have really tried with this game to make it as fun as possible when you play with other 
 people, 12 player races, very easy to join games. You can play world wide, with friends, or with 
 people in your continent. ZERO LAG! I can't stress that enough, I have played over 100 matches 
 online and not one single problem, it's one of the best games I have ever played online it's as 
 simple as that, every race is mayhem, and a lot of fun.
  
  There is alot to talk about in this game such as the 30+ tracks, unlockables, fun new weapons, 
 bikes. But I'm not going to bother. If you've ever enjoyed a Mario Kart game or just want one of 
 the most fun games on the market today, go and buy this... Now... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrinityCat
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Fun, fun, fun! Mario Kart is on the Nintendo Wii with new features, like Wi-Fi, Motorcycles, and 
 more! But............ there's just one tiny little problem.
  
  There's practically nothing new to the game. Sure it might have it's new motorcycles and levels 
 but it just doesn't feel "new". It is more like another version of the Nintendo DS. You know? :l
 
  
  But who cares?! :P The game is simply fun but the game is more fun when your playing with your 
 friends or online on Wi-Fi worldwide or regional.
  
  The Multiplayer and Wi-Fi is just what actually makes the game very very very fun (and don't forget 
 the new features) . But overrall, this is a great Mario Kart game, and you'll have hours and hours 
 of good, solid, racing fun! 
  
  The gameplay is pretty good. :)
  
  The graphics are stunning, well done, tight, clean and bright.
  
  I have nothing else about 
 this game except, jolly goooooooood FUN! :D
  
  Don't rent it, GET it. It is simply a must-play, must-own, especially if you have Wi-Fi. Another 
 thing, there's also the Mario Kart channel, it will keep ghost data, tournaments, and more...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 90 % Mario kart was a kart racing game who came out a long time ago on the Nintendo 64 
 later mario kart came out on the gamecube then the ds and now on the wii. The funest part of playing 
 this game on the wii is that you can use the steering wheel and the AI is more challenging. You 
 get to play 50cc 100cc and 150cc you need to win every race in first place if possible if you want 
 to beat the game you get allot of old and new characters and cool little and big karts. The new 
 unlockable on this mario game is the motorcycles that they added you can do wheelies and flips.. 
 In Nintendo Wi-Fi connection you can play against the best players worldwide or just regional around 
 country`s you can play up to 12 players in a match. The thing that sucks is the cheats some people 
 win without even racing they might find secret passages to finish faster. Overall the game is long 
 enough i wasn`t expecting to beat the game in about 5 hours of gameplay if you beat only 50cc you 
 can still beat the other things like 100cc andor more cars. The 150cc and mirror mode to unlock 
 more characters game itself is pretty entertaining because you have more boost and you can perform 
 tricks on jumps like backflips frontflips and allot of cool maneuvers. In single-player you can 
 play grand-prix, versus, time trial, and battle. In grand prix you beat the races move on to new 
 maps and unclock characters. Versus play with AI computers to team up races. Time trial my favorite 
 option... get the best time to beat the top number one rankings in the world.
  
  Graphics 85 % For a wii game the graphics are pretty amasing I think the effects are pretty realistic. 
 I think this game could have better sound effects for some of the characters who screem everytime 
 they jump like daisy or funky kong their annoying.
  
  Sound 86 % The music and the sound overall is great its just like the good old mario kart games 
 exept better.
  
  Controls : The controls in mario kart are simple you need to start single-player before trying 
 online so that you get the hang of it first. Like in double-dash you can drift with the B button 
 once its blue that means that your drift is amasing... when your drift is yellow that means that 
 if you let go you get a big boost. Automatic allows you to turn curves quickly but this option 
 does not have mini boost wich is sometimes boring but in manual transmission i find the karts and 
 bikes hard to drive.
  
  I just dont like that only a few maps from mario kart 64 are on mario kart wii.
  
  
  This 
 game is in one of my top 10 Wii games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirrelboyfan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii lets you race with a new controller, the Wii Wheel. The only problem is that the 
 controls change, and with the wrist strap it makes it hard to reach the buttons, making it uncomfortable. There 
 are Four Grand Prixs including the 150cc Mirror. Though you can only use a certain vechicle per 
 Grand Prix. So I will introduce you to the all new motorbikes that every racer can drive. They are 
 also faster than regular karts, plus they are easier to turn
  in the corners. Over 24 Characters+Mii's. Mario Kart Wii offers battle mode with Balloon Battle 
 and Coin Runners (Formerly Shine Runners) . In this mode it is only team based and timed. Plus you 
 can only use your standerd kart or bike. There are new stages, and now past stages like The Twilight 
 House from the DS Version. Plus in Time Trial, you can race someone elses ghost. And of course, VS. 
 Versus can be Solo or Team-Based. Going against CPU'S. Up to 6 people on a team only.
  
  Mario Kart Wii gets a 9 out of 10 SuperB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padrepride
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii lives up to my expectations. A good controls, with fun new courses, good split-screen 
 multiplayer, and finally some online play make Mario Kart Wii a blast.
  
  For this edition of mario kart, we go back to the times of Mario Kart 64 with only one racer per 
 kart. There are different ways to control your kart which include: using the wii-mote w/ or w/o 
 the wii racing wheel which is included in the game, and your can use the old gamecube controller 
 if you have one. I prefer the gamecube controller because you have a lot more control over your 
 kart. The different race modes are the same from previous games. The ever-fun grand prix mode where 
 you race a cup in different cc's and unlock new characters and karts. The new features include 
 doing tricks going off jumps which is a cute addition and the exclusion of items exclusive to particular 
 racers. The items can be a little too biased some time as it is very easy to come back from worst 
 to first. 
  
  The multiplayer is very good this time around as it is team-based and it is the best two out of 
 three matches. There is the old mainstay balloon battle. The main addition is the online multiplayer 
 on Nintendo Wi-fi. While it is nice to finally have online play, the time it takes between races 
 to find new players and select a new course is sometimes ridiculous. However, it is cool to see 
 players from Japan and Europe playing against you. 
  
  The sound in Mario-Kart is largely unchanged. There is some nice soundtracks but it is a little 
 too electronic to me. It doesn't come close to the music of Super Mario Galaxy and Brawl. It is 
 cool how the music changes when you get hit by lightning, when particular itmes get used, and when 
 the final lap occurs. There is also a lot more character speech during the race.
  
  The graphics are above-average for the Wii but if this factors too much into your decision to buy 
 the game, you probably bought the wrong system.
  
  In conclusion, Mario Kart Wii is the best game in the series and by far, better than Double Dash. 
 The new courses are lots of fun, the items are unbalanced as ever, and there is finally some online 
 play. I can't wait until the next generation of Mario Kart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UVERproject
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  What can I say about Mario Kart Wii that has not been said? Well for starters. It's strictly just 
 for a crowd of people. Going solo on this game is just not where it's at cause at times you feel 
 like your doing nothing. Even with the Wii Wheel they give you. So I'm gonna break it down like 
 this. Mario Kart Wii comes with not just carts but also motorcycles and some other thing I forget. 
 Trying to  and yea just motorcycles and carts. The tracks are some 
 what fun. They give you classic stages from days past but there's also the gay rainbow road. Awful 
 stage. You can sense hesitation here, and that's exactly how I felt playing this. Racing with other 
 friends was fun I guess. The online is really smooth. Smoother than brawl which was a shocker and 
 a big relief. You know what. If you like it cool, doesn't bother me. But it just wasn't my cup 
 of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcalotti
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  The game Mario Kart Wii is very addictive, you can play for hours and not even know it. The beginning 
 courses are lots of fun and get more difficult as you unlock more courses. The character line up 
 is awesome. From Mario himself all the way to Funky Kong. The cart types that you are able to drive 
 are fun each one have its advantages and disadvantages one can be great for speed but be horrible 
 for acceleration, and another can have great acceleration for have horrible control. Online racing 
 is great. The colors are vibrant and the control configurations are awesome with the multiple possibilities. 
 The wheel makes the game funner! Nintendo should design more courses as downloadable content to 
 increase the fun! Also the downloadable content (if it is made) shoulde be FREE and downloadable 
 off of the wii store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: udunwanan0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii takes a big leap of changes from double-dash. The graphics got a whole lot better, 
 more characters, more karts, and the newest thing bikes. Theres a ton of new content such as mini 
 turbos and tricks thats pretty cool to watch. It takes a lot of luck out of the game and put skill 
 necessities in. All the new karts and bikes are just really awesome, they are basically mechanicalized 
 forms of mario characters, such as how bullet bill was turned into the bullet bike and how a blooper 
 was turned into a super blooper kart. The game appeals to people of all ages, you gots to be a 
 hater to dislike this party game. Like many other Mario games Mario Kart Wii was made for groups, 
 thats how you can get the bang out of your buck, this game is just terrific for parties. Single 
 player could get quite reptitive, but many unlockables keep you motivated till the end. The lack 
 of character uniqness was what this game was lacking. All characters are classified into three 
 groups and theyre all almost basically the same. The same goes for the vehicles. It wouldve been 
 so much better if there were more characters and stages, half of the stages are all retro which 
 was pretty lame. Bottom line this game is cool, any wiiowners want a racing game get mario kart 
 wii. Any mario fans? get mario kart wii. Any gamers? get mario kart wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas yesterday, and when I started playing this game I was having fun. 
 This game though in my mind is the most flawed and toughest Mario Kart game out there to date. 
 In the 50cc's I enjoyed the racing. In the 100cc's I liked racing the bikes, they are a great addition 
 to Mario Kart :) . The races though got tougher and had to really pray on luck to win. In the 150cc's 
 this game has pushed me too far. The races are so intense that it will totally frustrate you and 
 make you scream bad words *lol*. I like this game, but in my mind I wish the challenge level is 
 decreased a littlle bit to save yourself from being consumed by rage :) . This game has the biggest 
 roster of characters than any other Mario Kart game. You can choose from 25 different characters! 
 I think Nintendo did the right thing by allowing you to choose your Mii as a character :) . You 
 can race the competition, but I wish the change the voice. The voice gets a tad annoying after 
 a while : (. The tracks in tis game are great but I still wish that Nintendo would not have used 
 so many old tracks. The old tracks bring back lots of memories :) , but still it would be better 
 if there were more new tracks to choose from. I like the new tracks, they are very well designed, 
 except for a few tracks. Rainbow Road is one of them. Another one is Mushroom Gorge. I just do 
 not like it when you have to bounce across mushrooms, or have to go through teleporters. It feels 
 as through too much of the track has be ripped off : (. I really do not like the new items like 
 the POW block. The POW block is really annoying and is hard to avoid. The item I hate most of all 
 is the Spiny Shell. I wish I could disable the Spiny Shells. Anyway, good Wii game, but very difficult. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duomaxwell81
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  The game Mario Kart Wii is very addictive, you can play for hours and not even know it. The beginning 
 courses are lots of fun and get more difficult as you unlock more courses. The character line up 
 is awesome. From Mario himself all the way to Funky Kong. The cart types that you are able to drive 
 are fun each one have its advantages and disadvantages one can be great for speed but be horrible 
 for acceleration, and another can have great acceleration for have horrible control. Haven't played 
 much of the on-line racing yet. My brother has been playing the game way more than I have! The 
 colors are vibrant and the control configurations are awesome with the multiple possibilities. 
 I personally prefer the Wii mote and the knunchuck. Nintendo should design more courses as down-loadable 
 content to increase the fun! Game gets a 9.4 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spooderweld
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  I am a huge Mario Kart fan and a huge Wii fan. So when I heard about Mario Kart Wii I almost wet 
 myself. The first two classes are extremely enjoyable but the same can't be said about the 150cc 
 and the 150cc Mirror. By the time you play the same levels three times it gets repetitive. I enjoyed 
 the game but was extremely tired of it by the last cup and it was so hard I would become extremely 
 angry at the game and lash out! It was friggin hard! Not to mention the fact that I didn't even 
 attempt to get ALL star ratings to unlock all the cool characters. I just don't see why all the 
 characters cant be unlocked by completing all the Grand Prix. But I am not just here to bag on 
 the game I really enjoy the multiplayer online and off. It is undoubtedly one of the best party 
 games out there. There is nothing more fun that pwning a Japanese person (no disrespect) and laughing 
 with your friends about how he is probably cursing my name like: "Woi ching cho SpooderW thai chow 
 lee!" (No Disrespect to Japanese People)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerreviewer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  In Mario Kart Wii there are the traditional CC races that you participate in which is the same 
 and with the unlock able mirror mode later in the tournament and there is battle, with coin runners 
 and ballon battle mode which we all dont care about too much and really havent made a difference 
 to battles at all. Whats on the bright side is that Mario Kart is more exciting to play especially 
 with the new Wii motion controls and Wii wheel, ( included with Mario Kart) , that brings you closer 
 to the game. They have done an impressive job with the controls and the sensitivity. You use the 
 power ups with the top or bottom arrow button depending on which way you want to shoot it and to 
 accelerate with the 2 button. To drift is the B button behind the wheel. To make the variety of 
 Kart choice bigger Nintendo created different bikes to race with as well and a lot more fun to 
 use than the karts
  
  They have included a variety of new tracks and level designs for the races and battles, which they 
 brought back our favorite classic race tracks from previous Mario Karts. Many of these tracks have 
 shortcuts and stunt jumps that players can perform while racing. There are a lot of action and 
 traps along the road to throw you off the track. What have brought this game down is the power 
 ups which in my case are very annoying since the powerful ones are easier to obtain even if your 
 not in last place, and thats bad when the computer players have hands on one, but Nintendo made 
 sure that it was in a fair advantage ; that you dont use the bullet bill power up in first place 
 for example.
  
  A new feature to Mario Kart is the online multiplayer mode which includes the VS races, Battle 
 , time attacks, and world wide challenges. They also threw in a MKW channel so that you can see 
 whats going on without inserting the disc. The Frame rate online is very smooth it barely lags 
 at all and the matchmaking is very clean, simple, and quick. Another feature is that your Mii can 
 participate in Mario Kart alongside the Nintendo stars. Your Mii character is an unlockable to 
 earn and there are alot of other characters to unlock such as funky kong, Rosalia, (from Super 
 Mario Galaxy save data) , Dry bones, Dry Bowser, Birdo, Daisy, and alot others to make a huge list 
 of racers. 
  
  There is a lot to unlock and obtain in Mario Kart Wii that it is hard to put the game away once 
 you finished the CC races that you are just asking for more. Besides that if you complete the whole 
 game you can sit back and enjoy the multilayer experience competing with other racers and showing 
 off your Mii to the world. We ask for a lot more updates with the Battles but they have done so 
 much with working on multiplayer and the race itself that the battle mode is good at where it is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turbo_Burdo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  This addition to the mario kart phenomenon boasts a huge roster of characters and karts. Koopa 
 makes a famous return and baby peach and other hidden characters make their debut on the raceway. 
 Unlike on Super Smash Bros you are able to play competitively online. You are able to show off 
 high ranks in online races and where you end up at the finish line determines whether your Race 
 Rating will stoop or rise. Singer player is undoubtedly a dissapointment and unbearably frustrating. 
 If you don't think you have a temper then this game will show you otherwise. Items are incredibly 
 unbalanced: you could be hit at least twice by a blue shell on the last lap and the bullet bill 
 can take characters on a free ride to 1st place. The ability to do a mid-air stunt brings something 
 totally different to the mix. Additionally if you are tired of karts then bikes are a second choice. 
 However reveal an obvious advantage to karts. The variety of karts and bikes will certainly make 
 you think twice of the character you choose.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is a great game, definetly one you should add to your pile. The great competetive 
 online experience is worth the pain of single player mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixtykurrumi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  The good thing about this game is that now you can use bikes and you have many cars to choose, 
 it also has old tracks which is also great.
  
  The controls with the wii wheel are amazing or for those who don't like there is also the option 
 of using the other controllers.
  There are some new features like the turbo you'll get if you make a trick in a jump which is great, 
 now is much easier to have a turbo after drifting which is unfair 'cause know it doesn't depends 
 on the ability of the driver but that's not so bad.
  
  The items, "god i hate this", I'm just gonna tell you in the other Mario kart most of the race 
 depended on the pilot's ability to drive. Okay, in this game forget about the pilot's ability, 
 in this game you can be first place in all the race and in the last lap a red shell hits you and 
 you finish last, in this game is like 90% items you get and 10% pilot's ability to play. Sometimes 
 it is unplayable because you receive all the items and if you're first better you like bananas 
 'cause that's all you get.
  
  Besides the unfairness of the items everything is perfect In multi player, believe me, with your 
 family, friends or online you're gonna have really much fun but in single player sometimes it is 
 frustrating.
  
  So I just tell you, in this game you can practice as much as you want but even someone who has 
 never played this game can beat you, which for video games' noobs is great but for the players 
 who like games based on abilities it will be frustrating sometimes.
  
  If you're thinking of buying it I say you buy it, i can assure you're gonna have much fun.
  
 
  I actually wanted to give this game a 9.8 but there's only 9.5 and 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabocalde
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  This Mario Kart is a really good add to the series.
  
  Pros
  - Addition of bikes, really cool to use, but kinda overpowered because you can do willies.
  - 
 Addition of new players. Like Dry Bowser and Funky Kong.
  - New courses and some old ones that are fun to play.
  - The Wii Wheel is really fun to play, 
 but its harder. 
  - Amazing Online Play, fast and I have found no lag.
  
  Cons 
  - Old courses are kinda fun, but you will wish this game had more new courses.
  - Unbalanced 
 Weapons. This is the part why I dont give this game higher rating. While playing online is really 
 frustrating when you are first and before finishing the race you will be hited by a blue shell 
 ( I really hate this weapon) and then hitted by a red one. I have thrown my Remote out of the window 
 twice. LOL
  - Finishing the game is kinda Hard specially when you are in 150 cc and Mirror Mode, for noobies 
 it will be kinda hard.
  
  In conclusion, Mario Kart Wii is a really cool game. With new adds, wicked courses, new characters 
 and nice multiplayer, its a must buy for Wii Owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii, is a really great game with alot of great Control because the Wii-Mote becomes 
 the Wheel inside the wheel, I like that feature, I also like the fact that Nintendo thought this 
 game though, before releasing it, I really enjoy how well this game has the player drive with the 
 Wheel.
  
  This to me the Wii Wheel is more better then most of the other Wii accsesories, even more better 
 then Wii Fit Balance Board.
  
  But Back to the Game review, You can chosse from, a small amount of the Nintendo Characters mostly 
 all of them are the ones that are close to Mario or that have been in a Mario game, but as you 
 get more and more into the game then you can then Unlock other kinds of Characters.
  
  I do also have to say is that WiFi mode is a really great, mode I on the Other hand like to play 
 the Battle mode, more then the Racing mode, But will say this that the Coin mode in Battle mode 
 is easier for me then the Balloons.
  
  I think Mario Kart Wii, is a really fun Game and desevers a 8.5, and that is what I'm giving it.
 
  
  THe only player I wouldn't mind in the next Mario Kart is Kriby.
  
  But other then that I think a 8.5 is a great score for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mo_77
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  I love Mario games, he probably is my favorite character, how ever if you'r a long time gamer who 
 knows Nintendo in it's ups and downs you'll probably know what I'm going to talk about here.
  
  This game got pretty too repetitive, you can say it's an update of the previous GameCube version 
 - not to mention that it's almost the same DS version but with better graphics. You see, Mario 
 is Nintendo's mascot, which means that they know that any game they release with his name in the 
 title is a must buy for any Nintendo fan, even normal non-hardcore fans (especially when they include 
 something with the game like a microphone or a wheel.) I used to be like that, but now, it's different 
 for me, I will only buy Mario games that I know I'll enjoy and keep enjoying even if I wipe the 
 dust of the wii and play that game again 15 years from now just like I enjoy playing Super Mario 
 Bros now.
  
  I'm not saying that this game is bad, I'm just saying that it's a priority to spend 50 bucks on 
 "Wario Land: Shake It" or "No More Heros" or "Prince of Persia" or "LittleBigPlanet" or "Gears 
 of War 2" or ... (You get the point don't you?) rather than spending it on a game that you are just 
 going to add on your shelve next to the other "Mascot" games you have hardly ever used. However, 
 you should know that this game is fun to play with friends and family, but if you want fun for 
 "YOU", then "you" better employ your money elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Hardcore gamers seem to be constantly whining about Nintendo's huge new focus on the casual market 
 but in reality, no one has anything to complain about. The Wii's only been on the market for eighteen 
 months, and Nintendo has been hard at work pumping out great new installments of most of their 
 core franchises. To date, Mario, Zelda, Smash Bros. and Metroid have all received the 'red carpet 
 treatment' and earlier this week, Mario Kart joined the Wii ranks as well.
  
  Mario Kart is a franchise that's existed since the Super Nintendo days, and every new installment 
 has tweaked gameplay mechanics while keeping the core experience virtually unchanged. Mario Kart 
 Wii keeps that tradition; offering up fun yet accessible racing while changing some features to 
 accommodate the Wii's split audience. Some changes are for the better, but others are definitely 
 for the worse. Let's start with what works.
  
  Mario Kart Wii's biggest new offering is the ability to race sans an analog stick, using the Wii 
 remote sideways, or snapped into the Wii Wheel. All steering is handled via tilt, and for the most 
 part it feels great. The amount of control you get with the Wheel in hand is simply unparalleled; 
 and although you'll probably find yourself over- or under-steering at first you'll quickly warm 
 up to the new control scheme. If you don't want to give the tilt controls a chance, Nintendo also 
 gives player the option of playing with the Classic Controller, the Gamecube Controller or the 
 Wii Remote and Nunchuk combo. All the methods give the players the relative ease of the analog 
 stick and the latter seems to work best; the brand-new trick system works better when mapped to 
 waggle.
  
  The trick system is deceptively simple, but adds huge amounts of depth to the racing mechanics. 
 At the peak of your jump, you can shake the remote or hit a button on the D-Pad to make your character 
 do a trick which will give you a mini-turbo upon landing. This new mechanic never seems to throw 
 the balance off and feels like a seamless addition to the overall Kart formula. The system is accessible 
 enough for both vets and newbies to instantly get a hang of, and both groups will find themselves 
 looking for any chance to get airborne to pick up a substantial speed boost.
  
  The trick system was obviously first and foremost in the track designers' minds. The sixteen brand-new 
 tracks feel almost like F-Zero, with copious amounts of jumps and half-pipes. The track design 
 always feels totally fresh and it's all in all one of the most imaginative Mario Karts yet. You 
 get updated versions of series mainstays Bowser's Castle and Rainbow Road, which are as fantastic 
 as ever, but there are a few others that will probably worm their way into your top ten tracks. 
 DK Summit is a ski slope filled with pipes and sharp turns, and Dry Dry Ruins has lots of traps 
 to impede your progress.
  
  Mario Kart Wii also features sixteen tracks from past games, but unfortunately these retro tracks 
 don't fair as well as the new ones. Many of the tracks are D-listers, and the only really stellar 
 choices are DK's Jungle Parkway and Bowser's Castle, both from the n64 iteration. Nintendo has 
 tried to place jumps to help accommodate the tricks, but there's seldom more than one or two in 
 each course and the experience definitely takes a turn for the worst without it. 
  
  Hardcore players will definitely start to feel a sting, however, when it comes to the amount of 
 single-player options. When you play solo you can compete in a Grand Prix to earn trophies and 
 gain access to a predictable trail of unlockables, play against computer players in races or battles 
 for fun, or record your best time in Time Trials. Incredibly basic stuff, and a huge step back 
 from MKDS which also offered up genuinely fun missions. On the multiplayer front you can compete 
 with up to four friends in battles or VS races. The VS races handle just like you'd expect, but 
 noticeable changes in the Battle Mode are hard to swallow.
  
  I won't lie; Battle Mode comes across as a slap to the face. If you're one of the many gamers who 
 grew up with Mario Kart 64's four-player battles, prepare to be genuinely pissed by the new setup. 
 Battles are 12 player and team-based, without any option of playing it the normal free-for-all 
 way. Balloons are now largely symbolic as there's no penalty for losing them. I guess this is a 
 way to make everyone feel included as there's no way to be kicked out but there HAS to be a smarter 
 way of going about it. Mario Kart 64 allowed defeated players to continue to be a nuisance, turning 
 into a bomb kart, and that was a genuinely fun way to be kept in the game. Wii's battle mode, however, 
 feels like a needless casualization that probably won't please any crowd.
  
  Another casualized element is the new power-slide system. In the past you could hop into a drift 
 and begin wiggling the control stick to gain a mini-turbo. Now, you're just required to hold the 
 power-slide button and the turbo will build up automatically depending on how sharp your turn is. 
 This new system lessens the effectiveness of snaking; a technique which alienated the casual crowd 
 in prior games. With snaking a player could use the mini turbos to get through the entire course, 
 and the attempted removal of the technique is a huge plus for players who could never pull it off. 
 For people who saw it as the next level of skill, however, it comes across as yet another weird 
 way for Nintendo to gear the game towards the casual player. 
  
  You'd think the new power-slide system would remove enough skill from the game, but Nintendo's 
 casualization crusade continued to the items front. Items have always played a big part in Mario 
 Kart games, allowing players in the rear a decent chance of catching up. This time, things are 
 different as the most skilled player in the room has no guarantee of winning. Mario Kart Wii uses 
 all the items from the past games, including the incredibly frustrating Blue Shell and Bullet Bill, 
 and throws into the mix three new devestating items as well. Players no longer have to wait for 
 a lightning bolt or a blooper to attack all other players, as the new Mega Mushroom and POW Block 
 can significantly turn the tides of battle for everyone. The Mega Mushroom has players growing 
 to enormous sizes and flattening the competition, while the POW Block will cause every ground-based 
 racer to spin out of control as if hit by a shell. With twelve players in every race, things get 
 more than a little hectic with all the items being thrown about. 
  
  The single-player options may be mediocre, but on the flipside, the online is the most fully featured 
 Nintendo has ever included. While you do have to deal with the ever present friend codes, the experience 
 is well worth the trouble. Online supports up to twelve people worldwide in races or battles and 
 even with twelve others, it runs smoother than in local multiplayer. 
  
  The stellar performance isn't all that makes Mario Kart so special online. The Mario Kart Channel 
 allows you to download ghosts, send invites to friends and join online tournaments all without 
 inserting the game disc. This is a huge step in the right direction for Nintendo's online service, 
 and hopefully something that will be integrated into other online Wii games. As every gamer knows, 
 Nintendo has made more than a few dumb decisions when it comes to online gaming, but Mario Kart 
 Wii seems to be a huge step in the right direction.
  
  Visually, Mario Kart Wii is no slouch and is actually one of the better looking games on Wii. At 
 a glance it seems like your typical Mario game with garish primary colours but numerous subtle 
 effects make it go beyond that. There's plenty of lighting tricks and the character animations 
 are slick as ever. It runs at sixty frames per second offline or online, but when you play with 
 three or more players locally the frame rate starts to dip into the thirties. The sound is another 
 fairly typical affair; the bright and cheery tunes, while good, are instantly forgettable for the 
 most part. The character voices are much improved over other Kart installments, but with so few 
 samples they start to grate after a short while.
  
  Mario Kart has always been a great game to have around others and not much has changed here - for 
 better or for worse. The item balance issues are more blatantly annoying than ever before and it 
 is a bit thin on the offline options, but it's still an accessible and fun racer anyone can have 
 a good time with. It's definitely Nintendo's finest example of online play thus far, and while 
 the core crowd will be vexed by some of the sacrifices it's still recommended to anyone looking 
 for a good party game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domenico54
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Im coming out with this. Best smoothest greatest wifi game for the wii. If you, unfortunatly, dont 
 have the excellent wifi, the single player is equally as good. the single player grand prixs are 
 otherwise excellent, very challengeing in the "secret mode" if you'd call it that, is very very 
 very hard. Beating these races offer cars, characters, and courses and more prixs. these will make 
 you look good if you have the wifi, but if you dont have the wifi big whoops on em. Unless you 
 have some friends within a walking distance, this game will get very boring after all the prixs. 
 LUCKLY my best friend lives up the hill, and i have 3 brothers. Basically, im hooked up. Unless 
 you have some friends, or siblings, i recommend dont get it unless you are GETTING a sibling or 
 wifi. The characters range from marios brother to the super cool funky kong and dry bowser. Theres, 
 i believe, 24 characters. There is 30 different karts. The way you ride karts is weight class, 
 rangeing from baby mario as small mario medium and bowser large. 10 cars per class ranked on handling, 
 acceleration, speed, drift, and brake. Each as there own little advantages, little karts can zip 
 right past people, to the large cars can bump them RIGHT off the track. There are 32 courses some 
 old some really old then some new. They all are pretty good, my favs are dk mountain from the GC 
 and coconut mall, one of the new courses, on wifi or basically everywhere. This game is at least 
 a editors choice. very very deserveing. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emogun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  First of all if you have a wii have any like for mario and dont already have this game.... GO GET 
 IT NOW! This is an awesome game espicially if you want to get some of the family together just 
 to laugh at how much other people suck and just say how awesome it is. Espicially with the wheel. 
 me and my friend one day just took this game and he got addicted to it and we went and kicked random 
 people's butts over wifi. This game will definately please Mario Kart fans and newcomers to the 
 series as well. The controls are easy to use all the way down to doing a wheelie on the motorcycle 
 wit the wiiremote. My favorite thing about the game is the bikes for some reason they are just 
 insanely fun to use. Another great part of this game is that you can use your gamecube controller 
 aswell which I sometimes use depending on what vehicle i am driving even though one of the best 
 part of the game is using the wiiremote with the wheel. There is quite of bit of unlockable characters/tracks (kinda) 
 that will keep you playing the game quite a bit even just by yourself. My only hate of the game 
 is that I never play with more then 2 people because it is very hard to see your screen when there 
 is 3+ more people trying to share the screen it is just mayhem. My absolute favorite part of the 
 game is connecting with people over wifi and showing them your skills. In my oppinion one of the 
 best multiplayers out there for the wii so it is definately a great investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoNin360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Any fan of the Mario Kart franchise should not be disapointed with this game. First of all the 
 competition is expanded to 12 players in one race which may make racing more chaotic, but also 
 more fun.
  
  I have had this game since April or May I do not exactly remember, and to this day I am still playing 
 it every now and then. I'll go through a few topics here to break it down.
  
  Graphics: 8.5\10
  Of course you can't expect any Nintendo game to have grade A graphics, but 
 with this game it's not much different than any other Wii game. It is quite a bit more crisp and 
 fresh looking. The bright colors make this game very clear looking and you should have no trouble 
 telling the difference from right to left of the race track.
  
  Controls: 9.5\10
  The only reason I like the controls is because you can CHOOSE from about 3 or 4 different ways 
 to play the game, so I like that. Here are the ones I can think of.
  
  Wii Wheel: 6\10 -I started out the game playing the Wii wheel. It was a very fun way of playing 
 the game at first. You get the hang of it and you can control yourself rather decently. The steering 
 started screwing me up and it got hard to play how I want to with the wheel so I stopped using 
 it.
  
  Wii remote: ?\10- honestly don't know why anyone would race like this without puting it in the 
 wheel but it is an option. Tried it once for fun, but it was pointless.
  
  Gamecube controler: 9.5\10- My way of playing the game since I gave up the Wii wheel. I honestly 
 think this is the easiest way to play the game, since it's easy to do what you want with it. I 
 would recomend using the GC controler if you have one, that is if you don't like the wheel.
  
  i know there is also the Wii controler and the Wiimote and Nunchuk, but Iv'e never raced using 
 those, but I'm sure it wouldn't alter your expirience too much.
  
  But anyways back to the game...
  
  The Grand Prix modes are pretty much the same, but the cool 
 thing is that you can play older places dating all the way back to the SNES in the Retro tracks. 
 There are 4 of those along with 4 cups making a total of 32 unique (for the most part) tracks.
 
  And of course you got your 50, 100, 150cc as well as Mirror.
  
  Even after I finsihed all of those I still went back to the others to improve my grade (yeah you 
 get graded on your performance)
  
  And that leads me to the best addition to this game.
  Nintendo Wi-Fi racing\battling.
  
  Without Wi-Fi you will run out of stuff to do on this game, 
 because playing online against other people is the best thing this game can do. You can either 
 battle (in teams unfortunately) or just race.
  And seriously it would take forever for me to explain everything about this game, but it's definately 
 worth getting.
  
  There are a few things I don't like about the game though. This includes how Battle Mode is team 
 ONLY so that kinda takes the free for all battling fun out of Mario Kart, but it's still OK.
  And then there's the unbalanced items... yes the biggest complaint from people out of anything 
 in this game.
  
  I could go on and on about how unfair this game can be, but let me just say that Blue Shells in 
 the game are a living Hell to anyone who is good enough to stay in first. Bullet bills are also 
 overpowered and very annoying to dodge. Bloopers are a pointless item but annoying. And a new item 
 (the Lightning bolts) annoy me almost as much as blue shells. They aren't too hard to pass off 
 against computers, but to get this things in online matches is just horrible... it's screwed me 
 up so much.
  
  Overall though this game is great, and with online features, this makes it one of the best games 
 out there for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicrocks96
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is one of the best Mario Karts yet. I don't really own a Wii (I have it on my Christmas 
 List) , but I've played it at my friend's house once. 
  I LOVED IT! I just couldin't get enough of playing it. 
  
  What I like about Mario Kart is 
 the graphics. The graphics are so nice. What's also good about Mario Kart is that you have a new 
 thing in the Mario Kart series witch is the trick system were you can like perform a stunt in mid-air 
 and gain points. 
  
  What i don't really like about the game is that if you're steering with your steering wheel, it 
 might be kinda tricky to turn and stuff. So you might be better off with just the Wiimote and Nunchuck, 
 the Classic Controller, or the Gamecube Controller instead of the Steering Wheel.
  
  Thanks for reading my review, and here is my score.
  
  Etidors Choice 10: Perfect
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apoklitty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
  awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juiceboxhero_x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Although not a huge fan, I've always had a good time with kart racers. Addicting, cute, and fun, 
 kart racers have always been a tid better than the usual racing game IMO. Mario Kart Wii is probably 
 my favorite so far. 
  
  The game offers you many of the trademark Nintendo characters and some of their baby counterparts. 
 You can, of course, choose your Mii if none of the characters work for you. Weight doesn't seem 
 to be an issue with your kart or bike's handling, so choosing my favorite, Boo, was never a problem 
 for me. And yes, for some reason, a ghost was heavy. Don't ask. 
  
  The game is much fun either by yourself or with a friend. There's an option to play with those 
 around the world, which of course is much fun as well. Some of the courses are recycled from previous 
 games, but revamped into more modern and attractive tracks. Others are entirely new for Mario Kart 
 Wii. 
  
  You can usually choose either a bike or kart as your vehicle of choice, although some of the grand 
 prix modes will only allow you to choose one. As with any other kart racer I've played, there are 
 weapon boxes to glide through while racing that will give you a temporary advantage or an actual 
 weapon to shoot at other players. My favorite by far is the bullet bill, given to the last place 
 players who glide through the boxes. This advantage lets you speed right on a bullet bill for a 
 few seconds, giving you at least a 30 second increase in where you would be. 
  
  The game is pretty easy, and many players will get the hang of it in no time. I find it easier 
 to steer without the wheel, simply because the wheel is a little too touchy. 
  
  There is, however, one major flaw I have noticed in this game. While in solo mode, it seems the 
 computers are a little weapon friendly. They'll often gang up on you causing much frustration and 
 change in standing. For instance, one time while playing the game, I was hit 5 times in a row by 
 5 different characters with shells, causing me to not be able to move forward for at least 15 seconds. 
 Sounds irritating? It is. This is purely the reason why I choose to play online, though solo isn't 
 always bad. Sometimes things go smoothly, while other times you'll curse Mario out. =p
  
  Overall, the game is very fun. The tracks are all different and offer much for the player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilovemyelbows00
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  I have always enjoyed the mario kart series, starting with mario kart 64, which afterwards, I quickly 
 found the snes version to sulk in that masterpiece. Mario Kart Wii sets up another great addition 
 to this series.
  
  The greatest contribution to the next step in the series is the bike. I actually think Nintendo 
 wanted to make a Mario Bike Wii, but knew that gamers would all be pissed. Even though all I use 
 is the bike, I WOULD HAVE BEEN PISSED (just to prove my point) .
  
  The simplicity of picking up the wheel lets 5-year-old kids, who have never played video games 
 before, do decent on the easy difficulty, allowing us to brainwash them early into loving video 
 games. 
  
  Even though Nintendo pushed Mario Kart Wii to appeal to that new wide-range market, it's really 
 a game for hardcore gamers, especially with the addition of online play.
  
  It's easy to learn but takes time to master, and master it you can. 
  
  The weapon system does 
 an alright job of balancing out the beginner players from the veterans (freaking blue shells) , 
 but dominating a course is still possible. HARD CORE GAMERS DON'T FEAR! There are few better feelings 
 in this world than getting hit by three blue shells and still dominating all the rising noobs.
 
  
  Least favorite aspect of the game: Loss of Double-Dash's red shell dodge.
  Favorite aspect of the game: Old School Levels
  
  If you're a hard core gamer, have enjoyed 
 mario karts of the past, and have not picked up mario kart yet, FREAKING DO IT!
  
  I'll see you online. I'll be the one shoving the green shell up your princes peach skirt (actually 
 i'll be in 1st so you'll just hit my bananas) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gringbot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I have played this game a LOT, mainly because my cousin loves it so much and I get 
 to see him twice a week and whenever he comes over we play mario kart. I would consider him to 
 be a "casual" player, because at first the only time he was playing the game, was when he was over 
 at my place. Later, he eventually got a wii and mario kart along with it, and we mainly play online.
 
  
  Now, I'm not going to say what most every professional reviewer site has already said about the 
 poorly designed karts/bikes and item system, but I will say what makes a good racing game: balanced 
 karts and bikes, but mainly items, which unfortunately this game really lacks. For the karts and 
 bikes, there's only a handful that are even usable and most are actually a downgrade and will make 
 winning next to impossible. As for the item system, there's simply too much going on for there 
 to be any consistency... at all, with too much emphasis on the handicap. Meaning, more punishment 
 for good performance. We all are aware of the 1st place for 3 full laps, only to get chain item 
 hit for 10 straight hits only to walk away with 'last', and somehow when this happens, it justifies 
 a point mark-down when playing online, or offline (which you need to do to unlock things) it justifies 
 having to start all over. At that point, it has gone past the "this is a challenge" line, and gone 
 way over to the "this is a waste of my time" side.
  
  Really, the only thing that keeps this game alive, is the amazingly fun controls, playing online 
 (which is heavily unbalanced) , and the time trials are pretty cool. But to me, this is just another 
 (Nintendo) game where a handicap is introduced so "everyone can have their moment", but "moments" 
 are earned, not just given out like candy. So thanks once again, casuals, for replacing the word 
 "accomplishments" with "pointlessness" in our already dying world of REAL video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii really hit the Wii hard I think and it's definetely one of teh Wii's best games 
 out there. Some of the items seem kind of useless at times but they all have a purpose and really 
 max out the fun on multiplayer. Though when you get hit by a blue or red shell when your in 1st 
 place online and your rank is at stake, nothing will piss you off more. You'll be driving ahead 
 of everyone and then all of a sudden BAM! you get chucked in the air by an explosion and you go 
 down to like 5th place. But besides that everythings really good. Oh, and the graphics really aren't 
 that great. Like I know it's the Wii and everything but they could've done a better job. The backgrounds 
 look great but it's more the characters themselves like donkey for example, his fur looks like 
 brown carpet instead of actual fur. But the really great thing is that you can play with a friend 
 online with up to 12 players racing at the same time. And P1 has a rank that you either get points 
 added on to or deducted from. The online is also lag free witch a really great thing because glitchy 
 racing would really suck. Overall it's definetely a good game and think it deserved a 9.0 honestly 
 from Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismarra1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I must say i did not have high expectations for this game. I played with my little cousin on Thanksgiving, 
 and we missed dinner because it was so much fun. I never wanted to stop. It's very addictive. 
 
  
  The Goods:
  The graphics are not realistic, which is exactly what you are looking for. They are great, and 
 very cartoonish. The voices of all of the characters are nice, and it adds a nice touch to the 
 game. The online play is outstanding and insanely fun. It is not an easy game either. It gets harder 
 as the levels go on. An the different choices of vehicles are nice. The different levels are very 
 entertaining, and my favorite is by far the rainbow level. 
  
  The Bad: 
  There isn't much, but maybe more obstacles you can throw at opponents? IDK. 
  
  Overall, a 
 fantastic game and if you have the Wii you should definitely consider buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AddictedGamer50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  There is truly no other Mario Kart game that is better than this game, and in fact, very few other 
 racing games can match up to it. Mario Kart Wii provides gameplay that is meant for pure enjoyment. 
 It's multiplayer is fast and fun, and it's solo player is quite easy. There is a wide variety of 
 characters and karts you can unlock and choose from, so this game will stick with you for a good 
 while. The other amazing thing about this game, is that it was released only a few weeks after 
 Brawl, but that didn't stop all MKW sales. MKW was almost as successful as Brawl, and had some 
 improvements from Brawl. The online multiplayer runs much better, and there is so much more gameplay 
 freedom. The controls are spectacular. While using the wheel, you might experience some minor problems, 
 but the two Wii Remote forms are flawless, and so is the gamecube controller controls. But! This 
 game is not flawless. While it supplies an awesome gaming experience overall, after playing the 
 game for a while, once you've beaten it, it's all the same stuff. So it does get boring once it's 
 been beaten.
  Graphics: 7
  Gameplay: 9
  Customization: 7
  Strategy: 6
  Long Lasting: 9
  Controls: 10
  Overall: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gsmith92
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  I was thoroughly excited when i came home one night and found my brother had bought Mario Kart 
 Wii. I popped in the disc and played the rest of the night. Right from the start though something 
 felt wrong. I'm a big fan of the Mario Kart games. I used to play Mario Kart 64 all the time when 
 I was little and loved it and I was happy with the direction the franchise was taking with Mario 
 Kart: Double Dash (I haven't played Mario Kart DS) . It felt as though they had taken a great game 
 like Double Dash and thrown it away and started over. First off, What happened to two man kart 
 racing?! It seemed like by taking that away they were taking a step back. Two man racing was a 
 unique idea and if you could get four friends together it was a blast! Second, the racing feels 
 dumbed down. What i mean is that it feels less based on if your a good racer and more if you get 
 good weapons. Speaking of weapons they feel very overpowered. For example, if your in first it 
 is easy to stay in first by getting bananas. All you have to do is line them up behind you and 
 they will stop numerous weapons. In addition, after you are hit with a shell you have to watch 
 yourself do a flip and then sit there and wave his arms. This can cause you to go from 2nd all 
 the way to 10th or 12th. Many of the other weapons have similar problems like the Pow block. Like 
 i said the weapons are too influential. I was also upset when i realized i couldn't boost around 
 corners and they had replaced it with tricks. Boosts in double dash really felt like a strategic 
 addition. If you were really good at boosting (which wasn't too hard, but wasn't too easy) then 
 it could help you get an advantage. In MKWii tricks are the equivalent, but the tricks seems less 
 helpful and require no skill to pull off. I personally found the remote hard to use. Many times 
 i would find myself spinning in circles or making sharp turns off a cliff. Another part of MKWii 
 that was a letdown was the tracks. I thought the idea of bringing back some of the old tracks would 
 be cool, but it seems like they just packed the game full of old tracks and didn't make enough 
 new ones. After racing I decided to try out the battle mode with my brother. This was probably 
 the most dissapointing of all. They had changed it so that there were no bomb battles and the balloon 
 battles were only in teams with cpus in it. What was wrong with Double Dash's battle mode, or even 
 Mario Kart 64's?! The battle mode just felt empty. One thing I do have to give MKWii credit for 
 is the online play. It was really easy to get online connect with people, pick a course and race! 
 So if your just looking for a game with great online access on wii this is it. If your a veteran 
 of the Mario Kart games then stick with Double Dash and rent this. If your new to Mario Kart or 
 even video games then buy it! I can't deny that there is potential for a lot of fun. The thing 
 i loved about Mario Kart games was the chaos of you and three friends racing around a crazy course 
 or nailing each other with weapons on a tilting arena. I felt letdown by this Mario Kart. I have 
 a Wii and 360 and I still pluggin the old gamecube with three of my friends and play Double Dash 
 for hours. If you love Mario Kart like i do then rent MKWii and get Double Dash. Whatever you do 
 have fun racing!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anime_freak22
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I had never played Mario Kart before. I bought the game since the wii doesn't have a lot of good 
 games. 
  
  It's not one of the best games but it's fun. The graphics could have been better. The music is 
 pleasant and can't complain. The online play is better compared to other games no lagging and finds 
 opponets fast. There a variety of characters you can pick and plenty of cars to choose from. The 
 wheel is fun but hard to use. It's good when friends are over and you want to have some fun. 
 
  
  The bad is that it needed more courses and much much more. The game is very easy to finish. After 
 a while it the same and gets boring at times. Thank God it has wifi. 
  
  The worst course the Rainbow one horrible. It has old courses from other games. It's a game after 
 you finish it with all the trophies and stuff you only play it once or twice a week and that's 
 if you don't have anymore games.
  
  Good game but could have been better so much better. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I've never really been a huge racing game fan but I had to take this one for a spin on my Wii since 
 it's one of those titles no one can ignore on any Nintendo platform. I'll admit, I had fun.
  
  MarioKart is quite creative in making some really fun racecourses. The variety of terrain and 
 options are definitely great though the graphics are still "just OK" in my opinion. Though they 
 are quite colorful they just don't seem to pop like I'd hope for on a next-gen console. 
  
  One of the best things about this game is simply the massive variety of options you can do whether 
 from simply picking your racing vehicle to how you actually play the game. I found myself initially 
 just burning through the courses to open up everything. I'll admit, I was a little saddened by 
 how easy it was to get in the Top 3 on the normal level setting. In only a handful of play sittings 
 I got through everything quite simply. It was all still fun but I kept finding myself a ways ahead 
 of everyone else sitting around watching the scenery go by. 
  
  I'm still not a big fan of racing games after playing this but I enjoyed it. Even my wife jumped 
 in on the action sometimes and had some fun too. 
  
  This one is definitely one of the classic series by Nintendo but it definitely doesn't draw me 
 in like I'd hope. It was worth the money for the play time but I haven't found myself itching to 
 get back to it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commander-D
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Mario Kart game to feature bikes and it is pretty exciting. The graphics are 
 awesome the tracks are well thought out and well designed and Multiplayer is back and better than 
 ever from the DS version. My favorite feature of the game is the ability to play as your Miis and 
 they actually have a voice! how cool is that. My main complaint however would be that 150cc and 
 Mirror are difficult to master, from cheap and unforgiving AI, unbalanced power-ups, and inability 
 to restart the circuit without having to go back the menu, and can be very frustrating but this 
 is one of those games that no matter how mad you get you'll come back for more. But be warned the 
 150cc difficulty is very difficult to master. So overall it's a pretty good game it's just that 
 it takes time to beat the game and unlock everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevDevBeck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  I would give this game a 10, but something stopped me from doing it. The controls. the Wii wheel 
 was not a very good idea, because the sensors don't always pick up... meaning you slam into the 
 wall at every course. All the other methods of controllers are unattractive. My family and I prefer 
 to use the Wii Remote with the Nunchuk attachment. That not only helps turn, but I think it is 
 easier to perform bike tricks in this mode.
  Graphics: (8.9) Definitely a step up from Mario Kart Double Dash, but the graphics were something 
 to look at. The game is so much different in 1P mode. The graphics and sound are enhanced, but 
 in multi player mode, the graphics are the same as Mario Kart Double Dash.
  Sound: (8.3) The sound is excellent, and attractive. The music and effects with surround on makes 
 it sound like a movie theater.
  Gameplay (10 ) Definitely the best Mario Kart Game to date. There are plenty of fun modes to choose 
 from. There are 4 different profile spaces.
  Wi-Fi: Wi Fi is extremely smooth, just like the game itself. Sometimes you can't even tell you 
 are in wifi because it is so smooth.
  Overall, this game definitely deserves a 10, aside from the Wii Wheel software. This game is a 
 Must Buy for any Mario Kart Fan, or for any gamer at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenFire95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  Ok, lets get started. Mario Kart wii... well, the Wii wheel that comes with the game is an extremely 
 unique way to play. turning is great with it, and so r the other controls. theyre very easy to 
 find on the wii-mote. items get VERY annoying when in CPU hands cuz you know theyre gonna hit you 
 by some dumb luck. plus, you cant even raise or lower the CPU level (like putting it at 50cc, 100cc, 
 or 150cc in normal races. i think you can do this in Double Dash, i really cant remember.,) but 
 either way racing with a friend or 2 or 3 is a lot of fun. the wi-fi is great, i have never expeienced 
 lag on it. on brawl i always get laggy brawl rooms. in mario kart wii, the least you can get is 
 a disconnection from the room. everything else is smooth racing. well, except if youre on rainbow 
 road, that place is very hard. IMO, its the hardest one yet (Kart 64's rainbow road was very easy 
 cuz there was no way to fall off)
  the only problem i have with this level is the graphics. all the characters r very shiny and bright. 
 they couldve lowered that a bit, but the graphics for the courses r simply amazing. koopa cove 
 is a very nicely graphicd place
  so overall, this game is fun but the items, cpu's and courses can frustrate you a bit. hey, going 
 to a party? bring this game with you, its totally fun for parties! :D oh, and be sure to invite 
 me too lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesertClawX2X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Just as the main series has influenced platformers the world wide, the Mario Kart series has set 
 the bar for racing games. Without Mario Kart (among others) , the racing genre probably wouldn't 
 have been so popular. You can thank Mario Kart for some of the best racers in and outside of Nintendo. 
 Now, over a decade later, the series' eighth installment is upon us and I wouldn't want it to be 
 any other way.
  
  Like most other Wii games, Mario Kart Wii offers several play styles. The newest one (as well as 
 the most heavily promoted one) is the Wii Wheel (the Wiimote inside of a steering wheel-esque shell) 
 which is supposed to simulate the actual feel of driving a car. Perhaps it's just me, but the execution 
 with this new peripheral is hit or miss at best; the motion sensing capabilities are somewhat janky 
 and the setup will probably be confusing to anyone who's played a Mario Kart before. Vets will 
 probably be best off with the trusty 'ol GameCube controller, but even this setup has some disadvantages 
 (mainly the difficulty in performing tricks; more on that later) . Your best bet will probably be 
 with the Wiimote and Nunchuk combo, as it's the only setup that combines the precision of analog 
 controller with the simplicity of motion-controlled tricks.
  
  MKWii essentially follows the familiar template of the series. You pick from one of several characters 
 from the Mario series and pit them against one another for the title of racing supremacy. The tracks 
 (which include nods to various Mario-related phenomena) range from newcomer friendly to long, technical, 
 and overly gimmick-ridden. Racers are also allowed the use of items, ranging from homing red shells 
 to banana peels that cause the opposition to spin out.
  
  While MKWii (once again) discards Double Dash!!'s innovative two-man kart mechanic, the game still 
 manages to add some spice to the tried-and-true formula. The first main addition is the aforementioned 
 use of tricks. Successfully landing tricks nets you a short speed boost. It's a nice addition, 
 but it does become repetitive after awhile, especially since you can't chain together multiple 
 tricks (a la Tony Hawk) for larger boosts.
  
  The main draw, however, is the inclusion of motorcycles. While the overall stats of the bikes are 
 inferior to go-karts, motorcycles offer their own advantages. For one, you can perform a wheelie 
 while riding on bikes, granting a speed increase without having to use boost plates or Mushrooms. 
 Also, the size of the vehicles means that motorcyclists can get out of tighter jams easier than 
 karts, a feature that'll go prove to be handy on later courses.
  
  Of course, with the new installment comes new items, but I can't help but feel that something is 
 wrong. They seem to shift the emphasis from strategic play to a crushing offense; in other words, 
 these new items can shift the balance of a normally even race in seconds. For example, the POW 
 Block causes racers to both spinout and lose all of their items; you had best be invincible or 
 in the air if you want to come out unscathed. With items such as the deadly Blue Shell, Bullet 
 Bill, and Invincibility Star already a part of the lineup, as well as the lack of a second screen 
 to let you know which racer has what item (s) , the game really didn't need more destructive (and 
 cheap) weapons. 
  
  You'll also notice that the courses themselves have undergone a major overhaul, now able to hold 
 twelve-man races as opposed to eight. Most of the courses are your traditional (if not archaic) 
 themes (i. e. Rainbow Road, Bowser Castle, snow levels, deserts, highways/cities brimming with traffic, 
 etc.) , but even these feel somewhat fresher, mainly due to the much less crowded space and ramps 
 for tricks. And some of the more innovative tracks (i. e. Coconut Mall, DK Summit, Mushroom Gorge, 
 Wario's Gold Mine, and Toad Factory) can easily be added to the list of greats.
  
  The other main addition is the inclusion of an online mode that handily trumps anything previously 
 seen on the Wii. Other games (i. e. SSBB, Mario Strikers Charged) may have been decent stepping 
 stones, but MKWii is a fully-fledged setup complete with rankings, tournaments, the chance to race 
 ghosts of the world's best racers, and (obviously) good 'ol racing and battling against friends 
 (and total strangers) .
  
  Maybe it's me, but something just doesn't seem right with the graphics this time around. The game 
 is smooth and definitely plays like it. Outside of the races, however, you can clearly notice a 
 lack of graphical detail, especially at the character selection screen. The characters look blocky, 
 almost as if Nintendo was working with a graphical processor that was somewhere in limbo between 
 the DS and the GameCube. It's not bad, but I was expecting something on the scale of Super Mario 
 Galaxy.
  
  The music is well-done as usual and you'll probably find yourself jamming to the pleasant beats. 
 For once, the music doesn't follow the exact same template as past games. Of course, some music 
 is similar (i. e. peppy and upbeat for earlier tracks, dark and ominous for Bowser Castle, etc.) , 
 but there are quite a few pieces of music included that you won't be expecting. This time around 
 (like many other Wii games) the music is a bit more interactive. Race on tracks such as Moonview 
 Highway or Dry Dry Desert and you'll notice subtle changes in the tempo and instrument selection 
 as you zoom through various parts of the course. It's a pleasant feature, but it's severely underused.
 
  
  The voice acting is pretty similar to what you've come to expect from the series. The racers scream 
 and yell when they're hit, spin out, and plummet into oblivion and they cheer and whoop when the 
 favor is returned or if they place well in the rankings. Fortunately, it seems that the VAs have 
 recorded a multitudes of lines so that you won't have to hear "Let's-a go!" ad infinitum.
  
  I don't need to beat around the bush. If you're an ardent fan of the series or are looking 
 for an accessible racer, Mario Kart Wii is your man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NardBasket
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii incorporates a few new things to the series, without making overly intrusive changes 
 to what makes these games so accessible and fun. The most noticeable off the bat is the addition 
 of motion controls- using the Wii-remote as a steering wheel. Many players excel with the wheel 
 setup, however those who prefer more conventional controls will be happy to know that the game 
 supports the Classic Controller.
  Mid-air stunts can now be performed, providing a speed boost upon landing. The new maps take far 
 more advantage of this than the classic maps from previous games, but you'll still find opportunities 
 to perform them even on some of the SNES classic tracks. 
  In addition to keeping the screen-inking blooper weapon introduced in Mario Kart DS, Bullet Bill 
 is available as well, turning players into a giant bullet to speed to the head of the group when 
 considerably behind. Weapons in this version do, however, provide a considerably more chaotic experience 
 than previous games. Stay in first place more than a minute, and you'll find yourself frequently 
 being hit with blue shells, bringing you to a complete stop. This seems to happen far more frequently 
 than in other games, and can be frustrating at first.
  Like in Mario Kart DS, there are new karts, characters, cups, and modes to unlock, extending the 
 replay value of the three engine classes considerably. I Highly recommend Mario Kart Wii to any 
 fan of the series, though newcomers may find the punishing weapon system unfair at times, and often 
 times frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shantmaster_K
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  The new Mario Kart game has finally arrived for the Nintendo Wii. This is one of most highly anticipated 
 games of 2008 for the Wii. 
  
  Overview: 
  Although it is somewhat similar to the previous Mario Kart games, the new features make this game 
 even more enjoyable. 
  What makes this game more enjoyable is the incredible new features: 
  -The Wii Wheel. By experience 
 it works really well and makes the game more fun and realistic. 
  -Get to drive Motorbikes! For the gamers who are getting tired of using karts in a kart game, try 
 using the motorbike. 
  -Online play. You can challenge up to 11 other racers all over the world using Wi-Fi Connection. 
 
  -Mario Kart Channel. You can add this optional channel to your Wii Menu to view worldwide stats. 
 
  -Play as your Mii. Yes, finally you get to use your own Mii character to good use once again by 
 racing against the characters. 
  
  With this new game comes new maps and new cups to race for. Race for 8 different cups (32 tracks) 
 to become a champion. Four of these cups are from the previous N64 version, but the tracks are 
 not the same. Not only do you get to try the new tracks, you also get to go back in time and play 
 some of the original tracks from the Super Nintendo and N64 versions. 
  
  There is also new items you get to use against your opponents on the race track. Some of these 
 new items include a squid that squirts ink on your screen to blind you, turning into a rocket and 
 get auto-piloted through the track at a higher speed for a limited time, and a mushroom to make 
 you bigger. 
  
  Besides all these new improvments of the game, the gameplay is similar to the previous Mario Kart 
 games: Race and use items to destroy your opponents. You still get the previous features of battling, 
 versus, timing, and playing up to 3 other players locally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cecil777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart has over the years become one of Nintendo's most prestigious titles, and Mario Kart 
 wii certaintly isn't a letdown. 
  
  The new courses are well designed and add alot of fun to the game. This will make the classic courses 
 seem more boring, thus you will spend most of your time wanting to race on a new course.
  
  Mario Kart wii can be picked up by even the worst driver and still be fun. More advanced gamers 
 won't be disappointed either, however. Getting 3 stars on all courses and unlocking expert staff 
 ghosts will keep you busy for awhile, as well as the multiplayer, which you can easily spend 100 
 hours on alone.
  
  Mario Kart wii isn't without its flaws though. Items sometimes seen to decide the outcome of the 
 whole game, so if you'll lose if you're just unlucky. Also some people have decided to exploit 
 this game by hacking it to get unfair advantages online. You shouldn't let this ruin your fun however.
 
  
  Overall, Mkwii is an outstanding game every wii owner needs to have. If you're still not sure, 
 at least rent it, as I guarantee it will probably change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuunda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games out there. For once the critical acclaim, build-up, and gamer satisfaction 
 are actually the same. Anyone who has ever played Mario Kart on the previous systems can pick this 
 up and feel right at home, but what's even better is that MK rookies will feel welcome to the fray. 
 The courses are beautiful and colorfully detailed... In other words candy for your eyes. What else 
 would you expect from Nintendo? The single player is an awesome way to build experience and skill, 
 but the mutiplayer is where this title shines giving you a chance to challenge friends locally 
 or take on the world via the wi-fi connection. The only downside to this otherwise superb title 
 is the extreme depths one must undego to unlock all of the characters and vehicles. Nintendo almost 
 forces players to become experts in order to gain these rewards. WTF!!! With that said, this is 
 still an instant classic and an excellent game and no Wii library is complete without it... if you 
 don't have it go get it now!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frankie123457
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii Review
  
  by: Frankie123457
  
  When I got Mario Kart Wii a few months back, I wasn't very enthusiastic about it. I put on a happy 
 face when my Dad showed me the bulky box, but the truth was I didn't really want the game. I had 
 played Mario Kart Super Circuit for the Gameboy Advance, Mario Kart Double Dash for the Gamecube, 
 Mario Kart DS for the DS (obviously) , and through emulation I had played Super Mario Kart and Mario 
 Kart 64. I liked most of them (I disliked Mario Kart 64) , I had even unlocked everything in Mario 
 Karts Double Dash and DS! It was just that I was busy playing Super Mario Galaxy and Brawl... But 
 after I played the game for a while I forgot those games existed.
  
  Story (N/A) : This is a Mario Kart game, so basically everyone's put aside their differences to 
 race each other... the end... well, no one plays these games for their story so I won't give this 
 category a score....
  
  Gameplay 9/10: Racing in Grand Prixs is more frustrating due to the fact that something hits you 
 every few seconds, but that problem can be fixed in Versus mode where you can create custom rules. 
 In addition to the regular game modes their is also Wi-Fi gameplay so you can race opponents in 
 your country, the whole world, or using Friend Codes! It can take a while to get a game started, 
 but it's worth it to knock a guy with a Hitler Mii off a mountain edge: twisted:, which brings me 
 to another point, you can unlock the ability to play as Miis that you have created before, meaning 
 that besides Mario and Luigi you can play as yourself, Jack Sparrow, Indiana Jones, a dead celebrity, 
 George Washington, and um, Hitler.... There are also bikes which are basically the same as karts, 
 but with worse drifting ability and you can do wheelies which give you speed boosts. You can also 
 do tricks as both vehicles when you jump off of ramps to get a speed boat when you land.
  
  Controls (10/10) : You can play using the Wiimote with the optional Wii Wheel attachment which is 
 my favorite control style, along with the Gamecube controller, Classic Controller, and the Nunchuck. 
 The best two are the Wheel and Classic Controller, but it's up to you....
  
  Graphics (8/10) : The graphics in this game are good, the tracks look colorful and are in full 3-D 
 obviously, but the characters look unnaturaly shiny and are blockier than in other Wii games.
 
  
  Overall (9/10) Mario Kart Wii is a fun and potentially challenging racing game that has brought 
 a few new features to the Mario Kart series that I hope will return in future sequels with plenty 
 of different controller options so everyone can find one that's right for them, the game looks 
 nice and has Wi-Fi as-well, so I say get it if you can!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adidasfootball9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  I don't know where to start with this one. I guess to start I'll say that overall this a good game, 
 although there will probably be a lot of pointing out flaws in this review. Overall, it is fun, 
 and is addictive (but frustrating) .
  
  I guess the best thing is to start out with the good stuff. The game has pretty good graphics, 
 and when you actually get good weapons they are awesome. Most of the new tracks are innovative 
 and wacky, which is both good and bad depending on how many cc's you're playing with. However, 
 the game has a fair amount of issues that keep this from being a ridiculously awesome game.
  
  The first and biggest issue is the control. Overall it is good... at least when you; re driving 
 a kart. The reviewers for some reason liked the bikes, but I think they are dreadful. They oversteer 
 way too easily, which is good that it is realistic, but bad for gameplay. If someone barely... and 
 I mean BARELY bumps into you while you're turning on a bike, you're going into the grass/wall or 
 over the edge. The drift is bad on the bikes too, and I have never gotten a super mini turbo (I 
 don't even know if its possible on a bike) . Needless to say, I have never selected a bike when 
 I've had an option for a kart.
  
  Another huge problem is that you never get good items. Only when you're in last place do you start 
 getting good stuff. If youre in 5th or higher, your items are bound to be useless. However, the 
 computers don't seem to be affected too greatly when they're in a higher position. The boost that 
 you get at the end of jumps for doing tricks is a good addition, but with where the jumps are positioned 
 you've got about a 50/50 change of flying over the edge.
  
  One other problem is the multiplayer aspect of the game. You can't play Grand Prix (at least nota 
 Grand Prix that will earn you trophies) , the battle mode is team based which makes it unplayable, 
 and I haven't played online too much but I think it only allows a few players instead of massive 
 online carnage. Say what you want about Xbox and Playstation, but they have Nintendo crushed in 
 the online multiplayer department... hands down. Whatever happened to the classic free for all Battle 
 mode where it was you versus everyone else? That totally ruled on SNES and N64, and it would make 
 for some awesome online action.
  
  Overall, the game is still highly playable and fun. The control and items (or lack thereof) make 
 it a little frustrating, but it's not too hard to get used to. The multiplayer is the only major 
 disappointment of the game and the multiplayer has seemed to get progressively less fun since the 
 original Super Mario Kart. They need to bring that to the Virtual console as Wii Ware and make 
 it playable online. Now that would be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allaroundfan_-1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  MarioKart Wii Review/MarioKart retrospective 
  http://www. totalgamingnetwork. com/main/showthread. php? t=179866
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  GENERIC INFO:
  GameSpot username: Allaroundfan_-1, Total Gaming Network username: randomduded12
  * YOU WILL 
 GET A SENSE OF DJ VU. Please note that all insults are just poor jokes and as such do not deserve 
 to be commented upon if you disagree with them, but please do comment upon anything else you think 
 I missed or disagree with me on (BTW, I only covered the major sections of the game because frankly 
 there are too many parts and the majority of what I didn't cover only disappointed me further) . 
 CAPITAL TEXT signifies shouting, sarcasm, or something else significant like humor.*
  
  My information:
  My brawl fc is 0087-1981-1001
  Call me rmdud or rdude
  And my Wii fc is 
 4835 1667 2054 0547 call me saberwolf
  My MarioKart Wii fc is 3093-9971-6105 
  Call me srensren
  PM me with your code, if you would like to play sometime.
  
  If you are 
 one of the few people left who has never heard of Nintendo's MarioKart series, you probably need 
 to leave your house right NOW. I would like to start this planned weekly series of reviews by explaining 
 what exactly I am going to do. I am going to review every game I own now or that I have owned/rented 
 recently enough to remember the game more than just, "oh, so I press that button to shoot". 
  
  Rating scale: worst to best
  
  associated with AAARGH
  F
  D
  C
  B
  A
  YESSS! 
 Associated with 
  
  Randomduded12 Review #3- MarioKart Wii
  If you own a Nintendo Wii, you have no doubt been bugged by your friends or neighborhood kids to 
 purchase this game. MarioKart is like a religion to some Nintendo fan boys, but to me it is more 
 or less the most casual, yet competitive racing game I own. This game revolves around controlling 
 your kart while picking up item boxes to attack your opponents; you need to drive carefully, but 
 somewhat recklessly to win most of the time. There are 4 control modes that all work well: the 
 GameCube controller, Classic, nunchuk wiimote combo, and the infamous wiimote steering wheel. All 
 the controller types can be used throughout the whole experience that is MarioKart (keep in mind 
 though how much money could be saved from not using batteries with your gaming experience, so play 
 with the optimal controller: the GameCube controller! Note, the GameCube controller actually plays 
 pretty awkwardly on this game (the tricks function is located upon the d-pad, so it is hard to 
 do tricks actively, without some weird hand arrangements) , so try the other options too, and pick 
 the one that fits you best! (DJ VU yet?)
  
  
  Generic List Time!!1 (IMPROPER GRAMMAR/Punctuation error: Does Not Compute (infinite loop time!!) ) : 
 
  Characters: 26 including mii variants
  Stages: 32 Same # as MarioKart DS
  Karts/Bikes: I have no idea, go look it up. EDIT: 36 total Karts/Bikes. It is based on weight class 
 though, so there are fewer original Karts and more standard vehicles. Another loss as MarioKart 
 DS had some great original Karts and allowed all 36 Karts to everyone after beating the game.
 
  Modes: Grand Prix (Solely single player now. LAME Nintendo) , Vs (online/off multiple or solo) , 
 Battle (coin battle or balloon battle, multiple or solo) , Time Trials (online ghosts/offline, leader 
 boards for pretty much everything) Online Wi-Fi, License settings, rules, and the MarioKart Channel. 
 If I missed any, go look at them yourselves, you lazy bastards. 
  
  
  EDIT: ABOVE picture will not show, so I will attach. YouTube is comprised of fan boys, who cannot 
 accept another person's opinion should it disagree with theirs, so my comments with my OPINIONS 
 and Points will go into more constructive websites such as TGN. Lilkidd88 however, took the time 
 to point out some flaws within my argument, but they too are partially wrong at least in their 
 knowledge of the game and what I meant by my comments. 
  
  MARIOKART OVERVIEW
  OK, MarioKart has been a staple of each Nintendo system since the Super Nintendo. There are 8 games 
 considered in the MarioKart series, but two are arcade only, so I've never seen any of those. The 
 most recent console MarioKart was the DS version, which added online play to the same standard 
 formula laid down by its predecessors. It was revolutionary for the series, but at the same time 
 cut back on certain features that appealed to me. It took away my favorite multiplayer mode, Bob-omb 
 Battle. This mode only exists within the GameCube edition: MarioKart DoubleDash. DoubleDash also 
 had another multiplayer mode called Shine Race, but that has been replaced by Coin Battle now. 
 Bob-omb Battle was the reason I played DoubleDash for longer than a couple of days. It was pure 
 outrageous fun with mayhem and colorful explosions engulfing you and your opponents. However, this 
 title was also plagued by a problem that many other games had: it required other players than you. 
 There were no CPUs that you could play whenever you wanted except in racing, so this game became 
 a sporadic title to play only when my friends were around. MarioKart Wii follows in the footsteps 
 of its handheld brethren, offering CPU battles and online modes that usually shine. However, it 
 also neglected to include my favorite multiplayer mode, so no fun for me. YIPPPPEEEE! 
  
  Past MarioKart games have included the option to control items, but the controls for this are incredibly 
 vague. What does a strategic or aggressive setting mean? Why not allow the player to pick and choose 
 which item they wanted similarly to Super Smash Brothers? This choice is a nice touch, but I never 
 figured out which items were included with which option because I did not want to waste my time 
 looking it up or experimenting with it until I could prove that this item was not included. A little 
 more explanation here would be nice, but I have no doubt it is on the Internet somewhere. 
  
  OFFLINE/LOCAL MODES
  The Grand prix has usually been an option for multiple players to participate 
 in, but in MarioKart Wii, this feature is cut. Instead they make you race for x amount of times 
 before saying this person won or this team won. These modes all work, but I quickly tired of them 
 before I got anywhere near completing the game. 
  
  If you are playing this offline, the CPU can kick your *** even when on Normal difficulty (ANECODTE 
 TIME: One fine, glorious day, a group of friends came over to the magical land of good games. In 
 this land, they decided to play MarioKart Wii. Now, this was their first time playing this game 
 and they had rarely played previous incarnations, but they figured how bad could it be? EPIC FAIL 
 bad. They played a few games that allowed them to adjust to the controls, but dove head first into 
 the maelstrom of evil that is Team Battle mode. Naturally they wanted to start off on the same 
 team, so they entered their first match. They were quickly shamed, with a results score of 25 to 
 12. THEIR CPU TEAMMATES GOT 0 POINTS WHILE TWO OPPONENT CPUS GOT 11 PTS APIECE. WTF IS WRONG WITH 
 THIS PICTURE, HUH?????? Nintendo, I don't understand what is wrong with you (I know their already 
 on shrooms (MUSHROOM KINGDOM??? LOL) , but this is EPIC FAIL messed up) .) . Offline/local modes get 
 a C-, they aren't anything special, but they work and they all include CPUs now, so you no longer 
 have to wait for friends, so for all the readers without any friends (That's all of you) can still 
 enjoy the game. 
  
  ONLINE MODES 
  One highlight many people give is the online. It's free, it works, and it is typically fun. However, 
 many times people will disconnect randomly or sometime your internet will screw up too. This will 
 vary, but you will run into this problem as well as some slight lag that can cause you to screw 
 up, but not nearly as bad as lag in Super Smash Brothers. One thing that surprised me was an online 
 challenge/tournament mode that reminds me of MarioKart DS's challenge mode, which was incredibly 
 fun and challenging, so this was an awesome plus. Joining matches is easy and fast, but then you 
 have to wait until the current round is over, so the wait can last longer than a couple of minutes, 
 but it isn't too boring. There is also the option to download ghosts of other player's time trials, 
 which is more fun than you would suspect, but eventually most people will tire of this mode. The 
 battles are hectic and interesting, but you cannot battle on your own. YOU HAVE TO PLAY ON TEAMS 
 TO BATTLE. Nintendo offers so much leeway regarding the other modes, but it enforces this? I was 
 already disappointed by the lack of Bob-omb battle, but this requirement pretty much put me off 
 battle mode entirely. DAMN YOU NINTENDO! Typically, your team will comprise idiots and the one 
 skilled player who has to provide for the retarded nimrods that play this game. This isn't Nintendo's 
 fault, so I give the useful and fun online a B+. 
  
  
  PROBLEMS/OPINIONS 
  (DAMN, there are tons. A lot of these are opinions though. There are also repetitions of previously 
 stated issues) 
  
  You cannot play with two people in a kart, this was another reason why DoubleDash is one of my 
 favorite MarioKarts. It allowed for extra strategy, some great Co-op play, and more fun multiplayer 
 battles. Neglecting Bob-omb battle, many people won't care about this, but that was my favorite 
 part of the old MarioKarts. Took out the small span of invincibility that prevented you from being 
 put into a combo by repeated attacks from your opponents (Combos are a horrible idea in a racing 
 game, Nintendo) . You can literally go from 1st to Last place from an evil combo or just the rubber 
 banding AI. Rubber banding AI is AI that will essentially cheat, so it can recover perfectly from 
 a combo and return to 1st place with the snap of a finger, the AI is rarely far behind you, so 
 this problem plagues the whole game. Disconnects still occur for everyone, but at least they occur 
 far less often (should this be a plus or minus? PARADOX TIME!!!!!) . Speaking of Paradoxes, the 
 opening intro makes no f'ing sense. Mario and Luigi are apparently playing MarioKart Wii with two 
 Wii Wheels. WTF, this isn't possible and it just made me cringe. The intro team must have had only 
 a day or two to put this together, but I somehow understand their original intent. They wanted 
 to catch the spirit of two friends/brothers playing the game competitively. Stick to humans for 
 the cheesy Wii commercials/intros, Nintendo or just make a game montage of epic moments. This was 
 just bad. 
  
  Items, need more information on the item choices or a Super Smash Bros. style option. Speaking 
 of Smash bros., this game also doesn't include any way to alter your controls, so this takes away 
 from the game if you dislike placement of a certain function such as the tricks located on the 
 d-pad on the GameCube controller. Some classic items were taken out (ghost boo, Feather still isn't 
 back, also many of Double Dash's special items don't make a comeback.) Characters from previous 
 games are no longer included even though they were fairly interesting. To unlock everything, there 
 is typically only one way to do so, now Smash Bros. had the decency to include multiple options, 
 so why not MarioKart? Certain items follow you and lead to your doom. Ex. Blue shells will strike 
 during midair jumps and will cause you to fall to the ground, thus losing your lead and having 
 to collect any items again. The item placement is incredibly unfair, in first place the probabilities 
 for anything useful are incredibly low, so you are stuck with bananas , just one green shell, etc.. 
 Allow me to defend my title against the behemoths with Bullet Bills and Blue Shells, then I will 
 respect you Sir Nintendo. Online players can be dumber than stumps or the pinnacle of douchebaggery. 
 The voice acting reminds me vaguely of a sexual experience with certain characters. (Daisy in particular 
 sounds like she is COMING to fruition every time she gets a boost or does a trick. SMIRK- LOLLLLL.) 
 Voice acting that will repeat hundreds of thousands of times will torture your head continuously 
 until you explode grey matter all over your Wii. The Wii motion sensor will not always recognize 
 your turns or may overcompensate, especially if you are farther away. BATTERIES, this is a problem 
 with all the systems though, so how can I really complain. I would have loved replays similar to 
 Brawl only with an extended time limit, but the game is fine without it.
  
  FIXES/GOOD ASPECTS
  Snaking (repeatedly boosting to gain the lead, think constantly getting a 
 mini turbo, so you win) has become much harder to do, so this is a definite plus. Albeit, some 
 people enjoyed snaking, so this would be a minus for them. The new boost system is well designed. 
 Two kinds of vehicles: karts and bikes (new vehicles are always a plus) . Two modes of control for 
 each bike/Kart (automatic and manual: latter for more advanced player, first for players who do 
 not want to worry about controlling turbos and just want to race without extra distractions) . Good 
 amount of tracks, characters, items, online options, tricks, etc. In matches between just a few 
 players, the items lose their edge because Nintendo wisely chose to limit the amount of aggressive 
 items and focus on providing a fair and fun experience. Tricks are fun and usually simple to pull 
 off. Uses Miis from your Wii inside certain tracks, which is disconcerting at first, but interesting 
 to see your friends willfully try to pummel you. Online WORKS. A ton of retro tracks and new tracks, 
 all are pretty well designed and fun for a while. More tracks for battle mode, but they didn't 
 bring back some of my favorite older battlegrounds and some of the new levels annoy me, so I'll 
 put this as a neutral. LEADERBOARDS, this finally proves to me that Nintendo is keeping pace with 
 their competitors.
  
  SCORE
  I've gone on long enough, MarioKart Wii gets a B for the newcomers to the franchise, but for the 
 veterans I give the game a C. Newcomers will readily accept many flaws with the game, but veterans 
 have already played and experienced some of the best racing the series had to offer, so our expectations 
 are a little higher. Besides, this game seems to stagnate because it takes small steps forward 
 while eliminating many things that made the series great and original in the first place. The main 
 reason to buy this game is online, so if you don't have online don't put this high on your priority 
 list. Either way, check out the game and I guarantee you will find something you like about it. 
 Nintendo's head has begun the torturous retraction from their ***. LOL. 
  
  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
  For a more positive review that I in general agree with, go to http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=m0ga16L3PiI
 
  I KWING (in general, not always) .
  
  Next review: God Of War for the PS2. I've decided not to poll people to decide which review to 
 do as I only received one vote and that was after the deadline was up. I will continue to poll 
 for your favorite game, etc. Thank you for reading this and please subscribe to me! NOM NOM NOW!
 
  
  Attached Files youtube hate. doc (183.5 KB, 0 views) 
  
  Re: MarioKart Wii Review/MarioKart retrospective 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  New information, Tournaments what I talked about as similar to MarioKart DS's challenges and time 
 trial challenges are also updated through free downloadable content, so look forward to some new 
 challenges every few weeks or so. Cool idea, just wish they had multiplayer options for this mode 
 as well.... No seriously, they should do that. Imagine competing against the best players while 
 trying to maintain an awesome time. That would rock. Next time on MarioKart, will Nintendo decide 
 to raise its awesome level OVER 9000 by including mutiplayer tourneys? Tune in to find out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightychir
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart has been a great spin off for mario and his friends for years and nintendo has brought 
 us yet again , another great game. Mario kart wii added motion controls with the wii wheel which 
 actually works pretty well. u can play with four controls in total ( the gamecube control, wii wheel, 
 wii remote and nunchuck or the classic controler) which all of them work pretty well.
  the new tracks r pretty creative and also brings old ones like waluigis stadium ( although some 
 levels r boring)
  the new characters arent really amazing but what is really cool is that u can play as your own 
 mii. online is really great and works well, and the best part is the mario kart channel where u 
 can compete in tournaments or play against other peoples ghosts. the new items r crazy but might 
 also get kinda of frustrating when u keep getting spun around by a POW block or get run over when 
 someone uses a giant mushroom where it is really hard to keep yourself at first place. mario kart 
 wii is a great game which i recommend to a wii owner although it is one of the best of the series, 
 it isnt the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertcain
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  16 years back a new racing game from Nintendo came to the SNES. The game was Super Mario Kart and 
 it created the kart racing genre for video games. There have been many imitators including Crash 
 Team Racing and Sonic R but neither of these could match its greatness. After 3 years of playing 
 Mario Kart DS the new version is here. The gameplay amounts to entertaing and hectic races across 
 32 tracks throughout the Mushroom kingdom. 16 of these are new tracks created exclusivly for the 
 Wii. These 32 tracks are divided into eight separate cups from the Mushroom cup to the Lightning 
 cup. As you go through the game it will throw harder tracks at you and some tracks are only for 
 Mario Kart fanatics. Mario Kart comes with a new peripheral, the Wii wheel. It is very intuitive 
 and even though it takes some time to get used to it, soon even the begginers will be four-wheeling 
 through with ease. Some other important additions to the game include motorbikes and tricks. Bikes 
 while faster than karts don't handle as well so be careful which you choose. Tricks are very easy 
 to pull off. Just go off a jump and flick the Wii wheel for a speed boost when you land. These 
 both add a sense of strategy to the game and make it more interesting as a whole. The difficulty 
 depends on which CC class you choose (150CC being the hardest) 50CC is fine but 100CC and 150CC 
 are very frustrating especially because of the new power-ups in the game that are as un-balanced 
 as ever. Some of these include the blue shell (Homes in on the race leader) and the Lighting (Shrinks 
 everyone, slows them down and makes them drop their items) This makes you more likely to be hit 
 than ever and some power-ups you have no defence against. You will find yourself cursing a lot 
 and praying not to get hit on that final straight. Fortunately the mutiplayer is excellent. You 
 can play offline with up to four players and online with up 12, a first for the series. The multiplayer 
 is fun and is one of the best on Wii at the moment. There are no server issues, framerate drops 
 or low-res textures. The graphics in Mario Kart Wii are both stylish and pretty. From the beutiful 
 sunny skys of Peach Beach to the the dark sinister walls of Bowser's castle this is one of the 
 best looking Wii games to date. With online being updated all the time, lots of karts and characters 
 to unlock, and the endless fun to be had with friends this will last you a long time to come. If 
 you are a Mario Kart fanatic then you really need this game. If you are a gamer who is easily frustrated 
 and hates losing then this game is not for you. If you just want a fun racing game for your Wii 
 then Mario Kart Wii is your best bet. Mario Kart may be quite difficult and frustrating sometimes 
 but it's the best racing game on Wii. Overall it's the ultimate Mario Kart package rather than 
 the best but it's still a lot of fun and I would recomend it for any person who has a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CazmoV
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  I had amazing luck getting this game, same way I did with wii fit. The game had been sold out EVERYWHERE! 
 We'd been told that we probably wouldn't get a copy for several weeks. But my dad didn't really 
 understand the concept that if a game is sold out in GAME, it is most likely to be sold out in 
 Argos, Gamestation, or any other video game shop. But he called up GAME anyway. Turns out they 
 had one spare copy, so they reserved it for us :D
  This game wasn't one to take a long to get into. This was immediate fun, perfect for introducing 
 your family to video games. The game runs on the same structure as the other Mario Kart games. 
 You have immediate access to 50cc, 100cc and 150cc. As usual, the difficulty goes up as you complete 
 more grand prixs. There are 8 grand prixs in each cc. 4 new ones, 4 retro ones. In each grand prix, 
 there are 4 races. 
  The two main changes to the Mario Kart series are obvious. You now control your vehicle with a 
 "wii wheel", and motor bikes have also been added to the experience. Both of these features were 
 huge risks from Nintendo, especially the Bikes which could have put a stop to the franchise forever. 
 But in fact, they both just added more fun to the races.
  The wii wheel's control scheme is perfect. Inserting a wii remote inside a little slot, where you 
 hold the wheel like you would hold a real steering wheel, using certain buttons to drive smoothly 
 through the races.
  But unlike Super Smash Bros Brawl, the wifi mode of this game isn't crummy and unfinished. In fact, 
 it is one of the best online experiences available to Nintendo. Race your friends, or race a stranger 
 in Japan, either way your BOUND to have fun. There are even regular competitions and tournaments 
 that you can enter and try to win prizes with. The only set down with the wifi is the fact that 
 there are cheaters out there. Some people have came up with hacks that allow them to finish the 
 race in 1 second. But luckily, there aren't too many idiots who do that. Also, the competitions 
 are incredibly hard to beat. Some people get incredibly high scores that would seem impossible. 
 Either they're cheating or they have very sad lives. 
  Wifi is a must have for this game if you want to experience the game in it's entirety. If your 
 don't, I suggest you get your wii online, as you're missing out on a lot. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pikminmaniac
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game would have been a let down, but it wasn't. I find it to be the greatest Mario 
 Kart yet, because I can never g back to playing any of the older ones because thay don't have tricks. 
 These tricks are pure WIN! I also LOVE the bikes. The tracks in this game are toop notch as well. 
 They included the best retro courses as well. The online in this game gives Xbox live a run for 
 its money. It's flawless and the monthly tournements are a blast. Best online on Wii by far! there 
 are two problems and they are: 1) the items are a little unbalanced and 2) the battle mode sucks 
 now.
  
  To sum up: Best Mario Kart to date. Bikes, tracks, tricks, and online are big pluses, but Battle 
 mode and items are a negative.
  
  P. S. Wii Wheel is the most fun way to play. Wii remote and nunchuck is the best way to play (most 
 acurate) . Both the GCN controller and classic controllers suck (need to take thumb off analog stick 
 in order to do tricks and pop a wheelies) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gurdhnio909
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun to play weather your by yourself or playing with someone else or either online 
 there are diffrent modes on the game you can grand prix were you can select a cup and race and 
 unlock more cups which you can use in the online mode. The use of power-ups are good but they can 
 get annoying when you get hit once and then again and lose your position in the race. Other than 
 racing you can have battles there are two to choose from Balloon battle and Coin runnner. Balloon 
 battle is where you have to have the most balloon's at the end and to pop your opponent's baloons. 
 Coin runner is where you have to have the most coins at the end of the game and to get coins off 
 of your opponent's doesn't sound like fun but it is once you start to play. In the online mode 
 you can have to players connecting online and have 12 players to play against you play against 
 friends you have. There are two modes you cna have and one of them is race or battle the online 
 modes are very fun and hard let go although sometimes you do get disconnected which is annoying 
 since you have been waiting for quite some time and the two modes are the same as the modes when 
 your not playing online but the games seems funner online and when your playing someone else. Overall 
 this is a fun game to play and very addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aneurysm_uk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is an addictive game that really shines in multiplayer. The ability to play against 
 multiple human opponents both online and in person opens up a competitive, frantic side to the 
 game that ensures hours of replay value. Although the mix of characters is largely superficial, 
 there's enough variety in the models of bikes and karts to ensure a lasting single-player challenge.
 
  
  There are minor gripes; the steering wheel reveals itself to be a gimmicky addition because you 
 don't get as much control in terms of turning curve as you do with the nunchuck, and the computer 
 AI can be infuriating at times, rubberbanding whenever you take the lead on higher difficulty levels 
 that often sees you in last place on the last lap, mere seconds from the finish line.
  
  That said, Mario Kart Wii offers hours of enjoyment in a multiplayer environment, and is easy to 
 pick up from the first go. A worthy edition to the Mario Kart canon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brianfox1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii, the first Mario Kart game to be on the Wii. This game is really fun, it as over 
 18 characters you can play as, unlike Mario Kart: Double Dash. Unlike Double Dash this game DOESN'T 
 have karts that two players can ride on, but still up to 4 players can play. This Mario Kart has 
 over 20 track you can ride on it has about 16 retro tracks from old Mario Kart games. In this Mario 
 Kart you can play as your Mii if you him/her. The part I like the best out of this game is how 
 the major tracks from retro Mario Karts are the main retro tracks they put in the game. In this 
 game I spent about 37 hours trying to unlock everything. 
  The part I hate about this game is how it doesn't have karts two players can ride, I mean some 
 people liked it some people didn't. Another part I hate about this game is how to unlock one of 
 your Miis you have to race another character and be about 5 secons faster than him and believe 
 me it's harder than it sounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazlokid25
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  After Mario Kar Double Dash for the Gamecube back in 2003, its the Wii's turn to have a Mario Kart 
 Game. And boy, did they make a good one. With a lot of returningsfaces like Bowser Jr., Baby Mario 
 and Baby Luigi, and with more faces to pop up like Rosalina from Super Mario Galaxy makes this 
 game a hoot of playing! And the best part is that you can play as your Mii in this game. And with 
 easy controls, this game might just be the best Wii game of 2008, or better yet the game of the 
 year! Or Super Smash Bros Brawl! But again, such a wonderful game! I dont have a lot to say about 
 this game anyore and I'm not done with this review, so......
  Best game ever, best game ever, best game ever, best game ever, best game ever, best game ever, 
 best game ever. And, perfect 10, perfect 10, perfect 10, perfect 10, perfect 10, perfect 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowkirby2007
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is a Awesome Game, the Best Part of it is When Playing Online, The Offline Mode 
 is a Little Chore, cuz the CPU's Use a lot of items that makes it a little Hard, Offline Battle 
 Mode is Fun When 4 People are Present the Same with Vs. but In online Mode the Vs. Races are Awesome, 
 There is hardly any lag even with Wireless Internet and there are a lot of Characters to Choose 
 From and its Awesome that you can use a variety of Kart and Bikes. The Online Races can be up to 
 12 Players, but 2 Players on Each Wii Console, for Battle Mode I still Prefer the Original Style 
 1 Winner, but Its Still Fun Up to 12 Players Spit in 2 Teams, there is Balloon and Coin Matches, 
 in Balloon its just like the Original hit you foes with Shells, Mega Mushrooms, Starman ect. and 
 for Coins the Team with the Most Collected Coins Wins, and what makes it fun is that you have to 
 Steal the Coins of your opposite team, with Shells and other items.
  Overall this game is Awesome! Buy it!
  
  Graphics: 7.50/10
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Controls: 
 9.75/10.0
  Fun: 10/10
  Overall: 10/10!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackout_zero
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the previous Mario Kart games and if you own a Wii, you owe it to yourself to buy 
 this game. With it's nice visuals, it's great on- and offline multi-player, and it's just-right 
 controls, Mario Kart Wii is a game for any Nintendo fan.
  
  Mario Kart Wii has a total of 19, new and old, characters available for you to play, including 
 your personal Mii. Not from start though. It'll take a little while to unlock all of them, and 
 you'll have to play through all stages multiple times. In doing this you will also unlock new karts 
 and bikes.
  
  The stages are varied, plentiful and mostly great, although a few of them can be a real pain to 
 play through again and again while trying to unlock everything. Also, if you've played most of 
 the other Mario Kart games, you will see a lot of familiar places, as half of the stages are old 
 ones with a graphic update. If you love nostalgia though, these are a treat. All this aside, the 
 new stages are great and you'll love the new Rainbow Road, as vibrant as ever.
  
  The items and power-ups are okay. It doesn't feel like there are a lot of different ones, but there 
 sure are a lot of them. At times it'll seem like you get hit with lightnings and shells constantly, 
 and this can be really frustrating. On the other hand, these times make it feel so good when you 
 finally get your revenge.
  
  The multi-player functions are great. As always, it's possible to play 4-player split-screen, and 
 although the balloon battle mode isn't nearly as good as it used to be on the N64, the newly added 
 coin collecting mode (your opponents drop coins when hit) and the sheer fun of playing with three 
 of your friends, makes up for this.
  
  With the Wii, it is possible to play online against other racers from all over the world. You can 
 choose between Worldwide and Continental, and all the same modes are available as in offline multi-player. 
 
  The best thing, though, is the fact that you can play split-screen with one friend online, meaning 
 that you and your friend race against up to 10 others from around the globe.
  
  Unless someone you are racing online has a really bad Internet connection, the frame rate almost 
 never drops noticeably, not even in split-screen online.
  
  
  In short:
  Mario Kart Wii is a great multi-player game that appeals to Mario fans of all ages. It is fun to 
 play by yourself, but even better with your friends next to you. If you own a Wii, you should get 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4koN3m3sis
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  The answer to the question is: Yes! I was a HUGE fan of MArio Kart DS and once I started playing 
 Mario Kart Wii, I was IMMEDIATELY captivated! The new controls for the Wii are surprisingly comfortable 
 but takes around a good half-hour of playing time to familiarise yourself with them.
  
  The new Bikes that go with the Karts are a great addition this game and the new items are also 
 cool such as the Thundercloud and POW blocks though it is a bit annoying when you get the Thundercloud 
 and your stuck in the middle of nowhere...
  
  A few maps such as Wario's Gold Mine is pretty fiddly if you go too fast around the non-barriered 
 falls and corners as it is pretty easy to fall off the same can also be said for DK Snowboarding 
 but it is easier to control on there than on Wario's Gold Mine.
  
  Overall, this game is a brilliant addition to the Wii as this game was pretty much MADE for the 
 Wii and it is a really good game to have fun, relax and beat each other on a 4-player game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordNightwolf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  The 4th verson of this never ending Mario Kart series. This is a total must have and it comes with 
 a bonus a "Free" Wii Wheel your just buying the $40 and $10 Steering wheel, THATS IT!!! The wheel 
 dosen't even do anything besides make it more "REALISTIC". I mean a huge talking, fire breahing 
 turtle (yes I'm talking about Bowser all you retards out there) . Origanly to be a Wii launch title 
 we had to wait almost another 30 months after the relese of the Wii. But enough complaing, now 
 for the reveiwing. Up to 4 players can play on multiplayer. You have many diffrent controlers to 
 use Wii Mote/Wii Wheel (you have to put the Wii Mote in the wheel so don't be stupid) , Wii Mote 
 + Nunchuck, Game Cube controler, and Classic Controler (if you don't like any of these choies your 
 just being diffacult!!) . Wi-Fi Capability, the classic 1 player, options to use any Mii you want 
 then change it later without lousing any data. 42 tracks (16 New and 16 CLASSICS) with a harder 
 "Ranbow Road" I know it realy SUCKS!!!! Any way it has 2 types of 24 vehicles Karts & NEW BIKES!!! 
 And 26 characters. I give Mario Kart Wii 
  
  8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthew137
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  MATTHEW XUEREB IS VERY HAPPY WHAT THE GAME MARIO KART WII ON THE NINTENDO WII AND I HOPE THAT IN 
 THE FUSHER THERE WELL BE A GAME LIKE THESE BEACASE ALL ME FAMILY LIVE TO PLAY MARIO KART WII MATTHEW 
 XUEREB IS VERY HAPPY WHAT THE GAME MARIO KART WII ON THE NINTENDO WII AND I HOPE THAT IN THE FUSHER 
 THERE WELL BE A GAME LIKE THESE BEACASE ALL ME FAMILY LIVE TO PLAY MARIO KART WII AND PLAY IT EMATTHEW 
 XUEREB IS VERY HAPPY WHAT THE GAME MARIO KART WII ON THE NINTENDO WII AND I HOPE THAT IN THE FUSHER 
 THERE WELL BE A GAME LIKE THESE BEACASE ALL ME FAMILY LIVE TO PLAY MARIO KART WII MATTHEW XUEREB 
 IS VERY HAPPY WHAT THE GAME MARIO KART WII ON THE NINTENDO WII AND I HOPE THAT IN THE FUSHER THERE 
 WELL BE A GAME LIKE THESE BEACASE ALL ME FAMILY LIVE TO PLAY MARIO KART WII VERY SINGLE DAYMATTHEW 
 XUEREB IS VERY HAPPY WHAT THE GAME MARIO KART WII ON THE NINTENDO WII AND I HOPE THAT IN THE FUSHER 
 THERE WELL BE A GAME LIKE THESE BEACASE ALL ME FAMILY LIVE TO PLAY MARIO KART WII MATTHEW XUEREB 
 IS VERY HAPPY WHAT THE GAME MARIO KART WII ON THE NINTENDO WII AND I HOPE THAT IN THE FUSHER THERE 
 WELL BE A GAME LIKE THESE BEACASE ALL ME FAMILY LIVE TO PLAY MARIO KART WII MATTHEW XUEREB IS VERY 
 HAPPY WHAT THE GAME MARIO KART WII ON THE NINTENDO WII AND I HOPE THAT IN THE FUSHER THERE WELL 
 BE A GAME LIKE THESE BEACASE ALL ME FAMILY LIVE TO PLAY MARIO KART WII MATTHEW XUEREB IS VERY HAPPY 
 WHAT THE GAME MARIO KART WII ON THE NINTENDO WII AND I HOPE THAT IN THE FUSHER THERE WELL BE A 
 GAME LIKE THESE BEACASE ALL ME FAMILY LIVE TO PLAY MARIO KART WII MATTHEW XUEREB IS VERY HAPPY 
 WHAT THE GAME MARIO KART WII ON THE NINTENDO WII AND I HOPE THAT IN THE FUSHER THERE WELL BE A 
 GAME LIKE THESE BEACASE ALL ME FAMILY LIVE TO PLAY MARIO KART WII MATTHEW XUEREB IS VERY HAPPY 
 WHAT THE GAME MARIO KART WII ON THE NINTENDO WII AND I HOPE THAT IN THE FUSHER THERE WELL BE A 
 GAME LIKE THESE BEACASE ALL ME FAMILY LIVE TO PLAY MARIO KART WII MATTHEW XUEREB IS VERY HAPPY 
 WHAT THE GAME MARIO KART WII ON THE NINTENDO WII AND I HOPE THAT IN THE FUSHER THERE WELL BE A 
 GAME LIKE THESE BEACASE ALL ME FAMILY LIVE TO PLAY MARIO KART WII MATTHEW XUEREB IS VERY HAPPY 
 WHAT THE GAME MARIO KART WII ON THE NINTENDO WII AND I HOPE THAT IN THE FUSHER THERE WELL BE A 
 GAME LIKE THESE BEACASE ALL ME FAMILY LIVE TO PLAY MARIO KART WII 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juliusmysad
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2008 2:01 am PT
Review:  If you don't have this game, you probably shouldn't have a Wii. Mario kart is like one of the only 
 multiplayer game you need for the Wii, if anything. You see, usually the person whom has been invited 
 to your house will want to play Brawl, but you'll usually say no because you''l pwn them or because 
 you're completely sick of playing it. Then you'll suggest some wierd game that doesn't appeal to 
 the other person, because all they can think about is playing Brawl. This is where Mario Kart comes 
 in. Not only can both people enjoy the game, but its also a great game where you can talk to each 
 other about how unfair the items are........
  
  Also, just forget about unlocking the 'other' characters, its just not really worth it. Mainly 
 because they're really hard to unlock, but because its not worth your time. But also, i just want 
 to say that the items within the game are sometimes completely unfair, which can either be a good 
 thing or a bad thing, depending on where you're coming from.........
  
  Otherwise, buy the game for the multiplayer........ it's all you'll need. Oh, and don't use the 
 Wii wheel :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersmashgamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The game overall is good, but it fails in some areas. The new courses are very creative, but the 
 recycled ones ain't really appealing and bringing the old stages back wasn't a good idea they should've 
 made up to date stages and put those stages as downloadable content. The Grand Prix is still boring 
 and it's harder because now the cpu gets the spike shell way too much. Other than these problems 
 the game is good, the wii wheel works and if u play with it long enough it'll feel weird not to 
 play with it. Online works very well and the tournaments are a nice add on to the game. The game 
 however has limited appeal for 1 person you will need a friend or online to enjoy the game to the 
 fullest. The Mario kart series have been lacking lately, hopefully they'll put more work in the 
 next one for the next nintendo console or the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Actually not much. I was very excited about the Wii when it first came out. Yet Nintendo's first 
 party flag ship games have been the only games to use the Wii motes motions well. Now that is starting 
 to wain. 
  
  Mario Kart along with Gutiar Hero is one of the few games that you can get non-video gamers to 
 actually pick up and play. Mario Kart Wii does this much like prior Mario Kart games, but it still 
 fails to pack the new expierence that that Mario Kart 64 brought back in the 1990s. 
  
  My first concern is the graphics. Twilight Princess, Galaxy, Prime 3, and Super Smash Bros. Brawl 
 look great on the Wii. Infact they rivial some of the "next gen" graphics on the PS3 and the 360, 
 but Mario Kart Wii doesn't cut the mustard. This is the same complaint that I had about Mario Kart 
 Double Dash!! The graphics look cheap, they aren't very detailed, the animation is stiff, and the 
 characters just look too cute. Even young Link in SSB: Brawl looks cool even though he's cute. While 
 I do like the pallet of colors used, they are vintage Nintendo, the rest looks like a preschooler 
 did it. 
  
  The music is not much better then Mario Kart Double Dash, but it's at least tolerable. Some of 
 the more annoying tracks songs have been booted for some more classic Nintendo theme songs that 
 have been changed. The sounds are about the same. Each character has the one liners, the grunts, 
 and the sighs that they have used since the 64 days. 
  
  But Mario Kart isn't about they way it looks or sounds. It's about fun and the way it plays. Well 
 it really hasn't changed much. Granted I didn't like the change to having two characters per kart. 
 But I did like the specialized weapons, which have gotten the boot here in favor for more cheap 
 shot weapons that the computer opponants can hit you with to get you to drop from 1st to 7th place 
 at the last second on 150cc. This levels the playing field for everyone and now the only advantage 
 is the small, medium, or large characters and the effects they have on your game play. 
  
  This game was meant to be played with the Wiimote and nunchuck. The Wii wheel, while fun at first 
 can be frustrating. It's isn't calibrated to well with the game, and you either have to over compensate 
 to make a simple turn, or under compensate and you slam into a wall. The classic controler I feel 
 doesn't work as well as the Wii mote combination. A plus is that this game won't strain you wrists. 
 The only reason you use them is to do a trick while flying in the air, or making your bike wheelie. 
 Basically anything more then 50cc you're going to want to use the Wiimote combo. 
  
  You do have the options of bikes versus karts in this. It doesn't really change the game play that 
 much. The bikes can do everything the karts can do, but can also do a wheelie to make them go faster. 
 
  
  The multiplayer is fun while either locally or on line. Because the Wii doesn't have the XB live 
 capabilities it's difficult to enjoy the game without a seemless modem and typing a limited amount 
 of smack. 
  
  Racing on your own is ok. It's essencial to opening up the racers, which really need should be 
 changed to Nintendo Kart Racing rather then Mario Kart Racing. SSB makes it so Link and Mario can 
 bout to see who is the rougher mascot. Why not let them race together too? Birdo and Big Boo, while 
 cool for Mario fans, do little for the average gaming Grandma who has never played a game before. 
 
  
  The difficulty is ok on this game. 50cc is a breeze, 100cc can be completed with little yelling. 
 150cc is where the game gets cheap. It's not because the game is actually harder, it's because 
 the computer opponants behind you get all the great items that interupt your racing. Usually they 
 use them at on the 3rd lap just before the finish line. Then you get shrunk, powed, and oil slicked 
 and pushed back to 7th place. 150cc isn't about skill, it's about luck, and until you get the luck 
 within the game, it's very difficult on your patience and even more difficult on your friend's 
 ears. 
  As for the tracks, there are some great new original ones but for the most part the game takes 
 place in the past, borrowing some of the best tracks from all the prior installments of Mario Kart. 
 A little more creativity would have been nice here. 
  
  Mario Kart Wii isn't a bad game. It allows new players to enter the game which the Wii is aiming 
 at. But it leaves advanced players that have been around since the SNES days wanting more. I feel 
 it's a step backward rather then forward. Mario Kart Wii can be a fun distraction for a small period 
 of time by yourself, and it's good for parties. That's about it. Much like most of the Nintendo 
 products have been produced, this one falls well below the prior standards set by the gaming giant. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CapedCod
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I tend to rate and critique Nintendo a little harsher than other games, but I do it because I love 
 them. I grew up on Nintendo, and they're arguably the best in the biz. That being said, I can't 
 give this game a 9 or better. Don't get me wrong, I think it's one of the better Wii games out 
 there; there were just a few tiny issues I had that kept it from being incredibly stellar.
  
  I haven't played Mario Kart since the N64 version. Needless to say, it took me a few races 
 to get the main gist of kart racing down again, and even longer to learn how to use the more advanced 
 techniques with the new controller set up. Why oh why did they not include some small, basic tutorial? 
 Just a real small track, you and an NPC (Toadsworth?) giving you the low down. They did it for 
 all three Super Smash Bros., and that's basically button mashing controls. I've been playing it 
 for a little over two months, and I still can't get the hang of the "Manual" driving mode. 
  
  The Wii wheel adds an extra bit of realism to the game. And on top of that, its a piece of 
 peripheral that works very well. The two down sides I found is 1) when a character uses the POW 
 block item, it is harder to "dodge" when using the wheel. It is much easier to not feel the POW 
 block effects when you simply have to shake the Wii-mote than when it is in the wheel. 2) I don't 
 know if it's just me, and if it is, I'll shut up, but when racing on dirt bikes, it felt like I 
 had less control with the wheel than if I used the Wii-mote/nunchuck set up. Especially when trying 
 to pop a wheelie; the mote/chuck set up just felt tighter than otherwise.
  
  I can't remember if the item system has always been like this, but it felt very socialist to me. 
 And I mean that by, the worse position you are in, the better items you get. When you are in first 
 place, it seems the only things you receive are bananas, three bananas, the occasional green shell, 
 and very rarely a red shell. I'm not saying I want the Bullet Bill when I'm pwning, but the occasional 
 mushroom would be nice, especially if I took a turn too sharply, or if someone fires off a blue 
 shell, since a speed boost is the only way to dodge it.
  
  Of the things Nintendo did right, it finally got a solid online play going. Super Smash Bros. Brawl's 
 was good, but it could have been better. Online play for Mario Kart was incredibly smooth and never 
 once lagged on me. Also, the built in Mario Kart Channel really adds a lot of replay value, with 
 the new tournaments and racing other player's time trial ghosts.
  
  The other good thing I liked was the character roster. It's nice playing more than the stock 10 
 characters, and its also very cool to slap your Mii in the mix. That, mixed in with 4 kart and 
 4 cycle choices per character makes for a pretty good overall racing roster.
  
  Even though it has a small amount of faults, Mario Kart Wii is to date one of my favorite games, 
 possibly ever. Let's hope Nintendo continues with this trend, and less of the 10 hours or less 
 good looking crappy story line driven games the Wii is becoming known for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoofproduction
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  I've always been a fairly big fan of the Mario Kart Series, and after playing Mario Kart Wii, my 
 love for the series has grown even larger. With great, new, well balanced courses and a slew of 
 characters to choose from, there's a lot to do and see. The Grand Prix is still there, with 32 
 courses this time. 16 new ones and 16 retro courses. Most all of them are well designed and well 
 picked (except for SNES Ghost Valley 2. Sorry, but I despise that course.) The characters are fairly 
 well selected, with newcomers like Baby Daisy and Funky Kong. The items are great too, with new 
 ones like the blooper and bullet bill. And the Wii motion sensing really adds a lot to the game. 
 Plus online gaming with friends or anybody around the world, or worldwide tournaments, it's a good 
 online game as well. But here a couple of the bad things. First, the graphics have not been stepped 
 up, at all. The tracks have little detail, and the character's hands have been reduced to little 
 round fists. 
  Second, there is such a large amount of items, that you'll often find yourself hit by a blue shell, 
 shrunken, and then hit by a red shell. So if your in first, don't expect to stay there very long.
 
  All in all, Mario Kart Wii is an excellent game worth buying, and is probably the best in the 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wheelu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  This could have been the best Mario Kart by far if it were not for the battle modes. If you just 
 want a two player battle, you are out of luck, for some crazy reason the makers of this game added 
 non players to the mix. Even if you do exceptionally well collecting coins or popping balloons, 
 you can still lose the battle because of the extra "team members" that you do not need or want. 
 This takes the fun out of this part Mario Kart, especially for younger players. The race portion 
 of this game really deserves a ten rating. The new race courses, along with the bikes and the fantastic 
 graphics make racing a real pleasure. The battle modes deserves a five or less for the reasons 
 I mention above! Hopefully if Nintendo comes out with a special edition of Mario Kart in the future, 
 they will fix this disappointing part of the game. Until then, I hate to say this, but if you want 
 to play a battle in Mario Kart, play the Game Cube version of Mario Kart. At least with the Game 
 Cube Kart you can play a two player battle with just two players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMaceX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Finally the Mario Kart franchise made its debut on the Wii many have been waiting for this to happen 
 for a long time. They combined a kart racing system with Mario and all his allies and enemies into 
 a fun and nostalgic multiplayer frenzy. There are several new things added in the series on its 
 Wii debut including motorcycles, fantastic online play, new characters, new levels, new items, 
 and most importantly the new Wii motion steering. All this new stuff along with the new play style 
 in the Wii makes for tons of fun.
  
  There are 3 different types of races in Mario Kart Wii the normal races, battle races and time 
 trials. Normal races being the foundation of gameplay online and offline it provides fun races 
 in against many opponents through the story unlocking new races and other unlockables. Battle races 
 also can be done online or offline in which you either do balloon battles or coin battles. Balloon 
 battles you get one point per hit to an enemy that pops a balloon and coin battles you collect 
 coins all over the area or hit enemies to steal their coins. The last type of races time trials 
 allows you to do a race alone without any distractions trying to get the best time you can to unlock 
 special features or to participate in online rankings to get a world record. Through these 3 types 
 of races there is endless fun to be had if you like to play with friends, by yourself, or online 
 against the masses.
  
  There are two different types of courses while going through the story mode first the normal cups 
 and also the classic cups. Per difficulty such as 50cc, 100cc, and 150cc there are four cups on 
 both course types which each have 4 races for you to compete for the cup in. The normal cups consist 
 of all stages that are new and were created for Mario Kart Wii, the classic cups on the other hand 
 are refurbished levels taken from the various other Mario Kart titles from the Super Nintendo to 
 the Gamcube and even Gameboy. This allows you to not only play your favorite stages but also play 
 a whole new line of stages made just for the Wii.
  
  The arrival of Mario Kart on the Wii has met my expectations and surpassed them, with its awesome 
 new steering system using the Wii Wheel and the many other additions to the series it is nonstop 
 entertainment. With new levels of customization between characters, karts, and motorcycles it makes 
 multiplayer at home with your buddies or online challenging others twice as entertaining. Even 
 with all these new features I think the most important change is the new steering, I found it innovative 
 and loads of fun although the online play is a close second. The online ranking and time trials 
 combined with all the new features creates a whole new spectrum of gameplay the Mario Kart series 
 is not used to. Would rate Mario Kart Wii a 9.8 out of 10 for re-perfecting the kart racing genre 
 again as they have done so many times before. Anyone who has enjoyed a Mario Kart game or just 
 wants to have fun racing buddies or challenging people online should get this game without hesitation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zynqu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  mario kart wii is a great game and a must buy for people who has played the previous titles. i 
 even reccomend this to those who hasn't played this game before. it offers new features and many 
 new things to do. the gameplay is funny and the graphics are incredibly hilarious. anyone can get 
 hook on to this game within a few minutes of play. 
  
  for those who hasn't played this one yet, they can look forward to enjoy many new and familiar 
 aspects for the mario kart series. 
  
  and don't listen to any bad reviews. usually bad reviews are given by people who clearly hasn't 
 played it yet. though there are many aspects in the game that makes it very easy and at times boring (I 
 mean for extreme veterans) the game itself is still very fun and addictive. 
  
  another main reason it is fun, it doesn't take to long to learn how everything works. 
  
  if 
 you're a person who hasn't bought this title yet, i highly reccomend it. if you have doubts then 
 rent it out.
  ---but i recommnd buying. you have to give it back if you rent --- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomWarrior69
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is my favorite Mario Kart game. It is extremely fun to play using the Wii Wheel. 
 It is fun to play with four players too. I play all the time with my brother and friends. The variety 
 of karts and bikes is great so you can choose the either the vehicle that looks awesome, the one 
 that has awesome speed, or the one that looks awesome and has awesome speed! Wi-Fi is fun and many 
 characters to choose from. From Baby Mario, to Donkey Kong! Including your own Mii and a special 
 character from Super Mario Galaxy!
  
  Singer player is fun, but it gets boring, and is much much much better with two or more people. 
 I guarantee you . I would recommend this game to any Wii owner, Mario fan, or gamer! This game 
 is a must have for any Wii owner. You will love this game 'till the end. If this is not in your 
 Wii game collection you are missing out on a lot of fun ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ngame989
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii will have you glued to your couch with a Wii Wheel in your hand before you know 
 it. The hot multiplayer action and vast Wi-Fi improvement over the DS version is perfect for those 
 who like a challenge. While not necessarily difficult to get the gold on most Grand Prix, those 
 of you wanting every unlockable will have to step up to the plate and grab the gold on every single 
 track. The fact that they throw in a free Wii Wheel is just an added bonus. Many control schemes 
 are also a nifty feature. Those accustomed to Excite Truck-style games can hold the Wiimote free-lance, 
 or the Mario Kart DD addicts can use a GCN controller. The only, and I mean ONLY, downside to the 
 game is the item rape, which is basically getting smacked off the face of the earth with five or 
 more items approximately 3 seconds before the finish line, after which you come in last. That is 
 definitely not enough to sway my opinion one bit, though. Even if you hate the item rape from the 
 old games and gave them up because of it, I would still call this game worth your while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david1233
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  While it's not as good as the Ds one, Mario Kart on wii is still a really good game.
  If you want to get this game to play on you're own... don't.
  This game is pretty bad in single 
 player.
  
  However, If you want this to play with a couple of mates... GET IT!!!
  This game is one of the best multiplayer games on Wii.
  
  It's definitely helped by the fantastic 
 controls but that's not all.
  The game features 4 player multiplayer mode plus 8 player online so is perfect for online gamers 
 or gamers who want to lounge around and have a laugh with their mates.
  As i've said already the single player is boring but never mind that.#The multiplayer is definitely 
 worth the money.
  So the graphics are good, multiplayer is great and ther's enougfh depth to keep you busy for a while.
 
  The worst thing is the dissapointing single player.
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MkwFan7767
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome!! If you want a great game then you should definitely buy this game! 
  
  
  Wifi: The wifi is great it has virtually no lag! you should definitely buy this game for 
 Wifi.
  
  
  Single Player: The single player is pretty good. 
  
  
  Unlockables: This game has alot of stuff to unlock it could keep you playing for hours.
  
  
 
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer is good if you like splitscreen.
  
  
  Computers: The cpus are sometimes to easy on a Versus race but on Grand Prix there to hard they 
 just spam items.
  
  
  Balloon battle: well the balloon battle isn't really good on single player (because its timed) 
 but its great on wifi!
  
  
  Coin runners: I think that coin runners is a great addition to the game. 
  
  
  Well I give 
 this a 9.5 I think that this game is awesome! this game is very fun and addicting! one of my best 
 Wii games I own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrett_duffman
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii, Mario Kart Wii, Mario Kart Wii... tisk tisk shame on you. The Last Mario Kart Game 
 I have played was Mario Kart DS, wich was one of the best Mario Kart games, nay, THE best mario 
 kart game i have ever played, if not the best raciing game by nintendo. In this review there will 
 be alot of comparisons to Mario KArt DS, because the lacking is just terrible. 
  
  I was SUPER excited to get this game as soon as it came out. I did, the day of, i unwrapped everything 
 and tore apart the box in the car, snatching the steering wheel out and looking it over. it was 
 designed fantastically, I loved how smooth it was, and the button on the back. too bad this review 
 isnt ON the steering wheel, it would have gotten a much higher score. 
  
  I get home, hook up my wii, pop this bad boy in. i couldnt help but notice how plain-jane the case 
 looks, like nobody really TRIED to make a decent cover art. 
  
  Anyways, i start the game, plugging my wii remote into the wii wheel. Aiming to the different buttons 
 on the menu was tedious, to say the least, I just used the D-Pad. and so the tediousness that is 
 Mario Kart Wii begins...
  
  Of course, i start at 50cc mode, picking my character and cart- but wait a minute... theres motorcycles 
 there... so i pick a motorcycle. i start the first race, and i completely suck. i can not get the 
 controls to work for me to save my life. im turning the wheel like a crazed maniac doing donuts 
 in a shopping mall parking lot, and im getting nowhere. I later discover that the source of all 
 of my problems is the "Automatic mode", so i switch to manual, in which case i can jump and power 
 slide, like in MKDS. Im finally playing well, hitting first places like its my job, doing just 
 amazing, blasting through 50cc mode.
  
  oh, and i figure id mention that i positively hate the motorcycles. they control poorly, its awkward 
 to do anything with them, but wheelies are fun, besides that whole no steering thing. 
  
  Another thing i noticed was the ability to do tricks. pointless. you get a little boost, nothing 
 that you cant lose in about 3 seconds. but enough of this off topic, back to the game at hand.
 
  
  I start 100cc mode, and its not too hard either, until i start doing the retro levels... i notice 
 im getting ALOT more shells my way, to the point where i just get frustrated out of my mind and 
 have to throw controllers. i managed to complete it though, out of sheer luck, with at least 1 
 star ratings on each. 
  
  150cc mode and multiplayer mode are out of control. this is NOT even joking, no exaggeration, none 
 of that. it is the most ruthless bit of unfair bullcrap i have ever played. you will get shelled, 
 you will barely EVER get an item to your name, you will constantly get hit off of the track ( i 
 hate you rainbow road ) and it just sucks. no more does MK need skill, its all about items, and 
 how you dont get them. its just not fair. 
  
  now lets talk about battle mode... its totally bastardized. granted you still battle, but... time 
 limits? whats this? everything is just so out of whack... the stages are big and you always seem 
 to misplace your enemies, and points are hard to get. i dont see what was so wrong with the MKDS 
 battle mode, it worked perfectly, had awesome levels, and i could play for hours, even by myself. 
 this battle mode just feels... incomplete, along with the whole game, though.
  
  now lets talk features... no more mission mode, for one. fans of MKDS, such as myself, will be, 
 and are, quite disappointed with the lack of mission mode. but instead, for you online players, 
 you get competitions... no comparison. its just not the same, its not as fun, the leaderboards 
 suck, everything is just not good. 
  
  The cars available are... well, to put it bluntly, i hate them. MKDS had such a good selection 
 of cars, and there was alot of cars to choose from. adding motorcycles is no excuse to keep the 
 people from a GOOD selection. Oh, and now, each character has specific karts and motorcycles they 
 can use, no more unlocking all the karts for everyone, everybody gets a few. 
  
  the online runs smoothly, i was personally impressed. but the voting system for random matches 
 is... wierd. i hate rainbow road, i HATE rainbow road, I HATE RAINBOW ROAD, STOP VOTING FOR IT. 
 and of course, rainbow road. i lose. again.
  
  nintendo screwed up with MKWII, they should have mad is more like MKDS, instead of taking away 
 features, i find it sad that a handheld predecessor is better than a full-blown home system current 
 game. tisk tisk nintendo, shame on you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: G6games
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 6, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Over half of the game is just courses from N64, SNES and gamecube. Only reason why I gave it a 7 
 is cause the online is great. You could probably beat the game in a day or so. I played it for 
 4 days and haven't played it since. If you never owned a mario kart game this might be a good one 
 to get. It really don't have much replay value if any at all. If nintendo wouldn't be lazy and 
 made all new tracks then this might of been a great mario kart game. Another thing is the WII steering 
 remote is nothing but a gimmick and hardly works. You can't do sharp turns and its very hard to 
 get use to. You still have the same items, accept for the bullet bill that you can use. It really 
 gets annoying when your in first place all you get his banannas and green shells, and your getting 
 hit over 90% of the time. You can just stay in 8 place i guess then at the start of the 3rd lap 
 you can catch up just like that. I belive the game was rushed and could of been better but if your 
 a first time mario kart gamer it should be good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zig_star
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  Hi it's Zig Zero the one and only macaroni.
  Mario Kart, only three words to describe it
  "BEST GAME SO FAR"
  Ok four words but thats not the point. The point, is that I have grown such 
 a huge liking to this game i almost want to marry it.
  
  The game play is very good by far, all the unlockable content will keep up for hours (i still need 
 to unlock mii costume b and the last kart for medium) but besides that i finished it. 
  
  The Wi-Fi is fun and exciting. Let me just go one about the Wi-Fi for a moment, it doesn't lag 
 (which suprises me) .
  
  The battle mode is fun with friends. I cant describe it anymore its soo good the visuals, the sound, 
 the gameplay, it is a near perfect game but its missing a certain something. Some of the items 
 aren't working as cool as they used to or missing. Boo, remember him he used to still things now 
 hes a character  = (. And the upside down ? blocks aren't blocking shells when i use them as shields.
 
  
  Overall This game is good i'm giving it 9.5/10 Bloodshot eyeballs
  Zig Zero out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightofdragon
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game is highly addictive, very good, a challenge (not bad though) , has good graphics, 
 has very good level design, and has the new and most awesomely improvement of... motorcycles!!! 
 This game is so fun you'll constantly be coming back for more. Wi-fi is the best part of everything 
 though because the good old AI can get boring (NOT THAT THE GAME'S BORING IT'S JUST THAT SOMETIMES 
 YOU'LL WANT HUMAN COMPANY!!!) . I personally love the cycles because I'm constantly doing wheelies 
 (that's how I've beaten the game and unlocked everything:] ) . 2 Things I would complain about is 
 1: I agree with Gamespot wholeheartedly on that there is absolutely no item control what-so-ever. 
 I mean, (I'm not kidding) there have been 20 times that I've been 2 feet from the finish line and 
 BAM! a blue turtle shell comes racing for me and leaves with about 7th place. The 2nd thing that 
 I complain about is that for some reason after about 2 races on Wi-fi I get a freakin' error that 
 will subtract 100 rating from you because you have to shut it down. I'm extremely careful with 
 that which is why I have 7000 rating on Wi-fi. Besides that this game is da BOMB! The new addition 
 of stunts makes a major influence on the game play too because it's so fun watching Mario do a 
 360. This game is a must-get no matter what bad things I say. BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bionicbunny8569
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I like this game ALOT! What is cool is that If you dont want to use the wheel... You do not have 
 to. You can use a will controller that plugs in from the bottom of the wii remote. Also... You 
 can use the controller for the gamecube. I play with all three sometimes. Also let's talk about 
 the tracks. Some of them are like omg im going to fall of the edge everytime. The Rainbow one especially... 
 lol But then I go to the time trials and practice a bit before Some of the races. I did however 
 complete my liscence and unlocked most of my characters in two days... But, this game you can play 
 over and over and over again.. You can't do that with some games.. I have games where I know what 
 is going to happen next. I still like keeping all of my games though. I paid for them and It's 
 fun to play something you have if you havent played it in a very long time. 
  But, anyways get back to the point.. Let's just say I enjoy this game very much and I like how 
 there are more races. 
  - thanks
  - Jenni 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMa729
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I always thought I was good at this game and when I started playing on Wifi I found out I suck, 
 Lol, its still alot of fun though. To me I think they made all the cc's a little bit more harder 
 which is a good thing cause it keeps you doing something. For some other mario Kart games I've 
 played I was able to beat the whole game and get all the characters in about 4-5 hours. Playing 
 alone isn't really fun if you beat the whole game, multiplayer is pretty fun if you got people 
 playing with you all the time you want, buuut playing people on Wifi is definitly fun. 
  When you get bored of playing with the same people you know in multiplayer mode it may get boring 
 after a long time, but playing on Wifi doesn't really get boring. On wifi you play for points so 
 it gives you a reason to win and play at your best. Its a cool game. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam3231
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Being a die hard fan of previous Mario karts, I was thoroughly disappointed in the long anticipated 
 Mario kart wii. But despite some set back from its far superior prequel, Double Dash, MK wii does 
 have some new elements to offer. 
  
  MK wii's strongest point is probably online play. This is one of the few WiFi games I feel Nintendo 
 hit right on. Joining a public game is easy, and usually takes about a minute or two to get going 
 with about 10 strangers. Similar to it's predecessors, it's a bunch of opponents on a track shooting 
 each other up with crazy weapons was always fun. Although online play can be buggy at times (mediocre 
 hit detection, disconnections) it is generally solid and entertaining. You can play with your friends, 
 join your friends games they are already in, have another friend play on your console online (2 
 players max) just tons of great online possibility that make this game a great online hit.
  
  Major setbacks in this game were primarily a result of too much focus on the 12 player online 
 gameplay I believe. If you are thinking about sitting down with your 3 friends and playing every 
 track until you count who has the most wins, think again. 4 player is extremely boring because 
 the tracks were designed with 12 people in mind. They are very wide, easier to avoid hazards, and 
 less difficult than previous versions. Even throw back tracks in the game seem giant compared to 
 their original release, one of them being DK Mountain. In MK: DD you feared your opponents would 
 screw you over as you went over the creaky bridge, but now you will rarely see anyone fall victim 
 due to its extreme wideness. In addition to easier tracks, new kart steering has allowed players 
 to steer sharper than ever with karts such as the mach bike and bullet bike. Much different to 
 the more difficult maneuvering in MK: DD.
  
  Another huge setback to this game is the item system. As many mario karters know, the items in 
 previous games were designed to keep the race close, favoring those farther behind with better 
 items. Unfortunately in MK: Wii this is not the case. In MK: DD, the blue shell would punish first 
 place, and the weak items given to first place would generally keep them from breaking away too 
 far. (That is in a match with equally or close to equally skilled players) 
  
  In MK: Wii it is extremely easy to defend a first place position, generally due to more rare cases 
 of blue shells, the ability to hold a shell on your back (not offered in MK: DD, you had to shoot 
 it back at the right time) and chain banana which make it very easy to defend a number of red shells. 
 In matches with large groups, it becomes even easier since lower placed people are too busy destroying 
 each other with starmen, bullet bills, and thunderclouds. 
  
  In small matches, the item system is just boring. 1 vs 1 is probably the most abysmal of all game 
 play to ever bear the name Mario kart, it is a matter of gaining lead, defending it, and praying 
 your opponent doesn't get the ultra rare blue shell. Small games are basically an ultra fail due 
 to such stupidity in the item system, players are way too spread apart due to it and rarely does 
 the action ever heat up. Don't believe me? Get 1, 2, or 3 friends, play Mario Kart: Double Dash 
 for a few races, and play MK: wii for a few races. If you don't want to try that, I'll sum it up 
 for you - - You get hit in MK: Wii, you lose a lot of ground and its hard to make it back up. MK: DD 
 is so forgiving to the people behind in the game, while MK: Wii slaps you for being a loser.
  
  Of course though, if you are one of those players who cares less about the game play, and more 
 about the game being fair, MK: Wii is much more fair to the more skilled player I believe. This 
 is because the game play has allowed players to take bigger advantages out of opponents mistakes. 
 You could make mistakes in MK: DD and still come out a champion, but MK: Wii is more of a finesse 
 game, and you're gonna wanna make sure that you're getting around the track as fast as possible 
 running into nothing, giving you the best chance to win.
  
  As for the wii wheel, it's a fun thing to play around with but not something you play to win with. 
 If you want to win, stick with the gc or wii/nunchuck.
  
  I recommend this game for those looking for a good online game. 
  
  If you're on the edge deciding 
 whether to get this or double dash, go double dash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  I loved this game and I also loved Mario Kart Double Dash because unlike other people I actually 
 had a friend be a weapon master. I am a good driver when it comes to Mario Kart games because its 
 a fun racing game.
  
  The game: Well there is no story just racing this time Mario! You get to choose from the options 
 you would expect in Mario Kart with the Grand Prix, Multiplayer, Single Player stuff, new online. 
 Well the game is fun because you get to choose any of the characters from the load of characters, 
 then you can choose between bikes or karts. The courses are either new or from the past of Mario 
 Kart games.
  
  The good: EVERYTHING I TELL YOU!
  
  The Bad: Nothing DONT MAKE ME SAY IT!
  
  Conclusion: Well worth my well earned time I love 
 Mario Kart I just wish they had an option for double dash : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naimek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  I am quite a fun of Mario games but I never ever before was so happy of a Mario game. And the free 
 Wii wheel makes this game even more wanting to play!!
  
  I am very happy that I bought this game as I wasn't sure to buy it or not cause I wasn't happy 
 with all the other Mario games.
  Let me tell you about the game now.
  The best part of the game is propably the number of bikes, carts and charakters you have to choose 
 from.
  Once unlocked all of the bikes characters and all that you will see what fun it is to play this 
 game!! Oh, and another good part is that you can put your own Mii into the race! (but you need to 
 unlock that one: () Onother good part of the game are all the boosts you have for example the mini 
 turbo at the start line and the boost after falling into a hole.
  
  Final scores:
  
  Characters: score 10
  Gameplay: score 9.5
  Value: score 10
  Boost's and all that: score 9.5 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curtis_Bundy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This game has a new vehicle. Motorcycles. I bet your saying "It's not Mario Kart with Motorcycles 
 only Karts." Well I loved them adding the Motorcycles but I still only use Karts besides the 100cc 
 when you have to use them. But the controls on the Motorcycles are really solid and work very good 
 with all the controls you can use in this game.
  In this game there are 5 different ways to play this game. But I use only the GameCube controller 
 on this game but I have tried it with the Wii Wheel and it is really fun but maybe a little hard 
 for turns or it might be just me. But anyways the controls are really solid with all 5 different 
 types.
  The game has the usual 50cc, 100cc, 150cc, and Mirror Mode. There is a total of 32 tracks for just 
 only the single player. The multiplayer there is a total of 8 tracks.
  The single play is a straight forward race and get the most points by being in any place but the 
 very last otherwise you get 0 points. The sad thing is there is NO Co-Op in this one which sucks 
 because my family loves doing Co-Op on the Mario Karts and so do I. So I will dock points for that. 
 The multiplayer is really good on this one at least. The usual balloon mode and they added a coin 
 mode where you try to get the most coins and that's all the multiplayer modes sadly but they are 
 really solid because of the settings you can put the multiplayer modes and make it really fun.
 
  I won't talk about characters so I won't spoil anything. But all I will say about characters is 
 you can race as your Mii but you got to unlock the feature for you to play as you Mii though first.
 
  So I really recommend everyone to get this game because it is a real solid racer, first game to 
 use the Wii Wheel, and is the best in the series (except the not having Co-Op thing) so go out 
 and get this game NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dainsanereview
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  mario kart wii is a pretty good game throught u get to use power ups to smash your oppentent to. 
 world domintion muhahaha. there are a lot of powerups like
  shells, bannanas, star power and so on but yet no death rays or lasers : (. its still a good game but 
 the diffuclty is just to easy i got 1st place once lookin at the opposite direction. there are also 
 5 cars to choose from and 2 bikes if i can remember. the sound is not that bad like when i blow 
 up the universe.
  the control is great not that bad to say the least its not that sensetive but it is great. the 
 thing that the game should of improved, the diffuclty the should of had a diffuclty bar for example 
 like easy medium hard u know. they should of also added more explosions to make it more better 
 for power ups. last question is this game a to rent game or a to buy game id say rent it fist considoring 
 if ur like a owner and u like own at video game u wont want this game.
  graphics 8
  control 10
  gameplay 5
  sound 5
  overall 7.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: possesed_fox
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  now i don't want people to freak out and saying that if i don't like this game i'm crazy... cause 
 it can actually be a pretty fun game but every good game has it's down side and this one has one 
 of the worst ones... but just to give it a fair review let's also talk about the good points of 
 this game.
  
  -The good: 
  
  cast of character: well as in Mario supper sluggers this game is packed with Mario characters, 
 Reggie was actually right when he said that more characters mean more fun.
  
  items: there are some pretty cool returning items and also some new ones like the super mushroom 
 from new super Mario brothers that turns you and your kart/motorcycle into giant state allowing 
 you to crush your opponents literally.
  
  speaking of motorcycles: adding motorcycles to the bundle was a pretty good idea even taught it's 
 the exact same control scheme it's still give to game a fresh new feeling.
  
  12 racers: changing from 8 racers to 12 is really nice although you would think the map would be 
 flooded with players it's actually still pretty smooth and it gives just enough challenge (ok maybe 
 a bit more that enough we'll see why later)
  
  wii wheel: while it's actually part of this one and only game it came released with it and i've 
 got say it really makes the game more fun that the precedent ones (don't think i like this game 
 to much yet wate for the bad points...)
  
  now i would say on-line but since my computer is to cheap to run on-line and i thus never had the 
 chance to try an on-line match i don't really want to go there
  
  now that you have seen the good points.... well here comes...
  
  -The bad:
  
  items (again) : 
 although i also placed them in the good points the items are also pretty annoying considering you 
 only get the good ones when you are in the last places and that's not all when you are in 1st place 
 you live in the constant tension of being hit by those same freaking items i mean think about it: 
 your in the 1st place it's the last lap and suddenly out of nowhere a blue shell pops up and stops 
 you in place and then when your about to re-enter the race another opponent throws a red-shell 
 at you and thus you lose some other places which means you can actually get from 1st place to the 
 freaking 8th place if your unlucky enough...
  
  the freaking AI: i really mean FREAKING AI! it's like if all of them put themselves against you and 
 tries to knock you out of the game. once again let me give you an example... your racing on a a 
 part with no fences and suddenly a kart rams into you because he got a speed boost and your thrown 
 off the track and thus have to start all over... and as if that wasn't frustrating enough when 
 you get back on track the other opponent will stop at nothing throwing every item they have at 
 you. but that's not all the AI does to piss you off no it has to go even more over the limit and 
 by that i mean it's always the 1st same three leading computers so i mean if in a race your 1st 
 and let's say Yoshi is behind well there's is a great risk that in the next three races Yoshi is 
 still gonna be behind you causing you to rush to finish line to get the 1st place in every race 
 because if you finish only one race in 4th place well you just might be already screwed...
  
  speaking of hard tracks...
  
  The rainbow road: i know it's supposed to be the hardest 
 race in the game i get it... but it's just so damn hard there are twist's everywhere holes, no fences, bounces... 
 bottomless gaps... and with the addition of the two other bad points above it's nearly impossible 
 to end in the 1st place on this course and like i said before i you finish 4th in just one race 
 you might already be screwed well this one is so hard that your lucky if you even finish it in 
 the 4th place... the only time I actually got close I ended in 3rd place and I won only because 
 I, don't know how but the other leading cpu finished in 4th place...
  
  last but not least the cars: why in the world does every character* have the same karts? (*every 
 character weight at least) i mean couldn't they come up with original karts for every character? 
 i'm open for karts that are available for every racer but when all of them are and that there is 
 only six karts per character weight (which makes eight teen in all) it just kills the fun for me...
 
  
  while this game is not the worse game ever it's definitely not the best and it is really frustrating 
 but if you are a fan of the serie i guess well you can get over the stress and have yourself a 
 little fun out of it (men do i feel like the AVGN after this review) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Well, i didnt by this game, but played it a lot at a party, great fun, but the reason i gave it 
 a 8 is for three reasons, Wii wheel controls terribly, they messed up the formula with tricks and 
 more characters per race, and the games AI is really cheap. Besides that, its a really great and 
 fun game to play with friends. I think the game is the worst Mario Kart, well, i cant really say 
 that cuz i havent played the original. Well, going back to my old style of review, just for this 
 one though.
  
  
  The Good: Awesome Multiplayer- Cool cast of characters- Tricks are actually kinda fun to pull off- 
 Good tracks
  
  The Bad: Not so good graphics- Cheap AI- Messed up formula- Bad Wii wheel control.
  
  
  
 
  Final Comments: Definately no the best Mario Kart, but still very fun, the game also features 
 wifi connection, but i cant tell you anything about it. Ok, i know i used to say this game sucks, 
 but that was before i used the gamecube controller, but when using that, its a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatleos
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  If you like Mario Kart, you cannot miss this game. In fact, if you're a fan of racing games in 
 general, or video games for that matter, or... well, I guess everyone can like this game. Not everyone 
 does, but everyone can. It's a very accessible game. No more double-karts in this one, but that 
 was just a gimmick for double dash. What this installment of the Mario Kart franchise DOES have 
 is a new vehicle altogether: bikes!
  
  This is a bold step forward in the series, but man does it pay off. I use the bike all the time 
 now. Of course, the addition of bikes means that the amount of vehicles in the game has doubled. 
 The number of participants in each race has increased to 12. But you won't have trouble finding 
 that many competitors, since the number of characters has increased to a whopping 24! Plus you 
 can use your Mii as the 25th character. And as if that wasn't enough, alongside the 16 tracks exclusive 
 to Mario Kart Wii, the game includes 16 more tracks from the N64, GBA, DS, and even SNES Mario 
 Karts. Wow.
  
  That means a grand total of 8 grand prix! Sheesh. On the gameplay side of things, improvements 
 have been made as well. New to the series are tricks that can be performed off of just about anything 
 that sends you airborne. Bikes can perform wheelies, but they can't get past the first spark color 
 while drifting and are more easily jostled. The game can be played with the standard 'mote n' 'chuck, 
 with a Gamecube controller, or with the Wii-wheel that comes bundled with a pre-order or some crap 
 like that. The wheel takes a bit of getting used to, but it's extremely fun to use. Some of my 
 favorite old tactics like holding a shell or banana behind you to deflect projectiles have returned, 
 but strangely the aforementioned trick only works with a Gamecube controller. Also, the 'Cube controller's 
 controls are different than in Double Dash! Item throwing is now L instead of X. Weird.
  
  The feature I was most excited about in MKW was the addition of an all-new online mode! Since the 
 whole "online" thing didn't really occur to the fine folks at Nintendo when they released the Gamecube, 
 MKW is the first Mario Kart game to have online functionality. And let me tell you, it does not 
 disappoint! Swapping friend codes with some buddies allows you to create a room with up to 12 friends 
 and race on any track that you've unlocked! Additionally, you can have online races with peeps 
 across the world alone or with a friend with a second controller.
  
  And finally, time trial mode actually has a MEANING! After you shave an extra 2 seconds off your 
 time in N64 Bowser's Castle, you can send that ghost to a friend. Also, online there is a ghost 
 mode where you can hone your skills against random ghosts from around the world! And finally, monthly 
 tournaments in time trials, coin collecting, etc. are held on the Mario Kart Channel. Downloading 
 this channel to your Wii supplies you with constant updates via Wii-mail.
  
  Not all of the features of previous Mario Kart titles have been retained, however. The ones I missed 
 most were the bomb-omb battle from Double Dash (my favorite multi-player mode...) , and the ability 
 to take on the grand prix with a friend to cooperatively take the gold trophy. If you play VS with 
 friends, it's still organized like a grand prix (one where you choose each course yourself,) but 
 you can't play for trophies and unlockables like in 1-player. Also, the classic and ever-competitive 
 balloon battle has been changed from its former one-on-one glory to a much less interesting team 
 battle. When I played it in 1-player, I didn't know what was happening half of the time and usually 
 lost. It is, of course, meant to be played online, but a one-on-one option would have been nice. 
 At least the battle stages are fun, and past battle stages are included just like the versus courses.
 
  
  But those extremely small problems aside, Mario Kart Wii is truly an excellent game. Fantastic 
 online support, gameplay that has remained frantic and addictive since its first installment, and 
 expanded gameplay and even more unlockables than all the others combined come together to make 
 this a truly great racing game. My favorite, at least. So if you've got the guts, I'll see you 
 on the track! But not in the arena. That battle mode sucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  I played Mario Kart 64, seen Mario Kart on NGC. I get this latest installment and debut edition 
 for the Wii after watching a few good video reviews on the game...
  MAN! Did Mario Kart just get better or WHAT?!?
  Up until now it's just been Kart racing, but 
 Nintendo have opened it up for bikes, buggies and grand tourers to tear up the tracks with!
  You also have stunts which give you a turbo boost apon landing!
  Select from Auto (allowing you 
 drift when you turn shaply) or Manual (Drift by braking an score a Mini-Turbo Boost) !
  Access your Mii's and race them (once unlocked) !
  And Finally... Race on the latest tracks new 
 to Wii or tear it up in Mario Kart's greatest hits line-up of tracks!
  One thing I've heard about Mario Kart Wii is that there are a couple of apparent disadvantages 
 with the level designs.
  Stunts won't work too well in the Retro Courses.
  Weapons won't work so good in the Wii Originals.
  
  From what I've found, Not so.
  
  Stunts 
 work just as well (when performed) in the Retro course just as well with the Wii Originals, only 
 thing is there's not too much opportunities to execute stunts.
  As for weapons... The level design of the Wii Originals throws a deeper level of strategy when 
 using pickups.
  With that in mind, the two sets of course each provide a different gameplay style of their own. 
 In the end on that note it's how you race them.
  
  But the other thing I forgot to mention at the start is the NWFC multiplayer and the Mario Kart 
 Channel.
  NWFC plays awesomely smooth on a broadband connection that's up to scratch, as opposed to the major 
 bad framerate that found with SSB: Brawl over NWFC. But what makes NWFC play so great is the fact 
 you can bring a mate (via splitscreen) into the game with you!
  As for the Mario Kart Channel, you have competitions posted regularly and a Wii Message Board service 
 (which you can sign up for) which informs you of the current comp in play.
  
  With all the action out of the box and unlockables in the game...
  
  Mario Kart Wii is awesome 
 game that is great for your party videogame playlist or solo session.
  
  Mario Kart is most definitely an essential to any Wii gamer's collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dymond7
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Like i said in the Review Deck this is the best Mario Kart game in my opinion, why? because every 
 time a new Mario Kart game comes out it is always better.
  
  Gameplay: When buying Mario Kart Wii you get a peripheral the Wheelie, honestly at first I didn't 
 really like it, I was used to the gamecube controller because I had spent many hours using it while 
 beating my cousins in Mario Kart Double Dash!!, but now I've gotten a bit used to it and it is 
 extremly fun, just plain fun, and the addition of Motorbikes is this game is my favorite thing 
 about it, the bikes are awesome, and like I just said, fun.
  
  10/10
  
  Graphics: It's definatly improved, but not that much, but in Mario Kart you don't really need top-notch 
 graphics, but it's not what some people would call "Xbox or PS2" graphics, it has Wii graphics 
 and it looks good.
  
  8/10
  
  Story: It's Mario Kart, not really a story-based game, you just race other characters in the Super 
 Mario universe and get trophies and so one, so I won't really give it a score.
  
  Conclusion: It maybe expensive due to the fact that it includes a peripheral, but believe it is 
 worth it, this is a game you will be playing over and over again.
  
  9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cat12347
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is probably one of, the best games in the Mario Kart series.
  
  As I mentioned in the description, it PERFECTLY blend everything you would expect from a Mario 
 Kart game AND THEN SOME! Great graphics. I love the selection of Characters, Karts, Bikes and tracks 
 you can get, and I like that there is so many unlockables. There's some great new tracks and Characters, 
 along with some of our old Favorites. And I love the new controls now that it's on the Wii along 
 with the Wii Wheel. There's two new items, the Thunder Cloud and the Mega Mushroom, and they kept 
 all of the old items EXCEPT FOR BOO!
  
  So to summarize. Mario Kart Wii has: Great Graphics, Great Controls, Great selection of everything 
 and it brings in some GREAT new stuff, without getting rid of the classic features of the old games!
 
  
  You HAVE to buy, rent or borrow this game. You won't regret it!!!
  
  I L-O-V-E L_O_V_E LLOOVVEE THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forevergamer10
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is an all-out racing game that gives you control over a kart or bike with a Wii Wheel. 
 Mario Kart Wii consists of 32 tracks, which 16 are new. This is the type of game made so you may 
 find all of the shortcuts you need to smash your opponent. Now as we all know, the Wii isn't known 
 for graphics. Now stop me if you've heard this before. The graphics are good..... for a Wii.
  The Wi-Fi of this game is probably the best fitted. Two players on one system can face up to 12 
 players in Versus or Battle modes. The Versus Mode of this lets you vote on the track of your choice. 
 If you have another player with you, he cannot pick a track and the track you chose duplicates 
 for him, so you have a better chance with getting that track. There is (basically like in the early 
 Mario Parties) a spinner which decides your track to race on. In the Battle Mode, there are two 
 modes consisting of Balloon Battle and Coin Runners. They are both good, but the absence of Shine 
 Sprite Runners limits you. Ballon Battle gives you 8 places to battle, in which four are new, where 
 you blast your opponents with various items. In Coin Runners, you have the same tracks, and blast 
 people, but you want to steal their coins so you can come out on top and be the winner.
  In Single Player Mode, you can unlock many characters (which many of them are hard to get) to use 
 against your opponents. The tracks are descent, and Rainbow Road gets harder and harder!!! You 
 also can do time trials, which leads us to the Mario Kart Channel.
  The Mario Kart Channel hosts tournaments, which racers around the world compete in. They post the 
 results in a chart and show you the World Champion.
  (Glitch/Shortcut hint) : Watch the World Record holders time and see if he cheated, you can practice 
 how he did it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gustavos4
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii for Wii (obviously) , is just awesome. I was expecting to play through it, then go 
 back to Mario Kart 64 for some nostalgia. But there was no need, as my eyes were wide with the 
 feeling of "why did I have doubts about this?", while I was simply watching my brother play it. 
 When he finally coughed up the wonderful Wii Wheel (comes free with the game, but you can still 
 play with the remote sideways) , I was delighted with what I was playing. With the addition of motorcycles, 
 a trick system, and half-pipe ramps, this game easily keeps you entertained.
  
  Just like in Mario Kart DS, We had new levels, as well as levels taken from past Mario Kart games 
 (except the one for GBA, because they wanted to have levels from the DS game instead) . Which is 
 a very nice touch to begin with to see levels from 64 and the SNES title brought to next gen graphics. 
 But honestly, a lot of us have played through those tracks numerous times, and will only get a 
 nostalgic feel when we first get to them. And will get boring eventually when we have trouble beating 
 the curcuits.
  
  Another problem is the ridiculously hard AI in 150cc. They just don't have mercy. Luckily the people 
 online aren't any harder. But with the way that new tracks are layed out, you'll just have a lot 
 of unlucky moments which may make you go back to last place. People complain that's because this 
 is a luck based game, but it really is the levels when you think about it.
  
  Another complaint is how they took out character-specific items and karts. With karts, they just 
 have the same kart that other people have, but in the characters color. And they actually took 
 out the specific items in DS, but I was hoping they'd bring it back in this game, since the Wii 
 is so much better than the DS in hardware power, but Nintendo must have forgotten. However, they 
 added in the mega mushroom which turns you into a giant that can squash other racers. They also 
 put in a storm cloud which will shrink you in a few seconds, but you can pass it on to another 
 racer if you ram into them. And lastly, they put in the power block, which will hit every racer 
 that is on the ground when it goes off.
  
  Now I will talk about the graphics, which were actually quite nice. Except the characters, as they 
 are in blockish shapes. Sort of unprofessional, but when racing you need to keep you're eyes on 
 the road, not the character's octogonal hands.
  
  Next is the characters. They have all the ones from Double Dash except Paratroopa and toadette 
 (but nobody really liked them) , and added a few more like Baby Peach and Rosalina from Mario Galaxy. 
 And I don't care what anybody says, Baby Peach kicks ass. All in all, the list of characters isn't 
 too new, but at least it has variety. You can also play with one of your Miis, which can be fun. 
 I like playing the game with my Mii versions of Fox, Wolf, Captain Falcon, and Samus.
  
  Next is the online, and I have to say, it's pretty much up to standards with many online games 
 on competing consoles. The online is awesome. It never takes longer than a few seconds to find 
 at least eight people to race with, which is better than finding people online on GTA4 for the 
 PS3 (but that's only because no people have the PS3 version) . I have never experienced lagging 
 or freezing, and the race never stopped because of bad connection. You can find tournaments on 
 the Mario Kart Wii Channel in the game, as well as other goodies. 
  
  I've yet to try out friend matches. When I do, I will update this reveiw.
  
  Extra Comments: 
 Anyway, I would have to say that this game is definitely the best yet. And most people who disagree 
 are blinded by nostalgia, as they have no way of telling how one game is better than this (of course 
 there is nothing wrong with enjoying one game more than the other) . If you have a Wii, get this 
 game. There's no reason not to, it's Mario Kart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jack1717
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart wii is a very fun game. It gets a 9.4 from me. The races and items are great in my opionion, 
 and it has great wii graphics. The online is very hard for a beginner, but you'll get used to it. 
 It's a great game.
  
  Graphics: 8-10, nothing special. I think it should be a little better.
  
  Carachters: 9-10, 
 A nice assorment of new and old characters. (If you have a saved game on mario galaxy you will 
 automaticly unlock Rosilina) .
  
  Campaign: 9-10, Grand Prix is a tone of fun. I and my brothers really enjoy this mode.
  
  Courses: 
 8.5-10, good and imaginative, but tons of room for improvement.
  
  Controls: 9-10, Great! The wii weel works wonderfully, but even if your not a fan of it (everyone 
 I know is) you can still use tons of other stuff.
  
  Multiplayer: 9.4, excellent!! Me and my friends have a ton of fun playing on it.
  
  Overall 
 Gameplay: 9.5, Incredible!!! Better then Brawl and Mario Galaxy. This game is a ton of fun. Great 
 courses, great characters, and a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scootergogo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is one of my current favorite Wii games. The gameplay is great. The multiplayer 
 mode is great. The wifi is flawless. The game is AWESOME! I love how you can ride a kart or a motorcycle 
 (bike) ! You can do wheelies which I also think is really cool and unique. The Wiiwheel is very 
 helpful and makes the game seem more realistic. There are like 8 cups and there are new courses 
 as well as some of the old ones. You can also play with your mii. You can choose any of your miis 
 to race with. The only thing is that you have to unlock this. But the thing that made it so great 
 was the wifi mode. You can play people worldwide (I thought that was the best part) . I played people 
 from Canada, Mexico, Switzerland, U. S., U. K., Austrailia, Japan, El Salvador and some other places. 
 And there is no lag. This is one of my favorite games ever. I give this game a 9.5 because there 
 weren't as many characters as the previous game. Otherwise this game is DA BOMB! I totally recommend 
 buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: real-guitarhero
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Okay, well, first I looked at some screenshots. I though "ew". Graphics... typical Mario yuck.... 
 Well, when I went over to my buddy's house, I played it. And guess what? This is probably one of 
 the games with okay graphics... but ASTOUNDING gameplay. That's what really counts right? Race where 
 ever you want. Race with whoever you want. It's fun having the wheel on the palms of your hands! 
 Feels good. I didn't play it as much as I played SSBB or MGS4 or even GTA4, these games of course 
 are worth 11/10. I actually give this game a 8.7 not a 9. I couldn't choose 8.7 because it wasnt 
 on the scale lol. I suggest, instead of buying this game, get a buddy to let you borrow it, and 
 play it till you get bored. I don't really think its worth the money. It's something fun, but the 
 fun wears off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xx51LLYR4BB1TxX
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this game is very entertaining and your enjoy the the Wii Wheel to the fullest. 
 The wii wheel is what makes this game really fun it works really well honestly without the will 
 wheel I dont think I would have enjoyed the game as much the will wheel makes the game alot more 
 exciting. The gameplay of the game is just about the same as all the other mario karts only that 
 this time there are bikes which are cool and nice to use. Also the game goes back to its standered 
 1 person per kart which im glad they did double dash was good and all but its just more better 
 with 1 person driving the kart. The music could have used a little more work but its alright the 
 graphics and level designs are really nice to look at and the nice selcetion of charcters you can 
 choose from is really nice as well. The online of the game is very good to use its fun to play 
 with players online. The big problem witrh the game though this time is the item system its pretty 
 bad actully. You can only get the really good items like the star thunder bolt and rocket bullet 
 if you in like places 5-12 which makes winning the matches on luck. For example you could be in 
 1st place the whole time from the start but if those people in 6-12 get the really good items which 
 they will they will catch up to you in a matter of seconds and get you to last place in less time 
 then you can catch up again. Its gets really irorring and irrated at times when you are in first 
 then you end up getting 8,9 or worst yet last place becuase the person who was in last all along 
 got the really good items and caught up in seconds also the bad thing is ONLY the 5-12 places get 
 the really good items the people from like 1-4 wont get any thing useful only the crappy items 
 like 1 green shell and etc the best thing you can do when you are in 1st plkace is take out that 
 green shell and defend your self with it if a red shell come towards you you will be able to block 
 it atleast with it. The other thing I dont like about the game is the stages are too short and 
 they seemed to have the picked the least fun old stages from the past mario kart games to put into 
 this one. Over all the game is really enjoyable but they could have made the item system better 
 and made the stages a little longer and also picked a few of the better stages from the past mario 
 kart games. The game is worth it if you are a fan of the mario kart series and the Wii Wheel like 
 I said makes the game really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bruno_fmenedes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 3:49 am PT
Review:  -----------------------------------
  
  Gameplay ---------- ( 8 )
  
  Graphics ----------- ( 8 )
  
  Sound --------------- ( 7 )
  
  Value ---------------- ( 9 
 )
  
  -----------------------------------
  
  
  THE GOOD:
     Small changes and refinements make the gameplay more accessible for casual players while keeping 
 it deep enough to satisfy hardcore gamers; 
     Playing with the Wii Wheel is fun and helps you get more immersed in the game, but only after 
 you get pass the not very small learning curve;
     The trick system and the bikes are both welcome additions that bring some much needed novelty 
 to the game;
     The A. I. is a bit more aggressive than it was in Double Dash;
     Lighting is vastly improved;
     Good and varied character animations;
     The frame-rate 
 never drops significantly, even when there are many things happening on screen at same time;
     There are 32 different race courses: 16 new and 16 taken from older games;
     There are 10 
 different battle courses: 5 new and 5 taken from older games;
     Addictive online multiplayer, that can be played by two people on the same console, racing against 
 gamers from the other side of the globe, will keep you coming back for more;
  
  THE BAD:
     The gameplay is fundamentally the same, although the small changes and refinements made and 
 the additions of the trick system and the bikes, are enough to prevent it from being called "recycled";
 
     Items are more unbalanced than ever before, particularly on the new courses where there are 
 more jumps, increasing the influence of the luck factor and making the game less rewarding than 
 it could've been;
     Some of the courses taken from older games feel too simple after playing on some of the new 
 more imaginative courses;
     The graphics are only marginally improved from Double Dash;
     Most of the sound effects seem to be same ones used in previous games, even though they remain 
 effective enough;
     The musics in the game aren't bad enough to make you want to turn them off, but you won't remember 
 any of them after playing the game;
     The mission mode introduced in the superb Mario Kart DS is oddly not present in this game;
 
     Battle modes are now only team-based and timed, reducing the impact this modes could've made 
 on the overall lasting appeal.
  
  FINAL WORDS:
  The single player mode is not exceptionally rewarding and can be somewhat frustrating in higher 
 difficulties, due to the combination of lack of item balance with smarter opponents. You'll find 
 yourself playing that mode mainly for the purpose of unlocking more vehicles.
  
  But the multiplayer mode, in particular the online versus mode, is very enjoyable and can easily 
 make you lose track of time. The online mode can be played with another friend on the same console, 
 who can help you beat gamers from the other side of the globe. This mode will be the reason why 
 you come back to play Mario Kart Wii many months after you bought it.
  
  Except for maybe Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Mario Kart Wii is the best multiplayer game on the Wii. 
 It's also the one that best uses the online capabilities of the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kitten470
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 10, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  If you played all the Mario Kart games before, then this game may not be for you, but if your new 
 to Mario kart then it would be a good game. Mario Kart has been the same thing over and over and 
 over again. You beat 50c, 100c, 150c, then mirror mode yawn. It was bad enough it was the same 
 and hasn't changed, but over half of the game is courses from nintendo 60, super ninendo, gamecube. 
 I wanted to see a new game not something I've done played. There where around 16 new courses. "Which 
 most of them you can complete a lap under 1 minute" Plus the new courses look no better than the 
 gamecube ones. I thought the motercycle part may of changed it a bit but oh boy was I dead wrong. 
 The steering wheel is nothing but a gimmick Its very sloopy and not put together well. You could 
 be steering then it would go to sharp. Not to mention most people stay in 1st place all it is, 
 is gettings bannannas all the time, and getting hit by red shells, blue spikes, and shrinking all 
 the time. It gets very boring. I got twos days out of Mario Kart, that money could of been spent 
 on something better. This is probably the worse mario kart ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenji_Shinra
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  When I first got Mario Kart Wii. I thought that it'd just be a so so game with different controls. 
 I was wrong however, not only are the controls different, but so is the whole gameplay experience. 
 You may have heard
  (and I'm pretty sure you have) that there are bikes in the game. The thing is, with the bikes, 
 I found the mini boosts a lot easier to obtain but they could not be charged to the next level 
 (blue to red) . Of course they may be for all I know a lot harder to charge up like that. The point 
 is, if you drift a lot, the bikes are good for you because drifting is easier.
  
  On the point of drifting, many of you Mario Kart fans probably have played both Double Dash and 
 DS releases of Mario Kart. In Double Dash, the drifting was sort of a total manual sharp turn kind 
 of system. In the DS version, it was an automaticaly "hop" into drifting. Mario Kart Wii is right 
 between them. Instead of hopping into the drift, you sort of slide into it without it being too 
 easy nor too difficult.
  
  Sounds confusing right, well for the most part, it's pretty straight forward. Like many new games, 
 the controls take a bit getting used to. Once you get used to them however, the game play really 
 shows itself.
  
  To sum everything up, Mario Kart Wii is an interesting and exciting edition to the already popular 
 racing series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clutzyaj
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is indeed the most famous of the Mario spinoffs. However, what Mario Kart Wii does is 
 certainly great, but it's appeal is what can also make it very disturbing to die hard fans of Nintendo.
 
  
  Mario Kart Wii is practically nearly perfect in every way. Lots of control schemes allow you to 
 pick the best driving style. I personally recommend the GCN controler, primarly because you've 
 been playing Mario Kart forever on a controler. The Wii wheel is a complete nightmare though, and 
 the nunchuck shouldn't be used. The Classic controler is fair in this game.
  
  The race tracks in the game total to about 32 altogether, that is, 16 new age tracks and 16 tracks 
 from other Mario Kart games. The new age arenas are gimmicky, with moving parts, boosts everywhere, 
 and all different kinds of terrain. The retro stages pretty much haven't changed outside of just 
 a few added boost areas, but instead are nothing more than item rigged so that even a simple race 
 on the classic Mario Circut and Mushroom Bridge become a warzone. So it doesn't matter what you 
 race on, you're gonna get pounded in.
  
  The roster is actually very good, outside of just too many babies and the lack of ROB (but then 
 again, he appears in Brawl, and how could he ride a motorcycle?) . You'll find favorites like Dry 
 Bones and newcommers like Rosealina, Dry Bowser, and something not too Marioish, Funky Kong! You'll 
 also have some cool cars to choose from, including a vehicle called the blue falcon (I haven't 
 unlocked it yet, so I don't know if it does look like Mr. Falcon's F-Zero car!) , the Wario motorcycle, 
 and even cars that look like the're from Chitty Chitty Bang Bang! Hey Sakurai? Why couldn't you 
 pull something off like this in Brawl, hmmm?
  
  Most of the items in this are like they always have been; totaly brutal when you get attacked and 
 almost pointless when you use them. As I said, the items seem more painful on the retro stages, 
 so don't get too surprised if you get plastered in a race on Delfino Square by 5 blue shells.
 
  
  The game also has an awsome multiplayer and online mode. Finally! You can practice battling by 
 yourself! Sick of beating your little brother? No problem! With online, you can do battles, races, 
 time trails, and with the help of the Mario Kart channel, be a part of tournaments and host your 
 records around the world! Now Sakurai, again, why didn't you work Brawl like this??
  
  And don't forget the most important thing: music! This game boasts a wonderful soundtrack. The 
 new tunes are indeed very upbeat, with lots of sax, steel drums, chromatics, and other things that 
 associate the world of Mario. The retro tracks sound good too, considering some had to get revived 
 from their 16-bit graves. Overall, the music fits greatly with every track, and the menu theme 
 sounds good too. I think that my favorite tunes are gonna be the Mushroom City/Bridge and Luigi 
 Circuit (MK64) .
  
  But alas, what also makes this game nearly unbearable to talk about. It's causal appeal. From the 
 stupid commercail to the tri-lingual instruction booklet and the overloaded control schemes, this 
 game suffers from Miyamoto's cruel plan to mistreat his die-hard fans. The mere fact that Miis 
 populate your stages isn't a bad thing, it's just that when you see faces of cartoon characters 
 and other stupid things that people create, Mario Kart Wii develops a sort of dark atmosphere around 
 it. Overall, I think this is why this game doesn't get a high score from me, the rather awful aura 
 it emits to appeal to your grandma and your sister and brother.
  
  Overall, I would still highly reccomend Mario Kart Wii to anyone. Why? It's simple, it's fun, and 
 despite it's casual over-rep, it's still a great game for die-hard Mario fans. If you were disappointed 
 with Brawl's appeal and online, Mario Kart Wii could fix that for you. If anything, rent before 
 buy of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteel13
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Ds is a really wicked game and it is also why it got me to play Mario Kart Wii, This 
 game had high Expectations and i can tell you now that it succeeded in a lot of ways there are 
 minor flaws but it pulled it off.
  
  Mario Kart Wii put itself really high up in the ranks and proved to many people that it is a worthy 
 game, myself i liked the game then there are some bits about the game for example 1 or 2 of the 
 items, some of the stages and when you lose at the last lap of the race which get on your last nerve.
 
  
  MKW had really great graphics not fantastic but graphics wise it did really good. MKW has to have 
 some of the best graphics ever made on the Wii like the best graphical course had to be Koopa Cape 
 it is just amazing. There are just little problems like some of the characters dont look up to scratch 
 those are just minor but should be looked into in the future.
  
  Single player in this game is really fun and enjoyable in the begining but when it starts to come 
 to the end when you have all of the characters, you got Gold Medals and unlocked all of the bikes 
 and karts it startes to get a bit boring but that is also what happened with ,mario Kart Ds but 
 to think about it all racing games get boring when you keep on doing the same thing over and over 
 again. Multiplayer is great that never gets boring vs you friends or family is always great fun.
 
  
  This game works so well no glitches in any of the bits in this game no freezes which is good, Bikes 
 look and to controll them are really a treat first time to have them in this kind of game it works 
 like a charm. I cant say no more about the karts they always are exelent and they look better than 
 in any of the previous in the series. The best bit are the wheelies and all of the tricks you can 
 pull up are great expecially when you use the steering wheel.
  
  Online has to be the best part of the game you could be bored of everything else of the game right 
 now but you will never get tired of online. The online system is really good you can decide wheather 
 you want to play Worldwide or Continental and you can see the miis of the racers you are getting 
 matched up with (I think they should of done this kinda online system for SSBB) . ONLINE has to be 
 the best part of this game. FANTASTIC!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: copp62
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  i kinda hate to see all the Mario games coming out all at once. like super smash, Mario kart, Mario 
 party, and super Mario galaxy. it makes me think what is next for Mario?? are they going to announce 
 something big for for Mario at the next E3 like super Mario galaxy 2 or are they getting rid of 
 all the Mario games to build up sales? but Mario kart is a great reason to own a wii.
  
  so on with the review. the single player rocks there are a lot of characters to unlock and a lot 
 of new courses that are awesome but still do get old. there are a lot of karts to unlock. and battle 
 mode is great but one problem... you have to play on teams... which kinda sucks at first but you'll 
 get used to it. the game enters three new things into the Mario kart world. the first one is a 
 wheel which is a great way to play and if you don't like it then there are still three more ways 
 to play. the second one is tricks which are pretty cool. and finally there is bikes. which is a 
 sweet idea. the game also has some of the best graphics for the wii 
  
  those are some of the great things about this game but the best is the multiplayer and online play!! which 
 it is really great to see Nintendo getting online play. which it works great too. you can do battle 
 or vs. each other. you can even bring a friend into the game but he will be consider anonymous. 
 you pick the places by random vote. and you can still play with 4 people at your house too.
  
  even with great stuff like this the game is still not perfect. one of the things that sucks 
 is that if you put the courses on random it picks like the same tracks over and over again if you 
 play over again. and if you play online there are some peoplae that have like no lives and are 
 up about half the track so they really need to have rooms for pros and rookies. and 150cc is hard 
 and if your in first you get hit by blue shells a lot.. and like i said before you have to play 
 on teams when you battle. also some of the courses get old fast. and rainbow road is still as hard 
 as ever!!
  
  graphics 9.5
  sound 8.0
  gameplay 9.0
  lasting appeal 9.5
  overall 9.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassicPlayer
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has been out for quite some time, in the last 16 years it has had 4 incarnations for 
 5 consoles. These have all been good, but does Mario Kart Wii live up to it's past games?
  
  So this game has you playing as Mario, along with the usual Mario characters, like Luigi, Waluigi, 
 Baby Mario and Toad. There are some newcomers like Rosalina, and even more ways to race. Instead 
 of the usual kart you can now race on a motorbike, or even a buggy (for the Baby characters) . The 
 motorbike allows you to perform stunts in the air, and when landed to have a small boost.
  
  There are some new items as well as the old ones returning. Some of these can be annoying but 
 in a fun sort of way, you wouldn't be throwing your Wii out the window but more like laughing at 
 it. There are 32 tracks spread over 8 cups, 16 are old maps that have been remade to suit the Wii, 
 and the other 16 are completly new. I have never seen levels as inventive as these since Crash 
 Team Racing, and thats quite something.
  
  This is where the problems kick in, the handling is poor at best, eventually you'll get used to 
 it but the first half hour or so you'll find yourself constantly falling off tracks. It's very 
 sensitive and requires a lot of precision with turns and using the brake at the right times. Even 
 when you do get used to the controls, you might find that you accidently tilted the Wii mote in 
 the wrong way, and then sending you from 1st to 11th.
  
  If your unsure of this game then rent it, I'll guarentee you'll have fun for it, but if you want 
 a serious racing game, wait for Pure or Wipeout HD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommy171994
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  Unlocking all the karts, bikes, and characters is difficult but very fun. Even after you beat the 
 game its still great to play your friends in time trials or in multiplayer mode.
  a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaa aaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaa aaaaaaaaaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Young-Jay3183
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  graphics are kinda wack and they should have been like the galaxy graphics. good game and i really 
 recommended but has no story and you just drive and people cheat so much online but you will be 
 seeing yourself cheating too so its good and online its so smooth does not glitch and the smoothest 
 game ever playing online so its good recommended 9 out of 10 
  
  graphics are kinda wack and they should have been like the galaxy graphics. good game and i really 
 recommended but has no story and you just drive and people cheat so much online but you will be 
 seeing yourself cheating too so its good and online its so smooth does not glitch and the smoothest 
 game ever playing online so its good recommended 9 out of 10 
  
  graphics are kinda wack and they should have been like the galaxy graphics. good game and i really 
 recommended but has no story and you just drive and people cheat so much online but you will be 
 seeing yourself cheating too so its good and online its so smooth does not glitch and the smoothest 
 game ever playing online so its good recommended 9 out of 10 
  
  graphics are kinda wack and they should have been like the galaxy graphics. good game and i really 
 recommended but has no story and you just drive and people cheat so much online but you will be 
 seeing yourself cheating too so its good and online its so smooth does not glitch and the smoothest 
 game ever playing online so its good recommended 9 out of 10 
  
  graphics are kinda wack and they should have been like the galaxy graphics. good game and i really 
 recommended but has no story and you just drive and people cheat so much online but you will be 
 seeing yourself cheating too so its good and online its so smooth does not glitch and the smoothest 
 game ever playing online so its good recommended 9 out of 10 
  
  graphics are kinda wack and they should have been like the galaxy graphics. good game and i really 
 recommended but has no story and you just drive and people cheat so much online but you will be 
 seeing yourself cheating too so its good and online its so smooth does not glitch and the smoothest 
 game ever playing online so its good recommended 9 out of 10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: taylormars5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  One of the best games on nintendo wii but it's not what its cracked up to be. Firstly the battles 
 are good and playing with your friends and family is a right laugh!
  
  But the online play.... Where do i start? NO driving skill is needed. The only skill is to do a 
 wheelie on a bike and not hit in to wall as it stops you on the spot.
  All the players depend on weapons. as some beginner throws some shiny shells when your first and 
 just about to finish a bullet bill flies past you. Oh and to top the nightmare a few red shell 
 and a few lucky shots from green shells. From 1st to 12th.
  
  Only buy this game if your a fan of mario kart and want to have fun with family and friends, Oh 
 and if you have a short temper you'll throw your wii at your car and stamp.
  
  Overall a good game. Just keep calm online and you'll get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markfish
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  
  My whole family (and friends) have had a great time with this. I've enjoyed it and find it much 
 more entertaining than 'real' driving simulation games. The children enjoy enjoy it because it's 
 fun and not too hard to pick up and get into it. The tracks start out pretty simple, most of the 
 early ones don't take too much to get good at. The later tracks are certainly more of a challenge. 
 Unlocking the extra tracks is easy enough but unlocking the other extras like cars and characters 
 seems to require a lot more dedication and time invested in playing. There are enough different 
 types of cars and bikes to keep things interesting as you improve on them too.
  
  The on-line games can be hard to get into, as you seem to be up against some quite experienced 
 players pretty early on - it's well worth practising in single player mode before attempting it! 
 It's a bit disconcerting to find yourself racing on a track you've never even seen before, so I 
 would say spend the time unlocking them all in single player mode first to give you opportunity 
 to try them out before embarrassing yourself in front of others.
  
  
  Overall a great game and well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garjerk
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is not exactly what you will expect from previous Mario Kart games. The gameplay 
 is fun and there are lots of features that will keep you occupied for a while. As well as new items 
 and weapons...
  
  HOWEVER, THIS GAME IS INCREDIBLY AND UNBELIEVABLY UNFAIR. Driving skills don't seem to matter in 
 this game at all during multiplayer or grand prix races because everyone will only rely on items 
 to win. Don't even bother taking the effort to take the first place as your kart will be pummeled 
 as hard as your mind can possibly tolerate. In almost every game I played and I'm in the front 
 of the group and about to cross the line, some newbie from last place will undoubtedly acquire 
 a bullet bill and ram right into me while a blue shell will follow blasting me into the air followed 
 by lightning and a couple more red shells leaving me throwing my Wii out the window of my 30-story 
 apartment (joking) . Another thing I have to put my finger on is the use of bikes. The bikes in this 
 game easily overpower the karts with their acceleration, easy controls, and their wheelies. The 
 bikes just provide more unbalanced gameplay than ever, as it is common to have your kart overtaken 
 by a bike doing a wheelie just in front of the finish line (and of coursed will be followed by 
 a barrage of shells on your kart) . IMO, bikes just shouldn't have been included in the game since 
 it's called Mario Kart not Mario Bike.
  
  Anyway, despite the excessive frustration and unfairness one will certainly encounter while playing 
 this game, it is still a pretty fun game for you, friends, and family to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JtAgentX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first off let me tell you one thing. If you want to use the driving wheel, Have a Gamecube 
 controller ready. It is way more difficult than just using a Gamecube controller. Trust me. I remember 
 one time I was steering and I drove the opposite direction into a bottomless pit. It sucks. 
  
  Now with the review. I like the overall presentation of this game. Although It was frustrating 
 trying to adjust to the controller configuration. I guess I'm too used to accelerating with the 
 'R' button. The interface is very user friendly and I get from point A to point B without any hassle 
 because I'm using the GameCube controller!!! Moving on. I just like to say this. Mario Kart Wii 
 is easily by default. THE CHEAPEST ARCADE RACING GAME ON THE MARKET. First of all... when I'm in 
 first place, I EASILY go to last place because you have so much **** in you arsenal if you last. 
 It's extremely unfair and unbalanced. Your better off sitting in last place the first two laps, 
 only to jump to first the last lap with the cheapest set of weapons this world has ever seen. 
 
  
  The special items are gone in this one.. MAY I ASK WHY?
  That was the best thing in Double Dash.. why take it out? (Oh yeah... Casual comes first) The online 
 is once again POINTLESS due to the lack of a headset. I might as well play the computer.. I see 
 no difference. Just like in Brawl. 
  
  Though it is fun to play your friends if they can't come over to you house. And I have one more 
 question, why is 100 class Bikes only? just asking... The unlockables in this game don't really 
 give you a reason to play diligently enough to get them. The old maps are not so nostalgic, sense 
 they are revamped to the point that it looks more NEW than the "OMG It's from the SNES." feel. 
 New Characters? whatever. Since this game is unbalanced to oblivion, it really doesn't matter what 
 person you pick... 
  
  All in all, this game is very average. It's alright if your a fan of Nintendo's Mario Kart series, 
 but if you have a 360 and is waiting for MIDNIGHT CLUB LA... then do so you're not missing out 
 on anything.... Also, I had more fun with Mario Kart Double Dash than I had with this one... DD 
 had more strategy while this one brought fourth more blandness and "I really didn't feel like making 
 this game any special" mood from Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: intoblivion
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is one of the series in gaming that will never die, not that I want it to die its just 
 that its been going for agesss. Anyway back to the point Mario Kart Wii is Mario Kart's first outing 
 onto the 7th generation consoles and iam pleaed to say its quite good. With good single player 
 and Wi-Fi multiplayer modes it has a good lifespan abeit its online is not that imense. Mario Kart 
 Wii features most of your favourite characters from the Mario universe including Mario, Lugi and 
 that dinosaur, with a large single-player mode where the 50cc, 100cc and 150cc classes remain but 
 now include Bikes. Now bikes are a unusal addtion due to their fact they only offer a cosmetic 
 diffrence to Karts. Also the tricks you can do while mid air add a new methord to beating your 
 rivals. But all in all Mario Kart Wii takes the orginal concept and adds new and innovtive features 
 that makes this one of the must have games for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DESTROYERx95
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart one of Nintendo's greatest sports games. This game when you begin it starts in traditional 
 Mario kart fashion. You have a few characters a few karts and some cups simple. But if your a n00b 
 go into time trial and memorize the course as much as possible because later in those shortcuts 
 will save you from losing. Oh and one more thing in 50cc they let the cpu use *clears throat* THE 
 SPAWN OF A DEMON!!11!!!1 The blue shell. Beginning8.5/10
  Now the gameplay. We have a new controller the wii wheel HUZZUH!!1!!!11 I found the wii wheel to 
 slightly help because with it you can react faster than a remote and it actually makes it feel 
 like your driving. The controls are very responsive and it makes the gameplay very smooth. Same 
 goes with the wii remote on its side. Now the nunchuk d-pad uses items b uses drift and the stick 
 steers. Gameplay 9.0/10
  Moving on to the graphics. The graphics look fantastic sure its not 360 but still. The old courses 
 got a MAJOR overhaul well OK not really but still the graphics look great. And just something I 
 would like to point out the fake item boxes at a distance look like real boxes so if you place 
 them right you can fool others on wi-fi.
  The older courses got a little better but the new ones are aLOT better mainly because there new 
 they were designed from scratch and the old ones were just coped frome the other games making them 
 not as good. 8.0/10
  Finally the music. Well the sound in general. The sound to me isn't as good as some of the older 
 wii games 0.0 I don't know why actually. Anyways the music sounds great and is also coped over 
 almost perfectly from the older games and the effects are pretty much the same as almost every 
 other game. Sound 8.5/10
  Overall its a pretty good game and I almost forgot about this factor difficulty. I already said 
 that the cpu in 50cc uses blue shells and 100cc is pretty much the same its only a bit harder as 
 for 150cc -.-. This difficulty is the hardest and as you would expect is well hard now its BRUTAL 
 and I mean BRUTAL!!! Now its not skill its luck that's your only friend because um cpus in second 
 place get triple red shell thats not good that's not good at all. Difficulty 7.5/10
  overall 8.0/10
  this is my first review so its not that good but don't flame me or something 
 like that OK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaRidley95
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best Mario Kart games out there. The Wii remote steering is really easy to master 
 and the drift button is in the perfect spot. The graphics are great for this game and much better 
 than Double Dash. The karts in this Mario Kart are much different than the other ones. There are 
 still heavy, medium and light people and karts but each kart is different. Each one has specialties 
 like drifting, speed, acceleration or handling. The characters are cool too. You can unlock people 
 like Dry Bones, all of the babies, King Boo, and Dry Bowser. The courses are perfect for the game. 
 Bowser's Castle has ramps and sharp turns while Rainbow Road has no rails at all. Rainbow Road 
 is definitely the hardest course in the game and probably the hardest one ever. Some of the other 
 courses like Wario Gold Mine and Coconut Mall lead you racing through mine shafts and cutting through 
 escalators and stores. It also has plenty of the retro courses. It has good ol' fashion Bowser's 
 Castle from Mario Kart 64 and DK Mountain from GameCube. Online is great too. It's fun to race 
 people from around the world. Especially when they're really good. This is definitely one of the 
 best Mario Karts out there and is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alapalolee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  First things first: if you haven't played another Mario kart game before reading this review, then 
 it will be very aggravating for you to understand my babbling. Well, I kind of have mixed feelings 
 about this game. I'll start with the pros, first, though. there are 32 tracks, 16 from past games, 
 and 16 new ones. There are bikes now, which, in my opinion, make you feel faster than a kart, even 
 though a speed bar on the menu says that you are relatively going the same speed. Bikes, though 
 cannot do a super-mini boost, like the karts, can do wheelies, which, in a way, are better, since 
 they can be done at almost any time. There are a lot more characters, but most of the new ones 
 will probably be the ones you have to unlock. Like the DS version, you can do single-player battle 
 modes. Plus, to get better and better, you can do time trials, to race against ghosts of yourselves. 
 beating them basically means that you have improved, which is an excellent way of honing your skills. 
 Like most of the other Mario-kart games, the best part is the Multi-player. this game doesn't even 
 make you have to go to another persons house to play! Just use Nintendo Wi-Fi; you can even play 
 people around the world! The most noted addition, however is the Wii wheel. Its easy enough to 
 get used to, and its why while making this review, I put "revolutionary" as the classification.
 
  Now, some cons. This is the most spastic Mario kart game I know of. The items in, say, double 
 dash gave a nice finishing touch, but in Mario kart Wii, you cant go one round without getting 
 clobbered by shells, rammed by other karts, or struck by lightning. the CPUs, aren't spread out, 
 anymore, either. For example, I got hit by a blue shell while just cruising a long, and the next 
 thing i know, eleven people have passed me. Still, this wont stop most people from getting sucked 
 in to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CastlevaniaFan
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  For some time, all i heard about was mario kart wii. Convinced by the hype, I decided to go buy 
 such an awesome game.
  It's pretty good.. I guess..
  Personally, I liked Mario Kart DS much better. While the wii kart is just some new levels and cars, 
 it is the least like mario kart. In fact, I would have called it F-Zero: Mario Circuit. The AI 
 are EXTREMELY aggressive agains't player characters, much like in SSBB (is this a new fad for nintendo?) . 
 Expect about 3 times as many blue shells as a normal mario kart, and expect to go from 1st to 12th 
 after getting hit by just a single red shell. The game is very much like F-zero in the aspect where, 
 you take a single hit- and you are eating every other racer's dust. If you are not extremely competetive 
 with your video games, do not buy this game.
  
  For more bad news, the game does nothing to expand it's races. it has 8 cups, 4 new and 4 old school 
 race cups. For some reason, I had hoped they would maybe try to add just a few more tracks. This 
 game has VERY low replay value except for multiplayer. The fun mission mode that was on the DS, 
 is nowhere to be found here. Another dumb quality is the ability for bikes to be able to wheelie. 
 karts cannot do such a thing, and bikes tend to have a distinct advantage.
  
  Mario Kart wii has some good things about it though that are new to the series. The tricks and 
 wii tracks are crazier and more fast-paced than ever (much like f-zero) . Also, the bikes are more 
 enjoyable than the every-day karts. You can also choose automatic or manual drifting before a race, 
 the automatic is very fluid and provides very nice driving simulation.
  
  All in all, I think Mario kart wii is definetly worth a rent. Personally though, I wish I had saved 
 my money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wesker66
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I think the game was ok but nothing to get too excited about. The graphics look very nice in single 
 player mode but look choppy in multiplayer mode. A big disappointment was the fact that the special 
 items in the previous game were not in this game, so there was no point in choosing a character 
 to play with if they didn't have their special item. I also think that the stage selection was 
 put together badly as most of the stages are from older games so its doesn't really add anythig 
 new to the game. I think that more could have been done with the multiplayer as it is always the 
 same kind of races, battles and stages in each option for multiplayer. The controls are easy to 
 pick up and you could easily become an expert at playing in mere minutes. The game also included 
 a Wii wheel which can be used for the game. This actually makes it harder to play because of its 
 inaccuracy and can be frustrating to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbmars
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Fun game gets a little boring after a while. Great racing, Kind of tricky, AWESOME new karts and 
 old new characters! COOOOL new power ups and Tracks are awesome!
  
  Grapics are pretty sweet nice music as well. The steering wheel is pretty fun its easy to use and 
 its built very nice! the controls are pretty easy to use.
  Just as fun as mario kart DS sa far as the top-speed racing. Really Really fun with Karts and Bikes 
 makes it more cool and fun. Overall It's a pretty FUN game. Wi-Fi Is amazing! Very Fun Multiplayer... 
 Character chioce is good to. I think The tracks are built great and fit their cup absulutly Awesome!!!!!! 
 Fun videos and sure is a classic. Fits in great with the rest of the mario kart games... Fun Fun 
 gameplay racing is intence... Its just plain fun & classic! The karts and bikes match the characters 
 and are fresh, new and amazing. I get enjoyment out of this mario kart game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HabDragon
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  While the majority of the game is the same as years before, this is still a very fun game that 
 I spent numerous hours playing (mainly the online feature with friends) .
  
  The Good: 
  Online feature runs very smoothly with very little lag (especially during the actual race itself) , 
 couple of new tracks and characters to unlock, the ability to use older style controllers (ie: 
 game cube) . New items are always a blast to toy with (albeit some can be annoying) . 
  
  The Bad:
  A little on the simple side, some of the unlockables are a little stupid (ie: needing 
 to have a saved game file of super mario galaxy) . The AI is annoying at times, always trying to 
 find ways (first place shells) to keep the race competitive. I found that if you want to race competitively, 
 the wii wheel is not an option (it comes down to personal choice I suppose) .
  
  Overall, this is definitely a game worth playing and/or buying and is a blast playing multi player 
 with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Melloshi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I must say as soon as I inserted the disc in to the console I was already excited. How right I 
 was. When I played my first race on Luigi Circuit using the wheel, well I'd already been grabbed 
 by the game. It was a fantastic experience. And my first blue shell hit on the Wii was great too. 
 So, I played offline for the first month or so, and I thought it was a fantastic game as it was. 
 Then I got online for the Wii, so I tried out Mario Kart first. When I said it was a fantastic 
 game on its own, the online feature on this game made it phenomenal. This is probably my most played 
 game on the Wii. The only problem I had was that they didn't have the Tick Tock Clock circuit from 
 Mario Kart DS, but apart from that, this game is definitely something to try if you haven't already. 
 I really enjoyed my time playing on this. What a brilliant game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ardyfardy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I love all mario kart games so there is no suprise I am happy with this one. The wheel takes some 
 getting used to but is fun to use! Of coaarse it is a awesome multiplayer game and being able to 
 go online & play karters across the globe is awesome! Overall a totally awesome game and met all 
 my expectations. Of coarse it can always be better with more items to use and more tracks maybe 
 to unlock and customizable characters & karts but that what the next ones for!!! Like I said the 
 wheel pisses me off every once in a while and racing 150cc can be down right stressful! but practices 
 makes perfect! The graphics are absolutley awesome, especailly on my 1080p 47" LCD. Hopefully there 
 will be more racing games for the WII like diddy kong racing for the N64 andn FZero or even Roadrash! 
 Maybe they'll even come out with a better wheel! It would be cool to be able to download new content 
 for the game like updates and stuff since it connects online now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperEmpera
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  If you have ever played Mario kart 64 you will a lot has changed in the series but they are just 
 as fun. First of all we will look at graphics and sound. Graphics are good but mainly "cartoony" 
 but it support EDTV 480p, then game seems to run quite smoothly. Sound varies in different levels 
 whether it is the sound of Bowser's roar in Bowser's Castle or the horn a passing kart. The soundtrack 
 is great and most sounds are too. Grand Prixs is like the main part, you play cups with 4 levels 
 to complete. After completing you are given a rating and a position (1st, 2nd, 3rd) . The amount 
 unlockables is good see it will keep you going for a while. However 150cc races can get very frustrating 
 because the CPU is just too hard and you continue to get bad items while the CPU get the advantage, 
 if you are skilled you will get used to this. Time trails are fun especially when you get to compare 
 ghost data with your friend with the WORLD WIDE RANKING SYSTEM! Now that brings us to online play 
 where this game is best at. This game has by far the best online play for any wii game. You play 
 with 12 players in a race and you have a rating. Your rating is like your rank. Win more races 
 and it will increase while losing will make it decrease. Overall the online is mostly lag free. 
 The ability to be able to let 2 people play online from the same console makes it even better. 
 Summary: This game is definatly a must have for the Wii. Although it can be frustrating at times 
 it is very fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSonic20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  For over 15 years, Mario Kart has been one of Nintendo's most beloved franchises due to its fun, 
 fast-paced and easy to grasp gameplay. With its introduction to the Wii, the franchise has ditched 
 the two-man kart concept of 2003's Mario Kart: Double Dash!! (GameCube) and has instead implemented 
 a more casual and user-friendly style of play. Hell, they even included the Wii Wheel attachment 
 to make the game seem even simpler and more interactive. On the other hand, Mario Kart Wii is the 
 first online-ready game in the series, allowing up to 12 players to play at once by using Nintendo's 
 Wi-Fi Connection.
  
  When you first start up the game, you're asked to create a drvier's license, which is essentially 
 the user-profile that the game will be saved under. The neat thing about creating your license 
 is the ability to register one of your Miis and have his or her picture on the license. The license 
 will keep up with all trophies earned in the Grand Prix Mode and will also show your friend code, 
 which you can give out to friends who want to play online. Nintendo did an awesome thing by including 
 Mii support, not only with the licenses, but also as playable characters and spectators.
  
  The biggest addition to Mario Kart Wii is, of course, the ability to play online. The Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi Connection allows for up to 12 players, either regionally or worldwide, playing together 
 in both VS and Battle Modes. Sadly, if you want to play with a friend you'll have to exchange friend 
 codes just like in Super Smash Bros. Brawl or Mario Strikers Charged. Another weakness is that 
 there is no voice or text chat when playing online. I really wish the people at Nintendo would 
 get there heads on straight and just make it easier for gamers to get online and enjoy themselves. 
 Even with these miscues, Mario Kart Wii online is by far the best online support Nintendo has given 
 us. Hopefully we'll see if they can expand on the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection sometime soon.
  
  Other than the new online mode, most of the other game modes are the same as previous Mario 
 Kart installments. Grand Prix, Time Trial, VS and Battle are all back but with all new courses 
 to play on, of course. 16 new courses and 16 old-school courses are playable in the game, but you'll 
 have to unlock most of them by completing the Grand Prix mode. Completing the Grand Prix mode will 
 also unlock secret characters such as King Boo, Diddy Kong and Rosalina (from Super Mario Galaxy) .
 
  
  Most of the old school courses are fan-favorites from the Super Nintendo, N64 and GameCube Mario 
 Kart games. They also include a few maps from the DS and GBA Mario Karts, but I could have done 
 without these and would actually prefer to see more courses from the N64 and GameCube installments. 
 The Battle Mode consists of two games: Balloon Battle and Coin Runner. Along with new courses to 
 race on, there are five new and five old-school stages to battle on. Although, half the courses 
 in the game are new, they all feel very similar to past courses. One is a desert level, the other 
 an ice level, another Rainbow Road course, etc. They could have used a little more originality 
 when coming up with the new courses, but it's all good because they're still fun to play.
  
  Mario Kart Wii uses four different control schemes to play with: the Wii Wheel (or simply the 
 Wii-mote) , the Wii-mote-Nunchuk combo, the Classic controller or the GameCube controller. Personally, 
 I like using either the Wii Wheel or the Wii-mote-Nunchuk combo; after playing with the Wii Wheel 
 for a little bit, you'll be accustomed to it and, honestly, it's quite fun to use. But the most 
 efficient way to play is using the Wii-mote-Nunchuk combo, because you have the joystick to help 
 you get those tight turns, while launching weapons with ease. It's also really helpful when driving 
 the new motorbikes and using the new trick system.
  
  Yep, that's right, I said motorbikes. Along with the old-school karts, Mario Kart Wii introduces 
 a new way to ride in style with fresh, faster, wheelie-popping motorbikes. Along with the new motorbikes, 
 is a new trick system that allows for players to perform a trick in mid-air by simply shaking the 
 Wii-mote. If the trick is landed successfully, you'll get a short speed burst when landing. By 
 tilting the Wii-mote up when riding a bike, you'll perform a wheelie that'll give you a speed boost, 
 but be careful not to try it while turning or you might lose control. Like I said before, the Wii-mote-Nunchuk 
 combo is the best control scheme to work with the new trick system.
  
  Most experienced Mario Kart vets will have no problem adjusting to this game, but that doesn't 
 mean that they'll always have the upper hand. With new overpowered items including the Bullet Bill 
 and Mega Mushroom, some players will go from being dead last to being in first place in an instant. 
 And don't forget about the deadly blue-spiked shell that goes straight for the player in first 
 place. Man, do I hate those things. These overpowered items place a lot of luck in the game, but 
 in most cases the more experienced player will usually come out on top.
  
  There aren't too many graphical enhancements and you'll find the graphics to be very similar to 
 that of Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, only brighter and smoother. The frame rate slows down occasionally 
 with local multiplayer, but other than that it's smooth sailing. The sound effects and music are 
 pleasing and entertaining much like the previous games and the voice acting is always spot on with 
 Mario and the gang.
  
  After 15 years, and I say this with all honesty, Mario Kart is still fun as ever. Although the 
 game feels like it was given the "casual party game" treatment, the addition of online play, new 
 motorbikes and a new trick system make it so much more than that. Experienced Mario Kart vets and 
 new players to the series will both be in awe of how much fun this game really is. Mario Kart Wii 
 is a must have for any Wii owner and one of the most enjoyable racing games to come out this year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krazyboy87
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  can describe how insanely awesome this game is!!! but ill try... this game has awesome new tracks! 
 plus it has lots of track from previous mario kart games! plus now you can drive motorcycles!!!!! 
 insane!! mario's mach bike is awesome and so is his wild wing kart, both my personal favorites!! 
 plus its easy to learn the controls and has awesome action!! i could tell you how many awesome 
 things are on this game, but it would take forever. all i can say is that this in in my top 5 wii 
 games, super smash bros #1 and mario kart wii #2. since i have gotten this game i have not played 
 call of duty 4 or halo 3. i am just addicted to this game becuase it is so much fun!! plus you 
 can play 2 player online, so you can have a friend over and you both can play online. also the 
 online is fun too... but some people on there are insane! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo_geek_
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  When my dad got me this game, I didnt know what to expect. I meen, mario kart ds and the crash 
 kart series are really good. But, this game takes the racing format to a whole new level! The wii 
 steering wheel has big impact on the game as it stimulates the racing as if it was real! But, the 
 wheel takes a bit of time to get used to, but its easy to get the hang of! The wi-fi mode is brilliant! It 
 makes me feel so competitive when I race my friends, there is also an option to meet in a room, 
 and you can chat there too! But the downer is you have to choose the phrases like 'that was fun!' 
 'yaaay!' and 'Good evening'. With so many modes including timetrial, battle, grandprix, 2 player 
 and wi-fi modes this makes the game highly addictive! No matter what gaming style you have, there 
 has to be atleast one aspect of this game wich will make you enjoy this game!
  
  Highly recommendable! Well worth the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littledragonman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  i have always been a fan of mario kart so when i heard it was coming for the wii i just had to 
 have this game.
  
  turns out it was well worth the wait.
  
  mario kart wii is the 6th installment in the franchise
  and it does quite a bit to improve from 
 it's ds predecessor.
  
  the first thing you may notice is the price tag 49.99 with the wii wheel, i was surprised by the 
 price because usually if a game comes with a perpihpal its anywhere between 10 to 40 bucks more.
 
  
  anyway the game also revamped the vehicles adding bikes
  which ironiccly are better than some cars.
  
  the character selection has also got some new 
 faces such as babys peach and daisy, funky kong (why i dont know) and dry bowser..... why dry bowser? 
 how bout some goomba instead :P
  
  also all modes now have 11 cpus racing against you.
  
  now one thing annoyed me and im sure the thousands of users of this game and im sure u know 
 what it is
  
  thats right the AI, it seems once u get to 150cc it sometimes comes down to luck with the pile 
 of items coming at you, the 12 racer thing can really hurt you
  
  and another thing they could of improved on is their selection of retro courses, most of them are 
 good but some of them....
  
  the snes and n64 course are ok but as for gba and ds
  
  for the ds you got delfino square, peach gardens, yoshi falls and desert hills...... wow those all 
 suck
  
  if i was picking the courses for ds i would of picked
  
  waluigi pinball, airship fortress, tick tock clock and luigi's mansion.
  
  all in all mario 
 kart wii is an incredible game it's online has you coming back for more (take notes ssbb)
  
  my last complaint: did they really need that thunder cloud?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: techjar
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome! Any Mario Kart fan should have this game, and if they don't, they are missing 
 out on a lot of fun. I am a huge Mario Kart fan, I love Mario Kart! Mario Kart Wii is the best 
 one yet, maybe Nintendo will make another Mario Kart Wii, but maybe it will use two characters 
 per kart/bike insted of just one. If that does happen, that would be awesome! Mario Kart Wii also 
 has great multiplayer, up to four players can play at once. The online racing is also great, one 
 or two players can race online against anyone in the world. You can also play as your Mii, I like 
 that. The Grand Prix is also great. This mode, like in other Mario Kart games, is used to unlock 
 new characters/vehicles. The courses are great, it even inclutes courses from other Mario Kart 
 games. Overall this game is great, not really anything bad about it. Well, using the Wii Wheel 
 is hard at first, but you get used to it. Once that happens, it's a lot of fun. Also, you don't 
 have to use the Wii Wheel, you can use a gamecube controller, the Wii Remote and Nunchuk, or the 
 Wii Classic controller. Also, I find it easier to drift, once you get used to drifting, it's easy. 
 There are two drift modes, automatic and manual. The new drift design eliminates "snaking", and 
 that makes it easier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lee_sonny
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii... The 5th of its kind in Mario Kart History. This game has many unique and fun 
 features. It has great graphics. Very fun and challenging. I must say Nintendo's outdone itself. 
 It also has a wi-fi connection so players can pit against others in the world including their friends!
 
  
  The Mario Kart Wii has many new feature that weren't there in the previous Mario Kart Games. One 
 of these is the new optional bike instead of a kart. The advantage of this is that you can pull 
 the front of the bike by raising your wii wheel, this adds a bit of speed to your straight dashes. 
 But karts still have its' advantages too. Karts Have more mini-boost when drifting. So they pretty 
 much have the same advantage. Depends on your preference if you prefer karts or bikes. Another 
 new feature is the Wi-fi connection. This enables the users to play on-line and and submit their 
 time trial records. This adds more competition to the game. Another new feature is the new race 
 tracks available in the game. There are new tracks for both battle mode and race mode in the game. 
 Another is the new items that are found here. This adds more flexibility and variety to the game. 
 Lastly, there are also new playable characters in the game such as Rosalina, Funky Kong, Dry Bowser, 
 and lots more which are fairly hard to unlock.
  
  But Mario Kart Wii doesn't really change everything. There are still some aspects that are kept 
 in the game. One of these is the race tracks. some are still preserved and used. Ever since the 
 very first Mario Kart in the N64 to the NDS, selected race tracks are preserved in the game. Another 
 is the game play. There are still game play rules and tactics preserved here such as the controls, 
 A will always be accelerate and so on... and the battle modes are still the same. 
  
  Although there are still some features that aren't in the game anymore. One of these is the conventional 
 way of steering. The new drifting style of controlling is very different from before. I find it 
 harder and could take some getting used to. Another is the old race tracks that make you want to 
 see them again. I really miss those old ones. Lastly, the double-character-in one-kart variation. 
 It was in the Game Cube's Mario Kart Double Dash. This enabled the users to have two characters 
 in one kart and enabling them to have two items at once. That was nice and I only wish the game 
 still had these features.
  
  The Mario Kart wii is a great game. Its fun, challenging, and just plain great. I hope they make 
 more games like this in the years to come. These games are what makes us the generation of the 
 future. It is another step to development of technology and gaming. Mario Kart Wii is definitely 
 one of the best games I've ever played. Thank you Nintendo for being there. What would the world 
 be without you? :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  *** MARIO KART WII ***
  
  THE GOOD
  -Fun controls (Wii Wheel works well and comes free with the game)
  -Excellent multiplayer (online 
 and offline)
  -Motorcycles are a nice new feature
  -Good selection of old and new levels
  -Great graphics
  -Good music and sound
  -Great level design
  
  THE BAD
  -Too many extremely 
 powerful weapons
  -Battle mode isn't as good as its processors
  
  OVERVIEW
  Mario Kart Wii is another fun racing game in the Mario Kart series. This is the first Mario Kart 
 that offers online play and I would have to say that it is one of the best online channels the 
 Wii has right now. Mario, Luigi and a bunch of new and old characters are playable in this latest 
 installment. The setup is pretty much the same as the other games in the series with its Racing 
 Mode and Battle Mode. There are eight different cups (Mushroom, Flower, Star, Special, Shell, Banana, 
 Leaf and Lightning) and the object is still the same; beat the other racers by any means necessary.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Mario Kart Wii, like some other Nintendo Wii games, offers many different control schemes. You 
 can use the GameCube controller, Wii Remote and Nunchuk, or the newest Wii accessory; the Wii Wheel 
 (and Remote) . The Wii Wheel comes with the purchase of the game with is a sweet deal. All the Wii 
 Wheel is, is a holder for your Wii Remote in the shape of a steering wheel. Each control style 
 is fun and easy to use. You'll be amazed on how fast it is for a casual gamer to pick up and master.
 
  
  For the next sections, I'll divide it up into the two different modes Grand Prix and Battle. The 
 Grand Prix mode is your basic racing mode just like the other games in the series. You and up to 
 four people (with or without computer players - 12 total) can compete either with (Team game) or 
 against each other (Solo game) . Upon selecting your character you'll notice that there are three 
 different tiers of racers: small, medium and large. Each character can only use a vehicle in their 
 weight class. For example, Mario is in the medium weight class so he can only use medium class 
 vehicles. Not only can you pick different go-karts to race with but Mario Kart Wii has added motorcycles 
 into the mix. This is a cool new feature. Now each go-kart and motorcycle has different attributes 
 like top speed, acceleration, and weight so you have a few options there to best suit your style 
 of play. Keep in mind that you can unlock new characters and vehicles in the single player mode 
 only. So, once you select your character and vehicle, the next step is choosing your course. With 
 eight different cups with four courses each, you have 16 new and 16 old tracks to race on. Each 
 of the new tracks are fun and exciting along with some old favorites from the SNES, GameCube, DS 
 and N64 games. When you're racing you not only have to deal with the road conditions but other 
 racers trying to knock you off the track. One new racing feature is the trick system. Every time 
 you speed over a ramp you have the option to perform a trick. Performing tricks may seem pointless 
 at first but once you realize that you earn speed boosts based on your trick it quickly becomes 
 your best friend. This is one element that has made the Mario Kart series unique with its item 
 system. Each track has a few item blocks to obtain while racing. These items range from acceleration 
 boosts (mushrooms) to protection devices (ring of turtle shells) to massive attacks (POW block) . 
 Over the years I've noticed one thing about the items in the Mario Kart games; they keep getting 
 stronger. Mario Kart Wii definitely fits this trend and unfortunately hurts this game. To help 
 with the "catch-up" physics the players in the last few positions have a higher chance of receiving 
 very powerful weapons than the first place person. This usually ends up being really annoying for 
 most players because you can constantly keep getting hit by virtually unavoidable items. There 
 have been plenty of times (against the computer and other players) where I'll be in first place 
 for a while and then it's like an atomic bomb gets dropped on you putting you in last place in 
 the blink of an eye. It usually happens in key spots like the finish line or difficult jump and 
 it happens very often. A little too often if you ask me and to the point where it doesn't matter 
 how well you drive but how lucky you are at getting good items. Besides that the Grand Prix mode 
 is really fun.
  
  The other mode Mario Kart Wii offers is Battle Mode. There are ten different courses (5 new and 
 5 old) and two different game modes (Balloon and Coin) . One thing that you'll notice is that there 
 is only team mode which is fun but disappointing at the same time because you're limited to team 
 and time mode only. In Balloon mode, the object is to attack other racers, with items, to earn 
 points for your team. Each racer has three balloons and when you or your teammate loses all their 
 balloons, they won't be out of the race but points will be deducted from your total score. Coin 
 Runner is the other mode where you and your team has to try and collect the most coins before time 
 expires. Battle Mode is fun for a while but with its lack of customization you'll most likely end 
 up disappointed here.
  
  The online play in Mario Kart Wii is really awesome. The lag is kept to a minimum and the rating 
 system, based on performance, is a nice touch. Out of all the online capable games for the Wii, 
 this one is high about the rest. You and 11 other people from around the world and square off against 
 each other in some Mario Kart fun.
  
  GRAPHICS
  They're not the best on the Wii system but the graphics are still pretty good. Not only is the 
 detail good but the level design is superb. Whether it's the new or old tracks the visuals won't 
 disappoint.
  
  SOUND
  The audio not only brings back nostalgia, on the old tracks, but offers a great musical score for 
 the modern raceways. The sound effects are once again the same great effects just like its predecessors.
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  Mario Kart Wii is fun for all gamers from the hardcore to the casual. I would definitely recommend 
 this game to anyone. Its many pros outweigh the few cons and with the incredible online system 
 it'll be easy to spend countless replay hours. The Mario Kart series has made some great games 
 in the past and this one is no exception. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaon
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  I rented this game and haven't yet bought it, I hated it at first but when i got more involved 
 in the game i learned to love it, It is true that every7 darn weapon that gets launched hits you 
 and that drove me crazy, at one minute, I am miles ahead of every one, then seconds later, Red 
 Shell, Green Shell, Blue Shel, Red Shell, Lightning bolt then a Bullet Bill hits you (it happened 
 to me) .
  
  then you are straggling in last place with your Wii remote embedded in the wall (that didn't happen) .
 
  
  But if you get frustrated over little things like getting hit in a game, get over it, it's only 
 a game.
  
  and a word for Sassal, it's not the game, you just suck at it if you havn't won anything cuz it 
 is quite easy once you get into it.
  
  and Nintendo can make games, you try saying that to their face, or ring them up and tell them that 
 cuz I'm sure they'll give a crap what one kid has to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario5455
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  It's been more than 15 years since the dawn of the Mario Kart franchise on Super Nintendo and the 
 series is still going strong. Indeed, since its inception Kart has become a household name, seeing 
 six iterations, over 100 tracks, and spawning millions upon millions of players worldwide. Every 
 version brings something subtly different to the table, and everyone seems to have a favorite amidst 
 a franchise that never quite changes, but never really stays the same from game to game. Ask players 
 which characters they prefer, what levels top the list, and which items need to stay or go, and 
 you'll get as many diverse responses are there are gamer types. And yet, most Nintendo fans will 
 agree that the Kart games are enjoyable single-player experiences and addictive multi player ones. In 
 this game it does not lag on wifi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cryd_be
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I do not like Mario, Luigi, Bowser or any of the other toony nintendo characters. 
 I believe that they too much contribute to the "kiddy console" image of the Wii. Furthermore I 
 prefer race games that feature existing cars and no in race power ups. 
  
  The single player mode confirmed my biased judgement on the game: kiddy game, no real cars, 50cc 
 cup far too easy... Not likely that I would spent too much of my weekend mornings of this game... 
 That was my review until I started playing online.
  
  The online mode of this game is BRILLIANT. 
  
  The online mode is brilliant because it is plain 
 simple to get playing online: there is no hassle with user-id's, passwords or any other registration 
 bureaucracy. This is quite the opposite of getting online with PS2 NFSU (and when you eventually 
 got there it was full with Germans, but I guess they like the bureaucracy part) . Even if you only 
 have time for one or two races it is worth getting online because it is so simple (and fast) .
 
  
  The gameplay of online mode is... well BRILLIANT: You can choose to race against players worldwide, 
 against players in your continent, or just against your friends. In the worldwide or continental 
 mode the system finds a good mix of experienced and less experienced drivers. The simple and intelligent 
 the score keeping makes this game accessible for beginners. You can play online with one ore two 
 players per Wii. 
  
  The last few weekend mornings I found myself starting off with online Mario Kart WII before continuing 
 RE4 or PS2 FFXII.... So 8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbkkristian
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii introduces a brand new playing style. Play Mario Kart in a whole new way with the 
 Wii Wheel. With new items and characters, Mario Kart Wii delivers an entirely new experience. And 
 a new addition to the Mario Kart Series; bikes! Another new exiting experience; ONLINE! Battle 
 or race with people around the world with Nintendo Wi-Fi connection. There are even worldwide tournaments 
 that you can access through the Mario Kart Channel. Or you try to beat people's time races. And 
 now for the first time, you can now race as your Mii!
  
  This time Mario Kart Strikes back to not just gamers but anyone! When it comes to parties, Mario 
 Kart is one of the top party games. A lot better than Mario Party. When I played Mario Kart, I 
 enjoyed it a lot. I won the first time I played it! So Mario Kart was worth it when I bought it. 
 Compared to other Mario Karts, This one certainly Out buys them all. 
  
  With so many items, you sometimes think that the opposing player can be mean... Especially when 
 they hit you with a blue shell... Well there's my review on Mario Kart Wii, HAPPY KARTING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amm795
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is definitely the best yet. It is fun and entertaining and adds a lot of new things. 
 However it seems that it is missing some things that should've also been added. However it is still 
 a great game.
  There are four different ways to drive around the courses in the Wii version of the series. You 
 can use the wheel that comes packaged with the game which is very sensitive but is much more fun 
 than just pressing buttons. But if that isn't your thing you can use the classic controller, gamecube 
 controller, or use the nunchuck attached to the Wii remote; all of those work great too. 
  The game is similar to the previous Mario Karts. You can choose from 50 cc, 100 cc, and 150 cc 
 as your difficulty levels. You unlock the same races in each level. You can also choose whatever 
 difficulty you want when playing with friends. Once you unlock all of the races in 50cc alone, 
 they are permanently unlocked for multiplayer so you don't have to complete all of the levels to 
 play all the races with someone else. There are also now 12 racers instead of 8 which make it alot 
 more exciting. 
  You get to choose from a wide variety of new and old racers including Mario, Peach, Bowser, Toad, 
 and Wario to Baby Mario, Baby Daisy, Baby Peach, King Boo, Diddy Kong, and even your Miis. When 
 playing multiplayer the screen is divided into however many players you are playing with. However 
 the more people you compete with, the worse the graphics become. 
  The graphics look great and much improved from previous installments. Playing 2 player looks good 
 too but once you move into 3 or 4 they do become worse.
  There are 32 different courses to choose from 16 old and remastered, and 16 completely new for 
 Wii. I found this a letdown to there only being 32. Some of the courses use the same names for 
 example There is a new Mario Circuit and an old Mario Circuit both on the game which seems also 
 like a letdown. Also it seems ideas are being used several times. For example, for the Wii version 
 there is a track called Moo Moo Meadows, on the DS version there is Moo Moo Farms... You get the 
 idea.
  There is also a choice now from Bikes and Karts which are both very fun. There is also a trick 
 system for leaving jumps. There are many tricks you can do but it doesn't matter what one you do, 
 just land it correctly (which isn't hard at all) and you get a speed boost.
  You can also play online via Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection which works great. You can even play with 
 two people at your home and then with 10 other players locally or from around the world. The game 
 even comes packaged with Mario Kart Channel to see your and other worldwide records for the game.
 
  The game is very fun and exciting. It may not be everything that was wanted but is still a great 
 Mario Kart game and leaves me waiting for the next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wassup432
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Here is my review for Mario Kart Wii:
  
  Story:
  No story here. Mario and his friends are just back for more kart racing and shell throwing.
  
 
  Gameplay:
  The object of the game is to get to the finish line first in all racing games. This won't be an 
 easy task since you will have to deal with several obstacles throughout the tracks. Besides the 
 standard drifting and the occasional boost, you get to throw items to help you get ahead in the 
 race. Classic items like the koopa shells and the banana peels return for some action. There are 
 also new items like the thundercloud, POW block, and the Mega Mushroom. While these items sound 
 fun to use, some of them are very unbalanced. The items can affect you a lot and you can get knocked 
 from first to last with either one shell or one bullet bill. The single player consists of the 
 Grand Prix and the Time Trials. The modes are lengthy but can get boring fast. That is when the 
 mutiplayer comes in. Mutiplayer is the best part of this game. It is simple for anybody to play 
 and will provide hours of fun. Overall, the gameplay is fun but repetition of the single player 
 campaign and the unbalanced items keep it from being perfect. 8/10
  
  Graphics:
  Menus are organized and easy to get to. The framerate is steady and there is no lag. Character 
 models are smooth and the stages look nice. The cars also have a nice stylish look to them. Classic 
 stages have aged wonderfully and still look really nice even in 3D format. Overall, graphics are 
 nice but not as good compared to other titles like Brawl and Galaxy. 9/10
  
  Sound:
  Sound effects are nice and the nostalgic themes of the original Mario Circuit and the N64 Mario 
 Raceway sound as nice as ever. The little squeals and sounds of the characters sound nice. New 
 themes Nintendo made to the new stages are as good as the classic themes. Overall, sounds are nice. 
 10/10
  
  Value:
  With several unlockables like characters, racers, and stages, Mario Kart Wii offers a lot of replay 
 value. With a long single player and unlimited mutiplayer, Mario Kart offers a lot to both casual 
 and core gamers. 10/10
  
  Tilt:
  Overall, Mario Kart Wii is an enjoyable racer to fans and newcomers of the Mario Kart franchise. 
 Despite the unbalanced items and repetive single player, Mario Kart Wii still offers enough fun 
 for any Wii owners looking for an exciting, fast-paced racer. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJgummy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart hasn't changed all that much since the original SNES game. While the Gamecube version 
 added the ability to play as two racers and the DS version added online play and new modes, the 
 core gameplay has stayed essentially the same. The wii version follows this reputation.
  
  As mentioned Mario Kart Wii keeps all the face-paced item frenzy from previous games. Mario Kart 
 Wii adds the selection of motorbikes as well as go-karts. The karts have the advantage of having 
 the ability to do a larger drift speed boost if you drift long enough. The motorbikes have the 
 ability to perform wheelies which give you extra speed on straightaways. There is also a new trick 
 system which allows you to perform stunts off of ramps for a extra speed boost on landing. This 
 allows for a lot of extra strategy and depth in the gameplay. The game innovates the gameplay by 
 allowing you to tilt the Wii wheel attachment (one is provided in every game) like a steering wheel 
 to turn. This feature is extremely responsive and makes the gameplay all the more engaging and 
 fun. The game also adds a few more motion-sensing controls. You can flick the wii remote backwards 
 to do a wheelie. Although shaking the wheel or flicking it in a different direction may sometimes 
 work as well, flicking it backwards is the most reliable and responsive way to do a wheelie. You 
 can also shake the wii wheel to do tricks. The new control scheme may takes some time to get used 
 to, but it is in my opinion the most engaging way to play Mario Kart Wii. You can also play with 
 the wii remote and numchuck, Gamecube controller, and classic controller. The game adds a few new 
 items such as the Thundercloud, POW block, and mega-mushroom. The Thundercloud is probably the 
 most unique. A thundercloud appears over your head as soon as you receive the item and will shrink 
 you unless you bump into another player and pass it on. With the thundercloud over your head, you 
 move considerably faster so it can be a helpful item if you use it right. The POW block is similar 
 to the lightning bolt but only makes the opponents in front of you spin out. Unlike the lightning 
 bolt, the POW block gives the other players warning and can be evaded by shaking the wii wheel/wii 
 remote on time. The mega mushroom increases your size for a set time and allows you to flatten 
 the players in front of you. Mario Kart wii adds 16 new tracks as well as brings back 16 tracks 
 from the past games. The new tracks are very creative and probably some of the most exciting and 
 fun to play. The 16 older tracks are not quite as enjoyable but are indeed some of the best from 
 the past games. You can also play battle mode with 11 CPUs. The battle mode is a little bit of 
 letdown because it now forces you to play in two teams in a timed game. The online play in Mario 
 Kart Wii is probably the best on wii to date. You can play Vs. mode as well as Battle mode with 
 up to 11 other players. You can also play online with one other person on a single system. There 
 is absolutely no frame-rate lag and the collisions between players are very sharp. With multiple 
 players on a system, the frame is still solid but just not quite as smooth. The only problem with 
 the online is that there is some lag when shooting items at people. You may occasionally find yourself 
 shooting a red shell at the player in front of you, and have it hover behind him for a few seconds 
 before actually hitting him. This is not always the case, and a lot of the time this lag is hardly 
 noticeable or nonexistent. It is also sometimes apparent in battle mode where you shoot an item 
 at someone and a few seconds later he actually gets hit and you get the point. The game also features 
 online tournaments which are similar to the DS mission mode but you can see the ratings online. 
 You can also view worldwide time trial rankings online as well as download ghosts. There is of 
 course local multiplayer as well which allows you to play with up to 3 other players on a single 
 system in Vs. and Battle mode. From a graphical standpoint Mario Kart Wii is pretty weak for the 
 system. I have not played double dash but it seems like the character models have not been improved 
 much at all. The textures however, are in general of a high-resolution and are very nice looking. 
 The geometry in the courses is of a nice quality as well. The sound in the game is typical Nintendo 
 with the catchy tunes and general sounds from the characters. Mario Kart Wii is a game that will 
 last you a long time with 25 characters to unlock and very impressive online play and is one of 
 my favorite Wii games to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NewPorkCity
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  The Mario Kart Franchise took an enormous step when they implemented the Wii's motion sensitivity 
 into a steering wheel. The Wii Wheel has great reaction time, will literally mimic your movements, 
 and all YOU have to do is hold the 2 button. While the gameplay itself is spectacular, the items 
 can get unruly. As long as Mario Kart has been around, people have been shooting their green shells, 
 red shells, and... Personal Lightnings? Mario Kart Wii has pushed the variety of items to the edge, 
 and almost tipped the scale. When racing single player, it seems as if the items will never stop 
 coming, and that's on "Balanced". While some new items (Golden Mushroom) are embraced, some (Personal 
 Lightning and Blue Shell) can get very old, very fast. However, one of my favorite features is 
 definitely the implementation of your very own Mii into the game. You can drive as, well, yourself! 
 That, added with the 20 other characters, creates a different array of racers every time. And the 
 Online Play is very good; once again it may be my personal connection, but I have never run into 
 any lag problems online. But be warned, there are hardcore racers out there. All in all, Mario 
 Kart Wii can satisfy a Veteran Karter or one who just started their Kareer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  What can you expect it's a Mario game on the wii no doubt? It can pretty much sell itself without 
 any motion controlled movements or wii wheel. The wii wheel that comes with the game wants you 
 to go buy the game even more. anyways the game itself is a kicks in the pants, as it pushes you 
 to the limits either in a crazy packed wifi match playing anybody in the world, 
  (In my cases the only people I get to play with in world are United States, instead of Asians) 
 or playing it through the 150cc stages either normal way or mirror way. there's a whole bunch of 
 other stuff you can unlock for yourself through the time trails which can be a real punishment 
 to beat and find the best route to get the fastest time, (unless you're on the stage with the volcano 
 with the starting glitch that gets the stage done in seconds) . The bikes in the game take the game 
 to another wild and wacky trip; the bikes either help you out or just make you more confused than 
 ever. The neat thing with the bikes is you can do wheelies which might give you a small speed boost. 
 While talking about speed boosts, you can get boost by shaking the wheel to death while going over 
 either a small hill or big jump which will make you do a cool trick which will coming back down 
 with gravity will give you the needed boost. 
  Overall this game will have you on your feet, but the motor cycles just don't fit in a Mario kart 
 game, (then there wouldn't be a point to be calling it a kart game) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarBreakerSP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  mario kart wii isnt as revolutinary as other games on the wii consle but it will catch your eye. 
 this game is as entertaining as gran turimso games and the wii wheel will entertain you and keep 
 you away from other game control methods. although the biggest problem in all mario kart games 
 is its unfair method of using a spiny shell to knock you out while your baby brother grabs 1st 
 place. the online mode has practicly no lagging time and you always get a quick race 85% of the 
 time. if your not a racing fan then it wont change your mind about the franchise. it has plenty 
 unlockables and secrets. it will make your dad get into it for a while but wont get your gramma 
 into it. as i said it while catch your eye but it wont make you addicted unless your amused by 
 monkeys throwing you-know-what at each other. though my problem is nintendo should make more fzero 
 and star fox games and pikmin 3 than worry about having 15 mario related games on each of thier 
 systems.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mp3_Beta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  i was so hyped to play this game! But in the end all i gotta say is..... meh. 
  CONTROLS:
  WHEEL: surprisingly amazing, works very well ! And its VERY comfortable and fun to use for AT LEAST 
 a week or so then......
  gamecube controller. alright would be better if there wasn't a delay went you press the button.
 
  classic controller: PERFECT
  nunchuck and wii mote: PRETTY STIFF..
  
  IF YOUR A HARD CORE GAMER PREPARED TO GET DISJOINTED
  -powerslide to easy
  -Grand prix WAYYY 
 to easy
  -matches mostly depend on what weapon you get
  
  PRESENTATION:
  -character models are worse than double dash,
  -balloons look 2D
  -washed out, bland
  -level 
 layout is interesting and fun
  
  AND THIS GAME IS MISSING ONE OF THE BEST LEVELS IN HISTORY= KOOPA TROOPA BEACH
  
  IN the end 
 rent it or play it at your friends house first or rent it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintend0-BuDDy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has always been a good nail in the wall that is a Nintendo console. Since Super Mario 
 Kart for SNES Nintendo must have known they made something of pure awesomeness. Well, you can't 
 really disagree with that because Mario Kart has been released for every Nintendo system after 
 the Super Nintendo original, and all of them Delivered... but does the Wii version follow up Nintendo's 
 greatest racing series with an epic entry? 
  
  In short, yeah! 
  
  In longer:
  
  Mario Kart Wii is the 6th Mario Kart game released by Nintendo. The last console Mario Kart game, 
 Double Dash!!, wowed me with the cool sense of having two people per kart. Believe it or not, Mario 
 Kart Wii ditches that entirely. But it's not a bad thing that Nintendo did away with dual Karts! 
 Mario Kart Wii is just as good with one player behind the wheel!
  
  The game features 16 new tracks that are expertly designed. Of course, considering that the new 
 courses were designed with the games new features as a top priority. Mario Kart Wii also has 16 
 stages from past Mario Kart games, and thankfully Nintendo picked some good ones. 
  
  Now onto the vehicles of Mario Kart Wii.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is the very firsy entry of the series 
 to have motorcycles, that's right bikes! Now for the first time, your leather jacket, headband 
 wearing, handlebar mustached friend/acquaintance can enjoy Mario Kart a bit more without feeling 
 like a sissy. Karts are cool, and Bikes are a great addition, you can do wheelies to speed up, 
 and tricks ( you can also preform tricks with regular karts ) . Bikes are speed based, karts are 
 all around and slower than bikes. 
  
  But what about that Wii Wheel peripheral? Let's tackle that next.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is playable 
 by using a new Wii accessory called theWii Wheel" It feels awesome, and when you use it, it 
 operates smoothly and accurately. Okay, so when you came home from a tiring day from work you probably 
 don't feel like holding up a wheel for a good hour play session, you can also use the trusty Gamecube 
 Controller for a more traditional play format. I prefer... both!
  
  Finally, the icing on the cake that is Mario Kart Wii, Online.
  
  Let me sum it up: lag free, 
 always plenty of people to play with, and additively fun. Mario Kart Wii also has a way of showing 
 everyone you're good, or bad. You have points to your Mario Kart Wii License, the more you win 
 or do decent, the more points you get to your name... the opposite if you lose. I can't stress 
 how awesome online is, even for the Wii!
  
  To finish this up, Mario Kart Wii is the greatest game in the series yet, with flawless online, 
 a wide selection of characters, karts and bikes, and courses Mario Kart Wii will have you at the 
 wheel for a long time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coded12
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart wii is similar to other Mario Kart games on both the Gameboy Advance and Nintendo DS 
 however various new features have improved it in many ways. The first addition is that it is obviously 
 on the wii which means cleaner, improved graphics which create a colourful, fun feel to the game. 
 Also the wii's interactive function has been utilised well with the inclusion of the "wii wheel" 
 which you may chose to use in order to control your vehicle by tilting it left or right. This feature 
 is quick and easy to pick up but if you can't get along with the wheel there is also the option 
 of simply using standard controls.
  
  The game is great fun for all ages and to sit down and play with friends and family. The game will 
 keep you interesting for a lengthy time due to the various grand prix's and difficulty levels, 
 time trials, unlockable characters and possibly the games best feature: the online play. Online 
 play enables you to quickly jump into an event with up to 11 other people. There are 2 different 
 types of event: Race and Battle. Both will provide you with hours of fun however you may enjoy 
 racing more. The "ranking" system is a bonus which will encourage you to keep playing in order 
 to achieve a high score. Points are either awarded or deducted from your original score depending 
 on where you come at the finish line.
  
  Mario Kart is a worthwhile purchase which will provide hours of fun what with the excellent online 
 play and solid single player mode. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgc19
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? It's Mario Kart. The time-tested formula of shells, bananas and mushrooms is back 
 and it's better than ever. This title has all of the classic Mario Kart action you've come to expect, 
 plus some really nice features and touches that bump this game up to the score I've given it.
 
  
  The wii wheel is a great addition. It presents a bit more of a challenge than the traditional controller, 
 but rewards users with a ton of satisfaction. It's very functional, turns are precise, and it even 
 comes with a handy b button attachment for easy sliding. There are some nice touches, such as using 
 the wheel to wheelie on a bike, or moving it to perform a trick while airborne. Speaking of bikes, 
 there here, and there a lot different than karts in that they handle differently, can't super power 
 slide, but can wheelie for speed boosts. Personally I still prefer karts, but it's nice to hop 
 on a bike for a bit of a change. 
  
  Another great new feature is online support. The online for Brawl is decent at best, while this 
 is a fully fledged online service, complete with leaderboards, tournaments, and races against users 
 across the world! Even when playing European or Japanese users, I've experience basically no lag, 
 while I can't say the same for brawl. Also good is how each online race impacts your rating, so 
 you'll be rewarded for your success.
  
  One of my favorite things is that this game fully supports mii usage. They will appear as specators, 
 on signs, and best of all, they're playable! The normal cast includes some 20 some mario universe 
 characters, including Rosalina, but I find myself most often playing as my mii.
  
  The new tracks are a lot of fun and make great use of the now rewarded trick feature. In addition 
 to some new raceways like Koopa Cape and Maple Treeway, there are some remakes of classics, like 
 Rainbow Road and Bowser's Castle. The Rainbow Road, in my opinion, is the best version yet. Alongside 
 the 16 new courses, there are updates of 16 classics from 5 different nintendo system iterations. 
 
  
  All in all, Mario Kart provides the same kart racing gameplay we've come to love, with a host of 
 welcome extras. That accursed blue shell is still here, and it's still a problem. Other than that, 
 an excellent game. A 9.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyper_Tails
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  For the score I gave, this might seem a very negative review. Don't get me wrong, if you've never 
 played any of the previous Mario Kart games, this is a great introduction to the popular series 
 and racing genre. However, having played since the Nintendo 64 incarnation, I have very mixed reactions 
 to this latest offering. There are some great new features that have been added to the Wii version, 
 but the bad points simply stick out far more.
  
  Mario Kart is a simple enough concept; You race around one of 32 tracks (16 new, 16 old) for 3 
 laps, trying to beat your opponents and come first. There are a number of characters to use, many 
 of whom are unlockable, and their weight and your choice of vehicle will determine your acceleration, 
 top speed and handling, etc. Double Dash for the Nintendo Gamecube introduced the idea of choosing 
 different karts, and has stayed in the series since. Gone are the two racers sharing a single kart, 
 to my delight. Overall, this version is very similar to the recent DS edition. New additions include 
 an increase in racers; up from 8 to 12. Also, for the first time, players can choose to race using 
 motorized bikes instead of traditional karts, bringing a new level of depth and different sets 
 of strategy for using them.
  In writing, it promises to be the most complete Mario Kart yet, yet in reality there are a number 
 of gameplay problems which effectively ruin the enjoyment that the game is meant to be about.
 
  
  Let's start with the graphics and presentation. It's a very good looking game for the Wii. The 
 menus are clean and all the typical maps are present on the racing screen. What I would have liked 
 was details of race positions as the previous games had, but with these constantly changing maybe 
 there's no point... The character models aren't brilliant, most of them are hardly different to 
 the Gamecube's offering. A lot look very plastic-like. When compared to Super Mario Galaxy they 
 are a step backwards, which is disappointing. Some of the tracks themselves are nice to look at 
 and very colourful. There is noticeably a lot of bloom though, which might mask the lack of detail. 
 By no means is it a bad looking game, just disappointing when we already know that the Wii is capable 
 of so much more.
  Sound is also good. There's not much to say really. It's not the most memorable of soundtracks, 
 although some of the retro pieces are fantastic to hear again.
  
  Now for the gameplay aspect, and a brutal attack on the game. At times, Mario Kart Wii is simply 
 broken. This is an all to easy thing to say about games and not mean it, but I seriously feel it's 
 unfair. Nintendo have overcomplicated the game over the years, and introduced so many new items 
 to add to the "fun". These items instead wreck the game... The most notorious offender is the spiny 
 blue shell, which sends the racer in first place flying. In my experience, this usually follows 
 with being quite literally raped by more items as the others catch up, going from 1st to as low 
 as 12th within seconds. Some of the more powerful items are all too common now. Mario Kart 64 was 
 perfectly balanced with weapons; where blue shells sometimes failed and lightning was a rare occurance. 
 Now, you can get struck a few times a lap if you are unlucky. Speaking of which, luck seems to 
 be the main determinant of whether you win or lose. Skill might set you ahead of the others, but 
 a series of items will bring you crashing back. Granted each item can be countered with skill, 
 but the sheer frequency of these items makes it hard to avoid attack forever. Once you reach 150cc 
 races, it becomes very difficult to win sometimes. This isn't helped by infamous elastic banding 
 cpu opponents. This made the game more challenging in earlier Mario Kart games, but now combined 
 with the item rape, it's unfair. Furthermore, snaking, a skillful technique for boosting, has been 
 removed to allow casual players to stand a greater chance. Unlocking new modes and characters will 
 most likely test the patience of any player.
  
  It's not all bad though, there are some great aspects to the Wii version, namely the online mode. 
 You are able to race or battle against players around the world using Nintendo's WFC. No dreaded 
 friend codes needed! You can also play against friends wirelessly. Online play is smooth, and I've 
 had no experiences of lag. This is how Wi-Fi should be; take note Brawl! Granted the item troubles 
 rear their ugly heads online too, at least the elastic cpus aren't present. Nintendo have also 
 started to release dowloadable content in the form of special challenges, which is a nice feature 
 and something we shall hopefully see in future Wii games more often. Also available is the facility 
 to view world rankings for time trials and challenges, and see how you compare. Overall, online 
 is the best feature of Mario Kart Wii and will keep players returning for more.
  
  I also think the controls are well-done on Mario Kart Wii. The newest option is to use the Wii 
 Wheel, which is bundled with the game. I really like using it personally, but it takes a while 
 to get used to. If you don't fancy using the wheel, you can also use the Wii Remote and Nunchuk, 
 Classic Controller or a Gamecube controller, so there's an option for everyone. Bikes are another 
 great inclusion for adding more options for players and subsequently more replay value.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart Wii is disappointing. I had high hopes after the improvements made in the DS 
 version. While it has moments of brilliance, the problems are too prominent and will ruin the experience. 
 I feel that the game has suffered as a result of its new ideas and features, and while the multiplayer 
 is as good as ever, it needs to return to its roots and inject the fun back into kart racing. Having 
 said that, it's the best racing title currently on the Wii and a worthwhile purchase if you are 
 willing to take it in small chunks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steven_Beynon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Written by: Steven Beynon
  
  
  SCORE: 2/5
  
  Mario Galaxy aside, Nintendo doesn't seem willing to reinvent their blockbuster brands, but merely 
 remaking them for the current generation. Between hit titles such as Twilight Princess, Super Smash 
 Bros. Brawl, Metroid Prime 3, and so on, fans of these franchises got high quality titles, but 
 also got exactly what they were expecting. Mario Kart is no different in any such way, its a high 
 quality kart racer, but is also a strictly average take on the Mario Kart franchise. This game 
 is by no means a bad game, but it leaves much to be desired, it delivers just about everything 
 you'd expect from a Mario Kart game, but thats the key problem.
  
  There's just a subtle feel about the game that feels off. It's pretty obvious this iteration of 
 Mario Kart is built for first timers and falling into Nintendo's casual campaign as they sought 
 to dumb down the driving mechanics to even out the playing field among the hardcore, and Nintendo's 
 new focused audience. Bundled with the game is a wheel peripheral, but a lot like the Wii Zapper 
 this is a mere shell to hold your Wii Mote. Sure, non-gamers and perhaps even hardcore Mario Kart 
 fanatics will get a kick out of using the wheel for awhile, but its the obvious inferior control 
 option. It's solidly built, and feels comfortable, but your not going to use it if you want to 
 play a serious game. It seems like Nintendo just gave the wheel option so everyone can play equally 
 as bad together. Alike Brawl this game does offer an option for a Gamecube controller, and classic 
 controller use which are the more accurate ways to play. 
  
  Mario Kart Wii contains both 16 new courses to race through, and 16 retro tracks. While nostalgia 
 does play a role in enjoying the retro revivals, the old tracks aren't well balanced for the game's 
 newly introduced trick feature, or many of the new items that have been placed since the game the 
 track originally appeared in. Weird enough a lot of the old courses seem second tier, which leaves 
 the belief in Nintendo thinking about implementing retro tracks in future Mario Karts. Most new 
 tracks are brilliant, giving lots and lots of branching paths, and environmental hazards The majority 
 of the new stages forces you to approach them differently and apply new techniques. With all this 
 together it creates a really fun racing environment. This is really the one area the game excels 
 and stands above and beyond its predecessors.
  
  Expect to see your standard roster of characters from the Mario franchise. This is the area of 
 the game that is perhaps the most embarrassing. Nintendo scrapped the bottom of the barrel, and 
 half of the characters are baby representations of all the other top tier characters. Baby Peach? 
 This begs the question on why Nintendo doesn't delve into any of their other franchises for racers, 
 as Shane Bettenhausen said, Super Smash Kart anyone?
  
  What the game surprisingly succeeds at is online play, very possibly being Nintendo's best online 
 game thus far. Yes there are still friend codes, but you can play with strangers in a lag free 
 environmental. There's a fun Mario Kart channel that sets up tournaments, and hopefully is a message 
 that first party titles will get a fully featured channel in the future. While Mario Kart was online 
 in nits DS iteration, it's just really exciting to see a fully functional Nintendo online game 
 for a console.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is in no way a bad game, but is a part of the best kart racing series and is one 
 of the least thrilling of its own franchise. If your on the fence about picking this game up, just 
 think about if you just want more of the same Mario Kart or not. Online play, and beautiful tracks 
 do raise its status beyond mediocre, but this safe incarnation of current generation Mario Kart 
 only wins the bronze. 
  
  
  Pros
  
  
  Huge number of courses, all well designed
  
  Colorful visuals
  
  Well integrated online play
  
  Fun trick system
  
  Local multiplayer 
 is a fun time
  
  
  Cons
  
  
  Same ol' Mario Kart
  
  Still no voice chat making online play not stand up to true local play
  
  Battle mode feels 
 detracted from the real game
  
  Items and course are as unbalanced as ever
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  It has been a tradition that the newest Mario Kart game is the best in franchise's history and 
 this is also true for Mario Kart Wii. In my opinion all the important improvements have been done 
 to online play.
  
  Since this is a karting game there is no real story. You just drive on different tracks and have 
 fun while doing it. In the process you'll unlock some bonus characters and karts.
  
  Graphics are colorful and pretty simple but functional and they have that same light Nintendo style 
 you've come to expect. Music and sound effects seem to be mostly recycled, but that is not a bad 
 thing: it's just nothing new.
  
  Controls are simple consisting just acceleration, break/reverse and a button for launching an acquired 
 item. Wii's motion controls are used in an included plastic wheel in which the Wii Remote is put. 
 Quite a few people seem to use it online and it works fine, but I tried it just once and have been 
 using Classic Controller ever since.
  
  There are little over 30 tracks and about half of them are recycled from previous Mario Kart games. 
 Tracks are divided into cups in 3 different difficulty levels, which are named 50 cc, 100 cc and 
 150 cc. You can also choose to play Time Trial and try to get the fastest time or Battle, where 
 you fight against AI or human opponents by using game's items. These temporary power-ups are many 
 and most of them are familiar to Mario Kart veterans. Unfortunately some of them are unfair and 
 as a result races can sometimes be just a matter of pure luck.
  
  For the first time there are motorcycles added and it seems that most people are using them online, 
 since they are a little more responsive in terms of controls. I still prefer the good old karting 
 car. You'll also unlock more playable characters as you progress, but it seems that the only thing 
 you get by choosing a different character is that you get to see another character as you drive. 
 Your choice doesn't seem to have any effect on actual gameplay.
  
  Let's face it: people will buy Mario Kart Wii, because they want to play either online against 
 other people or offline against friends. Multiplayer modes are easy to use and easy pick up (and 
 just play for hours) . This time you can choose to play only with your friends or your friends can 
 join you and race against random people as well. There can be as much as 12 karts racing at the 
 same time and there's hardly ever any lag. Best feature is that now you can't leave in the middle 
 of a race, which was a real problem in Mario Kart DS. Worst feature on the other hand is that winning 
 and losing sometimes seem to come random depending on what power-ups you and other racers get to 
 use.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is clearly best in series, but if you didn't enjoy the previous installments you're 
 not going to like this one either. Still this is by far the best racing game on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conzalasz
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 5, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  Super mario has done every thing, saved a princess ,played football and he's even been in the Olympic 
 Games. Now when you think he's about to retire, it's go-kart time but not just on the Nintendo 64 
 or DS but on the WII as well, Nintendo are really rocking the boat. When you see all the games you 
 think how much things can this guy do. Mariokart Wii is just a big scam for Nintendo to make more 
 money and get twice as rich. The bikes would be the best thing in the game if they could control 
 proparly. this is just Mario kart DS with bikes and three new items. My advise is to open your wallet 
 to a better game that isn't a scam. Who really wants to race go-karts with the same guy for the 
 third time, it just gets boring after a while. The dodgy WII wheel controls don't help either i had 
 to adjust my WII sensor bar about five times before it felt right. 1.0/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DraugenCP
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  There comes a time when a series has installed itself in such a successful way that it set its 
 own standards rather high. Something special is needed with each installment in order to prevent 
 the series from falling into mediocrity. In some instances the will to innovate can result in a 
 simple gimmick that only superficially changes the original gameplay.
  
  Nintendo is a company that traditionally tries to come up with new ways to play and experience 
 games, and while this philosophy has often met with success (Super Mario 64; Wii) , even this acclaimed 
 company can't always prevent itself from occasionally falling into the aforementioned mediocrity 
 by some of their ideas being more of a gimmick than a constructive gameplay innovation (Virtual 
 Boy, anyone?) . With the presentation of Mario Kart Wii and its new control mechanism, a wheel-formed 
 shell for the Wiimote, there was a fear that it was just a gimmick forced down the gamer's throat 
 to make the game more accessible to newcomers. The game did become more accessible, but old fans 
 of the Mario Kart series weren't disappointed. While every copy of the game came with a Wii Wheel, 
 the price remained the same as any other Wii game published by Nintendo (50) . Nintendo also was 
 kind enough to implement alternative means of racing towards the finish line: the Wiimote + Nunchuck 
 combo, the traditional controller, and even the good old Gamecube controller.
  
  Even though I'd classify myself in the experienced group (having enjoyed Mario Kart since the old 
 SNES days and especially in the N64 days) , I was determined to give the Wii Wheel a try. It reportedly 
 worked well and I'd least like to try and act like I play a Wii game. When I first started playing 
 the game, I hopefully clicked my Wiimote into the Wii Wheel (after all, it is just a shell) and 
 started racing. The more races I'd do, the more frustrated I'd get with me not being able to emulate 
 the precision I had with Double Dash in this new Mario Kart installment. After a few hours of this, 
 I finally switched to the same Gamecube controller that saw me through Double Dash twice. Once 
 I had gotten the hang of the new drift system, which has been simplified to eliminate snaking, 
 but still takes a while to master, I was on my way to enjoy the latest Mario Kart game at its fullest. 
 This doesn't mean I consider the Wii Wheel a bad idea in any way  on the contrary: it offers newcomers 
 an easy way to get access to the series, and I've known enough people who've used this device to 
 beat the game, making it clear that my inability to handle the thing is more of a personal thing 
 than Nintendo's shortcoming.
  
  Luckily, though, the developers didn't have only the newcomers in mind while developing this game. 
 The variety in choice of characters and vehicles make for a pretty deep racing experience, especially 
 for a Mario Kart game. Where, in previous installments, players were only able to select characters 
 from a different weight class (and a set of different karts in Double Dash) , they now have to choose 
 between karts and bikes to see them through the races. Especially veterans will immediately test 
 the bikes for their novelty, and I doubt many of them were disappointed with the sheer advantages 
 this method of transport offers. Whilst bikes are more likely to get knocked off the road by the 
 heavier karts, they are also more nimble and even a bit faster than their four-wheeled counterparts. 
 Apart from drifting in corners, bikes can also get a small boost of speed by performing a wheelie 
 on the straight parts. Though risky (bikes get knocked down if they're even touched during a wheelie, 
 and it's near impossible to steer properly while performing one) , it offers the more experienced 
 players a way to sprint towards the finish line, or to sharpen their time trials records by a bunch. 
 Other means of getting mini-boosts for both types of vehicle are by riding in another vehicle's 
 slipstream for a while (like in Mario Kart DS) , or by performing a trick in the air after being 
 launched by a ramp.
  
  Karts cannot perform wheelies, but they can generate a stronger boost in corners if they drift 
 longer. While this does make up a bit for the wheelies, it still doesn't make karts quite as fast 
 as bikes, which can practically boost everywhere they go. It doesn't all come down to just karts 
 vs. bikes, however. Like in Double Dash, the characters are able to select from a variety of vehicles, 
 the availability of the vehicles depending on the character's weight class. More than in Double 
 Dash, however, the abilities of the vehicles greatly differ even within the respective weight classes. 
 Some vehicles drift inwards, while others drift outwards; some have a good mini-boosting ability, 
 while others are better at offroading  even speed and acceleration differ greatly within a certain 
 weight class. All of this makes the overall racing more varied and deeper than ever before in the 
 series.
  
  Even though certain ideas and developments that were supposed to make the series progress were 
 dropped again in later installments (the two-characters-in-one-kart idea in Double Dash, for example) , 
 others keep being transported to and improved with each installment. The most prominent of these 
 developments is the track design. While some of the old tracks from the SNES and N64 games are 
 definitely worthwhile and legendary in their own right, Mario Kart Double Dash & DS kept providing 
 more spectacular and original tracks as the years progressed. In Double Dash tracks such as DK 
 Mountain, Wario Colosseum, and Yoshi Circuit really raised the standard for coming installments, 
 and it was up to Mario Kart Wii, as DD's home console successor, to raise the standard even further. 
 From the first cup on it is clear that Mario Kart Wii hasn't failed to live up to this difficult 
 task. There are practically no uninteresting tracks in the game, and a lot of them are even downright 
 classics. Coconut Mall, DK's Snowboard Cross, and Koopa Cape are examples of tracks full of secrets, 
 introducing elements never seen before in other Mario Kart games, while the Wii editions Bowser's 
 Castle and Rainbow Road are among the best yet. The addition of ramps and slopes and the ability 
 to do tricks on them only increases the fun you have while trying to beat everyone to the finish 
 line.
  
  Apart from these four cups of new tracks, there are also four cups of retro tracks available in 
 Mario Kart Wii. While a lot of these tracks are in a way less spectacular than the new ones, they 
 are still worthwhile for the most part. Especially the N64 and DS tracks have been graphically 
 revised, making their layout suit those of the new tracks. It is therefore no surprise that already 
 brilliant tracks such as Delfino Square, Peach Gardens (DS) , DK's Jungle Parkway, and Bowser's Castle (N64) 
 rank among the most enjoyable courses in the game. However, this doesn't prevent some of the SNES 
 and GBA courses from looking awkward among all these new and revamped 3D tracks, as their outdated 
 layout is still visible and their simple design often betrays their origins.
  
  Apart from that, the game graphically does what it should do. The character models are perfect 
 and the everything else looks as smooth and polished as it should be. Although I did have my 'wow' 
 moments (such as seeing some of the reworked N64 tracks for the first time) , the game isn't as 
 graphically amazing as Double Dash was when it first came out. Nevertheless the looks of this game 
 won't stop any player from enjoying it to the fullest. On the contrary  in combination with great 
 track layouts like on Maple Treeway and Moonlight Highway, Mario Kart Wii will amaze you from time 
 to time.
  
  The tracks are accompanied by a soundtrack that's clearly only meant as background music, and doesn't 
 dominate as much as in Mario Kart 64, for example. There are some memorable tunes like Mushroom 
 Gorge, Moo Moo Meadows, and the new Bowser's Castle, but most of the time you won't even notice 
 the music's on. This could've been done on purpose, but with the themes of the retro tracks often 
 being a lot more enjoyable, it still doesn't feel all that natural.
  
  All these new tracks and vehicles are great, but does the game provide enough modes to enjoy them 
 in? The answer is undoubtedly yes. There of course is the Grand Prix mode, which has the familiar 
 classes to race in (50cc, 100cc, 150cc, and later mirror) , and offers more of a challenge than 
 ever. Not only are your opponents better than ever (instead of trailing for a quarter of a lap 
 most of the time) without cheating (Mario Kart 64, anyone?) , but the sometimes unbalanced item 
 system and the fact that 12 racers now participate instead of 8 make it a lot harder to just cruise 
 to victory. Often I've read in reviews that you can't go 30 seconds in first place in 150cc without 
 getting hit by blue shells or some other nasty object that makes you end up in last place, but 
 this is an untruth for the most part. While it can get unfair at times, and earning a good ranking 
 at the end of a Grand Prix does need a bit of luck, you will end up winning most of the time if 
 you're an experienced and skilled enough racer. This doesn't change the fact that, with all these 
 new elements, unlocking everything in Mario Kart has never been so challenging.
  
  Outside Grand Prix mode you can also do VS. Races with other people and alone against the computer. 
 Additionally, there are more ways than ever in which you can customize in this mode  select the 
 number of races this 'friendly' tournament will have (2-32) ; how good your computer-controlled 
 opponents are; if items appear sometimes, often, or not at all; if everyone is allowed to pick 
 only karts or bikes, or both, etc. If any, this is just an editable version of Grand Prix mode, 
 but the facts that you have plenty more options available, you can play this in teams (the team 
 which earns the most points wins) , and you can also play this with multiple people, make it a worthwhile 
 and valuable addition to the game.
  
  Battle is a familiar mode as it has been in every Mario Kart game to date, but it has been drastically 
 altered for Mario Kart Wii. From now on, battle can only be played with two teams who fight eachother 
 on new and old battle stages. The battles are now time-based (score as many points as possible 
 before time runs out) rather than life-based (the last one standing wins) . The familiar balloons 
 that denote a kind of life gauge are still present, but losing all of them merely makes you lose 
 a point rather than it eliminates you from the match like in previous games. There also is a new 
 mode  Coin Runners  in which your object is to collect as many coins as possible for your team 
 before time runs out, with getting hit by an item making you lose quite some coins. All these additions 
 and adjustments have met with criticism, but I personally consider battle mode more fun and chaotic 
 than ever. Not only because computer-controlled players can be played in battle mode for the first 
 time in a Mario Kart console installment, but also because the time-based matches nearly always 
 make for an explosion of vehicle violence and mayhem near the end of the match, because everyone 
 wants to score those last few points for their team.
  
  While all these modes are new and revamped and fun like never before, the biggest addition to the 
 game is undoubtedly the possibility to play online. The completely lag-free online mode has three 
 ways of playing: against random people from all over the world, against random people from all 
 over your continent, or just against friends who you register by means of a friend code. While 
 Worldwide and Continental are fun enough to keep you busy until some of your friends come online, 
 playing with people you know is the most fun because the chance of a fair match is much bigger 
 than when you play with people you don't know. While Nintendo did its best to eliminate cheap tactics 
 from the game (snaking, for instance) , you still run across the occasional travesty. It can happen 
 that, like in GP mode, you are the best racer out there but the arsenal from the 11 racers behind 
 you makes you end up in a questionable position, and there are always people who know every bizarre 
 shortcut and glitch in the game. 
  
  It even happened that a player would stay at the finish line at the start, and tried to hit the 
 leader (which was me at the time) with a star. He failed at doing so, but it shows that even in 
 Mario Kart, the party poopers of online gaming still have a way of trying and ruin other people's 
 fun. Still, skill does pay off in the end, and the same couple of players usually end up high in 
 the ranking list. Moreover, winning or losing races will increase or decrease your rating, and 
 when you play Worldwide or Continental, you will preferably be thrown into a server with players 
 with a similar rating.
  
  There are several modes available online, Grand Prix and Battle of course, but also Team Grand 
 Prix when playing with friends, and it's even possible to compare your Time Trial records with 
 your friends, other players on your continent, and the best players in the world. Aditionally, 
 you can exchange ghost data with your friends, and race against random ghosts from all over the 
 world in order to perfectionize your time trial skills. Nintendo regularly writes out competitions 
 (about three times a month) , which let a player complete a certain task (usually collecting coins 
 or getting a fast time trial time under special circumstances) in an as fast as possible time.
 
  All this makes for a varied online mode that, thanks to the absence of lag and the larger number 
 of options, is more worthwhile and mature than that of Super Smash Bros. Brawl.
  
  In conclusion, Mario Kart Wii goes deeper than all of its predecessors, and under the seemingly 
 superficial innovation of the Wii Wheel, the game offers a lot more to old fans of the series, 
 with an expanded Battle mode, a harder GP mode, the possibility to compete against the whole world 
 online, and a wider than ever selection of characters and vehicles. All of this can't lead me to 
 another conclusion than Mario Kart Wii being not only the best Mario Kart game, but also the best 
 kart racing game to date. It doesn't offer revolutionary new features, but it does what it tries 
 to do and executes it almost perfectly. At the end of the day, Mario Kart Wii is a certain must 
 for everyone with a Nintendo Wii next to their television.
  
  Report card:
  + great design for the new tracks, and some stunning makeovers of the old tracks
  + single player 
 more durable and varied than ever
  + ships with free Wii Wheel, yet allows you to still play in alternative ways
  + lag-free and 
 enjoyable online experience
  + a lot of vehicles to choose from make for a lot of different ways to experience the game
  - 
 so-so soundtrack
  - some of the retro tracks seem a bit out of place
  
  Score:
  93% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sporty108
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart wii is a fun and challanging kart raceing game.
  
  Good
  New levels are great and the visual disgns are a delight. There are a variety of a characters to 
 choose from even includeing your mii. Online play are extremly fun, both battle and raceing. Useing 
 the wii remote is very fun and very accurate. Doing flips/tricks with the go karts and motor cyscils 
 are fun.
  
  Bad
  Some items seem to powerful. Meaning that is you get hit with one, you fall to last place. The 
 battle is a team based kind of thing which is nothing like the other ones.
  
  Ovral this game is really fun and it reminded me of my favorite mario kart, mario kart 64.
  
 
  If you are cinsidering buying this game, Definantly get it.
  
  
  G G GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS 
  r a GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME 
 GET THIS GAME GET
  e M THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAmE GET THIS GAME!!!!!!
  a e
  t !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kunlun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  July 30, 2008 - Nintendo's long running Mario Kart series has made it onto the Wii and like it's 
 predecessors, it is very entertaining. Launching shells at fellow racers has never been more fun. 
 Mario Kart Wii is a game that appeals to a casual gamer that likes to put in a game and play it 
 for a while as well as hardcore gamers that like to beat everything in a game. The four controller 
 setups that can be used in the game are the Wii Remote with Nunchuck, Classic Controller, GameCube 
 Controller, and the Wii Wheel (comes with game) . Using the Wii Wheel is the most interactive, but 
 not the most precise way of controlling the vehicles. Many veterans prefer using the other controller 
 options as they offer tighter controls. In addition to the karts, bikes will also be available 
 to race with. Single player mode offers a ton of challenges and things to unlock so beating it 
 thoroughly will take lots of time. However, the multiplayer modes the game offers is really where 
 the game shines.
  
  There are a few different game types to choose from in single player mode: Grand Prix, Time Trials, 
 VS, and Battle. Most of the single player experience lies within Grand Prix and Time Trials as 
 that is where the majority of the characters and vehicles are unlocked.
  
  Grand Prix lets players race three difficulty levels against the CPU, 50cc (easiest) , 100cc, and 
 150cc (hardest) . Initially, four grand prix are available to race in for each difficulty level 
 and as you win the grand prix, new ones are unlocked. There are eight grand prix for each of the 
 difficulty levels. Eventually, this does get rather repetitive, until you beat the 150cc grand 
 prix. Then you unlock Mirror Mode grand prix which is essentially the race tracks seen through 
 a mirror view and it makes the game interesting again. Be warned that there will be lots of frustrating 
 moments in this mode while trying to win each race as cheap items can ruin a race.
  
  Time Trials lets racers set a time racing alone on a track or race against the "ghosts" of the 
 developers of the game. Beating the ghosts will help unlock new characters and vehicles. The best 
 times are kept on record and the player can actually compare their stats with players around the 
 world in the Mario Kart Wii channel, in the main menu.
  
  VS allows the player to customize a race and allows team races where a player can team up with 
 the CPU to race other CPU teams.
  
  Battle puts the player in an arena type environment where karts battle each other using shells 
 while trying to complete an objective.
  
  There are a few multiplayer modes available, both locally and online. Playing locally with people 
 in the room is fun as there is split screen mode with up to four players. One-on-one racing, team 
 racing, and racing against the CPU options are all available. Playing online on Nintendo WFC is 
 really where most of the fun is. Two player online is available and both players will be put in 
 the same race. If a license with a Mii is being used then a player can build up or lose their VR 
 (VS rating) and BR (Battle rating) points. 9999 points is the max for both ratings, but getting 
 there is a tough task to accomplish. Racers are chosen by how many points each participant has, 
 they will be matched with player with a similar rating. The VS mode is very addicting and will 
 keep players coming back for more. It can however, become frustrating as some races are lost because 
 of cheap items used by opponents, especially near the end of the race.
  
  Mario Kart Wii's graphics are decent; they work very well for the game. Everything is clearly represented 
 so there is no confusion on where the road leads or what items have been picked up. The music is 
 very kiddy, but it fits the theme of the game. Sound effects are pretty good, each item makes a 
 distinct sound so a player will know what's about to hit him just from hearing it come at them.
 
  
  Mario Kart Wii is an incredibly fun and entertaining game, however it does become frustrating at 
 times which may cause some people get quit for awhile. Not taking the game too seriously is the 
 best way to play, but it's hard not to with the competitive multiplayer modes. Anyone and everyone 
 can find enjoyment from this game so it's a good game to play alone or when friends and family 
 visit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukeitch
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people were worried when nintendo announced that mario kart wii was going to be released 
 so soon. Even more were worried when it was announced there was going to be bikes added to the 
 game. I was one of them people and I was wrong. Game, brilliant. Bikes, great. The one player mode 
 is excellent, as always. Multiplayer has been greatly improved. Online mode is perfect. It runs 
 so smoothly, you feel as if you are playing on single player. 
  
  
  There are so many options that you will NEVER get tired. You can compete in challenges, race others, 
 try to achieve the time trials world record and much more.
  
  this game is a necessity to anyone with a wii. This is very close to a 10, just as good as brawl.
 
  
  This one is the best one yet and I look forward to the next mario kart 
  
  P. S I don't like racing games but I love this!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smashking777
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2009 9:50 am PT
Review:  This is the 3rd mario kart game ive played (double dash and super curcuit) and i think this is 
 the 5th installment of the mario kart series and its without a doubt the best within the series. As 
 much as i played so far the difficulty is balanced throughly as it can be hard and easy. As you 
 can expect there are new graphics and new items sounds and voices. Starting with new charaters (which 
 btw i find to be kinda short) there are some 1st there is your mii (which have random vocies) then 
 there is rosilonia you SHOULD KNOW HER IF YOUD PLAY SUPER MARIO GALALXY, thats --afaik -- theres 
 alot of new everything to be exact and all that is kinda hard to cramp it all into one review so 
 ima just skip to the online play. So now obviously this is the first wii racing game to feature 
 co-op racing gameplay. as well as regular 1 player racing/battle obviously there are ranks (which 
 i dont really understand) . i really whish that it would have some kinda chat room though b4 you 
 race/battle. NOW FOR A THE FINAL SCORES
  graphics:9.5/10 the charaters look shorter than usual
  sound:10/10
  entertainment:10/10
  
 replay vaule: very high
  total score 9.9/10 
  
  
  BTW the online play is just so addictive i could stay up all night till 8 o clock the mornin still 
 payin it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  ~Intro~ Mario has been karting around different arenas for quite some time. Following the delightfully 
 delicious Mario Kart DS, I naturally assumed that MKW would be better than the DS version. Though 
 MKW has been improved slightly it still hasn't taken the series beyond just a fun kiddy racer. 
 In fact, due to some modifications to be mentioned later the game has actually lost its hardcore 
 appeal. The newest improvement comes in Mario and company able to saddle up and ride a variety 
 of motorcycles. Though, the variety of bikes is original, they don't provide enough variety to 
 alter gameplay in any meaningful way. They do fit within the Kart universe but they might as well 
 be more karts.
  
  
  ~Graphics~ Graphically, MKW is nothing more than a glorified GameCube game. At least Mario Galaxy 
 and Metroid Prime 3 gave the illusion that it's beyond the reach of the cube. MKW looks like a 
 GameCube launch title, environments are limited and pretty low res. Character models look blocky 
 during close ups, feature the classic 90s big triangles and squares as arms and heads. The only 
 saving grace is the art style which feels like a dumb downed Mario Galaxy. 
  
  
  ~Features~ What this game lacks in graphical appeal and core game mechanics is made up in available 
 content. Of course, MKW comes equipped with normal Grand Prix, Time Trial, Mirror mode, where all 
 eight cups are mirrored in a different manner, versus mode both local and online. The shallow gameplay 
 does slightly decrease the appeal of these modes since running through the grand Prix is a cake 
 walk and playing online is only going to satisfy your thirst for a bit. Content-wise MKW is worth 
 every penny; if only Nintendo invested more time refining the graphics and gameplay and less time 
 creating those stupid wheels this game might have been better.
  
  
  ~Gameplay~ Unfortunately, it seems that Mario kart has changed in recent iterations, minus the 
 DS version for the worst. Double dash's gameplay wasn't bad; the addition of two characters on 
 one kart was pretty creative but didn't end up being tremendously fun. MKW has taken a swerve off 
 the deep end by turning each race into a game of chance as oppose to any actual skill. The reason 
 for this comes in the elimination of snaking. This is when a player turbo boost throughout the 
 entire level. Eliminating snaking is great when you tailor your game towards casual gamers. The 
 problem being the individiuals that held Mario Kart to be as competitive as it is fun will quickly 
 realize that the only "skill" has been removed increasing the method of winning to weight heavily 
 on random chance. 
  
  The biggest addition to gameplay should have come in the introduction of bikes. Unfortunately, 
 bikes handle exactly the same as karts. The difference being bikes don't have two levels of boost. 
 Instead, a wheelie can be popped at anytime to increase the bikes overall acceleration. The downside 
 being a decrease in handling; sadly gameplay has taken to couple steps down the totem pole of evolution. 
 This genetic defect provides no real incentive for hardcore users to play. Unless that is, you 
 want to challenge your grandma to Mario kart and most likely lose... LAME!!
  
  Let me describe the add-on peripheral in the simplest way I know how: Piece of Corey Hart (80s 
 Teen pop star not Milwaukee Brewer!!) Bull slop!!" I've been a long time Nintendo fanboy so I've 
 seen Nintendo phone in on their peripherals before. I'd have to say that this wheel is by far the 
 cheapest peripheral ever created by Nintendo's beautiful hands. Not only does holding the wheel 
 feel extremely awkward, using it in a game will actually cripple your already limited chance of 
 winning. Again, sorry for the stream of puke remarks throughout this review, but this game is so 
 obviously tailored towards causal gamers. I have yet to meet a long time kart fan that actually 
 likes the wheel. 
  
  
  ~Sound~ Like most side Mario games the sound effects are a mixed bag of great nostalgic appeal 
 as well as easy listening melodies that ooze Nintendo creativity. 
  
  
  ~Story~ THERE IS LITERALLY NO STORY TO SPEAK OF!! ALL YOU DO IS RACE. ARE YOU STILL READING THIS???
 
  
  
  ~Conclusion~ I feel that Mario Kart Wii is easily the worst version of Mario kart; yes even worst 
 than double dash. The only major addition was bikes which really don't change anything gameplay 
 wise. The major tweak in gameplay was eliminating snaking which in my opinion was easily the worst 
 decision ever in the history of Mario Kart. We all know that it doesn't really take much skill 
 to master Mario kart. The only real skill involved in the series was being able to snake through 
 entire levels. Sure it alienated causal gamers and felt a bit cheap but it was the only really 
 skill involved in the series. I understand that the WII is geared towards everyone which would 
 explain why snaking was removed but the removal of snaking digs deeper into my soul. It shows that 
 Nintendo is willing to toss aside their hardcore audience to make up in causal gamers. This game 
 signifies what I always feared the Wii would do: dumb down flagship titles to the point were no 
 skill is involved. (Look at Wii Music and tell me I'm lying) Nintendo is willing to sell out the 
 consumer base that made it popular to try and get your grandmother to play games... lame, lame, 
 lame!! This is only the beginning; mark my words, more flagship titles will being to go the way 
 of Mario Kart and eliminate any skill involved, which will reduce those games to nothing more than 
 a glorified button masher or in this case swing masher.
  
  
  Story - N/A ~ There is no story!!
  
  Gameplay - 5.5 ~ The removal of snaking has eliminated 
 the little skill that separate the men from the boys. The addition of bikes though nice didn't 
 change anything. 
  
  Sound - 9.0 ~ Sound effects are solid as always and background music fits every stage perfectly!!
 
  
  Graphics - 5.0 ~ The graphics are garbage and seem like a slap to the face to all Wii owners, since 
 no effort was placed into giving this game the "next gen" treatment... wasted opportunity!!
  
  Features - 9.5 ~ The best online structure so far for any wii game, leaderboards, lag free 
 experience provides a wealth of value.
  Overall - 7.25 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  In this game all you do is race or battle just like the other Mario Kart games you just race but 
 for Mario Kart Wii alot of stuff has changed like Nintendo Wifi. The Mario Kart Wii Channel and 
 more stuff for single and multiplayer. In the game there are a few karts and characters you have 
 to unlock and also the new feature is that you can use motorcycles in races and battles. Some of 
 the unlockable characters are Birdo, Baby Luigi, Daisy, Dry Bowser, and the last one that I am 
 going to announce is your Mii there is still more unlockable characters but I don't want to ruin 
 it for you. You also can unlock new karts and motorcycles by doing grand prixs and battles. On 
 the Mario Kart Wii channel you can share friend codes with your friends and race each other on 
 Wifi. You can also race ghosts created by people around the world. The last thing on the Mario 
 Kart channel is the tournaments there will be a tourney once a month and you will get a Wii message 
 that invites you to it. On Wifi if you have a friend on Wifi and have his/her friend code then 
 you can just jump into a race with them. You can also just race or battle people regionally or 
 world wide. You have a score that will raise if you win and it will lower if you lose you start 
 up at 5000 points for racing and battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2009 7:53 am PT
Review:  Story
  
  There is no story. Just try to win each cup.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Typical Mario Kart. Try to win races and be the best, oh yea, and the many items that can be used 
 to help you along the way. It is a lot of fun although some of the items can be pretty cheap. There 
 are race levels according to skill. (50cc, 100cc, 150cc, and 150cc mirror, which is the same as 
 150cc, but the tracks are reversed) Online play is a great addition, especially since it is the 
 best of any Nintendo game. The addition of bikes is also great. Tons of unlockables means hours 
 of play time.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics
  
  I honestly have mixed reactions on the graphics. The character and kart models are pretty jagged, 
 but the tracks and backgrounds are absolutely BEAUTIFUL. The gleam of light is awesome.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Control
  
  Ah, the greatest aspect of the game! The Wii Wheel makes playing so much fun. Even if the wheel 
 is not for you you can use the slassic controller, the nunchuck, or the Gamecube controller. You 
 could say that the control system is Mario Kart Wii's bread and butter.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound
  
  Engines sound real as far as the reving up and being louder at max speed and lowering in sound 
 when slowing down. The sound of the tires skidding across the road when drifting sound real. The 
 only problem I have is crash noises. The "BONK" sound is totally fake and annoying.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall
  
  An amazing game that is the best in it's series. It is a must have for a Wii owner looking to have 
 fun. The addition of online multiplayer is great. With that you'll always have someone to play 
 with!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MooncalfReviews
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a big Mario Kart fan. The thing I always liked about it compared to other racing 
 games was the balance. If you fall behind you get better weapons (and on the N64, you drive faster) , 
 and this made for a very competitive multiplayer mode, as most races you'd find yourself caught 
 just at the death by some fluke red shell or lightning storm. I've always liked Mario Kart because 
 it was always so perfectly tuned that rarely did you find yourself in a dull race.
  
  The problem with liking a series of games so much is that you can be disappointed when the latest 
 version does not meet your expectations. 
  
  But Mario Kart Wii met all of my expectations, and more. 
  
  In my opinion, the latest in the 
 Mario Kart franchise is better than any of its predecessors in every possible way. It's more exciting; 
 better balanced; it has about 30 cars and bikes in total in three different weight classes; the 
 option to be your Mii; classic tracks; and the crowning glory, which is the very smooth online 
 mode.
  
  And it's this online mode that I want to focus my review on, because its here that some of the 
 very best features of the game can be found, but also some of my only gripes about the game.
  
  The online racing is so much fun that it should be illegal. The Wii connects quickly and before 
 you've even had time to have a sip or two of your coffee, the game is already pairing you up with 
 people from all over the world. It'll show you a globe with cute Mii characters popping up all 
 over the place, who each take their turn to wave at the camera. These are the guys that for the 
 next couple of hours (unless they drop out of the group) , you'll find yourself loving to hate.
 
  
  When I say lag-less online gameplay I really do mean lag-less. At least in terms of stuttering 
 displays and freezing gameplay. The only time Mario Kart ever slows down while online will usually 
 be because you are downloading things on your computer, or you have a ban connection. And even 
 then, the game doesn't visually slow down, it will just mis-allign certain characters on your screen. 
 So for a few seconds you'll think you're behind a guy by a couple of meters, but the game catches 
 up (which it rarely has to do) and then the person will drop back again. It took me about 6 hours 
 of gameplay to notice that it was even going on.
  
  And then there are the other online modes, such as the competition mode, which keeps the game fresh 
 and challenging. I've even come close to getting my name on the top ten scoreboard on one or two 
 of these competitions. Also, you have the classic time trial mode, but you'll be given a ghost 
 time to play against, selected from a random opponent from around the world. If you win or lose, 
 you'll be given a score for or against, and your ghost data will be sent on  in turn  to others 
 around the world.
  
  My only issue with the online mode is that it lacks a few options. There are no live tournaments 
 to enter unless you manually do it through a forum or something, by adding various friend codes. 
 Also, the battle mode is pretty restrictive, as you cannot pick your team, you cannot stay in one 
 team throughout your session, and you cannot play a free-for-all battle, it's always team games. 
 I would have also liked to have seen some extra options on the racing mode, such as a "no items" 
 mode, team racing, or some sort of chaotic mode where there are twice as many items and many more 
 pitfalls.
  
  Aside from that, it's all very excellent stuff. I even like the fact that there is no form of Chat 
 on Mario Kart Wii. Sometimes you don't want to have to talk to the people you're getting owned 
 by, you just want to get revenge. And Mario Kart can make you so frustrated sometimes that it's 
 a good thing you cant talk to your opponents. Besides, do what I do and let the red shells do the 
 speaking.
  
  One of my regular pleasures in life is now my own invention, which I like to call Mario Kart Bullying. 
 I have this character called Bully Bill, who I use  not to win races  but to stop others from 
 winning. I take a dislike for one particular person, and I make it my mission to hound them from 
 start to finish of each race until they are practically foaming at the mouth. Then I get them some 
 more, waiting just behind them with three strategically launched red shells to slow them to a crawl 
 for a good ten seconds, or reversing over them with a starman. My record, I believe was getting 
 one person 6 times with one single star. At this point they usually quit. Give it a try! It's so 
 funny I think I puked up in my mouth a little from laughing too much. My Sister often joins me 
 in doing this, and we make a fun tag team of bullies, it's a great way to take out your stress 
 on random people that can't ever get their own back, no matter how annoyed they are.
  
  I got this game about 4 months ago, and I waste at least 4 hours a week on it still. When I first 
 got it, I was online with it practically 24/7. It really is a masterful game that only the artists 
 at Nintendo could have made so near-perfectly, and with such thought that has apparently gone into 
 the trademark Mario Kart balance.
  
  
  ---
  
  Score Breakdown 
  Based on the non-story variation of the Mooncalf Reviews scoring system as shown on this blog post 
 here:
  http://uk. gamespot. com/users/MooncalfReviews/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-25395842
  
 
      Story: N/A
  
      Hook: N/A
  
      Characters: 3
  Mario characters. Which is a good thing! However, I got tired of unlocking Babies. Baby Peach, 
 Baby Luigi, Baby Daisy, Baby Mario, Baby Bowser  (sigh) . Still, good to see Diddy Kong was included.
 
  
      Originality: 3
  It's Mario Kart. It invented the cartoony weapon-based multiplayer racer, so you can't exactly 
 call it UNoriginal for copying its own game. Still, all said and don't there's not a massive amount 
 of new features. But who cares, it's so much more fun!
  
      Art: 4
  Explosions and crazy environments all lend themselves to the beautiful wacky world that is Mario 
 Kart Wii.
  
      Voice Acting and Script: N/A
  
      Music Score: 4
  You'd expect nothing less than very good from Nintendo. Catchy tunes and classic nostalgia abound.
 
  
      Fun: 5
  Online or offline, multiplayer Mario Kart Wii is what the word "fun" was invented to describe.
 
  
      Freedom: 4
  A few new modes, but not as free as it could be with online options.
  
      Lifespan: 5
  I only just stopped playing Mario Kart 64. So I think this game should last 
 me a long time.
  
      Multiplayer: 5
  The smoothest online mode I've seen in any game. And one of the most fun.
  
  Total Points: 
 35 (out of a possible 40)
  
  Gamespot converted rating: 8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt_christman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Mario Kart series since the SNES, as it was the first game I played. They 
 are all good as far as I can tell, but this one really does stand out amongst the lot. The amount 
 of characters is just awe inspiring, each with a slightly different feel. The amount of karts definitely 
 could've used some work, I don't like that all the characters of the same weight class also have 
 the same options, and the middle weight class seems to have the advantage over all the other classes, 
 but that is just my driving style I'm sure. Sometimes, when driving with the Wii wheel, the sensor 
 will bug out and I will start going in some random direction. But that rarely does happen. Other 
 than that though, the controls are definitely tighter than all the past "karts" aside from mario 
 kart DS. Automatic is a nice option for those who don't prefer to jump and drift, but I've never 
 used it myself. All the new courses are very well designed, and the old one's bring back that feeling 
 of nostalgia that hard-core karties like me do so enjoy. There are only 32 courses though, excluding 
 battles, leaving me with the feeling like it was not entirely complete, as though they should have 
 been able to cram more in there. The mission mode of the DS version is gone as well, furthering 
 the feeling of emptiness suffered. The racing itself is a s*** load of fun, always fast-paced and 
 ever changing. You could be riding the high horse to victory one second, and hit with a blue shell 
 the very next, taking you down so far. This leads into the "unbalanced" part of the review deck. 
 The items are far too unbalanced, just almost to the point of being an unplayable game sometimes, 
 especially in the 150cc races. The higher up in position you are, the crappier the items you get, 
 but the lower you are, say 12th place, you will almost certainly get something that registers as 
 a chuck norris beating. While in first place, I have rarely, if ever, gotten something better than 
 a banana, which I can sort of understand. But whilst I'm first, someone in the back always has 
 to get, for example, the blue turtle shell. That thing will knock you down positions really fast, 
 and you're chances of recovering are slim to none. The computers also seem to work together, as 
 whenever a computer is in first, a blue shell never flies. The amount of and quality of items one 
 gets in latter positions is just way too unfair. Many a time I've been knocked out by a thunderbolt 
 jumping across a gap in Bowsers Castle (N64) . I've been clipped by bullet bills way too many times. 
 And stars are the **** of the game, as they come in like candies, yet never to me. Balance of items 
 is just unfair. I pray that you never get caught in a combo. Blue shell, red shell, thunderbolt, 
 blue shell, bullet bill. That was the worst I ever got it. On a lighter note though, the WiFi is 
 excellent. I have never ever experienced lag, and I have played a lot of races. The tournaments 
 that come in the Mario Kart channel are always a lot of fun too. Other than the one major complaint, 
 I could easily recommend this game too ANYONE! It is a hell of a lot of fun, but is best when racing 
 against others, as is the pattern often faced in this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enterrador666
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  It's no secret that Mario Kart has always been a great series. Mario Kart Wii delivers and then 
 some. It has all the things that made Super Mario Kart great, new tracks and classic tracks from 
 the SNES, N64, GCN and DS to top it off. A lot more playable characters to continue the mayhem. 
 I like the Wii mote integration it is a nice touch and the vehicles handle extremely well I might 
 add. I didn't find a problem with the Wheel, maybe it just makes you look like a geek. One of the 
 annoying things about this game just like previous ones is that when you first begin most people 
 begin the 50cc tournaments. While playing the 50cc the only items you ever get is banana, green 
 shell, fake item block and sometimes a red shell while the competition hammers you with the blue 
 spike shell, squid, lightining bolt and a barrage of red shells. After a while that gets annoying. 
 The graphics look great and the music is very entretaining. I also like the addition of different 
 vehicles to include motorcycles. Over all this game is great to play alone or with friends, it 
 is a great party game that will keep the party alive for hours. The online portion of this game 
 didn't really do it for me, besides the hassle of inputing your friends code everytime you want 
 to play with them there wasn't much else to really look at. A good try but fell a bit short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakkydude
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  Lat's face it, I've only played 3 Mario Kart Titles. The DS, GBA and WII versions. However I am 
 sad to say that only the DS version is worth it. But this is not a DS review so I won't go into 
 that.
  
  Let's begin with the control schemes. If you take my advice, don't screw around with the jerkiness 
 of the wii wheel. Every single game in the series, yes, even the DS, has been controlled using 
 buttons. I wouldn't have problems with the leap to a new control scheme if the others where controlled 
 differently. (Yes DS, i'm talking about you...) It's just I don't see the point of using the wheel. 
 It's ether you can't steer or steer to much, and is just a crappy attempt to squeeze more life 
 into an aging franchise.
  
  Next, the abysmal graphics. The only thing that looks half decent is the karts. And they still 
 look pants. Where are the shadows? Why does the blooper look worse than a Halloween ghost costume? 
 I don't know ONE BIT.
  
  "Ah, if you're giving it a 1.5, what's so good to give it a .5?" 3 things. The karts (not those 
 crappy car-things or motorbikes) . The characters (A LOT) and the tracks. THAT'S ALL YOU'RE PAYING 
 FOR.
  
  My last point is the fact that the motorcycles are the worst idea to brace a KART game. That cannot 
 be controlled! The stunts are another awful idea. And finally, the menu is the dullest thing i've 
 ever seen! Black here, black there, you get it now.
  
  I think this game even deserves a 1 rather than a 0, because this bad attempt to make a good game 
 is kinda funny... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheReview
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is a really fun game especially with the Wii steering wheel! Over 32 maps and lots 
 of different powers makes this game the best in series! It has maps from the DS, GameCube, and 
 more! The opponents are extremely smart and you can play the battle mode by yourself! This game 
 has so many great additions which is why I think it's the best in series!
  
  The Good:
  
  - Improved graphics from the previous games.
  - Over 3 different powers!
  - Wii steering 
 wheel is a great addition to the game.
  - Online is finally available!
  - Smart opponents!
  - You can unlock maps and characters!
  - It's Mario! Who doesn't like that?
 
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Can get frustrating but it happens in a lot of games!
  
  All in all, if you love Mario! You need this title in your collection! And don't be afraid if you 
 think you won't like it. If you play Mario Kart on any other platforms and liked it, you are guaranteed 
 to like this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10
  Now ever since i played Mario Kart DS ive been waiting for the wii game and i have to say that 
 its just as great. But this game does have one problem and that is the wepons are unbalanced since 
 anyone in 8 through 12 place can get things like the bullet and the crowned mushroom and everyone 
 from 7 to 1 get stuck with green shells and bananas (pft) . But the motion controls are great and 
 hey its Mario Kart.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Simple yet superb is the best way to describe the graphics, there colorful and full of life yet 
 underneath that is a game with some jagged edges. But overall the game looks great.
  
  Sound 8/10
  Not really anything new about the sound the Karts sound like Karts incoming wepons 
 have a syren and Mario still goes WAAHOO!!! when he hits someone. But the soundtrack is light and 
 enjoyable.
  
  value 9/10
  For $50.00 the game comes with the game and the Wii Wheel and though theres no misson mode the 
 dozens of maps and lag free online will keep you coming back for more.
  
  The Good 
  Its Mario Kart at its best, colorful graphics, enjoyable soundtrack,
  
  The Bad 
  No misson 
 mode, Some jagged edges, Unbalenced wepons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasuke421
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  The first next gen Mario kart makes a good entry to the wii
  
  The multiplayer is one of the best parts about the game it can be really fun with four people, 
 with fresh tracks, tracks from the ds, gamecube,64, gba and super nintendo tracks add for some fun.
 
  
  The retro tracks reminds you of the good times u had playing them on the other mario karts from 
 the past but some of the tracks seem a little out of place because of there short length or there 
 design. 
  
  Motorcycles add a new way to ride around on the mario kart tracks with there wheelies and most 
 of them just look cool and makes your ride o so smoother. 
  
  All in all mario kart wii is a good entry with great new karts, tracks and some items make this 
 a must have for mario fans and anyone looking for a good fun racing game that has a great multiplayer 
 and is just fun mario kart wii is that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersonicguy12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is a great game. It has many tracks to race on and a pretty good character roster 
 for drivers. This game will keep you busy if you're a person that tries to get the highest rank 
 on things in a game. In this game when you do a Grand Prix race you get trophies depending on what 
 place you get and then you get ranked depending on how well you race. It is also fun unlocking 
 characters, karts, and bikes in this game. That will also keep you busy for a decent amount of 
 time. The online multiplayer is great for the fact that you can join a friend and go into a ranked 
 game together. What really impresses me about the online is that you can choose to play either 
 regional or worldwide and with regional I never really lagged at all and with worldwide I lagged 
 a little bit but nothing bad. Which that is a huge improvement with Nintendo's Wi-Fi play in my 
 opinion. This game is definitely worth it's price tag due to the fact that the single player will 
 keep you busy for a while and the online play is just plain fun. I definitely recommend anyone 
 to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N1nt3nd0gam3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is an incredible game. Lets start with the controls, it is a very neat idea the way they 
 did it but it is not very responsive. The bike addition is great and they handle really good. Drifting 
 is really hard for me it will just take some getting used to. I just got it today so I don't know 
 a ton about the gameplay and what not but Wifi is a lot of fun and very improved compared to the 
 DS (you know having to wait forever!) Anyway they made some really neat tracks and brought back 
 all the great ones. The have lots of new carts and again the cool new bikes. Multiplayer is a lot 
 of fun and you can do battles again which is a lot of fun and works great. I have found that not 
 using the wheel works better for me though for some reason. I found what works best though for 
 me and is the most responsive is the Wii remote and Nunchuck. All of the tracks again are totally 
 original and the ones they brough back are remstered and look incredible. I will be stopping by 
 to update this as I get farther through the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droco3
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii marks the debut of the Mario Kart series on the Nintendo Wii. With a bigger roster 
 than ever, a larger selection of tracks, and online play, this Mario Kart is a must buy that will 
 keep gamers entertained for countless hours. Returning are all of the traditional racers on both 
 karts and motor bikes, along with newcomers such as Funky Kong from the Donkey Kong series, as 
 well as Rosalina from Super Mario Galaxy, to name a couple. You will also gain the opportunity 
 of being able to play as one of the Miis stored on your console. 
  As far as the tracks go, there are 16 new tracks and 16 retro tracks, from the other Mario kart 
 entries on snes, GBA, N64, and the DS. The new tracks are well designed, some are a little boring 
 and predictable, however others such as the new version of Rainbow Road, are quite entertaining. 
 The retro tracks were redesigned very well, however some of the choices were rather disappointing, 
 perhaps because I personally didn't like GC DK's Mountain, or DS's Peach Gardens. 
  The sounds featured in the game are genuine and fit well with the levels. It is also important 
 to note that Nintendo brought back the identical soundtracks for the retro tracks, sealing the 
 classic feeling with the redesigned tracks. The sound effects of the items and racers vehicles 
 also seem to make sense and fit this game well.
  As for the actual gameplay, Mario Kart holds up to its predecessors, in good and bad ways. There 
 is still the classic VS mode as well as the battle mode. While the battle mode has only two types 
 of gameplay, the ability to play online and receive a ranking greatly enhances the overall quality 
 of gameplay. The matchmaking process is also very quick, and those who try to ruin or slow down 
 online play are disconnected fairly quickly to sustain the good quality of online play. The ghost 
 racing mode has also returned and is more enjoyable than ever due to the option to race online 
 ghosts other players have created, and the ability to unlock extras by beating the default computer 
 ghosts. 
  Gone are the character-specific items found in Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, however appearing for 
 the first time are four new items, the bomb, the bullet bill, the thunder cloud, and the POW block. 
 Each of these adds a little variety to the typical items in the Mario Kart series, and allows for 
 an "anybody's race" environment. New flip tricks for both karts and motor bikes and wheelies add 
 an innovative way to gain a boost, and the traditional drift and boost has been enhanced allowing 
 for a small, blue sparking mini turbo, or an orange slightly longer mini turbo. Players are also 
 ranked at the end of cups with both a place ranking and a star ranking, which is based on your 
 overall times for each individual track. Unfortunately, even utilizing these new tricks, driving 
 accurately, and using items in a skilled manner isn't always enough to overcome Mario Kart Wii's 
 largest problem: difficulty.
  The first two difficulties, 50cc and 100cc are similar to the same difficulties in the previous 
 Mario Kart entries, fun but overall very easy. 100cc may introduce better competition, however 
 maintaining first place and getting a star ranking is still very possible. Yet, when racing in 
 the 150cc or mirror 150cc cups, the gameplay is cranked from easy-moderate enjoyable, skill based 
 play to challenging, arguably cheap gameplay that often relies on luck to guarantee first place 
 or a star ranking. On 150cc mode the computer players are vigorous in their attempts to hinder 
 your progress. Not only will they accurately bombard you with red shells, green shells and even 
 fake item blocks, but they also tend to use the more powerful items in a ridiculously plentiful 
 and precise ways. I have literally been blue shelled, red shelled, then blue shelled again all 
 within about 10 seconds. What's even more inconceivable is getting blue shelled at precisely the 
 right time to allow me to stop one kart length short of the finish line, allowing me to sink three 
 places due to this incredible timing. It is also important to point out that the cpu's play off 
 of your overall cup ranking, and therefore the one player who has a chance to beat your score will 
 almost always be the player coming in first the moment your luck or skill fails. However, it is 
 possible to win golds with star rankings on these modes, players will simply have to make more 
 attempts and hope luck is on their side.
  Looking over the one main flaw of intense difficulty on the highest class of racing, Mario Kart 
 Wii is an impressive package. Not only does it retain the classic Mario Kart feel it also upgrades 
 the series, in turn creating the most fun online game to date for the Nintendo Wii. Online play 
 also increases the replayability to an unlimited amount of time because there is always the goal 
 of maintaining or increasing your ranking. The single player and offline multiplayer are also very 
 well done and make this game a worthwhile purchase even if you do not have access to the online 
 modes. Overall Mario Kart Wii is the best racing game for the Nintendo Wii and one of the best 
 entries in the Mario Kart series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: undead_stickman
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  The Mario Kart sieries has always been so much fun for me. I had Mario Kart Double Dash, loved 
 it. If you're not familiar with the mario kart games, they're basically a silly, cartoony racing 
 sieries from Nintendo featuring all mario characters.
  You race around mario inspired tracks tossing out weapons such as banana skins and shells.
  Mario 
 kart Wii still upholds the classic structure and is a really addictive experience.
  For this game though, you are equipped with the wii wheel. a piece of equipment you plug into the 
 wii remote and drive thta way. needless to say you probably don't need it and you can just race 
 with a wii remote, but it's a nice touch.
  If you're still not sure, then rent it or play it round a friends house.
  I was kinda in rush 
 to write this, so sorry if it wasn't particularly helpful.
  Well worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoraX64
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Having started back at MK64, I knew that MKWii would deliver all I need to enjoy a game. I was 
 right. This time around, MK gets a quirky new way to race: the Wii Wheel. While some find the wheel 
 a worthless piece of plastic, I only play it with my trusty hard plastic  
 wheel that came with my game. The racing is basically the same, with the items we have all come 
 to know and love, mixed in with a few new items, like Lightning Bolts and Pow Blocks. 
  
  While sometimes I feel as though the game is TOO fair (like being soooo close to the finish line 
 and being raped by items, causing you to come in a bad place) , I love the Wi-Fi, mostly the battle 
 mode, a first for MK Wi-Fi festivities. 
  
  The graphics are perfect for a MK game. They are not the best on the Wii, but the game looks good 
 in motion.
  
  The music is a good mix of classical Mario and new mixes.
  
  Gameplay is the same as usual, but there are new ways to race, and the introduction of bikes to 
 go along with karts is very welcome.
  
  This game is the epitome of replayability. The Wi-Fi mode almost never gets boring, and trying 
 to beat all of the Staff Ghost data is a challenge in itself.
  
  I will rate each category out of 10:
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Music: 9/10
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
 
  Replay Value: 10/10
  
  This is indeed one of the greatest games on the Nintendo Wii, and it is definitely worth your money. 
 Thank you for reading my review of Mario Kart Wii, and have a good day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanim02
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  The Mario Kart franchise has always been one of the most popular spin off from the classic Mario 
 games. It's basically putting all the characters from the Mario universe and making them go kart 
 racing in insane tracks and chucking hardcore yet stupid looking items for their doom. Now Mario 
 Kart Wii is available.. and does the provide the Mario Kart need? Absolutley, but does it last 
 long? Nope not really. I will explain more in depth but all Mario Kart games have this thing called... 
 how LONG will it last? Mario Kart 64 had it, Double Dash had it and now Wii has it too. Don't get 
 me wrong, if you have many friends and ready to go into the best online experience on the Wii thanks 
 to Mario Kart Channel, THIS game is for you, but if you're only there for the single player mode.. 
 It doesn't really last long.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Pros: Bikes provide great craze in the game, Best online experience on the Wii, Classic Mario Kart 
 to it's core, Fun with friends, Cool trick system.
  
  Cons: Single player doesn't last that long, Karts feel lame compaired to Bikes, Items kill more 
 than they help, Old tracks don't stack up to the new ones.
  
  Score: 8/10
  
  Mario Kart has always been about putting you up against 11 other characters and a race to the finish 
 in 4 different tracks and you're goal? Stay first place and that's it. Wii is the same thing and 
 it's proof that the formula still works. The game has bikes now which makes the game more fun and 
 ridiculousy crazy with friends or online. Problem is bikes feel more fun than the karts which brings 
 the main idea of kart racing down a little.. but you won't really care about it anyways. The game 
 also has this new trick system which allows you to perform tricks in mid-air with a flick of the 
 wii remote. This is a great feature and also the game comes with the Wii wheel which is really 
 fun.. although you will probably go back the wii mote and nunchuck eventually with you're not up 
 to snuff. The problem here is that the game features GCN controler, although people who want to 
 use that problem won't have that much fun, since you can't perform tricks.. : (, but that can be 
 overlooked but still feels like a worthless addition. Online is want Mario Kart is all about. If 
 you don't play Mario Kart Wii online, you won't have even half the fun of the game. It is soo deep 
 and also thanks to Mario Kart channel, the tournaments and all feel very awesome and which really 
 fun. Basically if you buy Mario Kart Wii only for the single player mode, you won't have that much 
 fun with the game.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Pros: Great lighting effects, Colorful details really bring the visuals up, Track design is marvellous 
 and also ridiculous!
  
  Cons: Animation is simply not good at all, Graphics haven't improved since Double DASH!!, During 
 mutilplayer with 3 or 4 players the resolution and fram rate drops.
  
  Score: 7/10
  
  Mario Kart Wii is plainly a simple, yet nice looking game. The lighting is great, the world's are 
 really colorful and the track design is oof the hook! The game runs at a smooth frame rate in the 
 single player and 2 player multiplayer. What really suck that when you are playing the game with 
 3 or 4 friends, the resolution drops tremendously specially since it goes 4 split screen which 
 is all they can really do but the frame rate sometimes bugs as well. Other than that the game looks 
 good overall. The problem is that the game hasn't really changed much since Double DASH!! which 
 doesn't really give the game a new look, like what Double DASHH!! provided with back in 03.
  
  Sound:
  
  Pros: Original and classic tunes are great, Sound effects are solid.
  
  Cons: 
 Some characters don't really sound the same ( Donkey Kong ) .
  
  Score: 7/10
  
  Mario Kart Wii sounds good. The tunes are fine and the sound effect are solid. There isn't much 
 in the sound department of the game soo there isn't much to add other than the voices of some characters 
 don't really sound.. good. But who cares really. The game sounds good in every way.
  
  Value: Finally, if you have friends and want a crazy online experience and loovvveee kart racing, 
 this game is for you. There isn't really much to look forward to this game if you're only there 
 for the single player campaigne so either rent it and give it a shot or spend a good afternoon 
 with friends going crazy with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bopie64
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is a great Mario Kart sequel to the series. It adds online play and the graphics 
 are much better, along with new items. There are a few unbalanced items, and things go pretty fast, 
 but I think this is a great game. I always come back and play more online play, although it is 
 a little annoying that you have to play with computers when you have more than two players on your 
 console. Besides that, it is a great game. Everything looks every improved for the Wii, although 
 there is a lot to unlock and Time Trials is really difficult to beat because the stages are annoying 
 to have to beat every single character by 5 seconds. My favorite part is the online play. I play 
 with one extra person from my console and go online and it works very smoothly. I prefer going 
 mundial or continental, though because it is harder to find friends online, etc. It all works well 
 though. I definitely recommend this game for any racing game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kymcheeseman
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I've played mariokart numerous times throughout these holidays and even though i've spent numerous 
 hourse playing, im still entertained by the game. I have found the game to be frustrating at times 
 but thats just a part of the game. The speed at which you can change places and the close competition 
 throughout the race keeps you on your toes. I prefer using the wii wheel as it is a good change 
 to ps2 controllers etc and lets you steer your way around the track. The unlockables have keep 
 me entertained and the new tracks offer alot of variety. The old tracks though can get a little 
 easy and may be a bit boring without the graphics or design of the new ones. The new tracks were 
 more of a challenge as i made my through the game and the effects included in them were very entertaining. 
 Anyone looking for another game should defintely get mariokart, Brilliant!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendokid4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  BUY/RENT/AVOID:
  Mario Kart Wii, without a doubt, is a must BUY game. Because it is a racing game and will not get 
 old once you "beat" it, it can be played forever.
  
  PROS:
  It has the same Mario Kart gameplay we all know and love with a variety of threatening items (including 
 3 new items) to unleash upon unsuspecting drivers. These items even the playing field for everyone 
 and allow for miraculous comebacks. Also, it has a new, deep online system that allows players 
 to check on rankings and enter worldwide tournaments. Its 32 tracks, 16 retro and 16 new, provide 
 a great racing experience as well. Oh- and also- the Wii Wheel.
  
  CONS: 
  While the items allow for miraculous comebacks, it can be a cause of frustration if you are the 
 one in first who suddenly sees his position in the race drop from 1st to last in the blink of an 
 eye. The new tracks also shine a new light on the old tracks, making them look slightly boring. 
 
  
  STORY:
  It's a racing game. If you're looking for a story you've come to the wrong place.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
 
  The new look and feel of Mario Kart's gameplay has never been more welcome anywhere else than 
 it has been on the Wii. After the years of wait for the new title, Nintendo finally answered our 
 prayers (well at least mine) and granted us with Mario Kart Wii. While the title lacks much luster, 
 I can assure the game does not, and it delivers in nearly every category. Nearly. But before I 
 begin to discuss its flaws, I must first discuss its general gameplay. Like the previous installments 
 in the Mario Kart franchise, Mario Kart Wii revolves around its chaotic gameplay using an overwhelming 
 arsenal of items. Because I assume if you are reading this that you posses a slight knowledge of 
 the Mario Kart fundamentals, I will not dive into the details of the returning items; rather, I 
 will divulge the details of the newcomers. First there is the POW block, which old school Mario 
 fans will recognize from the Mario Bros. games. This, when used, will count down to three and spin 
 out all opponents ahead of you. It will also cause them to lose their items, assuming they are 
 not in the air (where they are impervious to the POW block) . While it is a new item and does deepen 
 the array of items available, I find it strikingly similar to the lightning weapon that is already 
 present in the game. Next is the mega mushroom. This new addition is complements of the DS's New 
 Super Mario Bros. and enlargers the player's character to allow him or her to bowl over the competition, 
 creating human pancakes. Lastly, "the cloud", as I refer to it as, is a bittersweet item for undeserving 
 drivers. When you realize you drew the cloud from the items lottery, you are forced to find a fellow 
 driver and ram him to pass it on, lest you be shrunken and slowed down. The cloud lingers over 
 its victim and can be passed around as many times as possible before it shows its effects. It is 
 similar to a "hot potato", for lack of a better analogy. The items in this version keep everyone 
 in the race, which is both the game's greatest qualities and its greatest flaw. When I am in last 
 I adore the weighted item draw. It gives the racers near the back the more aggressive items such 
 as blue shells, Bullet Bills, and lightning. It gives the racers in the front the more defensive 
 items such as bananas, green shells, and fake item boxes. There is no comparison to my frustration 
 when I find myself in first place for two of the three laps and end up finishing 7th or 8th because 
 of relentless barrages of blue shells and lighting. In contrast, there is no comparison to my joy 
 when I find myself making a last lap comeback from 12th to first place. Considering every perspective, 
 I still think that maybe the weighing system can put out too many blue shells. 
  Mario Kart Wii also offers 25 characters, each with their own unique karts and, for the first time, 
 bikes. The difference between the karts and bikes is due to the newly designed drift system. In 
 past Mario Kart titles, drifting could provide a short speed boost if the player wiggled the joystick 
 during a drift. With the new system, a speed boost is acquired if the player maintains the drift 
 for a certain amount of time. This leads to the difference between karts and bikes: karts have 
 a longer speed boost after a drift than bikes do. But while these karts have a longer boost, bikes 
 make up for it with the ability to perform wheelies. The wheelies make the racer go faster and 
 are usually performed on a straight section of the track. Speaking of the tracks, there are 16 
 tracks from previous Mario Karts and 16 original. Mostly every new track is well made, but this 
 can be debated depending on the player's personal preference. The retro tracks, however, seem to 
 be a little plain in comparison to the new tracks, which are flourishing with activity and, in 
 some cases, change every lap. Personally, I think that the retro tracks create a balance between 
 white knuckle circuits and good ol' fashion racin' circuits. They are host to classic races that 
 require good use of items and good driving in order to win; some of the new tracks can be won by 
 simply passing a rival who has been hit by passing traffic or various obstacles. 
  A novel idea is that of the Wii Wheel, which was added to the franchise to liven it up. While it 
 does do this, it makes it slightly more difficult to compete with the hardcore racers who have 
 mastered the Gamecube controller. For my full take on this matter, check on my blog and see the 
 article "My Love/Hate Relationship with the Wii Wheel". An online Mario Kart Network also comes 
 packaged with the new game. This is definitely a great feature and creates memorable matches with 
 people across the world. It has surprising depth that has never been seen on the Wii. The Mario 
 Kart Channel, which can be pinned to the Wii start menu, can be used to enter tournaments and view 
 your rankings compared to either regional or worldwide competitors. The online pay also keeps track 
 of your victories and losses and gives you a score that changes every time you win or lose. I was 
 very impressed with the online play and consider it the prime reason to buy this game.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  This game does not posses the most impressive graphics. While there are the familiar 
 vibrant colors and smooth textures, the visuals never really make you go "Wow". That being said, 
 thy do not take away from the game and even complement the wacky nature of the series. The only 
 time I could slightly tell that it was a next gen title was in the track Moonview Highway, but 
 even then it was nothing amazing.
  
  REPLAY VALUE:
  It's a racing game- nuff said. With its great online play and 50, 100, and 150cc modes, as well 
 as Mirror mode, its single player also keeps you coming back until you've achieved first place 
 with a three star ranking in each cup.
  
  FINAL REMARKS:
  Mario Kart Wii accomplishes everything it set out to do. I expected a great game with the gameplay 
 I've grown to love, and that's what I got. If you are unsure about this game, simply rent Mario 
 Kart Double Dash for the Gamecube and base your decision off that. If you do not like the previous 
 Mario Kart titles, you will not enjoy this one. But if you love the chaotic races, the photo finishes, 
 the tight turns, the great cast of characters, the arsenal of items, and the satisfying new online 
 play, you will be playing this one for a while. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko_hodgson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Firstly i'd say that this game is simply fun to play, im more into the ps3 and 360, however this 
 game kept me coming back for more.
  There isnt a whole lot of depth to the multiplayer ranking system etc etc, but it's just plain 
 fun to play against people from across the globe.
  It improves when you have a few friends round and you all have a go. A good laugh it has to be 
 said.
  Tracks are of a good standard, the new ones are great whereas a couple of the previous ones could 
 have been replaced with other new ones.
  When you get used to it, it can become too easy on single player, even for my little cousin which 
 said a lot.
  However the challenge of multiplayer makes up for that.
  
  Overall a game i reccommend, for the casual gamer mostly, however serious gamers like myself might 
 find this surprisingly entertaining!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  Like anyone could imagine, Mario Kart for the wii doesn't require much skill to play, just a wii, 
 a tv and a wiimote. The game features characters new and old, and you will get much more out of 
 the tracks this time around. The game gets repetative after a while but you will come back for 
 more.
  
  Essentially, the game seeks to be user friendly by making simple use of the wiimote which in turn 
 is the difference between this and other games of the series. Players will notice the newly added 
 bikes which call for a "cheers!
  
  Items are a big variable to the franchise, so it's always good to see new items. All in all, Mario 
 Kart Wii lives up to it's name, even if it is easy.
  
  The rotten part of the game seems to be that the other modes all seem to be team based, which gets 
 old fast. Good thing we have peach to help guide us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninwin99
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I've played almost every single mario kart that has come out and i have to say this one is probably 
 the best one. The character list is fantastic, the courses are very unique and fun (although i 
 wish they picked better retro stages) and this game is still one of the best multiplayer game ever 
 with up to 12 racers now. 
  The single player is just like all the other mario karts, beat circuits to unlock more circuits 
 to unlock characters, bikes and karts. Speaking of which, the addition of bikes makes the gameplay 
 even better and more diverse. In single player, i find that the items are really unbalanced and 
 you're constantly getting screwed over by the computer A. I. However, playing with other people 
 is what defines mario kart and is a total blast. Even better, mario kart can now be played online 
 so you don't have to cut the tv screen into 4. I'm extremely impressed by the online for this game, 
 as it is by far the best so far for any game. Absolutely no lag, easy navigation and race selection, 
 and a cool ranking system that lets you know how you fare against the world's top karters. 
  simply put it, this game is pure fun and one that you will keep coming back too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NALDOxCORE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  
  The latest installment in the Mario Kart series does justice to all kart racing games. Mario Kart 
 Wii follows the same formula as the other Mario Kart games. Players can choose from 12 starter 
 characters and 12 unlockable characters from the Mushroom Kingdom universe and race on a 32 total 
 tracks (16 new and 16 from previous games) .
  
  Mario Kart Wii comes packaged with a plastic attachment called the Wii Wheel. Players insert the 
 Wiimote into the Wii Wheel and tilt the wheel from side to side in order to turn. This unique controlling 
 method greatly enhances gameplay. If this controller method is not for you, there is also the option 
 of the Gamecube controller, the Wiimote and Nunchuck, the Classic Controller, and the Wiimote without 
 the Wii Wheel.
  
  Diversity is the name of the game for Mario Kart Wii. First, players can choose from the VS, Time 
 Trials, and Grand Prix racing modes. In VS mode, players play from four gameplay modes with up 
 to four players. The modes consist of Balloon Battle (players use a variety of weapons to break 
 the balloons of opponents) Coin Battle (racers try to collect as many coins as they can to beat 
 the other team) . On the other hand, multiplayer racing brings just as much fun to the table. Players 
 could play sets of 4 races on 32 possible tracks on teams or alone. Multiplayer modes are nonstop 
 fun no matter what age you are.
  
  Grand Prix mode is quite different. Players play on three different difficulties: 50cc, 100cc, 
 and 150 cc. Players choose from eight cups of four races and try to get either a gold, silver, 
 or bronze medal. Most characters and vehicles can be unlocked in this mode.
  
  Speaking of characters and vehicles, Mario Kart Wii features one of the most diverse groups. Players 
 start out with 12 characters and are quickly able to unlock 14 more, including two Mii characters. 
 Each character belongs to one of three weight classes: Light, Medium, and Heavy. Each weight class 
 has its own strengths and advantages and twelve unique vehicles, 6 of witch being unlockable.
 
  
  Aside from having many new faces, Mario Kart Wii has two new features that no other Mario Kart 
 game has: bikes and tricks. Motorcycles bring the element of wheelies to the game. Tricks make 
 the game more pleasurable and add a speed boost after every completed trick. These two new features 
 alone make Mario Kart Wii the most pleasurable game in the series without a doubt.
  
  Mario Kart Wii also has Wi-Fi capabilities. One can race against up to 11 others in virtually lag 
 free. The online gameplay of Mario Kart Wii is definitely the most pleasurable of any game on this 
 console.
  
  If you own a Wii and you don't own Mario Kart Wii, you must be ashamed of yourself. You are missing 
 out on one of the greatest games on the Wii.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eastcc39
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  some other unneeded characters are baby daisy / peach, dry bowser . they should have maybe put 
 shy guy in or something. also i beleive that they should have had banshee boardwalk from Nintendo 
 64 and Chocolate Islands from Super Nintendo. Still a great game. Works well with kids from all 
 ages to adults. Great multiplayer as well. Great assortion of karts as well. Love doing wheelies 
 with the kool bikes that they have. the tricks are fun to do as well. i also can not find a need 
 to have a mii outfit b. they should have just had one outfit and be done with it. another great 
 feature i like is 2 player wifi ablilty. i also like the chioce of having a commorattive photo 
 sent too your wii home menu. i was told by a friend that u are able to doodle and mess around with 
 it in the photo channel which i treid and it works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aikimagicjedi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  The game is really fun. The new wii controls make the learning curve easier than ever. My 6 years 
 old niece catch up very fast after 30 minutes of trying and crying, but right after that we were 
 ready to all play together.
  The best part of the game is the multiplayer option and the possibility to play online with other 
 racers around the world. After finishing the game in about 2 hours at the 50cc mode, I felt ready 
 to jump out and challege players from other parts of the globe,...... Never being so wrong! They 
 beat horribly bad! I had to go back to the grand prix mode and keep practicing for a little while 
 to stop embarrasing myself worldwide!
  (+) The new items are awesome, but still it feels like there should be a few more items since it 
 gets kinda boring when you are first and the only one thing that comes to you are banana peels.
 
  (+) Unlockables are great with a huge list of characters and vehicles to choose from. Although 
 is very unlikely that someone will ever want to play as baby Daisy.
  ( - ) I never played much the older mariokart games but you can tell that there is a big difference 
 between the new courses and some of the old ones. 
  ( - ) I think the major flaw this game has is lack of depth. As I said in less than 2 hours I got 
 to see all 32 courses in 50cc, then it took me other hour or so to finish it in 100cc. Considering 
 the game has a lot of recycled material they should probably had done more new courses.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gddr45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Finally. The 6th installment to Nintendo's Mario Kart Series. But is the best?
  
  Pros
  The courses are very creative
  Online is better
  Any skill can play
  Doing tricks and wheelies 
 are very fun and easy
  Dirt Bikes
  
  Cons
  The item balance is really bad
  No mission mode
  The classic courses are very boring
  Graphics look the same as Double Dash
 
  Battle mode is team based and timed
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is excellent. The game modes are the Grand Prix, where you are pitted against 11 CPU 
 players to battle it out for the cup. There are 16 new courses, which are really fun to play, and 
 16 classics from other games in the series. The old courses won't keep you entertained for very 
 long, but they do bring back memories. The new items include the POW brick from Mario Bros., the 
 Lighting Cloud, and the Mega Mushroom.
  The items don't mesh very well with the new courses. The stunts don't mesh with the old ones. You 
 have a descision to make here.
  There is the time trial mode in which you can go for your best time without the competition. VS 
 mode where you can race on the courses you have unlocked. And then battle mode where you are put 
 on teams and either pop the other teams balloons, or collecting coins for the highest total. There 
 is no more Free For All. You have to be on a team. Battle is also timed now, which is a drag. In 
 balloon battle, when you die, you come back to life. So it's not very hard to win. Another con 
 is they took out mission mode, but that won't disappoint you too much Score: 9/10
  
  Multiplayer:
  I can't describe multiplayer, because it pretty much like single player. I will 
 give my rating. 8.5/10
  
  Online:
  This has improved a LOT, since Mario Kart DS's online. You know longer will wait 20 minutes and 
 keep dropping the signal. It only takes about 20 seconds. Yay!!! In Nintendo WFC, You choose if 
 its VS or Battle. You can choose to race your friends, people in your reigion (country) , or even 
 all over the world. You can race up to 11 other people. Everyone then votes on a course, and then 
 it's randomly picked. Then you're off! If you finish in a good position, you earn experience points. 
 If you finish in a bad position, you loose experience points. You get and loose points depending 
 on how many you already have. You start with 5000. In Battle, you can gain points even if your 
 team looses. You just have to get a lot of induvidual points. I recommend you don't do battle, 
 but it's your choice. Score: 9/10
  
  Graphics:
  You might be dismayed to know this, but the graphics haven't changed a bit 
  since Double Dash. 
 You can still see the edges and minor pixels on the characters. Plus, the character models and 
 the character selection screen are the same, too. Score: 8/10
  
  Sound: The sound is superb. When someone gets hit by a red or blue shell, the sound comes out clear. 
 The soundtrack is also the best I've heard on the 16 new tracks. Score: 9/10
  
  Controls: The controls are nice and solid. The new Wii Wheel is used to steer, so you you can clearly 
 see that the game takes control of the console's motion sensing. It feels like driving a real car. 
 To do stunts, all you have to do is flick. That's right, flick. If you are not up to it, the Wii 
 Mote and Nunchuck, Classic Controller, and the GameCube controller work just as well. Score: 9/10
 
  
  As you can tell Mario Kart Wii is a really fun game that anyone can jump into and have the time 
 of their lives!
  
  Overall: 8.5/10
  
  What are you waiting for? Get behind the wheel!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReviewKing
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This Mario Kart has a lot of ups, but also some downs and I'll tell any of you who are reading 
 this. First off, the game still has cool unlockables, but you have to do all in grand prix mode 
 which is stupid, and the biggest reason its stupid is 150cc is a pain in the butt. The multiplayer 
 is really good, but it makes the gameplay less graphical and that you don't get to have 2 players 
 playing Grand Prix mode for a better chance of getting all of that unlockable crap. But the best 
 part is the Wi-Fi connection, you can race the country and even the world. Once you beat the game, 
 wait, it dosen't end cause Nintendo sends tournaments out so you can enjoy the game more, also 
 Wi-Fi has like, no lag at all, it feels like you're playing with them on your couch. Another bad 
 thing though is that it needs a storyline, really it dosen't make since why they are racing is 
 beyond me. Another addition is the Wii Wheel, once I started the game, I played really good, but 
 when my friends started playing, they thought it was harder than a controller, I'm guessing the 
 Wii Wheel is for experts or something like that and I didn't know because I really haven't heard 
 a review before this review. The Wii stages for racing is awesome, when will you ever see Rainbow 
 Road that hard? Maybe you will, maybe Nintendo wants you to fall to win. What am I saying, I don't 
 want Rainbow road to be that hard, I'll go crazy and I might try to put the game in a blender like 
 that one guy on Youtube did with the Wii Wheel and the Halo 3 disc. But the retro stages are stupid, 
 they have too much Mario stages, Nintendo made Mario into a show off and they make all the other 
 characters look like CRAP. They even make Yoshi look bad by putting one of Yoshi's bad places so 
 it'll be all about Mario. This game will make you play for a long time, if the unlockables dosen't 
 make youm happy, then Wi-Fi might make you happy. If you don't like this game, then why am I telling 
 you all this, go away you person with bad taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monoloco12345
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  The controls were hard to get used to at first, but when you got used to them, it was a fun game. 
 Also the graphics were really good too. But, i had a hard time on some of the new maps at first, 
 and after a lot of practice, i was really good at them.
  
  One thing i didn't like was how they changed the balloon battles. I like the old ways of playing 
 it: If you ran out of balloons then you die and have to wait for the round to be over. But now 
 they have a time limit and you keep coming back to life. Also, the new way has two teams playing 
 each other, instead of being independent. 
  
  I liked all the Mario Kart games so far. All the way back to the Nintendo 64. But the wii version 
 is by far the best one yet. I don't know how they can make this game better than it is right now, 
 except to improve the battle mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ippe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  I don't know what the hell is going on, but when I'm getting older I'm getting more and more interested 
 in fun (I mean maybe more like funny) and wild and wacky games. When I was a teenager Nintendo 
 was a curse word for me, but now I already have done the blasphemous thing of buying my own Wii, 
 as my wife was already interested in having Wii Fit and anyway this more physically active way 
 of playing was interesting to her and for me too.
  
  And definitely the purchase seems to have been a good decision. Only now I'm starting to realize 
 that the simplicity and fast, fun action has been the key, why Nintendo has been able to get such 
 a huge success with people of all age. 
  
  Well that's it for the rambling and now to the review:
  
  Graphics 9.0
  
  Graphics are 
 not exactly the highest resolution, but they are wonderfully colourful and the characters are still 
 made in quite detailed and fun way. Also the graphics have very rarely any glitches in even the 
 highest paced action that the game can provide. Definitely the graphics don't even need to be any 
 better in this kind of a game.
  
  Sounds 8.5
  
  Mostly funny sounds of the characters and typical Nintendo jingles. Sounds of the cars and bikes 
 are not particularly impressive. But again the sounds do pretty much what they are supposed to 
 do for the game. Anyway this game has nothing to do with realism.
  
  Playability 9,5
  
  It's crazy, it's wacky, it's revenge and payback time in cool multiplayer environment! The game 
 is simple enough for even a first timer to get the grips of the basic play fairly quickly, but 
 there is still also some tactics to learn, so that you can do well in a regular basis and not only 
 just aided by luck. The game is ver addictive to play and it definitely has that "just one more 
 game"-quality that makes you realize that it's really possible to play games until 6 in the morning 
 without really feeling tired.
  
  Overall 9.5
  
  The game has wide selection of characters, vehicles and very many different kinds of tracks with 
 many specialties of their own. And of course you will not have all ready for you right away, so 
 you will be having quite much fun even driving just by yourself to unlock all the tracks and characters. 
 And of course there is always the fun of making records for time trials - and comparing your results 
 on the continental or even worldwide level.
  
  The multiplayer works fantastically - and even on-line. The only complaint I have is though about 
 the online multiplayer, because it's not possible to drive any grand prix and cup competitions 
 online. If that ability was in the game, it would be something that would make me give a full 10 
 for Mario Kart Wii. 
  
  Anyway an excellent game which I recommend to anyone who loves speed and just plain simple fun. 
 Grab your Mario Kart Wii as quickly as you can and have a good time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crszn962015
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I got the game 3 days ago and I am addicted. It is easy to catch on to the Wii Wheel, which is 
 the primary method of control in this game. The good traits about the Wii Wheel are, easy to use, 
 similar to real driving, and better than wearing out your hands from pressing buttons on a Playstation 
 controller.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 The Gameplay is really fun, and has the best Gameplay of any racing game I ever 
 played. The Gameplay provides a fun challenge for almost all players. After I got the game, I jumped 
 right into it and it was one of the best gaming experiences I've had. There is some awesome powerups 
 like a mega mushroom that you can't find in any other racing game.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 Not a lot to say about the graphics. Good graphics for a Wii game, (although if 
 it is a Mario game you don't expect the best graphics in the world) Graphics were totally redone 
 on the tracks that came from previous Mario Kart games. 
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10 Multiplayer mode is now more than I though it would be. You can now race and 
 battle people around the world with the Mario Kart channel. Plus, it is even free! I would suggest 
 getting to be a better player before you use the Mario Kart channel. Even the regular multiplayer 
 and battle mode are really fun. 
  
  Sound: 10/10 the great sound effects match up with the events that are happening. The great soundtrack 
 is well-written, as with most great games. The sounds are clear and are easy to recognize, like 
 they are supposed to be. Although some of the sounds are re-used, they are still good sounds.
 
  
  Overall: 9.75/10 Best Mario Kart made, definitely worth buying, and appeals to a broad audience. 
 One minor flaw: CPU players get WAY too many blue shells and all the other good powerups. I rounded 
 the score up too 10 because of the amazing multiplayer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_the_beast
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Mario kart wii is an amazing game for all ages and genders, gotta check it out. Mario kart wii 
 has probably the best graphics i have ever seen for the wii they r perfect cartoon graphics theres 
 no game yet wit graphics like these ones, this game altho alot like the rest of the mario kart 
 series is still fun becuz they have added a few new things to the wii edition in this series like 
 now they have more karts and they even have bikes in the series and to make this game one of the 
 best they combined the best in all the series to make the greatest mario kart ever.
  
  I think this game could use a few more things like, they need more to do then just racing they 
 need to give it missions to accomplish and customizations to their vehicles, this game should give 
 people the chance to create their own vehicles from assorted materials and mabe even design their 
 own tracks, and tournaments. I think this gamre needs to update its character selections also cuz 
 as many of u kno mario is gettin up there inthe years as one of the longest running series out 
 there.
  
  The vehicle selections r better now then ever but wit these changes and a few more characters i 
 think mario could be reborn into a new stylish series makin mario kart a bigger hit then the wii 
 has already made it.
  
  Online wit Mario kart wii is amazing it can get very stressful and difficult but u get to play 
 wit people round the world where u may learn new things bout the game and make new frerinds, also 
 u may play wit people on ur freinds list whenever u want to and whenever there online.
  
  Mario Kart Wii things to check out:
  
  Rainbow Road
  
  DK Summit
  
  SNES tracks
  
 
  and Online play 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: althegeek
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart. Many years have we spent slipping on banana's, firing red shells and using sneaky shortcuts, 
 just to smacked by a blue shell at the last corner and overtaken by that smug git Wario, has it 
 always been worth it? Yes.
  
  So nearly 5 years after Mario's last racing outing, it's back and it's left it's double team cars 
 in the garage, only to have them replaced..... by bikes?! it would seem though, In recent years 
 many have complained about their Nintendo franchises being stuck in a rut, But just like Super 
 Mario Galaxy, Mario Kart once again proves the nay-sayers wrong and gives a large racing game with 
 tons of unlockable racers, hidden features, online play and so many control methods, you could 
 just fall in love with the game all over again to get used to another control scheme.
  
  Ah, the control scheme. This Mario Kart comes in a jumbo box, this is because bundled with Mario 
 Kart Wii is the appropriatley titled Wii Wheel. you slot your wii remote into the Wii Wheel, unfortunatley, 
 it adds no new buttons to the controller, so it does in the long run feel a waste. To make things 
 worse, i personally found controlling with it took too long to master and was really inaccurate. 
 Other people i've seen using it though have managed to use it effectively. It's also compatible 
 with the Wiimote+nunchuk combo, the classic controller and a Gamecube controller. Oh, wait, Gameube 
 controller? the controls will be the same as on the last one, right? RIGHT? wrong. Nintendo somehow 
 managed to Nerf the GC controller, so it's completely useless and the classic controllers not much 
 better. However there is a silver lining on this rain cloud. The Remote+ Nunchuk works really well 
 and esily makes up for the incompetence of the others. 
  
  Now on the gameplay. Mario Kart still hasn't changed since the SNES days and it's basically the 
 same here, with the exception of 12 racers instead of eight. This obviously means more characters 
 than the "Great eight", more on that later. The aforementioned bikes are also a major change, they 
 go faster than karts, but can't get a good drift. There's also the option of Automatic or manual, 
 which just allows you to get a drift boost. The tracks are similar to the DS version. There's 4 
 cups with brand new tracks (starting with a Luigi Circuit and ending with Rainbow Road as always) 
 and 4 cups with retro tracks from the SNES, N64, GBA, GC and DS versions. Now the retro tracks 
 are well picked, however, there are only 2 GBA tracks, which is a letdown and a couple of tracks 
 that would have worked well (Waluigi Pinball, Wario Stadium) are absent. The only recurring problem 
 with the tracks though is the size, the tracks are made bigger to cater 12 karts, but when you 
 do racers with 4 people or on time trial, the tracks seem too big and empty
  
  When you race on the game, on 50cc and 100cc you can probably get through it pretty quickly without 
 fuss, but 1500cc is such a jump in difficulty, it's actually a great adrenaline shot. You'll fail 
 several times, but you'll still be compelled to try the cup again and again. Nintendo has finally 
 nailed the difficulty. The main reason for the difficulty is mainly the unfairness of the "random" 
 items. Obviously with more than eight racers, the items aren't distributed as well as before, everyone 
 below 6th can get a dramatically altering item (Bullet Bill, Blue Shell, Lightning) whihc will 
 irritate you. 
  
  As mentioned, there are now 12 racers racing at one time, this means there are more characters 
 than ever, at the start we have the "great eight" Of Mario, Luigi, Peach, Yoshi, Toad, DK, Wario 
 and Bowser, plus Baby Mario, Baby Peach, Koopa Troopa and Waluigi. there are also many unlockable 
 racers including
  Baby Luigi, Baby Daisy, Daisy, Birdo, Dry Bones, Dry Bowser, Funky Kong, King Boo, Diddy Kong, 
 Bowser Jr, Mii, Rosalina and Toadette. Now with so many characters, you may think this is an excellent 
 roster. I'm not sure, the four Baby characters seem shoehorned in because they needed more lighter 
 characters, when some characters, who could be lightweight or middleweight are moved up to heavier 
 classes.
  
  And finally, the Wi-fi. This is easily the best mode in the game, online racing in Mario kart DS 
 was excellent and it's been carried well here too. It doesn't take long to find other people and 
 there's no lag, the only letdown is the incredible frustrating friend codes.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LosDaddie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  You play Mario Kart because you want some fun, casual racing. You play Mario Kart because anyone 
 can pick up a controller and play. You play Mario Kart for the mayhem. You play Mario Kart for 
 the insane racing tracks.
  
  Mario Kart Wii provides all that while adding in online play and 4 more racers per racetrack. Yup, 
 that means 12-player races. Nintendo also added in tricks for when your racers does jumps.
  
  Oh and Nintendo improved the Turbo Boost feature. Instead of moving the analog stck form side-to-side, 
 you now just have to take a good angle and hold it through a turn to get the Turbo Boost. That 
 means no snaking!
  
  Complaints would be less-than-impressive visuals and no voice chat for online. The Wii Wheel is 
 functional but not ideal.
  
  A must-have for any Wii owner and Mario Kart fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has always been a popular series, ever since the SNES. I will tell you how Mario Kart 
 WII stacks up.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of Mario kart Wii is almost exactely like its siblings except for one big 
 difference. Instead of using a standard Nintendo controller you use the Wii Mote tilted on its 
 side and you tilt it either left or right to turn your character. This is a very fun change to 
 the series but it takes some getting used to too really master the driving. Another fun change 
 for MKW is the addition of Motorcycles. Motorcycles handle and feel much different than the Karts 
 do and they come in handy on certain tracks where turning is a bit trickier. The Main objective 
 of a race in MKW is too win it of course but you wont be able to do that without running into the 
 Item boxes which gets you a wacky item to use for yourself or against your opponents. The Items 
 in MKW are a little more unbalanced than the other games but they are still lots of fun to use 
 and without them the game wouldnt be nearly as good. The Tracks in MKW are the best yet, besides 
 having some tracks from previous games there are also tons of new tracks that are so wacky and 
 creative its hard not to love them. The Characters are balanced and each one has something they 
 do well, something they do bad, and something thats right in the middle. One thing that is a bummer 
 for MKW is that battle mode is timed which takes a lot of the previous fun out of it. The other 
 modes are very very fun and will keep you entertained for a long time.
  9.5/10
  
  Graphics: The Graphics for MKW are very good yes but not nearly as good as some other Wii Titles. 
 The graphics are quite colorfull and they reflect the wacky nature of MKW but they dont make MKW 
 the best looking game yet by any means. Another problem is the amount of glitches that will get 
 you stuck sometimes. Though this rarely happens it can be very frustrating in a close race. Overall 
 not the best but not the worst.
  7.5/10
  
  Sound: MKW has a very awsome soundtrack. the music goes perfectly with the tracks that you play 
 on and no sound sounds out of place. The sound effects when you are getting bumped or going off 
 jumps are great. Some sounds seem to be reused though from previous titles which isnt bad but it 
 does make some sounds seem dated sometimes. Overall, sound is excellent with only a couple minor 
 flaws.
  9.5/10
  
  Multiplayer & Replayability: MKW has amazing Multiplayer. Whether your playing local or over Nintendo 
 WFC it is guaranteed to be a blast. The online play is smooth and it is much like the DS online 
 play in terms of presentation. It took me no less then 5 minutes to find a match and the online 
 play runs very smooth. MKW is a game you will be coming back to for a loooong time. Whether it 
 be to challenge a friend or beat your best grade you will always enjoy this one.
  10/10
  
  Overall: Mario kart Wii is a very very good game. With only a few flaws and lots of fun to 
 be had this is a pickup for any fan of the series or any gamer at all.
  9.0/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  With Wii sales blooming and stores finally getting in more shipments to accommodate those eventful 
 purchasers, Wii gamers are now trying to choose what to play. While the third party support is 
 lacking, Nintendo is still remaining faithful to the devoted, issuing up the newest installment 
 in the Mario Kart series. While this installment has some new tweaks, items, and online multiplayer, 
 you probably won't find much difference between this version and the others that preceded it. It's 
 not a bad game, far from it, it's just a few things make it suffer from too much nostalgia and 
 not enough innovation.
  
  Mario Kart Wii comes packaged with a Wii Wheel, a plastic shell that you place your controller 
 inside to mimic a steering wheel. Right out of the box the Wheel felt less than durable and actually 
 looked like cheap plastic. After cycling through numerous players, each one found it incredibly 
 hard and unreliable to use. Simply put, the Wii Wheel causes more problems than it intends. It 
 lacks the efficient button layout as the classic or GameCube controllers, making racing sometimes 
 disorienting for newcomers. Holding the Wheel with the controller lying horizontal makes the races 
 feel slightly disadvantageous, considering acceleration is the smallest button on the controller.
 
  
  Using the classic or Gamecube controllers is your best option if you want to get the most out of 
 the game. Both controllers have a very similar button layout and are much easier for anyone to 
 understand when they are ready for a quick match. The Wiimote's button layouts are not necessary 
 a concern, but there are some moments, such as performing jumps and tricks, where using the Wiimote 
 can work against you. When using the Wiimote, you have to physically perform these moves by moving 
 your Wiimote in specific directions, whereas the other controllers require a simple button press. 
 It's a lot more simple to mess up using the Wiimote during a race, and that could lead to disaster 
 overall.
  
  As far as racing is concerned, the same basic setup as previous titles is available. Players can 
 choose between single and multiplayer modes and then choose their respected races. Single player 
 mode only has the closed circuit races, ranging from 50cc to 150cc. However, despite the advancing 
 difficulties, each difficulty requires a different vehicle, offering up a change once in a while 
 instead of just ramping up the difficulty. For example, the 50cc circuit is karts only, 100cc bikes 
 only, and 150cc is bikes and karts. It's an interesting dynamic that should please any fan looking 
 for a challenge. The difference between the vehicles is hard to see at first, but their differences 
 lie in their durability and effectiveness. Karts move much slower but are heavier and easier to 
 ram people, while bikes are faster but susceptible to getting bumped easier by other players and 
 at sharp turns. Determining which vehicle to use on any course is always a fun and debatable argument.
 
  
  However, despite the different settings, the difficulty surmounted in the game is excruciating. 
 It seems Nintendo wanted to appeal to the many racing fans from other consoles and tried to up 
 the ante to gain their attention. While the 50cc circuit doesn't get remotely hard till the last 
 few tracks, the 100cc and 150cc courses are sometimes impossible to get first place on every race. 
 The reasoning behind this is the unbalanced item management system; something the series has always 
 been good at performing. The favorable items (such as lightning, banana peels) appear way too often, 
 and going from first to last place is as easy and saying turtle shell. There was a moment in a 
 race where Yoshi was enjoying a sizeable lead and got hit by a rogue turtle shell, the delay to 
 recuperate and start up again resulted in him ending up in eighth place. Although the harder difficulties 
 are known for giving players a much more advanced challenge, there have never been games where 
 sizeable leads amounted to nothing. The rubber band AI in the game is ridiculously overused, with 
 the AI characters constantly staying on your tail no matter what you throw at them, however if 
 you get hit with one turtle shell you are left in the dust. Also, another minor annoyance has you 
 losing your items whenever you get hit, which sort of takes the fun out of trying to branch a comeback.
 
  
  With most racing games, the advantage of regaining the lead you lost is always an option. That 
 option however seems lost with Mario Kart. All too often were we bombarded with ridiculously powerful 
 item three times in a row, sometimes first by a red turtle shell, than a green one, and then lightning 
 to top it off. The thrill of racing sometimes loses its appeal when you get pummeled so fast and 
 quickly by the opposing AI characters and then fall into last without any chance of catching up. 
 This scenario happened four out of the five times we raced, so it isn't akin to only certain maps.
 
  
  However, there are some new items and upgrades that make the items worthwhile to pick up and use 
 if you happen to get the opportunity. Bullet Bill makes his first appearance on a Nintendo console 
 (minus the handheld versions) , which lets you assume the role of the flying bomb and crash through 
 any players in front of you, ultimately materializing on the course wherever you end up. Bob-ombs 
 can explode in a huge blast radius and now blue turtle shells target only the first place player 
 and act like a giant bomb that gets dropped on top of you. These three items are probably the most 
 fun and powerful to use in the game, and they appear quite often, making it both exciting and wary 
 to all drivers.
  
  The maps in Mario Kart are fun to peruse over in the menus, but after racing through some of them 
 you have to wonder where the innovation and imaginative ideas Nintendo is known for has gone. Many 
 of the maps are recycled levels from previous games, and others are just re-invented courses with 
 different names to make you think they are new, such as Waluigi Arena. There are a few cool tracks, 
 such as one where you race through a giant factory or a mini mall, but the wide diverse track setups 
 you have once known and loved from previous titles is gone, and unlocking the better and newer 
 maps requires time and lots of endurance.
  
  The visuals themselves look up to par with Wii's standards, but compared to the other stellar Mario 
 title, Galaxy, it pales in comparison. The character models in particular are pretty bad, with 
 blocky layouts in the menu and vehicle changes that hardly look different at all. Many of the explosions 
 caused by items look out of place during races and only the new maps tend to look like true Mario 
 Kart courses. The latter section of tracks usually fall under the category of rehashed visuals 
 or water-enhanced tracks, which sad to say is about one half of all the courses in the game.
  
  The multiplayer modes are probably the best aspects of Mario Kart, and it is here that you 
 do not have to worry about the item bombarding or the rubber band AI. Up to four people can participate 
 in split-screen races and a total of up to 12 online. The online matches had surprisingly little 
 or no lag at all and races were fluid more or less throughout the entire race. Players can hook 
 up with friends or join quick matches against random people, all the while engaging in either closed 
 circuit races or battle modes. The races are designed to be fun for everyone, so you will be placed 
 accordingly to race against players with your same skill setting and in the closet region to you. 
 This move helps get rid of alienation from the more hardcore players. There is also a new Mario 
 Kart Channel, which lets you use your Miis to compete in tournaments or just interact with other 
 players. The tournaments usually consist of races against other players for prizes, although Nintendo 
 hasn't officially revealed what you win during these tournaments.
  
  While online play is definitely the best new aspect of Mario Kart, there is still plenty of fun 
 to have if you don't have access to Wi-Fi. The battle and coin modes are still around, having players 
 duke it out to achieve the highest possible scores. Battle mode has players grabbing items to pop 
 balloons situated on the back of each person's kart, with the team with the most balloon pops at 
 the end being declared the winner. The coin battle mode plays out ultimately the same but player's 
 race around the track to collect coins, which can then be stripped from opposing players by hitting 
 them or knocking them into obstacles. Although the battle modes are fun match-ups and usually involve 
 lots of mayhem and fun, they have now been reduced to only team-based affairs, making the term 
 "every man for himself" a thing of the past. Plus there is no option to turn off the timer (game's 
 only last three minutes) and with only five maps available, the options are pretty slim for these 
 two modes. They are still tons of fun, but a little more diversity in both management and levels 
 would have been welcome.
  
  With Mario Kart being the epitome of racing franchises for many years, it is sad to see how little 
 the game changes its dry formula and actually takes several leisurely steps at addressing failing 
 issues. The use of super-powerful items is abnormally constant throughout the game, and the AI's 
 ability to regain the lead after being lapped is a huge downfall in terms of playability. The multiplayer 
 modes are still the best bang for your buck, offering nonstop racing action and battles, but the 
 lack of a sophisticated single player mode leaves this Mario Kart title stuck in the pits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jstevenys
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Too bad it is nearly impossible to find either a Wii or this game.
  
  Difficulty: "Very Hard" to find.
  
  Classification: "Disappointing" that Nintendo is either 
 limiting production or limiting distribution so I can't buy the system or the game.
  
  The few times I've played it on an in-store display were pretty fun, but I'm really tired of the 
 supply shortages that Nintendo either has created or has not remedied. Yes, yes, I understand that 
 a big part of selling a system these days is making it look really popular... but I live in a major 
 city and the nearest Target gets one or two Wiis a week, and maybe five copies of this game a week. 
 The Wii shortage is almost swallowable, but Nintendo can't find the wherewithall to print enough 
 CDs to meet the demand for Mario Kart? What? That doesn't make any sense; that only makes me disgusted 
 with Nintendo.
  
  Shape up, Nintendo. You're limited supply song and dance has long since out-stayed its welcome. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoCC123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I admit at first i was a bit dissapointed of Mario Kart Wii. It was not as gut busting fun as Double 
 Dash had been. I mean sure there was now a steering wheel and tons of new characters and karts 
 but it just felt as though something was missing. I played the game nonetheless since i am a die-hard 
 Nintendo fan and i would find myself not being able to put the Wii wheel down. I suddenly felt 
 addicted and possesed by this game. Theres something about it that made it so special and i couldnt 
 figure it out. I mean besides the fact that the new items were perfectly balanced, the levels were 
 the most clever things i had ever seen, the characters had more spunk than before, the bikes were 
 a perfect addition, the WiFi play was near perfection, and there was more things to do than in 
 any other mario kart ever made. But after playing this game a long time it felt more than just 
 a silly racing game. It was a game that you will remember for the rest of your life and cherish 
 in your memories. This game is meant for every kind of person. Even if you do not love the mario 
 or nintendo type games you will love how perfectly made this game is. You will find yourself playing 
 it for hours and hours never getting old and never coming to an ending. Unlike the old mario karts 
 you never really beat this game. Itll take you weeks and weeks to unlock everything yet when thats 
 over you can play online tournaments which are updated every few days and get versus points from 
 playing with people all around the world. If everyone in the world had this game there would probably 
 be no wars or fighting (exaggeration) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_peter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  Welcome to the world of Mario Kart - racing versus all the regulars of the series.
  
  The single player mode is engaging and the difficulty rises as your skills do with mostly even 
 powerups (the only ovecharged one being the Blue Shell) , and little to no signs of the cpu cheating 
 that occurred with previous versions. The higher difficulty levels can mean that one well placed 
 powerup can mean the difference between finished last and first. 
  
  The offline multiplayer is controlled and is highly enjoyable, and customisable settings so you 
 can decide or let the computer decide randomly your race. The online multiplayer is where this 
 game truly excells - with constant online competitions and a fair rating system - but with people 
 constantly selecting Rainbow Road (a bugbear track of mine) . My only gripe is with the battle system, 
 which feels "bolted on" in an attempt to extend the replayability.
  
  Enjoyable game that comes reccommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegamemonkey
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 9, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This review contains my strong opinions of Mario Kart wii, so if you love this game more than life 
 itself like everyone does, don't bother reading this. 
  
  Gameplay: The entire A. I. system is much more unbalanced than before. The elements are always against 
 you due to the fact that all of the racers drive extremely close to each other so everyone can 
 pass you in unfairly small amounts of time. The concept of items makes being in first place hard 
 and extremely dangerous. Almost everything and everyone will attack you the minute you start doing 
 well. It is so bad, you may be tempted to break the controller.
  
  Graphics: Virtually no improvement over the last installment. They may seem polished off, but you 
 would have to look very hard to notice. It seems that after the huge jump Double Dash made, there 
 is nothing left to improve.
  
  Sound: Not much is particularly bad about the sound other than the fact that Characters who were 
 never meant to speak (such as Mii) now have terrible, annoying voices. 
  
  Control: Drifting is much more difficult to do in comparison to previous games and often takes 
 you off the course. You might as well just hold down the accelerate button and steer to avoid collisions 
 because all of the new techniques will only mess you up. The edition of the wheel shaped controller 
 is completely unnecessary because all it does is go over the normal controller; which works fine 
 on it's own. 
  
  Replay Value: Die-hard fans of the series will play this for hours on end until the next Mario 
 kart arrives. For everyone else though, You may start to question why you are still playing this 
 after you have unlocked all of the clone-like characters.
  
  Overall: I only recommend Mario Kart wii to fans of the series and people who enjoy being hit with 
 blue shells. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tireyo643
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is an improvement in the series in every way. Like Mario Kart DS, Mario Kart Wii 
 has online support to make your experience more fun. I think that racing with other gamers all 
 around the world is a positive hands on experience on getting the movements of learning how to 
 drive with others on the road, even though you are supposed to hit each other with different odd 
 objects! Kids and even adults can enjoy Mario Kart Wii. I highly recommend this game to everyone! 
 I respectively give Mario Kart Wii an 8.5 because the game does have its problems and is not perfect. 
 The selection of characters and tracks are great, but the quality of some of the tracks and characters 
 could be better. You could get bored after awhile, but Mario Kart Wii has the elements that you 
 can come back to again and again. Don't waste your time or wait, go grab you a copy or even just 
 rent a game which is again Mario Kart Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirbilicious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart wii is a good update to the Mario Kart series because it let's you do all the things 
 that you could in the old Mario Kart with the addition of some items and characters! Of course 
 Mario Kart's been out on the shelves for a while but.... i never remembered it being this hard!! 
  .  
  I would like to say... Thanks Nintendo for another great game and for shutting up whiny gamers who 
 have no one else to play with! ^.^ 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eloge9876
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart wii is a great racing game that im sure you'll like. The wii wheel is a great addition 
 to the game. The game is not like other racing, you can get power ups in the game (as in any other 
 Mario game) . One power up which is very fond and well known in NEW Super Mario bros is the mega 
 mushroom. It does not only great in size but it also boosts your speed. You are completely huge for 
 a short period of time. if you get struck by lightning which if you are in your normal type character 
 you would be very small decreasing your speed. but if this happens while you have a mega mushroom 
 you go down to normal size which can still be an advantage because other people will be shrunk. There 
 are many more power ups in the game this is just one. So get this great game if you are up for crazy 
 driving and wheelies with bikes. Mario's new kart racing game and its on wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomguy15
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  The third installment of Mario Kart did not disappoint. With more of a character diversion then 
 ever and with a total of thirty-two tracks, I would recommend this to any Mario Kart fan.
  
  Of course the main attraction is the Grand Prix where you race against eleven other racers 
 in four different tracks per cup. The starting character roster when you first get the game is: 
 Mario, Luigi, Peach, Yoshi, Bowser, Baby Mario, Baby Luigi, Baby Peach, Wario, and Waluigi. Their 
 is thirteen hidden characters also. When you first start their is sixteen tracks from 4 cups. Their 
 is sixteen classic courses and sixteen new courses, but unfortunately some of the classic courses 
 are not that intresting.
  
  Another single player mode is Time Trials where you compete against staff ghosts or expert staff 
 ghosts or compete against other racers from around the world or your own wii fom other licenses. 
 Mario Kart brought back single or multiplayer balloon battle, or catch the shine sprites, but a 
 set back is that it is timed and you have to be on teams. Their is also versus but you have to 
 against all the racers on single or multiplayer mode. 
  
  When you pick your character and cup you are ready to race which is usually filled with trick places 
 where if you use the wheel you tilt it forward or backward and you do tricks, you can also tilt 
 it left or right to do a trick left or right. The wheel works very well I just wish it was bigger, 
 it seems like it was made for toddlers hands. In races their is also items that you can use to 
 do different effects like: ink you to reduce your vision, electrocute you to make you smaller and 
 move slower, red shell that locks on to you and kn ocks you forward. ect. The only negative i have 
 about the weapons is I feel the bullet bill is unfair sometimes when it takes you from twelfth 
 to third or even better. and not to mention when your in first it seems like you can't stop getting 
 blasted from weapons, It's like getting pisslewhipped with blue shells and red shells or lightning 
 bolts.
  
  So with the new wii wheel and new charcters and courses you will definitly get your moneys worth, 
 it is defintly great at parties, not to mention it has the best wi-fi on hte wii yet. If your a 
 MarioKart fan or love racing this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledzep1959
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii has gotten about an 8 from every critic that I have seen. But it is better than 
 that. It is definitely better than Double Dash, but then again, it is different. There are a couple 
 of flaws though that bother me. The graphics are Gamecube graphics. That is something that can 
 be spotted right off the bat. Also, Nintendo made the silly decision (in my opinion) to take 16 
 older courses and put them in the game as apposed to a total of 32 brand new courses. The 16 new 
 courses, however, are spectacular. The new Rainbow Road and Bowser's Castle, are both magnificent. 
 
  The most peculiar thing about this game is the addition of motorcycles. They handle WAY better 
 than karts. But each bike is a lot different. 
  The online is spectacular. It works like Mario Kart DS. Another think i like is the use of your 
 Mii as a driver. Its a lot of fun. Buy it. But don't bother using the wheel that comes with it. 
 Use a GameCube controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppita001
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart is just plain fun. It is an easy game and its like you are driving a real car. It is 
 more fun to play with family and friends than playing by yourself against all computer players. 
 Its also fun playing with people all around the world and I like how there are so many different 
 and fun courses ,karts and bikes. You can also unlock more people and courses by playing by yourself 
 in the grand prix. I also like how you can play in teams and have a ballon and coin battle. There's 
 also a time trail where you can time how fast you can finish a course against a ghost. It could 
 of been better if there were more different courses, karts, bikes and more items to throw when you 
 get a box. I think its a good game for children sinces its a easy game for me and I think they 
 would enjoy driving around with a steering wheel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltimaSlayer94
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the mario kart series since the SNES. Double Dash on the Gamecube especially 
 drew me into the series, and I've loved it ever since. So, I looked forward to this game and all 
 of it's new content, but it soon became apparent it might be a simple cash-in on a beloved franchise. 
 Is it really? I'll break the game down.
  
  Presentation: Mario Kart games never did have a story behind it, and this one is no exception. 
 AI is the same as it was in Double Dash, though the 150CC cup is far harder than in previous entries 
 now. Many people complain about the steering wheel included with the game, saying its very inaccurate 
 and any true Mario Kart fan should use the gamecube controller. Well, I tried both, and I have 
 to say I actually found the steering wheel not to just be a gimmick, but a better means of control. 
 I beat all 3 cups with flying colors with it, and it was much more fun than a simple controller, 
 so if a Mario Kart pro like myself can enjoy the wheel, I'm sure newcomers and diehards alike can 
 too. Production values are pretty low, and most of the stuff is the same as in Double Dash and 
 Mario Kart DS. 8/10
  
  Graphics: They're good for a Wii game. It's basically Double Dash but with crisper stages and character 
 models. Classic stages are all beefed up, though some stages are basically recycled palettes of 
 older stages. Overall, it looks good for a Mario Kart game, and there's no slowdown or framerate 
 issues, not even online as Nintendo is infamous for. 8.5/10
  
  Sound: All of the music in the game is basically classic Mario and Donkey Kong tracks. Sound effects 
 don't sound real, but they don't need to. The classic franchise tracks are in here as well, and 
 overall the music is what you would expect in a Nintendo game. 9/10
  
  Gameplay: A mixed bag. The new changes include bikes (which are basically the same thing as karts, 
 to be honest) , 16 new stages, and 16 old stages (the latter is retouched with better graphics, and 
 the penguin map is still as frustrating as we all remember) , a few new characters (though Nintendo 
 definitely didn't care in this aspect, they just picked a few baby characters that had maybe one 
 or two cameos in the entire gaming universe) and online play. However, I have a lot of gripes here. 
 Double karting is gone, which, let's face it, pretty much saved the Mario Kart universe before it 
 got old and stale. This is a letdown, but not a gigantic deal. Mario Kart games never were known 
 for their balance, but in this entry... balance is nonexistant. Power-ups are now based on what 
 place you are. So, for example, if you are first, you will only get bananas and green shells, which, 
 I suppose, is OK. However, here's where it just gets broken. When you are in the second tier of 
 places (7-12) , you have about a 95% chance to get a bullet bill, a mega mushroom, or a star power-up. 
 If not, then you will get infinite turbo mushrooms or a blue shell. This basically insures that 
 even if you're in last place, touch a power-up box, and bam, you're in the top three. Mario Kart 
 games were never known for their balance, but, I mean, really... why this? Otherwise, the new characters, 
 karts, stages, and options are welcome additions, but they don't do nearly enough to be a true 
 stand-alone title. 6.5/10
  
  Lasting Appeal: This depends. I beat the 50,100, and 150 CC cups, all the minigame records, unlocked 
 everything I cared about, and did some online play. This lasted about 10 hours. Then, I had no 
 real reason to play the game. If you're a fan of online, this game could last you a long time. 
 But, personally, I don't enjoy playing online against a bunch of people who cant talk, text, or 
 communicate in any way possible. I also like to make my own games, not just pour into others. And 
 I'm not going to go around getting friend codes just so I can play against people whom I'm not 
 so sure are actually people.. I mean, really, how can one know if there's absolutely no communication, 
 no names, no matchmaking, or anything? Like all Nintendo games that have online, you may as well 
 just play single player. So, unless you're crazy, I doubt this game will last you more than 20 
 hours. 6/10
  
  So yes, I do believe that this is indeed a cash-in. There's not enough new content to make it a 
 true stand-alone title, and much of the "new" stuff in it is just recycled from previous entries. 
 Pick this game up if you are a diehard Mario Kart fan, but if not, stick to Double Dash and Mario 
 Kart DS, which have the better stages, characters, and balance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart 64 had a lot of charm, a lot of fun on boring summer days with the next door neighbors, 
 and a few unlockables here and there.
  
  But Mario Kart Wii brought something almost completely different to the table. A TON of unlockables, 
 the Wii's interactive system works amazingly with this game too.
  
  Graphics are fine. Back off the Wii for having "Bad Graphics" Because gameplay is all that matters! 
 WOO! 
  
  The battle mode in Mario Kart Wii is really fun, but the split screen makes it hard to work.
 
  
  Some bad things... The Wii wheel is sometimes hard to work with, and sometimes is actually a lot 
 of the time... But you get used to it, it's still amazingly fun! I really enjoyed this title, and 
 it's defiantly worth playing. I have played it 10 - 20 hours and haven't quite got bored yet! it's 
 just right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ikeswordman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  K well Mario Kart Wii is the newest installment in the popular MK franchise, and its the 1st MK 
 game on the Wii, so there has to be some kind of motion sensing capabilites, and there is you will 
 sterr just like u would a normal steering wheel in a car, and the added Wii Wheel which comes free 
 in the game is a very nice feature, and how does the Wheel do U ask, well its very responsive and 
 it feels like your actually driving a Kart when ur using it, there's 2 new features that make this 
 game very good, the inclusion of dirt bikes are very nice and I use the bikes instead of the karts, 
 and the other big new feature is the much anticapated online play which is as lag-less as possible 
 you will not have any lag in ur races whatsoever Nintendo really knew what they were doing on the 
 online play with this game, the only problem I see if this game is how frequently the CPU's get 
 items that can ruin the race for you as soon as you are getting ready to cross the finish line 
 it can get realy frustating when that happens.
  
  
  
  So in conclusion you will defientely want to pick up this game, and add it to ur Wii collection 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh_99
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart has many new features that some may love while others hate. Also some things have been 
 taken out of mario kart wii that will upset many.
  
  A new thing that has been added to this edition of mario kart is motor cycles, now you can race 
 two wheels, or four wheels and do huge tricks ands wheelies.
  
  Another thing that has been added is the online play. Yes you need friend codes but even if you 
 chose random you can get a game running in under 1 minute. Also you and your friend can be online 
 at the same time with the same wii so you can take on the world together.
  
  Some things that dissappoint veterans of the series is the lack of Co-op in the Grand prix mode. 
 But you can always do Vs. and chose any four tracks you want. 
  
  Another big letdown was the battle mode. You can only be on a team, there is no free for all, which 
 upsets many people.
  
  The controls for this game are spot on. There are four different controllers to choose from. Wii-mote 
 sideways and use motion controls (these work perfectly) , the gamecube controller, classic controller 
 or wiimote and nunchuck combo. With all of these different setups it will not be hard to find one 
 that suits you.
  
  Finally the unlockables. There are 25 characters that you can unlock, these characters are put 
 into 3 different catagories. Light, medium, and heavy depending on there weight. What weight class 
 you chose determines what bikes/Karts you use as well. Different vehicles handle differently so 
 you have to chose what suits you best.
  
  There are 32 tracks in the game. 16 new, and 16 classic. The new tracks are crazy in terms of boosts, 
 jumps, things going on during the track etc. The old tracks bring back the good times of other 
 mario kart days.
  
  Mario kart wii would have been the best in the series if it focuses a little more on the offline 
 multiplayer (co-op GP, battlemode) . But altogether it is a very good game, and if you dont have 
 it yet go pick it up now because you will spend hours and hours of fun times on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darrenc95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 9
  Graphics - 8
  Sound - 8
  Value - 10
  Tilt - 8
  
  Mario Kart made its debut on the Super Nintendo 16 years ago, and set the bar of quality for all 
 arcade-based kart racers to come by using items as a way to get to the top of the pack. In Mario 
 Kart Wii, unfortunately, that is taken to a negative extreme.
  
  When first playing, you choose a Mii to use for your driver's license and have 12 characters available 
 to choose from - Baby Mario, Baby Peach, Toad, Koopa Troopa, Mario, Luigi, Peach, Yoshi, Wario, 
 Waluigi, Bowser, and Donkey Kong. The other 14 must be unlocked.
  
  The Grand Prix is the main bulk of the game, and where the majority of unlockable characters and 
 karts will be... well, unlocked. You then choose a cup with four courses each to choose from. Initially, 
 there are only 4 cups available, and the others are unlockable by beating the first 4. This makes 
 up for a total of 32 tracks, half of which are from the SNES, N64, GBA, GCN, and DS versions of 
 Mario Kart. The 16 brand-new courses are very fun to play on and have unique layouts. The older 
 16 are still fun, but they don't really stand out like the newer ones do.
  
  When you're done with the Grand Prix, there's still many things left to do. The Time Trials lets 
 you perform by yourself with three mushroom boosts for the fastest time. Battle Mode lets you perform 
 on stages (half of which are, again, from older Mario Kart games) where you and computer opponents 
 see who can get the most coins (or pop the most balloons) . And VS. is where you can race against 
 computer opponents on Grand Prix races, but in whatever order you wish. The Mario Kart Channel 
 lets you view where you stand on time trials and tournaments with your friends, people on the same 
 continent, and people across the globe. And if you have it installed on your Wii dashboard, you 
 can access this part of the game without having the disc in. Online play has returned from the 
 DS version, and is much improved. This time, you can choose to race on any track you want to, and 
 can have up to 12 players instead of 4. You have a ranking that goes up and down based on your 
 performances online. And battle mode is now online.
  
  Since this is a kart-racing game, of course there will be go-karts, but for the first time ever, 
 Mario Kart gives you the opportunity to race on a bike. Bikes have many advantages and disadvantages 
 to karts. One example: while bikes can pop wheelies to gain a speed boost, they don't get as good 
 a mini-turbo as karts. Both karts and bikes have the ability to perform tricks while in mid-air 
 to gain a speed boost, no doubt inspired by Sonic Riders. For the first time ever, you can play 
 Mario Kart and literally be behind the wheel with Nintendo's new Wii Wheel peripheral. It's steering 
 isn't very accurate and no doubt won't have many fans aside from soccer moms and casual players. 
 However, there are three other control options: the Classic Controller, the GameCube controller, 
 and the Wii remote with the Nunchuck attachment - all of which work great.
  
  If you are a veteran Mario Kart racer, you are no doubt becoming very familiar with the Spiny Shell, 
 a blue shell that takes out the first place racer and anyone who drives through the explosion. 
 However, it and other powerful items occur way too often in Mario Kart Wii. It's very possible 
 that you could be driving along in first place with a huge lead, then you get hit by three red 
 shells, one green shell, two blue shells, slip on a banana peel, get struck by lightning, get hit 
 by a starman and be dead last. Nintendo needs to work out the kinks with the item unbalance here, 
 because it's very annoying and unfair since it seems to punish those who do well. Speaking of items, 
 three new items have been introduced here. The POW block from Super Paper Mario shakes the ground 
 three times and spins everybody on the third pow. The Mega Mushroom from New Super Mario Bros. 
 swells you to an enormous size and lets you flatten any racers who get in your way. And finally, 
 the Thunder Cloud from the arcade versions of Mario Kart gives you a speed boost and eventually 
 shrinks you if you don't pass it off by bumping somebody within the time limit. All three of these 
 items were not very good additions and could very well have been done without.
  
  The graphics are fine, though they are definitely not as good as Super Mario Galaxy's or Super 
 Smash Bros. Brawl's. The same can be said for the music.
  
  Mario Kart Wii has improved its online service greatly from the Mario Kart DS, has four different 
 control options, 26 different characters to play as, 16 wild and exciting new tracks, and 16 revamped 
 ones. However, the unbalance of the times - particularly the blue shell - can hardly go unnoticed. 
 Mario Kart has taken several small steps forward and one major step backward, but it's still no 
 doubt a game you will have plenty of fun with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario_bro99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  Mario kart for the wii is just like the ds version but has different courses well there some different 
 courses, and there is a wheel that you steer to move your character. To get starting like to move 
 you have to hold down the button 2 and steer. You can also not play with a wheel you can just play 
 with the wii remote, but still have to do the button 2 thing and steer. To get a boost in the beginning 
 of the race hold down the button 2 when the #2 on the screen is dissapering. If you fall of the 
 edge and when that shell guy drops you press and hold the button 2 when you hit the ground no like 
 exactlly when you hit the ground hold down the button 2 so you can get a boost. It is a little 
 bit hard for beginners. With Wifi connection you play with your friends or anyone around the world. 
 I would definetly get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AoiSora603
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  Long time Mario Kart fans and newcomers alike will find this game very easy to slip into.
  
  There are various control schemes to choose from, but I would highly recommend using the shiney 
 new Wii Wheel. After a couple of races, you'll be sliding through turns and doing tricks in no 
 time! But if it just doesn't feel comfortable to you, you can use just the Wiimote, the Classic 
 Controller, or your old Gamecube Controller.
  
  This installment has more races than any other Mario Kart game. 16 of the tracks are new, and mostly 
 very original. They are a lot of fun to explore. The remaining 16 tracks are a collection of tracks 
 previously seen in other Mario Kart games. You'll have a few appearing from of the GC, DS, GBA, 
 N64, and SNES installments. In all honesty... while it is neat to see some of the old SNES tracks 
 in 3D... perhaps they were a little too dated and harsh for this game. But it's a small blemish 
 on an otherwise clean record.
  
  In Double Dash, you were racing with two people on your kart, one driving and one tossing items, 
 and you could switch at any time. Now you return to the old scheme of just one racer per kart. 
 There are many ramps and added half-pipes that allow you to perform a trick by flicking the Wheel. 
 If you successfully perform a trick, you get a nice little boost when you land.
  
  Most of the old items are back, and a few new ones are thrown in for good measure. However, the 
 annoying factor for some of these items is somewhat increased from previous games. Sometimes, it 
 feels like everyone in every position behind you has got a POW! block that causes you to spin out 
 (no way to block it!) , and you can't count on staying in first for long because I'm pretty sure 
 there are more Blue Shells in this game than there were in the all of the previous games combined! 
 It increases the luck factor on winning races, but it provides some good laughs if you're just 
 playing with friends for fun.
  
  This is a great game for fans of the series. It some ways it shines above the other games, but 
 in some ways it falls short of them. Overall, it's a great game, and if you love the other Mario 
 Karts, then you can't skip over this one. If you're new to the series, don't be afraid to pick 
 this up either. It's a great one to break you in gently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peachy-Blossom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is one of the best out of the Kart series. Using the wheel is really fun and you 
 can use other controllers too. There are lots of characters, karts, and bikes. The characters are 
 in a weight row. Light, Middle, and Heavyweight. The karts and bikes are different in the weight. 
 There is also Grand Prix's and time trials. Time trials can help you unlock characters and bikes 
 like grand prix can. 
  
  The graphics are great! The karts and bikes are well designed. The course's are bright and colorful. 
 The characters are good but they could of done better. The enemies on the course are really good 
 on the graphics.
  
  The music and sound is wonderful! One of the best music in the kart series!
  
  I would like 
 to give this game a 9.5 out of 10. The game is very addicting and you cant stop playing it for 
 a while once you get a hold of this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogloe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Okay lets face it. I have never really been a huge fan of racing games. Most of them are just boring 
 old hold down the A button and turn. Nothing special. But then one day I tried Mario Kart 64. Wacky, 
 fun, frantic and chocked full of fun. From then on I played Mario Kart games. Enough about me though. 
 More about the game.
  Okay so this your standard Mario Kart game. New items, new tracks, same gameplay. Well now this 
 is for Wii. As Brawl did it brings a totally new experience with the gameplay. The Wii Wheel will 
 be a blast when you first use it. You'll swerve and play and never want to use the normal controls 
 again. But though its fun it is not easy. Your losses will increase online and in game and frustrate 
 you greatly. Eventually you'll revert back to the normal controlls.
  So they added some new race tracks. They all are decently fun and prove their worth. They also 
 brought back some old favorites aswell as some that really didn't deserve a place in the game. 
 The new items are alright but can be annoying sometimes. Some I really think the game could do 
 without. Unfortunatly they also upped the rare item appearance. Guess what happens as a result. 
 It becomes chaos with POWS and Bullet Bills every where. 
  Now for the good sides. The Wifi is great. It is quick efficient and awsome. The races still bring 
 the same thrill and you should always have something to do. A bunch of new characters and vehicles 
 and the motorcycle make up for the flaws.
  The nutshell of it: It's your average MK game. If you liked the previous go ahead and get it. It's 
 your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crabwalker23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  The games pretty good altogether but i thought there would be more extras like bomb battle or more 
 then the standard 32 courses. And they made it a little to hard to get baby bowser, rosalina, funky 
 kong, etc. it took some time to unlock the staff ghosts. Also i excpected more new items rather 
 than just mega mushroooom and pow block and lightning cloud .on the upside, i like the two player 
 Wi Fi Connection (WFC) and the rating system. Also on multiplayer Versus i like the fact that you 
 can change the rules. it was not a bad game it just was pretty much the normal mario kart game. 
 la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la al al al al 
 al al ala ala ala ala ala al ala al 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  thanks Johnny Fiddle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is an awesome series, being my favorite racing series. The newest installment to this 
 long running franchise arrived on the Wii. It is a very great game, and well worth the money... 
 especially those new to the series. For veterans such as I, this game lives up to its predecesors, 
 but it does little to alter the experience. 
  The Good: Addicting right from the start, pretty decent visuals, awesome music, very interesting 
 characters (especially newcomers) , and a really cool control scheme, wi-fi
  The Bad: The new items are a let down (to me) , not enough new amusement to keep veterans entertained 
 for a long time, lack of close by multiplayer
  ---
  Mario Kart Wii ranks pretty highly among many Wii games, but it just isn't as fresh as the other 
 games to the series were. Sure, it has its awesome quirks, yet it all feels the same to me. Its 
 the same old style, just slap on some new items, characters, and add a Wi-fi Option.
  Anyways, for those who don't know, Mario Kart is a racing game featuring Grand Prixs that are vital 
 to unlocking things and proceeding on in the game. The division of the Grand Prixs are 50cc, 100cc, 
 150cc, and a more recent Mirror Mode (introduced in Double Dash) . Furthermore, these Grand Prixs 
 are divided by cups, in order of their difficulty. There are the new maps (4 cups) , as well as 
 some nice retro maps, selected from older games of the series (4 other cups) . Completing all 8 
 of these cups in first place results in victory, and then you move on to the next mode (50cc to 
 100cc... etc.) 
  Using the unique functions of the Wii, Mario Kart has some really great controls. The new steering 
 wheel is awesome, and it really takes time to master. The 2 button accelerates your driver, and 
 the 1 brakes. Items are activated by hitting the B or D-Pad. Items are critical to your success 
 in races, as well as your defeat. What do I mean by that? Well, items can be found scattered throughout 
 a track, and you randomly acquire powers if you drive through them. The better you are placed in 
 the race, the worse the items become. There are traditional items, such as the red shell and banana 
 peel, but Mario Kart Wii added on some new items. Sadly, these items are not as innovative as new 
 ones once were, and some of them are replicas of some of the old powerups. Such an example is the 
 Lakitu Cloud, which focuses on certain racers and then shrinks them down with a thunderstrike... 
 Its basically the same as the initial lightning powerup, but its selective. There are other new 
 items in the mix, but, they aren't particularly memorable.
  Another new part to the game is the use of bikes. These bikes are pretty cool, and I really enjoyed 
 using them. The 100cc racing, is a Bike Only tournament, which is an interesting idea, in my opinion. 
 The final new feature to this game exclusively is the tricks. When you gain air, you can perform 
 a stunt that grants you an extra burst in speed. As you progress in difficulty, you will find performing 
 this tricks to be of aid. By simply flicking the remote, your character will perform some random 
 trick. I am glad that these stunts are really easy to control, instead of some complex combination 
 of buttons.
  New karts and characters are also introduced to this game, but its pretty much the same old stuff. 
 The only really new idea is the use of Miis. The graphics in this game are a big improvement to 
 previous installments, and they are pretty good for Wii games. The music in the game is really 
 catchy too, which it generally is. I have the main theme to the game stuck in my head at this present 
 moment. 
  Finally, this game has its let downs. The primary one for me has to be the multiplayer. Sure, Wi-fi 
 is okay (despite the lag when I race) , but there is limited multiplayer with friends. You can't 
 race with 2 people on a Grand Prix, which is totally absurd, due to the addition of racers. I don't 
 know why that happened. The traditional Battle and Versus Modes are there, but they just completely 
 knocked off the 2 player Grand Prix. Another thing for me, is repetitiveness. Some of you are probably 
 arguing that this game is completely fresh with new and awesome ideas, but I don't feel the same 
 way. I've been a fan since the initial Mario Kart, and I can't say this one has impressed me as 
 much as the others. It just gets boring a whole lot faster than the other games, even with its 
 new additions. I don't know if its because I have been playing these games for so long... I loved 
 Mario Kart DS, its my favorite of the series... This one is not as fun for me. 
  Those new to the franchise will love this game and will be playing it nonstop... But for old timers 
 to the series such as myself, I would rent it first. 
  -Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thunderball37
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  My opinion about it is that it has more new characters, abilities, cars, tracks, and etc. I can't 
 exactly get bored with the game. Even my friends seem to have fun with it. But it'll never be as 
 popular as the older ones. Now that the postives are said. Here I am with the negatives, I don't 
 like some of the characters, like koopa for instance, I have a problem with the item balance. I 
 seem to be getting bananas like 93% of the time. They could work on the driving mobility I seem 
 to have trouble with my wiii remote picking up the direction I want to go in. Futhermore It's a 
 good game, Not Great, But good enough for the family. I don't own the game but I have played it 
 at my local gamestop store and thereis a line or group of people that want to play it. At some 
 times I see the clerk battling alot more times than brawl. He seems to be to busy withthe game 
 than managing the store :laugh: Anyway I have seen plenty of Reviews from the othe gamespot users 
 I have to agree with the critics just a wee bit. Though some of their criticisum is a bit too far. 
 :l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xalenite
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Mario Kart is still the simple and addicting game we all remember. You
  have the crazy items, creative stages, and iconic characters. Some of the new features are integrated 
 quite well. The trick system for example, is quite satisfying. With the family-friendliness of 
 the Wii, this game is truly pick up and play for all ages.
  
  One HUGE addition to the series has got to be online though. It's possibly the greatest new feature 
 to Mario Kart and has the best integration of online play on the Wii so far. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  While the graphics have improved slightly over the previous entry, not much has 
 changed. Everything also seems to have a "shiny" look to it. Nonetheless, you can't deny the charm 
 of Nintendo. One bad thing about the visuals are how TERRIBLE the game looks in splitscreen. Other 
 than that, it's solid. Not spectacular.. but it gets the job done.
  
  Sound:
  
  Pretty simple. Some taunts can get quite annoying but other than that its just quite simple. Although 
 I must admit, some tunes to the stages bring a smile to my face. 
  
  Negative:
  
  Items are VERY unbalanced. This game is truly about luck. One second you're in 1st, and the next, 
 you're in dead LAST. The series has reached a new low when punishing good drivers this much. 
 
  
  Overall:
  
  This game is suited to fit the Wii's image of being accessible to everyone. The tweaks added to 
 make a newbie as good as an expert WILL piss some fans off. But if you let it all aside, it's still 
 a fun game. You just have to accept the fact that it's the crazy Mario Kart we remember.
  
  Even with the problems, this is STILL Mario Kart and is worth a purchase for ANY fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shy_Guy_Red
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii changes the series with many many new additions, but it goes a bit far. Let's start 
 with the new additions. 
  
  First, the Wii wheel. Now, the Wii wheel works great with MKW and is fun to use and I do like to 
 use it every now and then, but the Gamecube controller is just much more precise and I always do 
 better with it, and I sometimes wonder what would happen had they not let you use the Gamecube 
 controller. Honestly, all my friends use the Gamecube. The Wii wheel can be hard to use at times 
 too and Gamecube just works better, but the Wii wheel is till fun to use and I recommend everyone 
 tries it out.
  
  Next, the bikes which are a great new addition to MKW, but they really went too far with them. 
 Now, you'll shortly discover that bikes are way better then karts and there is really no point 
 to the karts and everyone will start using bikes.... which I hate. The wheelie thing just makes 
 all bikes better right there. You can always go faster on tons of parts of every course with these 
 and plus, the bikes drift better. Honestly, I don't know what Nintendo was thinking when they gave 
 karts the ability to do a gold mini turbo and said that was as good as better drift and wheelies. 
 I now hate bikes because they're way better then the karts.
  
  Third, the tricks. Now, the tricks are the only new addition to MKW that I think was perfected. 
 They're great to always use, however using them on sharp turns won't work so you have to know when 
 to use them. I like the tricks. They also just look cool! :)
  
  Now that's it for the big new additions, so I'll move on to other things. Let's start with the 
 graphics. Now...... the graphics are good, but the audiences are still flat people and I hate that! 
 Come on! Can't they make the audiences be 3D? But...... other then that the graphics are great.
 
  
  The tracks are amazing! Seriously! The Bowser's Castle and Rainbow Road may be the best in the 
 series and all the new courses are incredible! I love them! The retro courses are good as well, 
 and the addition of Bowser's Castle from N64 alone, make the retro courses outstanding.
  
  Now what else did Nintendo change? Well, battle mode was changed to teams only which I hate. You 
 can only do Grand Prix on 1 player mode and not co-op which I also hate.
  
  However, the online is outstanding and Mario Kart Wii is by far the best online Wii game to date! 
 I love to play online all the time and you can play with friends while playing with random people 
 worldwide which is awesome! 
  
  Also, Nintendo added the addition to change how often you get real good and real bad items which 
 is a nice touch. However, Nintendo added a lot more items and characters and I feel it may have 
 gone too far. The Pow block and Lightning cloud are nice additions, but the Mega Mushroom? It isn't 
 really that good and its just like a star. And same with the bullet bill which I never liked, its 
 just a star but better. Also there are too many characters. I mean Baby Daisy? Funky Kong? We already 
 have Baby Peach and Donkey Kong, why have these?
  
  Oh yah, 1 more thing................ they took out Mission Mode!!!!!!!!!!!! WHY!?!?!? I loved Mission 
 Mode in MKDS and they took it out!!!!! WHAT!?
  
  Well that's it for my review. I didn't really find the computers as item spammers in 150cc to be 
 that big of a deal.
  
  To sum it up, MKW has the Wii wheel which is fun, but not precise enough, bikes which are cool, 
 but too good. There are tricks which are awesome. The graphics need work and they took out co-op 
 grand prix and non team battle mode and mission mode which is bad. The online is amazing and the 
 new items are actually pretty neat mostly. The tracks are so great that they could be the best 
 in the series. The gameplay we all know and love is still there and it works great! It's a wonderful 
 multiplayer game and you'll never get tired of it in that department, and overall, even though 
 it's not as great as the other Mario Karts, it's still a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo890
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart was such a great game in almost ever aspect. (In this review I'm comparing it to Super 
 Smash Bros Brawl) . The single player was enjoyable and brought so many more hours playing the grand 
 prix on different and unique track unlke the monotonous stages in Brawl. The multiplayer is about 
 the same except I think that Brawl was a little better for four players because there were so many 
 different characters (except for those clones) ! The whole Mii thing made it a little more fun. 
 The items were limted compared to Brawls and you wouldn't get the lightning bolt unless you were 
 in the back so if you are always in first place you will only get green sheels and banannas. The 
 music was the same for every Mario Kart game happy and cheerful almost the same in every stage. 
 Brawl's music was definatly a lot more vast with music from so many other franchises. Wifi was 
 a thing to behold in Mario Kart Wii. It actually worked and extremley well, as I explained in my 
 Brawl review Wifi was very laggy and you couldn't find anyone online. The Wifi in Mario Kart was 
 so smooth and I found other people in about 10-30 seconds. Finally the controller options were 
 again very varied but with the inclusion of the Wii Wheel it made the racing almost believable 
 with a real wheel like look and feel. Despite the graphics looking like th DS game Mario Kart Wii 
 is a great game to own if you are into racing games. Nintendo, good job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jatly0
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  I have played Mario Kart since I got it for the N64. The N64 Mario Kart hooked me into the Mario 
 Kart series! Mario Kart for Wii is very addicting and very challenging. The offline play itself 
 is very hard once you get to mirror mode. On-line play can be very crazy. Especially if there is 
 a full set of twelve racers. Shells start flying everywhere and it just becomes complete chaos. 
 This racing game is fun for any age, both kids and adults. The online play and tournaments is what 
 keeps this game fun and challenging. Not one on-line match is the same. The on-line tournaments 
 are very interesting from timed races to timed battles. This is one of Nintendo's first on-line 
 Wii games and this is one of the best on-line Wii games that will be out for a very long time. 
 ( Until Animal Crossing (Wii) comes out :] ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  Following the tradition of one Mario Kart for every Nintendo console comes the Wii edition to the 
 series: Mario Kart Wii. This game is no rehash. Strong online modes and the addtion of bikes add 
 fresh new ways to play. Also, the vehicles themselves now have stats in many categories, including 
 speed, acceleration, and handling, which gives the game a more strategic formula for Time Trails 
 and Grand Prix races. The roster has also now expanded to include 24 Mario characters and 2 Mii 
 costumes. There are also 32 courses to choose from, with half of them being from previous Mario 
 Kart games. The online modes are surpringly robust with a 5000 point scale score keeper (your score 
 can increase or decrease depending on how you race) , and the option to transfer or race other ghosts 
 in Time Trails using Wii Connect 24. The addition of bikes also comes into play here. They aren't 
 just for show. Bikes can get good speed boosts on straight-a-ways by doing wheelies, whereas karts 
 can get better drifting boosts on curves. The only minor flaw I see with this game are the visuals. 
 They look OK on a regular SDTV, but they look downright ugly on an HDTV. This game, along with 
 many other Wii games are best played using a cheaper SDTV. The game comes packaged with a Wii Wheel, 
 and its still only $50. What a steal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boba707
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Well the day i got Mario Kart i was stoked. it was amazing. i got home put it in my wii got the 
 controller together it was great. i like the wheel alot it gives you much control but there are 
 other options as well. the game is great as well and there is much to do. you have just like in 
 the past three difficulty settings, 50cc, 100cc and for the more experianced players 150cc. now 
 i found 50cc extremly easy and i would almost overlap someone every time. 100cc i think is almost 
 the perfect setting because its not to hard but its not easy either. 
  now there is the 150cc mode. i have one word to describe that mode- CHAOS. the AI is much more 
 agressive than they have been in the past. you are constanly getting bumped around and getting 
 shoved up the road. you might even come across times when you get hit with three turtle shells 
 at one time . its crazy on 150cc but it is still beatable. in this game you have the option of 
 a kart or a bike which is one reason this game seperates its self from the other Mario Kart games. 
 there are a few new weapons such as a giant mushroom that makes your character really big for a 
 short amount of time and you can run over everything. there is also the bullet bill that turns 
 you into a giant bullet bill and it speeds you up knocking out everything in its path. but you 
 still have all of your classic weapons such as mushrooms and turtle shells. 
  the online mode is great and far more superior to SSBB. it is practicly flawless and you experiance 
 virtually no lag unlike in Brawl. you can race people from all over the world or you can select 
 to only race people in your region.
  this game can get very frusterating at some points such as when you are on your last lap and a 
 foot away from the finish like and you get hit with a blue shell and then two more red shells and 
 you end up in 7th and not 1st. but overall this is a great game and i recomend it to hardcore and 
 casual gamers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: time2brawl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  MK: WII REVIEW
  
  STORY: None
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is racing, but with a twist.. You control your favourite Mario character in a kart/bike 
 across over 30 tracks using many weapons at your disposal including many returning favourites like 
 the red shell and many new ones like the POW block.
  There's many new gameplay features that I shall explain now.
  
  1. BYE BYE Snaking: Snaking has 
 been removed thanks to a new drift system, now instead of waggeling your joystick left and right 
 to get a speed boost, its determined by how long you can keep the drift for.
  
  2. Controlers: There's now 5 different control types, the Wii wheel lets you drive it like a real 
 car, by holding the remote sideways and slotting it into the wheel. The classic/gamecube controler 
 control almost as if you where playing MK:64 on the VC, Remote and nunchuck, is pretty straightforward 
 and the Wii remote is the same as the wheel, without the wheel.
  here's my score for each control scheme,
  Wii Wheel:2/5 the fun method, but not that accurate.
 
  Wiimote and nunchuck:3/5 only use if without classic or GC controller.
  Classic controller:4/5 FANTASTIC.. But not Perfect..
  GC controller:5/5 PERFECT!!
  Wiimote:1/5 
 no, just no..
  
  3. Tricks: Now whenever you go of the road, you can do a trick, and when you land, you get a boost!! Simple.
 
  
  4. Bikes: Bikes are new to the series and probably the biggest addition, the control a lot like karts, but 
 when a kart does a drift it can get a larger boost by getting and orange boost, bikes can only get 
 the inferior blue, but there not wose tough, on straights, you can do a wheelie and get an boost!!
 
  
  The online is probably the best aspect of the game,12 player from all over the world LAG-FREE, there's 
 also 2 player online and compotitions to enter, time trial ghosts to download, friend codes to swap, leaderboard 
 online race and online battle, this online is what makes the game supirior to other MKs and MK: DSs 
 online, which was allright.
  Gameplay:10/10
  
  GRAPHICS: They do the job, but some levels look brilliant and have great design, I'll just name my 
 Fave..
  Warios gold mine: with bats, mine carts and more it's fantastic!! 7/10
  Mushroom Gorge: There's lots of bouncy mushrooms that you can bounce on!! 8/10
  Koopa Kape: With 
 a massive river in the middle, it rocks!! 9/10
  Bowsers  statue shooting fireballs, brilliant!!10/10
  but sadly 
 apart from design, graphics just do the job, SMG this aint..
  7/10
  
  Sound: With brilliant tunes, but characters screaming when ever you do a trick can be annoying..
 
  7/10
  
  Longevity: The single Player is terrible, but the multiplayer is FANTASTIC, the online will keep you 
 for ages.
  11/10
  
  Overall: Brilliant, don't get the game if you don't have your Wii online, unless you have a lot of 
 friends, who'll play
  
  Pros/cons
  +Great online
  +great new features
  +Fantastic Tracks
  +Will Entertain for ages
  -Poor Singleplayer
  
  OVERALL:9.7/10.0 rounded 
 to 9.5/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Led_Zeppelin2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  I've had it since launch date and have been playing it almost everyday. Online is great, but if 
 you don't have Wii connect24 then you and 3 friends can enjoy the ultimate gaming experience with 
 4-player split screen. I recommend it for any age/gender. The graphics aren't perfect but, you 
 won't notice it much because you'll be having too much fun. With plenty of unlockables and online 
 play including 2 tournaments/competitions a month you will be playing this for plenty of years 
 to come. Also challenge other people's time trial ghosts across the world for the ultimate challenge. 
 You can even go online with a friend with absolutely no lag. The best kart racer game on the shelves 
 (my opinion) . I've played snes, 64, and gamecube and I believe this one is the best of them all. 
 One difference this has with the other titles is that battle mode is played with 2 teams. Some 
 enjoy this new idea while others refuse to play it. Overall rating 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 24, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  More than a decade ago Mario was simply a plumber whose only activity was to save Peach and the 
 Mushroom Kingdom from doom, on his way to his goal he squashed Goombas and used fireballs to get 
 rid of many foes. Due to the astounding success achieved by Mario it would only be a matter of 
 time before he started appearing on a bunch of different games performing a huge array of activities 
 and sports. Nowadays it is pretty common to see that familiar mustached face on the cover of many 
 games that don't present any kind of jumping or platforming, and the game that started it all was 
 Super Mario Kart. 
  
  
  The truth is at first Nintendo didn't plan on placing Mario and his friends on Karts and letting 
 them race through famous venues spread across the Mushroom Kingdom, but while the game was developed 
 a programmer had the idea of replacing a character model for Mario to see how cool it would look 
 like. After that, Mario would never leave his seat on his red vehicle. Super Mario Kart was a masterpiece 
 and sold many copies, since then the series has seen a new version for each system that Nintendo 
 puts out on the market. And that's how we get to Mario Kart Wii, the latest and sixth installment 
 of the series. 
  
  
  With each passing version the game gains new features that attract gamers that have been playing 
 Mario Kart since its first version and at the same time improve the overall gameplay experience 
 drawing new fans to this frantic racing game. While trying to keep the game fresh and innovative 
 Nintendo has made some significant changes this time around. The most blatant being the control 
 system. 
  
  
  Mario Kart stands out among its peers simply because of the way you control the game. The game 
 comes packed with the Wii Wheel which is a plastic shell where you place your Wiimote so that you 
 can use the controls exactly like a steering wheel of a car. This "piece of plastic" may sound 
 rather simple, but you will quickly notice how much the Wheel enhances the gameplay once you try 
 to control the Kart by using just the Wiimote, without any additional shell. 
  
  
  The wheel works fantastically well and is the definite way to play the game. Just steer it and 
 your character will perform the exact same action that you just did, this control scheme has an 
 impressive response time and is very accurate. Casual fans will love using it because it is much 
 easier to play with it and it reduces the number of buttons you need to press drastically. But 
 truth is that the learning curve of the Wheel is very long and steep, and becoming a great driver 
 with it is a rewarding and demanding journey. Therefore more experienced players will definitely 
 feel compelled to take on this new challenge. 
  
  
  The other control schemes also work fine. But in my opinion using the Wheel is much more fun and 
 interactive. The Gamecube control is another great choice and if you spend a good amount of time 
 with Mario Kart Double Dash you are going to be quite good just after picking the game up. 
  
  
  Another major change that longtime fans of the series will encounter is the drifting mechanic 
 of the game. In order to drift and perform a boost in this version all you need to do is press 
 and hold the B-button (on the Wii Wheel) for as long as possible while making a turn. The longer 
 you hold it, the more powerful the extra boost will be. This new mechanic is very good because 
 it prevents "snakers" who are players that like using this drifting technique on straights. On 
 the Nintendo DS version of the game "snakers" became a huge problem online since players who were 
 not able to do it would be destined to lose every single race. Nintendo managed to balance the 
 game. 
  
  
  However, making the assumption that the game doesn't reward skill anymore is totally wrong. Being 
 able to find the best path on each one of the tracks and drifting accurately will help you open 
 a nice gap in relation to other players, which will come in handy since this time around there 
 are twelve players racing simultaneously on the track therefore the appearance of devastating items 
 is more frequent than in previous versions. This can be quite frustrating for some skilled players 
 since losing a race because you have been hit by three blue shells on the same lap will happen 
 more often than you would like to. 
  
  
  Speaking of items, this is one of the few areas where the game is not as good as it could have 
 been. A couple of new items have been added and some others like the bullet bill and blooper show 
 up for the first time on a home system. The new items are: the Mega Mushroom (that first appeared 
 on New Super Mario Bros) that makes the player bigger, better and invincible so that you can squash 
 everyone that is in front of you, the Pow Block that causes drivers to spin as if they had hit 
 a banana peel and a cloud that will hiver over your head and give you extra boost for a while before 
 hitting you with a thunder. 
  
  
  Nintendo has also added a new vehicle this time around. Bikes can now be used instead of Karts. 
 The main differences between the two vehicles is that Bikes are lighter, are easier to control, 
 have relatively weak boosts when drifting and can perform wheelies that will give you extra speed 
 on straights while Karts have a better drifting boost. As you may have noticed bikes have a huge 
 advantage on Karts since performing wheelies gives them a massive advantage, so players who prefer 
 to stick with karts either because they think they are cooler or because they dislike the fact 
 that bikes have been added will have to practice a lot to beat skilled bike players, especially 
 online. 
  
  
  The game has a total of 24 characters, besides your Mii that can be used when unlocking one of 
 his/her two available outfits. Some of the additions are very surprising such as Funky Kong and 
 Rosalina while other characters simply scream lack of creativity from the developers such as two 
 of the four baby characters in the game. The character models are far from sharp as they are very 
 similar in quality to the ones present on Double Dash. I assume the reason for this is that Nintendo 
 wanted the game to run as smoothly as possible when twelve players face on online races, and if 
 I'm correct they made the right decision since their appearance is not so bad and it won't interfere 
 in the gameplay. 
  
  
  A total of 32 tracks are available, half of them being new circuits. Some of them are new versions 
 of old-school tracks such as Bowser Castle, Rainbow Road, Moo Meadows and Moonview Highway (a fantastic 
 new version of Toad's Turnpike) while others are overflowing with brilliancy and are extremely 
 creative like Koopa Cape, Maple Treeway, Daisy Circuit, Toad's Factory, Coconut Mall and Wario's 
 Gold Mine. Having played all titles of the series up to this day I must say that this is the version 
 with the most impressive group of new tracks I have ever seen. These circuits are graphically amazing 
 and are filled with nice details and some hidden shortcuts that can be very useful. 
  
  
  The rest of the circuits are directly brought from the game's past versions. Clearly the sixteen 
 tracks that have been picked won't please everybody but the selection is pretty decent. Nintendo 
 did a great job here since they were able to graphically enhance many of those tracks while maintaining 
 the feeling that their original games had. Being able to play a new version of Mario Circuit 3, 
 Peach Gardens and Ghost Valley 2 in 3-D and at the same time being able to see all the polygons 
 on the barriers and on the scenario is one of the most nostalgic moments you will ever have when 
 playing a game. 
  
  
  As for game modes, the game contains all the usual ones as Grand Prix, Time Trial, Vs. and Battle 
 Mode. The Grand Prix mode has four different difficulty levels each one with eight different cups, 
 which means that you will be spending a long time trying to collect all trophies especially because 
 you will get a rank once you finish each cup, so trying to get three stars on all cups is quite 
 a challenge. When compared to Double Dash I find the Grand Prix mode of Mario Kart Wii to be much 
 harder since the AI is much faster  making use of the rubber band effect to keep up with you - 
 and getting hit by items when you are in first is much more common, as I have already mentioned. 
 Some may see it as a cheap way to increase the difficulty while others will say that it is great, 
 the truth is it can be quite frustrating sometimes. 
  
  
  Playing Time Trial is great now because when you are connected to the internet you can automatically 
 post your time once you have finished the race. When you post your time using the Mario Kart Channel 
 you can see how your time matches up against times from players from all around the world and you 
 can quickly download ghosts of the best players in the world in order to try to improve your time 
 by watching their performances. Overall this increases the replay value a lot, making a mode that 
 was considered by many to be "boring" quite fun. 
  
  
  The versus mode is where the game truly shines. When sharing the screen with up to three other 
 friends the game gets really intense. The number of frames per second diminishes a lot and overall 
 the details of the tracks disappear, but having fun is the most appealing aspect of this game and 
 when it comes to that this mode doesn't disappoint. 
  
  
  The battle mode is slightly flawed. It has great new stages and great battles stadiums from the 
 past, but it is quite unfortunate that you can't play battles in individual groups. Whenever you 
 play the Battle Mode you will have to join a team of six people therefore sometimes you will lose 
 not because you simply couldn't hit anyone with an item, but because you have been paired with 
 a bunch of stupid CPUs. Not being able to play Battle by yourself is a huge letdown to fans of 
 the mode. 
  
  
  Finally, the online mode is the true pinnacle of this game and the reason why most people purchased 
 it. It is by far the best online experience that the Wii has to offer up to this point and I find 
 it hard to believe that it will be surpassed. When going online the game will look for up to another 
 eleven players to race against you, the races are completely lag free and are very smooth despite 
 the fact that twelve players are controlling their characters simultaneously. Once you finish the 
 race you will receive a certain amount of points that will be summed to your VR (Versus Rating) . 
 
  
  
  Overall Mario Kart Wii is another great version on this unique racing series. It is far from flawless 
 because Nintendo failed to balance many aspects of the game but the addition of the online mode 
 makes the replay value skyrocket. Technically it may not have used all of the Wii's hardware power, 
 but it is undeniable that the game's multiplayer is as fun as it can be. A must buy for all Wii 
 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metsfan12386
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is really all pros and no cons. I mean great single player, great head to head multiplayer, 
 great online multiplayer, tournaments, graphics..... just everything is just about perfect. Single 
 Player- A -The single player draws to a end but still provides many hours of entertainment
  
  H2H Multiplayer- B- Its okay with the split screen but no one likes having to buy another wheel
 
  
  Online Multiplayer-A+- Really great tournaments and regular gameplay (racing ghosts, etc.)
  
 
  Overall- A+- no wonder it was so hard to get because it lived to its expedtations NOTHING BEATS 
 THE FEELING OF HITTING A FRENCH KID WITH A SHELL AND PASSING HIM TO GET INTO FIRST IN ONLINE MULTIPLAYER 
 My advice is to get another wheel (if you have someone to play with) 
  
  Check out my page for more honest reviews! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  with classic and new stages, a wii wheel asscesory and online play, this game is great!
  
  there are quite a lot of new and imaginative stages on this game from Toad factory to maple treeway 
 ( one of my favourite stages) nintendo have done well with the stage creating on this game! i will 
 break it down into categories:
  
  graphics: these graphics are great but not the best of what the wii can do 9/10
  
  sound: some 
 great new soundtracks and some great tunes from the past!
  10/10
  
  gameplay: the gameplay is awesome! with bikes to ride, online gaming ( race people from around 
 the world!) and much more, the gameplay is very great and fast But sometimes can get frustrating 
 like some of the new items and online play with it's "points".
  8/10
  
  well the game is great but there are some downsides but with many more good things, you shoud immediatley 
 buy this if you have a wii and like racing games!!!! 
  
  and now i must vhroom away!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shark1dolphin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  Remember snaking- that highly skilled, thum throbbing drifting technique that made for some frustrating 
 online races and, to coin a phrase, galactic world records? Now forget about it, because it's been 
 outlawed in Mario Kart Wii in favour of an automatic drift system. But then is the game losing 
 its arcadey edge? No.
  The first thing that strikes you about Mario Kart Wii is that in terms of presentation it's pretty 
 similar to MK DS. There's Grand Prix, Time Trial, VS Race and Battles, each which require a decent 
 amount of time invested to fully conquer. And then there's WFC play, where your online rank in 
 based on a combination of your success online and your success in Grand Prix. So haven't we seen 
 it all before?
  No, because delve a little deeper and there's much to be discovered here. Firstly, the inclusion 
 of bikes into the game. They're a great addition (if not frustratingly unbalanced in favour of 
 bikes) and add a new dynamic to the races. There's also an all new trick system, which adds further 
 depth to the chaos of racing- deciding whether or not a trick is beneficial can be quite an art 
 in high end play.
  As in MK DS, there's 32 tracks in 8 cups, 16 new and 16 retro. The new tracks are of an excellent 
 standard, but it's the inclusion of so many retro tracks (that despite the nostalgia feel dated) 
 that is one of the game's few shortcomings. Is there really much reason, in 2008, to be recycling 
 SNES Ghost Valley 2? Not that there's no quality in the retro tracks- classics such as DS Yoshi 
 Falls, GCN DK Mountain and the atmospheric N64 Bowser Castle all make a rightful appearance, but 
 if half the roster is made up of retro tracks, we need a more eclectic, timeless selection.
  But enough criticism, because this is one of the most frantic and fun Mario Karts yet. The inclusion 
 of new items (POW Block, Mega Mushroom and Thunder Cloud) at times make races unfairly unbalanced, 
 but mostly just add to the fun and give less experienced players more of a shout. And it's also 
 one of the most complete Mario Karts; aside from Grand Prix, Time Trials, VS Race, Battles and 
 WFC Play topping online leaderboards on your favourite tracks takes time, believe me. Perhaps a 
 level editor with the potential of the best tracks to be fed to racers via the online service would 
 be good, so fingers crossed for the next title.
  So to conclude, Mario Kart Wii is a fun, dynamic racer that all the family can play. It's not without 
 its flaws, but they rarely deter you from the enormous amount of fun that can be had here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: medic45emtp
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart wii was probably one of the worse verisons of mario kart series. Why? For one this game 
 and little creation on the characters vehicles. You got 3-4 chraacters sharing the same exact vehicles 
 there is no variety and is boring. 
  
  Well you may say "Well mario kart got bikes now and bikes are cool." You have no idea what you 
 talking about.. last time i checked this is Mario KART not mario BMX or whatever else. As well 
 karts have same lack of creation.
  
  Another thing was battle mode. THEY RUINED it. Completely ruined battle mode. You are forced to 
 play on a team on and off line. Thats dumb it ruins the experience. I remember battle being your 
 versus all you friends of computers. not 6 on 6 match which you have to work with people on your 
 team.. thats dumb.. Coin mode goes same i cant say how many times ive played online and thought 
 that it was dumb. You can win just as easy as you lose
  
  Track creation is also lacking. Instead of thinking of newer ones they are taking them from older 
 verisons of mario kart. Yes i know that there are a few new ones but they dont live up to the normal 
 expectations. 
  
  Still i would of liked to see misson mode again like they had in the DS version.
  
  For me 
 this is my opinion and its my final thought so deal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NosajWorld
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 20, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  Ya, this game is part of the best gaming franchises ever, but it gets old REALLY fast. The DS version 
 was fun as hell, play wherever you want, and it was just a keeper. With this game, the maps are 
 not really much different or surprising. The wii wheel is preety cool and works great, but personally 
 I would've liked to have the pedal "Pedal to the medal baby!" Also, the wheel is EXTREMELY sensitive, 
 seriously, if you move it like an inch, you'll be off the track, so be very careful. Idk how the 
 story mode is, or if there is even one, as I played this at a friend's house, but you can find 
 that out for youself. If you have addiction problems to this gaming series, get it, you'll enjoy 
 the online capabilities, as it is kind of surprising to see where every1 lives, and how fast it 
 finds people, but if your not into this series, maybe rent it, cause it will get old very fast. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glyder56
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:56 am PT
Review:  I got Mario Kart the day it was released and straight off played about 11 hours. i then over the 
 next week raced some mates and did all the Gran-Prix. I have written down notes so this review 
 might not make sense but think of them as dot points. Mario Kart has graphics to match or maybe 
 not quiet those of Mario Galaxy. It has the choice to play as Mii's. Bikes have their own touch 
 with Wheelies. Their are a few new attachs like the lightning cloud. Not all the maps are new but 
 the ones that are are easily better than the old. Their are 8 cups, 4 unlockable and alot of unlockable 
 vehicles for each of the big range of characters. Not only 1 but 2 people can play online. There 
 is still a start boost and also the ability to slipstream. There isn't a Hop anymore which does 
 frustrate in places that are begging to be hopped. The music is pretty fun and catchy. The Wii 
 Wheel is unresponsive but still entertaining to play cause it adds physical movement to the game. 
 The game has MASSIVE replay value. Maple Treeway, Grumble Volcano, Bowsers Castle, Rainbow Road, 
 Koopa Cape, DK's Snowboard Cross, DK Mountain are just a few of my favourite maps And i haven't 
 even mentioned everything that there is. So this game is a MUST buy for Wii fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogsoblivion21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii doesn't make any drastic turns for the series, but what it offers is still loads 
 of fun. This is Mario Kart as you would expect it to be. The game stays on the same path it's been 
 on since it began, which is a good thing but arguably not great. There's still the crazy cast, 
 wacky weapons and power-ups, along with some courses from the older games such as Bowsers Castle 
 from the Nintendo 64. If you're expecting this game to break any new ground, at all, you'll be 
 a little let down. 
  
  Since Mario Kart for the Wii doesn't really do anything new with it's core gameplay, it sounds 
 like it would be just a recycled version of the others. Well in a sense it is, but what is does 
 offer is done well and will not disappoint any Mario Kart fan by any means. The game comes packed 
 with a steering wheel for the Wii remote. The wheel works surprisingly well and feels really nice 
 to use. Alternatively you can also use the remote with the nunchuck, the classic controller, or 
 a GameCube controller. The controls themself are pretty basic. When using the wheel, you'd use 
 the 2 button to accelerate, 1 to slow down, B slide/drift, and up or down to use weapons or power-ups, 
 ofcourse while rotating the remote/wheel itself to turn. 
  
  As expected, all of the obscure items return, plus some new, to make the racing more crazy. Some 
 new items include the POW block, which makes everyone spin out in front of you; the mega mushroom, 
 which gives you a nice long boost and makes your character very large, causing anyone who gets 
 trapped beneath you to get flattened; and the thunder cloud, which will hover over you for a certain 
 amount of time and then zap you, unless it's passed on to another character. When your in first 
 place, you'll only be graced with mushrooms, shells, banana peels, as well as some other items 
 just to help you defend your spot. The more powerful items, such as the blue shell, only come into 
 play by the lower ranked people in the race. The powerful items like the POW block and blue shells 
 tend to show up more often than not.
  
  You have two choices before you start a race, manual or automatic. Automatic is good for beginning 
 drivers while manual is a good choice for those who want to add more to their driving. Drifting 
 around corners plays a big part while racing. When you drift long enough you'll be rewarded with 
 a mini boost. The type of cart determines your drift outcome. The karts can get a super mini boost 
 if they drift long enough. Motorcycles can't get super mini boosts, but they can do wheelies to 
 get a bit of extra speed. Stunts can also be performed while taking off on a ramp. Simply shake 
 the remote/wheel (depending on your controller choice) to perform and neat trick that will give 
 you a nice boost when you land. 
  
  The new courses are colorful and full of fun. DK Summit for example has a cannon that shoots players 
 to the top of the summit then has players race down through a series of jumps and half pipes. Older 
 courses make their return in Mario Kart Wii. They didn't receive much of a graphical update but 
 they're still fun to play on for the most part. Some of the older courses can get a bit boring 
 since they aren't as colorful or entertaining as the new ones. The new items on the old courses 
 feel out of place and sort of break the flow. 
  
  The online play is the best yet on the Wii. To play with friends you'll still need to exchange 
 friend codes, but you'll be able to join up with random people around the world and race. Tournaments 
 are also held, requiring players to beat a certain course as fast as they can. Immediately after 
 you can see how your time stacks up against everyone else who's entered around the world. Playing 
 online feels real nice with virtually no lag to speak of. Communication between players is very 
 minimal due to pre-set messages. 
  
  Local multiplayer is still an option if you have friends that want to play. Your options are Coin 
 Runners and Balloon Battle. Battles take place on 10 arena tracks specific for multiplayer. Similar 
 to the single player tracks, five arenas are new and five are old. Both modes are now two-team 
 battles instead of free-for-alls. While this is still fun, it's kind of a bummer that you don't 
 have the option to choose. Up to three players can join you split-screen and 12 online. 
  
  There isn't much to say about the graphics. They look nice but it's not a far step from it's predecessor 
 on the GameCube. The lighting has been improved to make the environment look more alive. While 
 playing split-screen the graphic quality dips down a bit. It's not too noticeable because all that 
 really dips is the lighting quality. Alongside the 25 total characters in the game, Mii's also 
 take part. You can unlock them as characters and can see them in the crowd.
  
  Mario Kart has been around since 1992 and it still manages to deliver a fresh racing game that's 
 still loads of fun to play. With simple drifting, tricks, a steering wheel, smooth online play, 
 new items and characters, Mario Kart Wii is one of the best games you'll be able to get on the 
 Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmario123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is the 6th Mario Kart game in the Mario Kart series. Now that it's on the Wii, it 
 can only get better! In this Mario Kart, the are 4 ways to play: you can use the Wii Wheel (which 
 is just the Wii remote turned on it's side) , the Wii remote+Nunchuk controller, the Classic Controller, 
 and the Gamecube controller. Like Mario Kart DS, you can play online with Mario Kart Wii. There 
 are two modes: VS Racing, or VS Battle. Both are extremely fun and when you win/lose, you get/lose 
 VP which are points you can collect. When racing/battling, there can be some matches when you can 
 play with up to 11 other people! You can also go online with a friend. In this Mario Kart, there 
 are tons of characters and karts to unlock. You will literally spend hours trying to collect them 
 all. In Grand Prix there are eight racing cups. Thats 32 race tracks. Half of the tracks are new 
 and never seen before, and the other half are retro tracks that are brought back. Local multiplayer 
 holds hours of fun for you and your family and friends. You can race or do battle or collect coins. 
 I personally think that Mario Kart Wii is one of the best Wii games out right now. So if you like 
 Mario Kart, or just like racing games you will love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lcscjat
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is plenty of fun. The multiplayer mode is especially good and I found with my wireless 
 broadband connection I had very little trouble with the live streaming.
  
  I think the developers could have spent a little more time inventing some new and more creative 
 tracks and there is a smell of rushing to production and to market about it. I think an extra 6 
 months and they could have released a far better version for Xmas 08.
  
  Whilst some traditionalists would argue the bikes may not be so good, I found them a welcome addition. 
 The new jumps and power boosts are also a welcome change. The overuse of the blue bombs of death 
 can be frustrating at times but I guess thats part and parcel of Kart.
  
  I am rating the game a 9, without multiplayer it would have been a 7.5 or 8 just down to lack of 
 new creative effort.
  
  Still, I love Kart on all Nintendo platforms and love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edmond1997
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  First it goes Super Smash Bros Brawl and now Mario Kart Wii. It is awesome and you can battle 3 
 players at home. You can go wi-fi to battle 11 players or go with a friend and battle ten players 
 plus your friend in one wii console. I liked how they tell you retro or new edition stages in battle. It 
 is easy to learn and a blast to play. There is a Mario Kart Channel you can download and check out 
 at your home. (You can see it at Mario Kart Wii to look at) You can watch how you rank up to other 
 players.
  Bonuses
  1. There are tournaments that are allowed. Watch how you rank up.
  genre: racing rating: E 
  5 playing ways
  wii remote
  wii remote and nunchuck
  classic controller
 
  gamecube controller
  wii wheel
  notes
  You can unlock characters by playing only Grand Pix.
  Each file you have takes 23 blocks.
  
 You can have 4 files. Math:23x4=92 blocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dankodefense
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i love this game. This is the best mario kart experience since the SNES. The control with 
 the Wii Wheel is perfect, everything works exactly how you would expect it to, and I like how you 
 can move from side to side before the race on a bike (just a nice touch) . However where the disappointment 
 comes in is in the track selection. I really enjoy that they brought back some old tracks but there 
 are maybe 2 that I actually remember and I have owned every Mario kart game except double dash. 
 There were so many great tracks in the SNES version and the one they decide to bring back is Ghost 
 Valley 2???? Why? that track sucks. To me it seems like they got lazy said "hey I know lets draw 
 old tracks from a hat and just remake those for the Wii version, all people care about is the controller 
 anyway." And the poor sap that pulled the random tracks from the hat had terrible luck. But make 
 no mistake this is a great game and even better its one i can actually play with my girlfriend. 
 The controls make it an easy pick up and play experience along with offering a new challenge, and 
 the game returns with the same great Mario Kart racing experience that I have loved since i was 
 a child. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polymetalalloy1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  Mariokart is a tried and trusted formula and Nintendo is smart to leave the core of the gameplay 
 intact. However, the Wii version adds whole new dimensions to the play that really make for a unique 
 experience. The steering wheel works very well and is just sensitive enough to make driving seem 
 intuitive and the new trick system of shaking the remote around is a welcome addition to the frenzied 
 pursuit of boosts within the game. The graphics are top-notch, polished and colourful, and even 
 the retro levels shine. The inclusion of said retro levels, from prior systems, is a nice nod to 
 the posterity of the franchise and it is great to see that even the SNES levels play as well as 
 you remember. But where Mariokart Wii really comes into its own is the online play. Versus mode 
 are lightning fast and insanely fun as turtles and other weapons hurtle around the track. The Battle 
 mode is also endless fun and utter mayhem. I challenge anyone to play DS Twilight House stage and 
 not emerge with a huge grin. This game is pure fun and has just enough depth to make driving the 
 karts and bikes an art worth mastering. The online mode adds obscene longevity to the title and 
 you'll want to keep playing again and again, even when an ill-timed blue turtle makes you want 
 to hurl your Wii Wheel out of the nearest window! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  When you play a game like Mario Kart, you expect a few certain things, notably the same basic formula 
 that has given rise to the rest of the Mario Kart franchise. Mario Kart Wii takes this formula 
 and makes a few changes, some for the good, some for the bad.
  
  At the heart of the game, you have the characters and the karts, along with the tracks. There is 
 a LOT of variation introduced into this section, which is absolutely wonderful. I havn't officially 
 counted, but there are something like 40 charcters to choose from (most of whom have to be unlocked) , 
 and alongside that, you have the option for either a bike or a kart, bolstered with the choice 
 of which of 12 specific vehicles (6 bikes and 6 karts) per character weight, all with their pluses 
 and minuses. Personally, I love this feature. Theres just something about playing as Dry Bones 
 and riding a Magikruiser that just make the game better than older installments (such as 64, the 
 last Mario Kart game I played) .
  
  The difference between bikes and karts also comes into the fold. Bikes can wheelie (giving a speed 
 boost but severly reducing manouverability and you almost spin out if you get hit) , while karts 
 get a second stage of boost coming out of a corner. That is another definate improvement on the 
 formula in this game, the corner boost. Instead of just making the turn easier, skidding into it 
 will give you a mild boost when you come out. Along the same lines is doing tricks off jumps. Staying 
 in the air a little longer and doing a trick will give you a mild boost when you hit the ground. 
 
  
  The sheer number of unlockables makes it almost necessary to complete the game 100%, just so you 
 have everything and everyone. Further along this train of thought, in Time Trial mode, every track 
 comes with a pre-recorded time and ghost data set by a Nintendo employee, and can hold your best 
 time's ghost data alongside that. If your fast enough, and can beat the employee's time by a certain 
 margin, you can unlock "expert" time trial times, in which the employees make a perfect run of 
 the course, using all possible shortcuts and tricks of the trade, making it the perfect way to 
 learn how to best run a course.
  
  The inclusion of a second set of 4 "retro" cups is also great. Each retro cup has a race from each 
 snes, gcn, ds and n64, allowing you to visit some of the best courses in each game. The new courses 
 are also pretty fun, with the inclusion of some "snowboarder-esque" courses, where you get fired 
 to the top of the run and make your way down, as well as a few courses that change with each lap, 
 forcing you to mix up your game plan for the best results.
  
  I have heard people complaining about the wiimote controls being bad, and the game only being good 
 with the gamecube controller. Personally, I think the wiimote controls make the game more fun, 
 and let you get so much more into it. Alongside that the wii-wheel makes it even easier to use.
 
  
  I havn't had much experience with battle modes yet, as I've only played a couple so far, but I 
 for one am not really a fan. I prefer the 64 versions of battle, but thats just a personal oppinion. 
 The new battle modes can be done in single player against computers, which is a bonus.
  
  Finally, we come to the cornerstone of Mario Kart that sets it apart from every other racing game 
 (more or less) , the powerups. A lot of the old favourites are still there, like the single banana, 
 the green shell, and the boost, with the useful ones such as tri-boost and multi-boost, 3 shells, 
 and the star also staying in. MKW also alters some old favourites, with the bowser shell now flying, 
 missing everybody on the course, and nuking 1st place, taking out anybody within about 5 metres, 
 and the banana bunch now only 3 strong. Thrown into the mix are a few new powerups (to me at least) , 
 such as the pow block (spinning everybody infront of you out) , the bloopa (sprays ink on the screen 
 so you cant see) , bullet bill (takes control of you and flys along the centre of the course, taking 
 out anybody in your way - this can take you from 12th to 1st in a couple of seconds) , and the supersize 
 mushroom (makes you big and flatten everybody) , among others. Some of these (like bullet-bill) 
 are highly useful and only slightly annoying, while others (like the pow block and bloopa) are 
 just downright annoying. A further gripe with the new powerup system, is the fact that when you 
 get hit by something hard, like lightning, pow-block, or the bowser shell, you lose whatever powerups 
 you might have, which just isnt fair.
  
  All in all, I really enjoyed Mario Kart Wii. It (mostly) builds on the basic, strong building blocks 
 that have made past Mario Kart games successful, adding a new, fun control scheme, and new characters, 
 it is definately an improvement on past generations. That said, some things do detract and make 
 it a little hard to really enjoy the game at parts. I give it a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaraChat
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Never in my life have I played a bad Mario Kart game. There are some I didn't enjoy as much as 
 others, like Double Dash for GameCube, but most of the time, Mario Kart video games are a very 
 enjoyable experience, so I was expecting another great title from Nintendo.
  As for the Wii version, I particularly liked the idea of making remakes of classic races. The graphics 
 are great for a Wii game. The steering wheel was a nice idea and I personnally thought it worked 
 pretty well. Some of the races are very entertaining and imaginative. The only things I didn't 
 like about the game are the battle mode (which are timed and team-based) and the disparity between 
 items you get depending on your position.
  Overall, the game was and is still very good (as I haven't stopped playing yet!) . Nine out of Ten. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedre123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  This game just like strikers in the fact that it smooths out every and all bumps that the old game 
 had. first of all it comes with double the amount of maps and all of the new places are soo cool 
 and sooooo fun to play at enjoying all of the old maps and old things to do this was a huge huge 
 improvement. also there are soooo many more people to play with i don't know how many but there 
 are lots and lots of them and they all have their own bikes which brings me to the next order of 
 business which is the bikes. all the bikes in the original where rated in three different sections 
 and speed and i forget the others but they could only be rated out of five stars so the carts didn't 
 matter nearly as much as they do in the new one which is great. in this one each cart is rated 
 according many many more factors and they all look very different and are much much cooler. also 
 with the maps it has brought back many of the original maps from the gameboy version which i also 
 had and was very very fun aswell. and adding a whole new level of awesomeness there are now tricks 
 which create a new edge for you to get against more difficult opponents. also all of the new types 
 of powerups add the only bad part to this game. while in first place it seem that the computer 
 gets an unlimited amount god damned blue shells that instantly come to kill you. and whenever you 
 get into a bad position with a blue shell or something it seems every red shell is instantly shot 
 in your direction. so it seems like once you are in first and you get only crappy green shells 
 or bananas and you get hit once or fall once you are instantaneously in 10th place and need to 
 make up all of that lead. also a bit of a fault in the game is that once in a bad position you 
 get so many good things like the rocket which instantly takes you back up many many positions so 
 this adds a very very difficult aspect to the game rather than just racing it is also hoping to 
 god that on your last lap at rainbow road a blue shell doesn't come out of nowhere and end up giving 
 you a 11th place finish that costs you a first place spot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RdrOfTheLostArk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii, even without its noteworthy variety of multiplayer and online modes, represents 
 a gigantic improvement over its last-gen predecessor, Mario Kart Double Dash. Once you play this 
 game, you'll realize it's worth every cent you paid for it.
  This game returns many successful ideas from previous installments in the Mario Kart series. For 
 example, Mario Kart DS's idea of reintroducing nostalgic circuits from previous Mario Kart games. 
 Another example, Double Dash's diversion from the traditional "Mario Kart" vehicle and introducing 
 karts that encapsulate the character. But this game takes a daring move by switching some vehicles 
 to two-wheelers. Motorcycles add a new dimension of fun to the mix, as does the Wii Wheel, included 
 with every Mario Kart.
  The Wii steering wheel puts the player in the driver's seat, allowing him or her to steer his or 
 her kart or bike without needing the joystick that so limited the previous games in the series. 
 You can also use it to for the first time ever perform mid-air tricks in a long jump. The controls 
 for these tricks are somewhat unwieldy and take a lot of getting used to. The driver gets a small 
 speed boost for each successful trick, but otherwise they are mainly just for show. Using the steering 
 wheel occasionallly gets a little difficult, but it doesn't slow down the fun.
  The game isn't without flaws, though. You will get dismayed when two seconds before crossing the 
 finish line you get hit by a flying blue shell and end up in last place, or when in the middle 
 of a jump you get struck by lightning and end up in a lava pit. The game strives to create constant 
 upset in the race by punishing the driver in first place while rewarding the poor sapp in dead 
 last with items. It's a little more extreme in the case of this game, but it's the same old Mario 
 Kart story. Just don't take the game too seriously, and you won't be bothered too much by this.
 
  The game isn't too difficult, though variable in many ways by what I described in the last paragraph. 
 The courses are more brilliant and topsy-turvy than ever before. The character list contains the 
 original 8 racers in addition to some recent additions like baby versions of mario, luigi, and 
 peach, along with other unlockable characters like my personal favorite and the easiest to unlock, 
 King Boo. All appear in beautiful color and graphics, and Boo even glows in the dark!
  Single player modes include the traditional Mario GP 50, 100, and 150 cc, time trial, and single 
 player versions of multiplayer modes vs (race) and battle (item brawl) . I'm don't particularly 
 utilize online multiplayer modes, but from what I hear they are better than ever for the Wii.
 
  How does this game stack up to its predeccessors? It blew Double Dash out of the water (with half 
 the characters on each vehicle!) and continued the greatness of the N64 and DS versions. To me, 
 it's tied with Mario Kart 64 at the very top. But you will never get enough of this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marioman42
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  This game almost did everything right. The Wii wheel works as well as I hoped it would, and noobs 
 can use the other control schemes. Online play is available, but there are no voice or chat capabilities. 
 Still ,the game play is great and is lag free. Even with Nintendo scraping out the bottom of the 
 barrel for more characters and constantly making new babies. (At least Baby mario and Baby luigi 
 were in a game!) Still, there are lots of unlockable characters and karts and bikes and blah blah 
 blah. You'll find yourself staying online for hours trying to get a better rank. This is one definite 
 pick up for the Wii! With addicting game play, smooth graphics, awesome online play , and loads 
 of unlockables, kart fans should definitely pick this one up! Don't be fooled by third party racing 
 games, this is what you want if you want a racer for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dilberto16
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is what the Wii needed! It's got great graphics, a wide character selection, you're able 
 to use your Miis, and the new tracks and bikes top it all off in this great game. Not only can 
 you be your Mii self, you also get to interact with the game; the main point of the Wii. 
  
  Controls:
  
  I love the controls on this game. You put the Wii Remote into the Wii Wheel 
 and you're all set. Using the Wii Remote's motion sensored feature, you just steer like a real 
 car. When you ride a bike, you can even make it more life-like by taking the Remote out of the 
 Wheel and hold it like handlebars.
  
  Graphics:
  
  I don't need to go on and on about this so I'll just say that the graphics in this game are perfect! 
 Every good Mario game needs to have good graphics, and this game more than meets the standards.
 
  
  Sound: 
  
  Like it's predecessors, Mario Kart Wii has great background music that is catchy and sometimes 
 I find myself obliviously humming the tunes. You can also hear the correct sound for each vehicle: 
 heavy cars have a more truck-like sound; whereas light cars sound like hybrids. Bikes sound like, 
 not surprisingly, motorcycles.
  
  Overall Gameplay:
  
  Mario Kart Wii has a great gameplay, and once you unlock all the characters, tracks, cars, bikes, 
 and cups (which is quite a challange, trust me on this one) , you can suprisingly keep playing over 
 and over again.
  
  Wi-Fi Gameplay: 
  
  On Wi-Fi, you can compete against the world (or maybe just your region, whatever meets your standards) , 
 go against other people's ghosts in Time Trials, and even compete in tournaments where you try 
 to beat other's times to defeat a boss or other task. However, on Wi-Fi matches, sometimes you 
 have to compete against random Mario Kart experts, where it's almost impossible to come in first.
 
  
  All in all, Mario Kart Wii is an excellent choice for the Wii. Veterans of Mario Kart will find 
 a new challange in the Wii Wheel, and beginners will experience the fantastic and exciting world 
 of Mario Kart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoojher
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii allows you to sit in the drivers seat as any character from Mario games, even Rosalina 
 for Super Mario Galaxy. We all know sometimes your opponent can get ahead and you just can't catch 
 up. But in Mario Kart, weapon blocks appear and when passed over, you are given weapons with a 
 range of uses. The new addition is the Super Mushroom. It enlarges you to a giant for a set time. 
 Mario Kart Wii also allows you to play online for the first time and unlike any other game on all 
 console, wi-fi is two-player. The game lets you play 32 races on 3 difficulties. The new addition 
 also has bikes for every character to ride and use them to perform wheelies for a speed boost. 
 And every motor can perform tricks while in the air for a speed boost when you land.
  This is my personal best game on the Wii.
  
  By Hoojher 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMan678
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  It's an interesting question, but which is the best Mario Kart ever? From the character pairing 
 of Double Dash!!, the classic Mode 7 graphics of Super Mario Kart, to the snaking tricks in Mario 
 Kart 64. But Mario Kart Wii promises to be the answer to that question. Mario Kart is back and 
 better than before!
  
  As usual, 16 new tracks, like Coconut Mall and Mushroom Gorge, join 16 golden oldies from previous 
 Mario Karts. There 4 N64, GameCube and DS tracks and two from the SNES and GBA apiece. The characters 
 are divided into three weight groups: light, medium and heavy. Each character, of which 12 are 
 available at the start, has a mininum of 3 karts and bikes each.
  
  There are a whopping five different control methods: The Wiimote with or without Wii Wheel; The 
 Wiimote and Nunchuk; Classic Controller and GameCube controller. Although I was actually going 
 to yell 'hurray for the oldies' and use a Classic Controller, the truth is I actually prefer the 
 Wheel. It just makes you feel like playing a driving game.
  
  The controls on the Wheel are simple: turn the wheel to steer; hold 2 to accelerate; hold B trigger 
 to powerslide; press A to look behind and the D-Pad fires items. Flicking up the wheel on a jump 
 makes you to a stunt, giving you a nice speed boost when you land. Sweet. Also, when riding a bike, 
 flick the Wheel up on a straight to do a wheelie and get a marginal boost.
  
  GRAPHICS: 9/10
  
  The graphics are so stunning, even the SNES look nice and 3D. The courses 
 look absolutely brilliant and so do characters. It nearly rivals Galaxy as far as graphics go.
 
  
  TRACKS: 9/10
  
  The tracks are well designed, with speed boosts, jumps and item boxes conviently located in each 
 course. The setting is amazing: for example, Mario Circuit looks like it's in a regular Mushroom 
 Kingdom city and Coconut Mall is set in... guess what, a shopping centre.
  
  CONTROLS: 8/10
  
  While the Wiimote without the Wheel is fiddly, the rest are easy to control. 
 My favourite? Must be the Wheel. The level of control is fantastic, although it takes a while to 
 get used to it.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: 9/10
  
  You can have up to 4 players on one Wii console at a time. Then comes the online play. And what 
 online options! Up to 12 players worldwide can race via the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. Also you 
 can exchange Friend Codes and race or battle your friends.
  
  VERDICT:
  
  This game is the best Mario Kart ever. With its stunning graphics, brilliant controls, inventive 
 tracks and loads of online options, this is a must-buy for any Mario Kart fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwr1ght
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  If you could only use two words to describe this game I would say it is "breath taking".
  
  Mario Cart Wii offers a new dimention to the series with a mix of old and new tracks from a variety 
 of Nintendo gaming platforms to concour as well as its multiplayer and online modes.
  
  There are a number of cups to enter when starting the game which gradually get harder as time gets 
 on, however they are all worth completing as the more you do the more the game rewards you with 
 more creators, tracks, carts and bikes to use.
  
  Just when you think you have completed the game and feel all is done its till offers you hours 
 of fun with its mirror mode cup tracks, time trials, group games which till provide you with further 
 rewards.
  
  I personally enjoy the online channel where you can challange your friends and family aswell as 
 the worlds time trials on all tracks of which again offer you even more rewards and hours of fun.
 
  
  highly recommended and never gets dull.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankDK1995
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  This is a great mario kart game that brings back many of the old course that you have seen like 
 on the snes, 64, gamecube, and the ds. they all have great courses and this one in my opinion has 
 the best courses. the gameplay really hasnt changed much. except that you get to play with the 
 wii wheel (which is AWESOME! by the way) and you get mini turbos when you drift. and if you drift 
 long enough you get a super mini turbo. there all also new items such as the bullet bill and the 
 giant mushroom off of new super mario bros. for the ds. it makes you bigger and faster for a while 
 so that you can run over everyone. so far what I have played it seems like a very great game. always 
 I reapeat always use the wii wheel. it is very sufficient to just using the wii remote by itself. 
 It is ten time better I promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NarutoGNT4rocks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Mario has zoomed back in his little kart with some familiar faces. But does this title stand up 
 to its brethren. NO. It may be better, in my opinion, than the original, but 64, Double Dash, and 
 DS, still stand tall. 
  
  Like some of the others, the single player is somewhat disappointing (come on, take out the blue 
 turtle shell) , I really don't want ti take the time to go back and do any better on the Grand Prix. 
 
  
  Now for the Time Trials. In this option you try to finish all the tracks in a fast time. The Wifi 
 in the game kicks in when Nintendo Staff hosted ghosts appear. To unlock some characters and karts, 
 you need to finish the course a couple seconds in front of them, which can be EXTREMELY hard. if 
 you don't know what your doing. You may need to watch them ten's of times to understand how to 
 win. But then you have to actually do it. Ugh.
  
  But it's not all bad. The multiplayer is FANTASTIC as always, but better in this version. Play 
 with or against friends, people in your country, or around the frickin world, Ya, thats frickin 
 awesome. Not only that, but its shows where the people are from too. There's online battle, which 
 combines two favorite things together. Kicking butt and online. I love fighting those little Japanese 
 kids. Haha
  
  The total innovation of that Wii Wheel is high. It's a piece of plastic, but an awesome piece of 
 plastic. It feels good. Looks good. It's good. Nintendo made a good accessory for once. Exception 
 of Zapper (NES) and the Balance Board.
  
  Let's get down to the point. Shiny graphics, bad single-player, awesome multiplayer, and cool controller. 
 So I give this game a 8.5 for the bad single player, which can be a big problem in most games, 
 but luckily there is multiplayer online so you can play anyone, anytime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMaster272
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is a really cool game it has awesome graphics, multiplayer modes, and much more. 
 First of all the Grand Prix is fun you can either choose from the: Mushroom Cup, Flower Cup, Shell 
 Cup, Banana cup, Special Cup, Lighting Cup, Leaf Cup, and Star cup.
  Now for the Characters,
  
  Lightweight Characters: Baby Mario, Baby Luigi (LOCKED) , Baby Peach, 
 Baby Daisy (LOCKED) , Toad, Toadette (LOCKED) , Koopa Troopa
  Dry bones (LOCKED) !!
  
  Middleweight Charaters: Mario, Luigi, Peach, Daisy (LOCKED) , Yoshi, Birdo (LOCKED) , Diidy Kong 
 (LOCKED) , Bowser Jr. (LOCKED) !!
  
  Heavyweight Charaters: Wario, Waluigi, Donkey Kong, Bowser, King Boo (LOCKED) , Rosalina (LOCKED) , 
 FUNKY KONG (LOCKED) , Dry Bowser (LOCKED) !!
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Now For the Karts/Bikes:
  
  Lightweight Cars: Standard Kart, Booster Seat, Mini Beast, Cheep Charger (LOCKED) , Tiny Titan (LOCKED) , 
 Blue Falcon (LOCKED) !!
  Lightweight Bikes: Standard Bike, Bullet Bike, Bit Bike, Quacker (LOCKED) , Magikrusier (LOCKED) , 
 Jet Bubble (LOCKED) !!
  
  MiddleWeight Cars: Standard Kart, Classic Dragster, WIld Wing, Super Blooper (LOCKED) , Daytripper 
 (LOCKED) , Sprinter (LOCKED) !!
  Middleweight Bikes: Standard Bike, Mach Bike, Sugarscoot, Zip Zip (LOCKED) , SNeakster (LOCKED) , 
 Dolphin Dasher (LOCKED) !!
  
  Heavyweight Cars: Standard Kart, Offroader, Flame Flyer, Pirana Prowler (LOCKED) , Jetsetter (LOCKED) , 
 Honeycoupe (LOCKED) !!
  Heavyweight Bikes: Standard Bike, Flame runner, Wario Bike, Shooting Star (LOCKEd) , Spear (LOCKED) , 
 Phantom (LOCKED) !!
  
  This games WFC if really fun and the Mario Kart Channel on the game is also really fun too!! I 
 really like this game and if you want it and think you won't like it, trust me and just buy it!! 
 P. S.- Mario Kart Wii is the most fun and addicting wii game ever!! (In my opinion) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asian_pride69
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  The arrival of the Mario Kart on the Wii console is spectacular. The Mario Kart franchise keeps 
 on expanding, spreading love and undeniable charm wherever they go, and keep on expanding to wider 
 audiences as years go by. It is simply stating that the Mario Kart series changed the way new and 
 veteran gamers view go-kart racing video games. You can actually sabotage an opposing racer and 
 get away with it, and everybody would still have a huge amount of fun. That is only a small chunk 
 of what Mario Kart has to offer. Playing this game will keep you entertained for countless hours, 
 and you may even lose track of time because you are having way too much fun racing people, whether 
 in the campaign mode or even people online. Also, with its awesome online and multiplayer features, 
 and even the single player Grand Prix will make you want to play it over and over again. The fun 
 experience that you get from Mario Kart Wii is definitely worth it. 
  
  The main event of the game is the Grand Prix in the single player. There are three modes in the 
 Grand Prix: the first one is the 50cc, that only races karts, and is a great level for beginner 
 players and those new to the Mario Kart series. The second one is 100cc that races karts and bikes, 
 and is recommended for veteran players and those who are familiar to the Mario Kart universe. And, 
 last but not the least, is the 150cc, recommended for the expert players who have extensive experience 
 in the Mario Kart universe. Any gamer can choose a mode that he/she prefers and familiarize themselves 
 with the modes of their choosing. 
  
  You can choose to about 8 different cup races in the Grand Prix, and each cup race has 4 three-lap 
 races that the player must race through to win 1st place. But it's not that easy. The player has 
 to finish each race with points, and with enough points can they determine how they rack up based 
 on what place they got in each race. For example, a player can achieve a maximum of 60 points in 
 all 4 races (which means 15 points if 1st place each race) , and if the player has the top points, 
 they win the 1st place trophy for that particular cup race, and will be determined how they did 
 in that cup race (E, D, C, B, A, or an amount of stars) .
  
  There are about 32 different tracks to choose from, and some are familiar ones to those who have 
 played the previous Mario Kart games. It's also a great way to reminisce and race at the old tracks 
 as well. There are about 24 different characters (those include Mario of course) to choose from, 
 and some of them have to be unlocked in a certain way in the game, mostly in the Grand Prix. Each 
 character also has their default set of vehicles that the player can choose from, with three different 
 weight classes. Some karts and bikes can be unlocked throughout the game as well.
  
  There are also other modes besides the Grand Prix to choose from. In the Time Trials, you have 
 to finish at the shortest time possible. There is even a Versus mode if you feel like taking on 
 real players instead of computer-controlled ones. Up to four players can play in this mode. What's 
 even more fun and entertaining is the Battle mode. Balloon mode and Coin Runner are the two types 
 of battle you can choose from. Each is set in a time limit to see which team can collect more coins 
 or pop less balloons (in other words, avoid getting hit) than the other team. 
  
  Multiplayer mode is what makes Mario Kart Wii even more exciting than it already is. You can use 
 the Wi-Fi connection to play against players in your region, friends, or even worldwide. You can 
 join any game type anywhere, anytime. As you win races and battles, you rack up points that add 
 to you online stats (you start at 5000 each) . There are also tournaments in the Mario Kart Wii 
 Channel that players can join and compete for first place records or at least make it in the Top 
 10 finalists. You can also race ghosts for fun and make your Mario Kart online experience absolutely 
 enjoyable.
  
  The superb, sharp controls, in addition to using the Wii Wheel will not disappoint the player. 
 You don't have to worry or be frustrated about it because the controls will sit well with the player, 
 giving the player a much more satisfied and less frustrating playing experience. You still would 
 find yourself having fun even though sometimes you lose control of your vehicle because you attempted 
 to make Bowser flip a hundred times in mid-air, and you didn't stick the landing. 
  
  Other controls, like accelerating and deccelerating, or even using projectile weapons are convenient 
 for the player, because they're right in front of you. You can perform a trick in mid-air and unleash 
 lightning or the Blue Shell on opposing racers and manage to turn just in time to prevent falling 
 to an endless pit, all possible without putting much effort in doing so. It's all in a push of 
 a button. You do not even have to go through the trouble of looking at your wheel to press a particular 
 button and distract the gameplay experience. Drifting and mini-turbos can also add more skill to 
 your racing abilities. The difficulty is nothing to worry about. It is just right for any player 
 who come to play this game, and makes go-kart racing much more fun, even though you're not a fan 
 or not familiar of the Mario Kart series. 
  
  Graphics still look as great and as it did on the DS. The improvement with the lighting effects 
 is big, and the environmental features were done well. Even the shine reflections on the characters's 
 costumes and vehicles look great. The crowds and the statues/monuments are filled and replaced 
 by your system's Miis. 
  
  Sound effects in the game were done nicely. The cheering of the crowds almost sound believable. 
 The roar of the engines, tire skids, horn honks from other vehicles and crashes add excitement 
 to the experience, almost as if you feel that you're in the driver's seat yourself. You can't help 
 but laugh sometimes when Mario remarks, "Mamma mia!" or even what the characters do and say when 
 they win or lose a race, because that's what makes the Nintendo characters appealing and fun. The 
 music is also great, with some musical score that started from the previous Mario Kart games. The 
 upbeat, kiddie feel to the music definitely fits the game's atmosphere just right. For example, 
 when the music speeds up when you hit the final lap and becomes more dramatic, giving you that 
 exciting, tense feeling that you just know you have to win this race.
  
  To sum it all up, Mario Kart Wii is an outstanding experience too good to pass up. Mario Kart has 
 not changed much, but that's what makes the series more lovable than it already is. With its lengthy, 
 enjoyable single player campaign, add more with multiplayer and thoroughly integrated online features, 
 it will keep you entertained for a long time. The awesome experience you get from playing it is 
 absolutely worth it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: groce_j
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  I've played every edition of Mario Kart. You play the game and imagine how can you get more into 
 the game. If you own a Wii, Nintendo answers that question for you without a problem. Although 
 you have the option to use a controller, go with the wheel. I never had so much fun playing a Mario 
 Kart game using the wheel. You have the option to drive more than just the traditional ole' kart. 
 Now you can choose drag karts, motor bikes, and specialty karts you kick some butt on the Wii. 
 After finishing one circuit, my arms was kind of hurting but the pleasure of playing this game 
 made me forget about it. If you wanted to test your skills to see if you're the best at Mario Kart, 
 in this edition you have the chance to go online and test your skills against the world. This game 
 is perfect for the family and friends to compete and have fun playing. If you have a Wii, this 
 is another must have game. If you don't have it, what are you waiting for the lines are long and 
 waiting for you to grab a copy and start playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamachopop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is so fun. The graphics are a bit above par, but it looks good. The controls are good, 
 and the gamecube controller is the best IMO. The new tracks are great, with ramps and half-pipes, 
 and some of the retro ones are pretty good too. Not all of them are so good, because they're a 
 bit boring. There is 26 characters, and you're able to play as your Mii! The bikes are also a good 
 addition to the series. This game is better with friends, especially on wi-fi. Wi-fi is completely 
 lag free, and you're able to play with anyone, or play against friends via friend codes. You can 
 use any kart/bike, and pick any stage, and it's the best wi-fi on Wii yet! Some people say 150cc 
 is super hard, don't listen to them. It's not as hard as they say. It's actually really fun. If 
 you own a Wii you need to add this to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stargui
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is simply the best game of racing for the Wii, the Wii Wheel is a really great adding 
 and the Nintendo Staff Ghosts are back to challenge you in all of the 16 new courses and the 16 
 retro courses!!!!
  
  With a higher character roster than ever and so many courses you might be playing Mario Kart Wii 
 for the rest of your life, not only trying to beat the experts ghost datas, but because the fun 
 never ends in the online play!!
  
  Here's my review's second part: (Price: if it's worth buying or not)
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10 - 
 Even with many new things and new details, modes are still basically the same, and now Battle is 
 in team and timed.
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10 - Really gives the sensation of a real race.
  
  Audio: 8/10 - Nothing amazing, nothing horrible.
  
  Value: 10/10 - You'll be sure playing it 
 for a really long period of time.
  
  Price: 10/10 - One of the wii's best games even for those that don't like Mario-style games at 
 all.
  
  Total: 9.5 - If this were a book, it would sure be a best-seller.
  
  If you agree/disagree, message me at Gamespot telling why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WingsofAdamant
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's platform for the Wii, for those of you who live in caves, is to expand the gaming audience 
 to those who don't ignore their bodily functions when gaming for egregiously long marathons. So 
 far they've been very successful, what with Wii Sports, Wii Fit, and the plethora of shovelware, 
 and Mario Kart Wii fulfills this marketing philosphy. Yet for veteran players, like myself, I found 
 the game to be more of a chore than fun.
  
  My greatest joy with each new iteration to the series are the new courses. I must say the new stages 
 in MKWii are the best, and Rainbow Road is as frustrating as I've come to expect. Each new cup 
 and its races progress very well to the ability of the player. They all start with a pretty straightforward 
 track, then end with hazard-filled, sideless courses. 
  
  The music is forgettable, it seems to meld into the background, and at times I found myself wondering 
 what was making those muffled noises. The voice parts for each character is what I expected, what 
 with random yips and roars; there's really not much more I think they could do that wouldn't border 
 on corny.
  
  The addition of motorcycles adds a new, unique mechanic to driving; what with sharper, more precise 
 turning and the wheelie boost may help you in the final stretch.
  
  I also found during local multiplayer matches with my friends that all audio would cease, which 
 left me feeling as if I my mind was slowly shutting down from the lack of acknowledgment of the 
 world around me.
  
  The hidden characters and vehicles are for the most part cool, and have realistic stipulations 
 for unlocking, and will keep you at it, knowing all the nooks and crannies of each course, but 
 it won't matter because of the severely unbalanced item system.
  
  This is by far my biggest beef with this game. To show any kind of skill in this game is more than 
 likely to be greeted with a crippling item mere feet from the finish line. A lot of the fun I've 
 drawn from the Mario Kart series was that you could play with a few buddies, and have true fights 
 to the finish with less trump cards. Even if a newcomer comes in and gets seriously schooled, at 
 least their attempts at improving their skills aren't futile, and when they do beat veterans it's 
 most satisfying. Yet, in MKWii, you're more likely to win if you just hang back, since you'll probably 
 get a Bullet Bill or a golden mushroom. It defeats the purpose of even trying. And for me, it takes 
 a lot more effort to actually suck. It's like arduously scaling a mountain, then only to find out 
 there was an escalator to the top on the other side. When I did get through a race though with 
 no serious hiccups I couldn't help shake the feeling that they'd make up for the benevolence by 
 violating my character with blue shells. For another witty analogy, the AI and rubberbandng in 
 this game is a lot like some 1984-esque government, where they pretend to encourage your individual 
 growth and sense of freedom, but they're really just biding their time before they have a socially 
 viable excuse to exterminate you. 
  Overall, I think the game does an injustice to new, but serious gamers. I think the accessibility 
 of the game and the ease of wiping the floor with skilled players only further solidifies my friends' 
 argument of a controller with only one button labeled 'Do".
  
  Difficulty: Of course it changes, why else would this review exist?
  
  Time Spent Playing, 
 To Date: More than I wish.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:57 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a right of passage for Nintendo consoles now, after being featured on every home 
 console Nintendo has released since the Super Nintendo. Yet after 5 prior games, the Mario Kart 
 series has failed to completely bring anything new to the table.
  
  We all remember Nintendo's half hearted efforts to re-invented the series with Double Dash for 
 the Gamecube, but the majority turned their back on this piggy back kart game. Perhaps so Nintendo 
 have gone back to their tried and true formula, trying to extract as much fun as they could possibly 
 muster from it. 
  
  New characters are added into the roster, as well as a slur of new power ups, which is actually 
 a breathe of fresh air compared to the decade + power ups. Unfortunately, most of the new characters 
 have to be bloody unlocked... something I think developers do simply to drag the experience out, 
 and justify the high retail sale price we're paid to pay. 
  
  All in all, Mario Kart Wii is fun, and that's all it is. Have some friends over, and play together, 
 or if your pathetic have no friends, get onto the internets and play against some drones. Avoid 
 the steering wheel add on bundled with the game and stick to either using the Wiimote and Nunchuck, 
 or the classic controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cluelesspug
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is a near perfect game. It has great graphics, great gameplay, fun that will last 
 for quite a long time, and they brought back some great classic stages that will bring back great 
 memories, and it is fun for all ages.
  
  Although, the one thing that really ticked me off at the beginning of the game is that it was just 
 absolutely brutal. I had trouble clearing 100cc cups because of how plain difficult the game was. 
 The items are so unbalanced that it makes the game a lot less fun. Say, for instance, your in first 
 place your about to cross the finish line and the pack of CPU's are on your back. All of the sudden 
 you get hit with a blue shell, two red shells, a banana peel, and a POW block and end up in 9th 
 place. And by the way, that really happened to me, no joke. So if you aren't that good at this 
 game, then I say you should stick to multiplayer modes because single player is absolutely brutal 
 and punishing to people who aren't that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-man45
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  This game is an absolute winner!! Awesome new features and modes!!
  
  Gameplay: Mario Kart Wii has some great new additions to the traditional MK formula. The Wii Wheel 
 packaged with the game is a nice, new, and responsive addition that I think is a very cool. The 
 addition of tricks is a nice touch, and it is not absolutely necessary in order to win. I like 
 to use them, however, because they provide a nice little speed boost. The graphics are superb for 
 Wii. There are a lot of new, fun, and creative tracks as well as retro tracks, as first displayed 
 in Mario Kart DS. The new tracks in Mushroom and Flower cups are not as exciting as the tracks 
 in the Star and Special cups, but still all are fun and inventive. There are many karts and bikes 
 to unlock... Wait a minute! Did I say bikes? Yes, along with the traditional karts, the added addition 
 of bikes brings yet another fun addition to the MK series. There are brand new characters in Kart 
 Wii as well, including baby Peach and Rosalina from Super Mario Galaxy!
  Tired of GP? Not to worry, there is multiplayer for four players with battle and race mode. And 
 battle Mode has two modes this time around. Along with Balloon Battle there is Coin Runners in 
 which coins are spawned throughout the stages and one must collect as many as they can, and attack 
 other players to make them lose their coins. There some fun new stages in battle along with retro 
 stages! including Twilight house from DS and battle course 4 from SNES, and battle course 3 from 
 GBA!
  There is also Nintendo WFC for MKW, where you can choose to race or battle with people from all 
 around the World!
  
  Graphics. Probably the best graphics on the Wii
  
  Sound. Nice new songs and character voices, although some characters get really annoying. (DK, 
 I'm talking to you.)
  
  Lasting Appeal. You'll be playing this game for years to come! A Wii owner must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NovaScizor75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is definitely one of the most anticipated and popular games on the Wii, and for 
 good reason. The Wii wheel is a great addition to the series, it just feels so natural. It responds 
 perfectly, but hardcore players will probably choose the Gamecube controller instead. The gameplay 
 doesn't stray far from the series' formula. You still drive around crazy tracks and fire items 
 at your opponents. Now there can be up to 12 players (online) . Despite what you may think, more 
 racers does NOT always mean more fun. It does mean you'll get bombarded with items from other racers 
 more often. So, occasionally, you will require more luck than skill in the 150cc cups and some 
 online races. The online works perfectly. by the way. A bunch of different racers from around the 
 entire world with no lag, Nintendo finally got it right. There are a grand total of 32 tracks (16 
 remade, 16 new) . The tracks are still just as crazy and testing as ever. Each of these tracks have 
 their own fitting music, be it: jazzy, dark, tropic, etc. The graphics are pretty smooth and polished, 
 but not the best on the Wii. In the end, it's a Wii game with great multiplayer that is definitely 
 worth checking out, but just not as good as Mario Kart DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cupydo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really impresed by this game.
  
  Gameplay: If you played a mario 
 kart game before then you will know what to expect from this. You can choose from tons of cars 
 to race in and the race tracks are really big.
  
  Sound: If you played a mario kart 
 game before then you will probaly know what to expect from this. The sound in really well done 
 and the music is really good.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are really well done in this game. The cars are really well 
 done, the race tracks are beautiful and the menues are really nice.
  
  Value: You can play for like 5 hours 
 and then finish the game. The storyline is short but it is really fun.
  
  The online mode is great. There 
 are tournaments, friends, rankings, VR points (which you gain or lose depending on how you race) , 
 and Mii support, so it actually feels like you're playing people rather than random level CPUs. 
 The VR system usually works well, with the emphasis on usually. If you disconnect, the game places 
 you in last, so there are penalties for people who try to escape losing. Unfortunately, you are 
 sometimes disconnected by Nintendo's servers, causing you to lose VR points over things out of 
 your control. Lastly, the rate at which you gain VR points is much lower than the rate at which 
 you lose them; because of this, you may spend over an hour getting your VR up a couple hundred 
 only to get blasted from every angle by items, come in last, and lose everything you just worked 
 for in one race. This gets extremely annoying, especially when a newbie with a bullet bill comes 
 in and beats you at the last second.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game 
 is a decent game for the gameboy advance and you should definitely want tot go and try this one 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ragnarok1692
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  
  
  If you have ever played Mario Kart before, you know what to expect, but don't think it's just a 
 remix of the basic formula, there's A LOT more to it than that. Don't even waste time renting it, 
 just buy it, it's that good. But you didn't read this just to see me praise it did you? Let's get 
 to the review!
  
  Before I talk about the game, I want to talk about the controls. This is the second game from Nintendo 
 to use all the different control schemes they made available for Brawl. You can use the Wii Remote 
 and Nunchuck combo, the newly designed Wii Wheel, the Gamecube Controller, or the Classic Controller. 
 The brand new Wii Wheel is a great addition to your purchase, because it is not just a marketing 
 ploy, it really works! (not to mention it is included free) . This game really gives you freedom 
 to find what suits you best. 
  
  
  This isn't your average run-of-the-mill racing game, it's full of strange items, crazy tracks and 
 all the characters you've come to love from Nintendo, and some you may have never heard of. There 
 are 26 different characters to choose from, 12 of them unlocked from the start. Also, 2 of the 
 26 are different costumes of your Miis. Weight classes were pretty much done away with for "size" 
 classes. There are 3 classes: small, medium, and large. Your Mii will be one of the three classes 
 depending on how big you made him/her in the Mii Channel.
  
  
  Battle Mode makes it's triumphant return (now playable online) with computers. There are two modes, 
 Balloon Battle and Coin Runners. Balloon Battle is the same as it's always been, you aim to take 
 away the other person/team's balloons by using items. In Coin Runners, the goal is to collect as 
 many coins as you can in the time given. You now play with two teams of six in both game modes.
 
  
  
  There are a total of 32 tracks to race on, 16 new and 16 from past installments of the series. 
 All of these tracks are unique in their own way, because one minute you could be racing through 
 a mall, and the next you're on a snowy mountain resort (it doesn't have to make sense, it's Nintendo) .
 
  
  
  Now lets get to the vehicles. This may be Mario KART, but the crafty folks at Nintendo decided 
 to throw in bikes, and what a great decision it was. bikes and karts handle differently, but they 
 are made to be equal. Karts drift on the outside of turns while a majority of bikes drift on the 
 inside, what this means is that they will not slide out of the path you started the drift on and 
 will "hug" the track. 
  
  Each size class has it's own set of karts and bikes, 6 karts and 6 bikes to their respective classes. 
 Bikes have the very nice addition of being able to do wheelies to increase speed, while karts can 
 get faster mini-turbos coming out of a drift, depending on how long you were in it. Both karts 
 and bikes can now do stunts, which are activated by a simple flick of the Wii Remote (Wheel, Wii 
 Remote & Nunchuck) or a press of the d-pad (Gamecube Controller, Classic Controller) right after 
 coming off of a ramp to receive a small boost.
  
  
  Now on to the items. Many people have mentioned that the items in the game make the AI cheap, This 
 is not true, it just adds a whole new level of strategy to the racing experience. A tougher challenge 
 makes for more replay value, which is what Nintendo aimed for and achieved in this. The items are 
 the Banana Peel, Banana Peel x3, Green Shell, Green Shell x3, Red Shell, Red Shell x3, Bullet Bill, 
 Golden Mushroom, Red Mushroom, Red Mushroom x3, Blue Shell, Lightning, Lightning Cloud, Fake Item 
 Block, Blooper, Star, POW Block, Bob-omb, and the Mega Mushroom.
  
  The banana peels are dropped on the track, leaving them open for any racer to hit them and spin 
 out briefly. The shells are fired like missiles a long the track (red homing and green straight) . 
 The blue shell is fired, but flies up to the front of all the racers and explodes on the person 
 in first. The Red Mushrooms give you a one-time boost, but the golden ones will allow you to keep 
 boosting for a certain amount of time. The Mega Mushroom turns the user about 2-3 times bigger 
 and you can flatten anyone you hit and you are faster. Lightning makes everyone but the user tiny 
 and slows them down. The Lightning Cloud will turn you small after a brief amount of time, unless 
 you can pass it off to some unlucky racer. The Item Block is an item you drop to be a sort of, 
 "bomb in disguise". The blooper puts ink all over the screen of the racer (s) in front of you. The 
 star turns you invincible for a brief period and allows you to boost ahead. The POW Block spins 
 everyone out and the Bob-omb is left on the track to hit anyone who comes near it. Whew! a lot 
 of good items!
  
  
  The only thing left to really cover is the incredible Wi-Fi option. Playing online is a great addition 
 and allows you to play with up to 11 other racers from your region, around the world, or just your 
 friends. You can also keep track of your "skill" level with the VR system, which starts at 5000. 
 But wait, have a friend over? Want to play online? Well you can bring a person online with you 
 as a guest so they don't feel left out. Mario Kart gives you the option to download a channel made 
 especially for this game to your Wii Menu. This channel tracks tournaments and your friend's activity, 
 and you don't even need the disc in to see it!
  
  
  As my final word, I have to say that this is the best Mario kart game yet and one of the Wii's 
 best titles. I HIGHLY recommend this game to not just Mario fans or fans of the series, but racing 
 game fanatics and Wii owners everywhere. But if we had to say anything bad about the game (I know 
 you want me to) then that would be the fact that you can't approach the sound barrier. I mean, 
 everyone wants to do that, right?
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: towelie892
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  It all started with Super Mario Kart on the SNES. Then Nintendo brought it to the N64 with 3D graphics, 
 followed by the Gamecube iteration with two characters per kart, and finally Mario Kart DS where 
 it was first brought online. Now it's on the Wii, and it's the best Mario Kart yet, as well as 
 Nintendo's best online game to date.
  
  You choose your karter from the likes of Mario, Yoshi, Toad, Peach, Bowser, DK, and more, as well 
 as multiple unlockable characters. You then proceed to go to one of the wacky tracks and race and 
 attack each with other items. Bikes and tricks have been added to the mix, and they freshen up 
 the experience. The Wii wheel also works very well with its responsive steering, and it is definitely 
 the best way to play the game.
  
  The item list however, is not so good. It includes the banana, red shell, green shell, spiny shell, 
 fake item box, mushroom, golden mushroom, POW block, lightning bolt, lightning cloud, bullet bill, 
 star, bob-omb, and blooper. The lightning cloud and blooper do nothing but annoy, the POW block 
 is basically just a dumbed-down lighting bolt, and the fake item box is just a banana that can't 
 block items. There are so many items and a lot of them do nothing but make the experience less 
 fun. An item customization list like Brawl's would have been a very welcome addition.
  
  The graphics look slightly better than Double Dash's, but not much; that's really about all there 
 is to say. The music is catchy enough, but nothing memorable, and the sound effects are good no 
 matter how you slice it.
  
  The online mode is great. There are tournaments, friends, rankings, VR points (which you gain or 
 lose depending on how you race) , and Mii support, so it actually feels like you're playing people 
 rather than random level CPUs. The VR system usually works well, with the emphasis on usually. 
 If you disconnect, the game places you in last, so there are penalties for people who try to escape 
 losing. Unfortunately, you are sometimes disconnected by Nintendo's servers, causing you to lose 
 VR points over things out of your control. Lastly, the rate at which you gain VR points is much 
 lower than the rate at which you lose them; because of this, you may spend over an hour getting 
 your VR up a couple hundred only to get blasted from every angle by items, come in last, and lose 
 everything you just worked for in one race. This gets extremely annoying, especially when a newbie 
 with a bullet bill comes in and beats you at the last second.
  
  Overall though, Mario Kart Wii is an excellent single player and multiplayer game. If you have 
 a Wii, you should not pass this up. Its gameplay and online modes will keep you playing for a long 
 time.
  
  Gameplay - 8
  Graphics - 7.5
  Sound - 8
  Value - 9
  Overall (not an average) - 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hessian823
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Finally!!!! I usually write reviews that blast games for being to ambitious or cluttered with features 
 that don't translate well to the gaming platform or controls that are clunky and a drag to play. 
 Not today my friends. Mario Kart Wii is an instant classic that will have you calling all your 
 gaming buddies to get in on the fun. The game holds a lot of nostalgia for me so I must say that 
 maybe I'm a bit partial but, this game is just plain fun. Using all the old features that made 
 this game a classic with a few new twists makes this one a game that you'll be playing years from 
 now and it'll still be as fun as the day you got it. The drifting feature is really fun and adds 
 a modern dimension to the racing. The courses are the best of the best from the older versions 
 of the game but that is by no means a set back. There are a host of unlockables which is great 
 because the learning curve on this one is virtually nil so you'll be unlocking characters and cars/bikes 
 in no time. The online feature is great, runs really smooth and gives players a way to enjoy racing 
 against others even when no one else is around. I have not been this stoked on a game in a while. 
 It gets a 10 from me and, in my estimation, will put the Wii back into contention with platforms 
 like the PS3 and 360 for great and fun titles. Don't believe the hype? Grab a copy and see for 
 yourself. Its an instant classic! Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hagge15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 2:30 am PT
Review:  Nintendo's Mario kart comes back once again, and this time on the wii!
  
  Lets just begin. Mario kart wii is the best Mario kart so far and are, in my option, as good as 
 Super Mario galaxy. But Mario kart is getting old now. And Nintendo MUST come up with a new idea 
 soon. The wii itself was something new, but think about it. All good games for wii is copies of 
 an older one;
  
  Super Mario galaxy = super Mario 64
  Super smash bros. Brawl = Super smash bros. Melee
  Mario kart wii = Mario kart DS
  
  And 
 so on Nintendo needs a new idea, a new hero, Mario is old
  
  
  So, that's the bad thing about MKWII. Its just old thing who's come back with a new control and 
 a better graphic. But that shall only stop you from buying this game if you are really tired of 
 Mario kart. Because MKWII is a fun game.
  
  So, lets begin with the good stuff. MKWII contains much more unlockables than ever before. The 
 most characters are also REALLY hard to unlock, finally a challenge. The graphics are also not 
 sharp as SSBB or magic as SMG, but it works fine.
  
  The new wheel; Wii wheel. Is a remote controlled steering wheel, it fits great in the most peoples 
 hands. And reacts perfectly. The WIFI has never been better either, its way better then SSBB. And 
 are truly made for everyone.
  
  At the top. MKWII is a fun game for everyone. But we are tired of Mario kart now. Show us some 
 originally Nintendo!!
  
  
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  The graphics is not as sharp as SSBB or as cool as SMG, but are really beautiful in its own way. 
 Its only when you look closely it reminds of gamecube.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Nothing special with the sound, but nothing bad either.
  
  Controls: 10/10
  The controls 
 are awesome. The wii wheel fits fine and reacts perfectly. And if you don't like it, you can play 
 with 4 other control types!
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Its cool at the start, but then you realise it's the same Mario kart, only three more items and 
 a few OK tracks. But the WIFI and the many unlockables make it a big 7.
  
  
  Final score: 8.25/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  Every Nintendo console after the SNES always had a Mario Kart. And the Wii is no different. Still, 
 now that Nintendo has made a console a bit more fit for the so-called "casual" gamer, they've made 
 a few tweaks to the familiar weapons-based kart-racing formula that is Mario Kart.
  
  But first...
  
  What's Mario Kart, you say?
  
  Mario Kart is a decades running racing game 
 that probably invented the mascot-racing genre. If clones like Crash Team Racing and Chocobo Racing 
 can attest, the series has always been loved (and hated) by many people and thus putting money 
 on the pockets of the execs.
  
  What made the Kart series a household name was the new system started in the Nintendo 64 version 
 of the game which featured some of the most brutal power-ups like the spiny shell and the drifting 
 system called the Powerslide.
  
  This time, in the Wii version, Nintendo adds some minor, but surprisingly fun features- and tweaks 
 some of the trademark ones.
  
  Tweaks
  The tweaks in the formula in this new installment happens to be in the Powersliding. Initially, 
 the drifting system was a press of a button, and the balancing via left and right during a curve. 
 The longer you do that, the faster you get to accelerate. 
  
  This feature was, however, abused by some gamers (to them it was called "snaking") so in order 
 to stop this, Nintendo tweaked with the Powersliding formula and also added another mode of drifting- 
 Automatic.
  
  Because Nintendo probably knew that it would be hard to drift using the motion-sensing Wii Wheel, 
 they also added this. Automatic mode is the type of drifting wherein just pressing the direction 
 of the curve will make your character drift. Manual drifting is the kind of drifting that is identical 
 to the one I described a few paragraphs before, although the snaking thing has become reduced.
 
  
  Another tweak made by Nintendo is the fact the Battle mode mechanics. Back then, Battle modes that 
 involve people collecting as many coins as possible and avoiding of damage was a free-for-all, 
 single-player affair. Now, it's a team-based affair- as well as a timed one, too. Thus, for example, 
 if the balloons that represent the "life" of your character are all popped, they'll grow back again 
 until time runs out. This is a bit of a bummer actually, because these formerly quick affairs become 
 really boring- but only slightly.
  
  And what disappointed me the most, however, was the exclusion of 2 player Grand Prix. In the GameCube 
 (Double Dash) , players can cooperate with one another in the grand prix! Now, I not only have to 
 deal with the A. I. (more on that later) , I also have to deal with my nagging brothers who are used 
 to playing co-op with me! Damn!
  
  Additions
  The new additions in the franchise include the addition of motorcycles. Sure, when I first heard 
 about it, I thought, "Nothing special.". But now I've experienced riding the thing, it was actually 
 a refreshing change of pace from the go-karts! Initially, one would think that it would ride very 
 identically to the karts, but no, it's not identical. For one thing, drifting as long as possible 
 won't get you as fast as the regular kart, but if you tilt the Wiimote up, your bike does a wheelie 
 which- though you can't turn well and you will be pushed around by other people- gives you a significant 
 speed boost anytime you want, anywhere you ride.
  
  Other additions include the trick system- which though only involves a mere tilt of the remote 
 during jumps- provides a real speed boost (and they look pretty weird, too!)
  
  Some of the more minor additions include the characters, and they are merely the baby versions 
 of almost each mascot in the default character roster which suck. Some, however, are pretty unexpected 
 like Super Mario Galaxy's Rosalina and... Funky Kong? Who the hell is Funky Kong?!
  
  But a bright spot in the game is very much the new stages themselves: they are the most imaginative 
 racing courses I've ever seen in a mascot racing title! Most of them are just lovable- and some 
 of them have non-linear paths and shortcuts- even glitches! The retro tracks put in the mix- though, 
 rendered superbly right down to the feel of the specific console in which the track first appeared- 
 are boring in comparison.
  
  Gameplay
  Gameplay in Mario Kart Wii has always been accessible, but with a bit of depth as well.
  
  
 Like most games, acceleration is a press of the A button, B for drifting (Wii Wheel) and backing 
 up (All) , C (Nunchuk) /Z (GameCube) for the alternate camera view, the R (GameCube) shoulder button 
 for drifting and the Z (Nunchuk) /L (GameCube) shoulder buttons for items.
  
  OK, maybe I have confused you by various names that accompany letters, but that's because the game 
 supports all the controllers the Wii supports namely: the Wiimote, the Wiimote-Nunchuk combination, 
 the Classic controller and the GameCube controller for the sake of accessibility.
  But when you choose a control method, it will all be second nature. I advise, however, using the 
 Wiimote-Nunchuk combination because it's a lot more comfortable doing tricks.
  
  The Wii Wheel that comes packaged with the game is... well, honestly, I don't really know. I never 
 got to use it, but if you held the Wiimote sideways, the game counts it as using the Wii Wheel, 
 and that's because it's merely a plastic, but ergonomic shell. And with that in mind, I think that 
 method of control is really imprecise- therefore setting a learning curve. Newcomers, however, 
 may get a kick at the realistic control method- although it wouldn't make sense if you used motorcycles.
 
  
  Items
  One thing I forgot to mention in the New Additions paragraph is the inclusion of new items. The 
 new items involve a POW block which slows down all other racers except on air, the Lightning Cloud 
 which- while it speeds you up- zaps you with thunder which shrinks you if you don't pass it on 
 to another person via bumping, and the Mega Mushroom which makes a character huge and enables one 
 to go faster and squish the competition but for only a short period of time.
  
  Of course, the other items get a comeback, but the assignments to each racer are just unequal. 
 For example: If you're in last place, you'll get the best-est items in the game, if you're in between, 
 you'll get some pretty nice items, while if you're in first place, you'll get the worst items. 
 See? Pretty crappy.
  
  A. I.
  Everyone who knows Mario Kart knows the trademark A. I.. And it's back- worse than all hell!
  
 
  Why, you ask?
  
  Well, the artificial intelligence is actually pretty lazy, but when they know that you're in first 
 place, that's when the irritation starts. But OK, in the Easy (50cc) and Medium modes (100cc, which 
 I enjoyed more than Easy) , this A. I. system is pretty mild. But on Hard (150cc) , the A. I. will 
 stun you shell after shell after shell. And for some reason, the person who is actually at 12th 
 place will magically become 1st! And this system is called rubber-banding. Grrr....
  
  Multiplayer
  Multiplayer is- and has always been- fun on a Mario Kart title. And frankly, item 
 placement doesn't mean a thing because just playing with the family is really special. Plus, you 
 can tweak rules in this mode, and you can turn items off, turn A. I. on, and choose a stage choosing 
 preference. The thing here is, you can't just turn off only one specific item that bugs you (the 
 blue shell comes to mind) unlike Super Smash Bros. Brawl. It's either you have items, or you don't. 
 But that's a pretty minor gripe, mind you.
  
  Online
  Online was a blast! Unlike the Grand Prix, this is a typically one-player mode that you can actually 
 take a friend to. Racing and battling, however, is not all there is to it. You can add friends, 
 you can upload your best races and time trial times, and share pictures. And you can do that even 
 without the disc! All that you can do in the downloadable Mario Kart Channel, and that idea is 
 simply genius.
  
  Bragging rights
  Plus, your performance on single-player modes affect your status as an online player. For example, 
 if you want to boast of being able to bag a 3 star rating (the highest) in every race in the Grand 
 Prix, it will show. So what that means to other players is that you are skilled. And that's the 
 phase I'm currently in the game: being able to bag 3 stars in each race. I don't know.
  I just want to brag now for some reason, LOL.
  
  Overall
  Overall, Mario Kart Wii is still 
 the Mario Kart people know and love- but only with a few tweaks made here and there by Nintendo 
 for the sake of accessibility.
  
  I give it an 8.8/10. It's pretty great, but obviously not perfect because of the stupid A. I. in 
 particular. Other than that, I can live with all the minor quirks I've mentioned.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockChalk19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has always been a great, chaotic racing game with hazardous items and tracks. Now it's 
 back on the Wii and more hectic than ever with new items, new tracks, and four more racers in each 
 race.
  
  Mario Kart Wii has a huge selection of characters, karts, and now even bikes. There are four cups 
 with new tracks in them and four cups with old tracks from the SNES, Nintendo 64, Gamecube, Gameboy 
 Advanced, and the DS.
  
  Mario Kart Wii has many new things to offer including: new tracks, bikes, new items, a new battle 
 game called "coin runners", the ability to do tricks off ramps, new characters including Miis being 
 playable, and the most important, online play. All of these are great editions, especially the 
 online play. Nintendo really did a great job with the online for this game. It's easy to get into 
 a match, virtually no lag, exciting tournaments, the ability to compare yourself to the Mario Kart 
 greats, and so much more. The online alone is enough to buy this game.
  
  The single player mode includes Grand Prix, Time Trials, Battle Mode, and Versus mode. The Grand 
 Prix is the same as it's always been, you choose a cc (difficulty) and a cup, race through four 
 tracks and get points depending on what place you came in. At the end of the cup the player with 
 the most points gets the gold trophy. In Time Trials you race on any course with no items except 
 three mushrooms the whole race. Every stage has a staff ghost that you can race against, and if 
 you beat them by enough time you unlock harder staff ghosts. Time Trials are a great way to practice 
 and learn all of the new tracks. Battle Mode includes two games: balloon battle and coin runners. 
 In balloon battle you get items and try to pop the other teams balloons. Which ever team has the 
 most points at the end wins. In coin runners players try to pick up as many coins as they can and 
 at the same time hit opposing players with items to make them lose coins. The team with the most 
 coins at the end wins. In Versus Mode you can make rules and just have a free race. Pick the CC, 
 number of wins it takes to win a match, choose to have karts, bikes, or both, choose the stage 
 and have fun!
  The single player mode is terrific and you will have hours enjoying it. Another reason to buy this 
 incredible game.
  
  You can also have up to four people play on one system in multiplayer. The multiplayer mode includes 
 Battle Mode and Versus mode. They are played the same as they are in single player. The multiplayer 
 is good, but if you have Wi-Fi you won't be playing it very much because everything you can do 
 in standard multiplayer, you can do online.
  
  This game is amazing, but it's not perfect. It can be so frustrating in Grand Prix mode because 
 if your in first you just get hit with item after item. It seems so unfair that you can get hit 
 with three to four items within ten seconds. Although this is annoying it is the only flaw in Mario 
 Kart Wii, and it should not change your mind about buying it. 
  
  This game is so good I've run out of adjectives to describe it's greatness. This is a fun Wii game 
 with the best online from a Wii game yet. You will find yourself playing this game for hours at 
 a time. This is a must have if you own a Wii.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I've always considered Mario Kart to be my favorite racing game from Nintendo and with this game, 
 it makes me love it even more. Mario Kart Wii is great because of all the new features and even 
 the use of motorbikes are fun too. Another thing I liked about this game was the racetracks. There 
 are a wide variety of racetracks both old and new. From Super Mario Kart to Mario Kart DS, it brings 
 nostalgia to you. You can also play with your Mii in the game and I thought it was pretty neat 
 that you can do that. I never expected it to happen but I guess you can. Just like Super Smash 
 Bros. Brawl, you can also play the game multiple ways. Wii Remote, Nunchuck, Wheel, Classic and 
 the GC controller as well. Performing tricks are cool but weird at the same time, especially when 
 you are using a kart because you do spins and flips but nevertheless, it's still a fun game. Some 
 of the tracks have your entire Mii community in pictures, audience, statues, you name it. With 
 all this stuff in the single player, the online gameplay and the multiplayer modes, this is probably 
 the best Mario Kart game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim_shorts
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is the best entry in the Mario Kart series yet. That being said, it isn't perfect. 
 To find the ups and downs, we're going to do this the old fashioned way.
  
  
  
  Gameplay-8
  
  
  
  The Wii remote does a wonderful job of being responsive, but not too 
 responsive. It does take some getting used to, but it is the best way of playing. 
  
  
  
  Nintendo has really outdone itself with this batch of tracks. The best of which are Toad's 
 Factory, Coconut Mall, DK Summit, and Moonview Highway. These are a stark contrast to the tracks 
 that were reused from earlier installments. Apart from providing that nostalgic feeling we all 
 know and love, they aren't much fun when compared to the awesome new tracks. You can go from backflipping, 
 swerving, and general craziness on a new track, to being flat out bored on one of the flat, wide 
 open old tracks. 
  
  
  
  The online is the best the wii has seen so far, bar none. No more typing in friend codes; just 
 connect to Wi-fi, and it will match you up with up to eleven others from around the world. One 
 thing is for sure. It feels great winning a race with 12 people.
  
  
  
  However, there is one major flaw in the gameplay. It is simply too item based. For example, I was 
 in the lead on a particular race, only to be hit by two super blue shells and a bullet bill. I 
 was lucky to scrape up a third-to-last finish. 
  
  
  All in all, this is some of the best gameplay Mario Kart has seen yet. 
  
  
  
  Graphics-7
 
  
  
  
  Unfortunately, Mario Kart Wii looks nearly identical to its predecessor, Mario Kart Double Dash. 
 There are only a few noticable differences, such as the extra effects during item use. The character 
 models border on semi-polygonal and overly shiny. 
  
  
  
  Sound-9
  
  
  
  Once, while I was playing the game, my sound went out on my TV. That told me all that I needed 
 to know about the quality of the sound. Without the sound, the game is nowhere near as fun. The 
 whacky music, along with the terrifying sound of a red shell coming up behind you, make the game 
 much more cinematic. On the reused tracks, the music matches what it was on the original system, 
 which helps with the nostalgia factor quite a bit.
  
  
  
  Value-9 
  
  
  
  This Mario Kart has more tracks, modes, characters, cars, bikes, and all around time to invest 
 in it than any other Mario Kart yet. The online adds many hours of replay value to an already extensive 
 game. 
  
  
  
  Tilt-8
  
  
  
  The worst (and possibly only) problem with the game is the emphasis on items. But, with so much 
 else to offer, Mario Kart Wii easily overcomes this to earn an 8 in the TIlt department. This game 
 is a must buy for every Mario Kart fan, and a should buy for everyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendudes_2
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 2:28 am PT
Review:  NINTENDUDES_2 MARIO KART WII REVIEW
  {9/10}
  
  Mario Kart Wii is one of my favorite games for the Wii. The game has exceptional graphics, and 
 even the smallest and least important of things are filled with detail. The game also has a perfect 
 amount of challenge. Now, some people are whining and underrating the game and saying that "right 
 before you get to the finish line a gazillion items fly toward you and make you go back a gazillion 
 spaces, and that is why I give it a 6.5"! Now, I have to admit, that is frustrating, and at times 
 it makes me want to throw the Wii Wheel at my TV, but that is no reason to give a game a horrible 
 rating! They should just try a lower challenge level, more like 50cc. If you choose to use the 
 Wii Wheel, which I do, the controls work beautifully. Also, there is a wide variety of characters 
 and vehicles to choose from. Another issue for some users (and Gamespot's) reviews is that half 
 of the courses are recycled. Well, I always wished I could get a better and more colorful views 
 of the courses, and Mario Kart Wii does exactly that. For instance, you can see the DS and Gameboy 
 courses with much more color and a bigger screen, and it makes you feel more as if you are actually 
 in the course's environment, opposed to the portable game versions. And it is fun to use 2 times 
 the amount of characters (and about 8 times the amount of vehicles) in the retro courses. And, 
 having the "recycled" courses just gives you more to do. Nintendo did put a lot of work into adding 
 the retro courses to the Wii version; its not like they could just magically puff them onto the 
 game! Another thing that I thoroughly enjoy is the Wi-Fi connection. It is really competitive, 
 and it is fun to see other racers rankings, names/user names, and styles of driving. I also love 
 the craziness of playing multiplayer with friends or family, it is really fun to see new gamers 
 succeed (or at least attempt to) in this game. Overall, Mario Kart Wii is in my top 3 racing games 
 of all time.
  
  Thanks for reading my review.
  ~Nintendudes_2~
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifan001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii has a combination of great, new ideas and features we've come to known in the past 
 in this franchise, despite a few problems that doesn't work so well. 
  
  Mario Kart Wii consists of eight different cups in the Grand Prix, with four racetracks in each 
 cup, giving a total of 32 courses. Four cups have brand new, never before seen tracks, 16 new ones 
 in all. These tracks all have a different location and have a great set of track designs. You'll 
 be racing in the city, on a mountain, through a garden, through Bowser's castle, inside a mall, 
 in a desert, and of course, Rainbow Road. In each cup you'll race against 11 other characters instead 
 of the usual seven. The track designs have a satisfactory variety and are overall pretty good, 
 but some are without a doubt flawed. 
  
  The other four cups (16 tracks) consists of race courses that have been on a previous Mario Kart 
 game. Each of the four cups have a race course from the versions of the SNES, the GBA, the N64, 
 and DS. These courses get a nostalgic feel to it and have been given the taste of Wii graphics 
 and elements to it. Some of these courses have nothing to them at all. Some are just this plain 
 course with nothing special to them. At the same time, stages like the GCN DK Mountain and GCN 
 Waluigi Stadium, have been given 1/2 pipes to them and a few of the tracks, while they do play 
 better than ever, are obviously not the best picks to include in this game.
  
  For the first time ever, bikes are introduced. You don't have to play in karts given that you can 
 play bikes. In the end, each character will get a total of six bikes and six karts to choose from. 
 There are more than six of each, but no character gets every kart and bike. The character's weight 
 and type of vehicle selected play a huge factor in the races- from the turning to the drifting 
 to the accelerating and to the bumping of other vehicles. The bikes and karts have their advantages 
 and disadvantages. Karts get a mini turbo boost if you drift long enough and they have a greater 
 impact against bike user when you bump into them. Bikes don't get the extra mini turbo that karts 
 get, but they can do wheelies which accelerate. It's preferred to use these on straight stretches. 
 Don't bump into another vehicle while doing this or it'll mess you up. Note that this is very different 
 than how the DS version works.
  
  So, the flaws in the grand prix (and online) can make the results seem unfair. First off, the half 
 pipes and pits aren't always properly placed. The effect of doing tricks (like doing 360 and 720 
 in the air) on these 1/2 pipes and getting a turbo boost when you land is a pretty awesome feature. 
 However, sometimes when you land you'll end in a pitfall and could possibly severely cost you in 
 the rank your in. There are times when you can't slow down or dodge it and it becomes unavoidable. 
 
  
  Another dramatic flaw is the ridiculously unbalanced items in the game. The more powerful items 
 can completely cost you and result in a lower rank even after maintaining first place up until 
 the last few seconds in the end of the final lap when you don't feel as if you did anything wrong 
 at all. Some items of mass destruction include the lightning which shrinks every racer except the 
 user, the bullet bill which can sometimes literally boost you from 12th to 1st,, and the devastating 
 blue shell which will home in on first place and the other racers behind it if close enough, possibly 
 robbing that character of several ranks.
  
  A few other items include the red and green shell/shells , and single/triple banana peels and mushrooms. 
 These items here have little impact compared to some of the more brutal items. Generally, the higher 
 rank you are the less chance of some of the best items. The Mario Kart franchise has never been 
 more unbalanced items than this one.
  
  Mario Kart Wii has 5 different control schemes. It is compatible with the GC and the classic controller, 
 Wiimote + Nunchuk, and with just the Wiimote. The fifth control scheme comes free with the purchase 
 the game. It is the Wii Wheel. It's comfortable and offers the most involvement in the game, and 
 works quite well. Everything that involves driving a vehicle will give the option to use turbos 
 automatically or manually.
  
  There are more than 20 characters to play as in the game. You'll see many, many familiar faces 
 in the Mario franchise, plus a couple new ones. The Mii characters can also be played. So with 
 all the options of characters and vehicles, you'll find a satisfactory selection and options to 
 choose from.
  
  Aside from Grand Prix, there is the Time Trials and the Battle and Coin Runners modes. The Time 
 Trials mode is a test of completing three laps with any character, vehicle, and control scheme 
 of your choice. Your given three mushrooms in the course and the top five times and recorded in 
 the save data. There are no item boxes and no other opposing characters. 
  
  Battle mode and Coin Runner mode had much more potential than what was offered. In both of these 
 modes, up to 4 players can join in a four player split screen offline match. There are 10 different 
 stages to choose from, five new and five retro. The problem comes when the option of the number 
 of players is always 12 and the time limit is always three minutes. There is no variety of time 
 or player count, making offline play not so great compared to what it could have been.
  
  The online play will keep you coming back for more and more. There is a rankings board for the 
 time trials in which the top score is displayed and compared to your friends, your region, and 
 even worldwide in the Time Trials. There doesn't need to be 12 players in order for a race or battle 
 mode to be in. As of matter of fact, a couple times I've played 1 vs. 1 online. The Battle mode 
 and Coin Runner mode are switched off every other time online. The game does not lag at all. There 
 is the possibility of encountering being disconnected completely, but it doesn't lag. The kind 
 of connectivity it has makes Smash Bros Brawl fans wish the online was this lag free each and every 
 time. Nintendo even announces tournaments and the game lets you know in between matches of friends 
 that are currently on. The Mario Kart Wii Channel helps makes the online very organized.
  
  The graphics are overall great. They are not as good as you will find Smash Bros Brawl, Super Mario 
 Galaxy, and Metroid Prime 3, but the visuals are worth looking at. Something I like is that the 
 Mii characters you have are all over the place. They will be giant statues and sculptures and found 
 among the audience and in posters. Yes, the makers have used unique, interesting features for the 
 Miis. The music is composed of some new and old tracks. You'll hear a different one for each course. 
 The voices each character has are very limited and it can get repetitive. 
  
  Overall, the game is great. The online in terms of lag is done right. The Mario Kart Wii Channel 
 is an incredible extra. The Wii Wheel comes free with it. The multiplayer can be cheap from racing 
 but still addicting , especially with the ranking and leader boards. Despite some flaws with options 
 and items, Mario Kart Wii has done has shown an outstanding job. Any Mario or racing fans should 
 definitely pick up this game. It does a good job inviting family and friends in this ever satisfactory 
 game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_for_kicks
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  So when the Wii installment finally rolled by (before the US for once) i was eager to pick it up 
 and test the new levels and Wii wheel. I was pleasantly surprised to find that it still is fun 
 all these year later.
  
  The characters are pretty standard and with some newcomers and variations that keep the selection 
 interesting. The selection of levels are great, having old school levels as well as new ones which 
 have enough appeal to keep you coming back and playing them over and over. Some new weapons have 
 been put in and are refreshing to the races. The introduction of bikes was a idea that i was weary 
 about but turned out to be a nice addition to the game (although i always prefer the kart) . 
  
  I had heard before buying this game that the Wii wheel wasn't great and that it was very unresponsive, 
 being a gamer that has to try most things for himself i started out with the wheel. I found the 
 wheel to be very responsive and i had a lot of fun using it (lots more fun then using a controller) . 
 The graphics on a whole don't seemed to change an awful lot but veterans of the series will notice 
 small changes.
  
  Game modes haven't changed a lot, grand prix has the same format and time trial has also. More 
 hardcore racers will probably take kindly to the fact that you need to beat times in the time trail 
 to unlock some racers/vehicles. VS mode has changed to a team based event, balloon battle has been 
 changed also. Instead of being out of the game when you lose all your balloons you come back good 
 as new to earn more points to for a team victory rather then your own. It would of been nice to 
 have the option to play on a team or free for all since I'm more fond of the original balloon battle. 
 A new event called coin runner has also been added. 
  
  A few things annoyed me a little when playing this game
  - The graphics could of been worked 
 on a little more (since Super Mario Galaxy has set the bar for Wii games)
  - The AI: the fact that you can get hit with 3 items in a row on the last lap and lose the race 
 gets a little irritating.
  - Sometimes bikes can be a little difficult with their steering
  
  On the whole Mario Kart Wii is a really enjoyable game to play (My score isn't based on the 
 online play due to my Wii being too stubborn to connect up) . Great levels and interesting characters 
 will keep this game one of your most played on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisPperson
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  And I mean it. When I first got it I was so addicted to everything. The difficulty was just exactly 
 what most gamers want, and the graphics in this game is typical mario... It's excellent. Perfection.
 
  
  Mario Kart Wii is not your typical racing game. You can attack other racers with items you collect 
 in races. Certain items can speed you up, slow others down, attack other people, or lay traps.
 
  
  Also, new things are included, like you can race as your mii, race on a bike, and (Obviously) use 
 the wii wheel.
  
  This game also has great courses, and great people and vehicles to go on those courses.
  
  
 Multiplayer, whether it's WFC or just multiplayer, Mario Kart Wii shows excellent gameplay.
  
  Singleplayer is incredibly addicting. A part is the struggle to get better and unlock characters, 
 but another is just to play hard. Overall, MKW is a must-buy for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TWD98
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This is the mario kart we've been waiting for. With a 24 character roster, 36 different karts and 
 bikes, new items, and being able to pull of tricks to speed your vehicle up this mario kart will 
 never get boring. One of the most important parts of mario kart are the tracks... and they are 
 simply amazing. With a blend of new tracks and some of our old favorites nintendo has put together 
 a great 32 track list. 
  
  One of the greatest additions is the mario kart wii channel. With new tournaments to play in every 
 month and racing other peoples time trial ghosts adds more replay value to mario kart wii. But 
 the best part of the mkwii channel is the abillity to download the world record time on every course!! 
 This allows you to find out shortcuts that you would have never seen before!
  
  The online is simply the best online ever on an nintendo game. What's amazing is that there is 
 NO LAG what so ever! You can race with your friend on 2 player wifi with 10 other people or you 
 can race alone with 11 other people. You start wii 5000 points and depending how good your performance 
 is you will be rewarded or deducted with points. The maximum is 9999 which is insanely hard to 
 get to because if get last when your in the 9000's you get deducted -300 points and when you win 
 you will only get +25 points or +30. You also have win/loss record for wifi that you can find under 
 records. 
  
  Mario kart wii deserves a 10/10!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waz-za
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  positive - well uhmmm theres quite a big roster, the bikes are nice and are actually probs better 
 and colorful then the karts ,and the control system is fun, and the new tracks, are nice and most 
 probably got the best online mode on the wii so far.
  
  negative - stupid items there so unbalanced even bad players online can win now!!
  only 16 new 
 tracks is kind of lazy of them instead they recycled 16 retro tracks as well.. though they could 
 have brung back some better tracks rather than some of the ones they did .
  o ye and they destroyed battle mode!! why are they in teams now!! if they dont want people to wait 
 then just put a time limit but at least keep them free for all!! 
  teams are stupid now cause even if your good its not gonna make a difference because everyone has 
 to play well!! though its alright online but still battle being in teams is dumb
  
  yes this is a very bad review i know 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freedom_Link
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  Well I must first off say that I DO enjoy playing this game, Theres plenty of characters and the 
 motion dection in the wiimote is amazing and works very well. Some new courses are also a treat, 
 and All the hiden shortcuts are fun to get used to...
  
  Thats the nice stuff over with for now;
  
  But then the're major flaws to this game - 
  
 
  1 - I use all my skill getting to first only to lose by a bombardment of blue shells right before 
 the finish line.
  
  2 - Recycling tracks? Its like they can't be arsed to think of new and fun ways to race!
  
 
  3 - Not enough difficulty between 50 100 and 150cc all far to easy...
  
  4 - Battle mode has been destroyed by the addition of timers and points and not being able to have 
 an all for all battle
  
  These in my opinion are some MAJOR flaws, Yet I must say online mode is great fun with a mate.
 
  
  So overall I would recomend this game... Not for the full asking price though.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laurachinp
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  Mario kart wii is a good game that has great controls on the wii.
  The addition of bikes is amazing and gives you a different option wether to use karts or bikes. 
 The bikes can do wheelies, which help alot when doing time trials.
  You can also do tricks when coming off a ramp a flicking the wii wheel up, which gives you a significant 
 speed boot when you land.
  
  The online play is revelotionary because you can race strangers across the world, continent or 
 friends. It is a fun way of playng with people who are at different levels insted of playing against 
 the computer all the time. It is probably the reason why most peple buy the game.
  
  Grand prix mode is good with 16 new tracks and 16 retro tracks. The only problem is when you get 
 to first place it is almost impossible to stay there, as the coputer always get spikey shells, 
 pow blocks, thunder and red shells. This can be frustrating but completing it is the only way to 
 progress an unlock more characters. 
  
  Battle mode is a discrace to the mario kart name and i would advise staying away from it, it is 
 no fun at all.
  
  Overall mario kart is a great game that anyone can play, with the exeption of battle mode mario 
 kart is a game you should definitely buy, even if it is just for the online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I preordered Mario Kart Wii because I have loved every version of the game to date. I really loved 
 the DS edition of the game and still think that it and the N64 versions are paramount. The Wii 
 version introduces alot of new ideas (nothing that fundamentally changes the series) some of which 
 are unfortunate. 
  
  First off, I like the Wii Wheel, on 50cc its great and fun. On 100cc it gets challenging to use 
 and really has you scrambling to get to the front. On 150cc and mirror, the Wii Wheel is almost 
 unusable. This is no fault of the wheel itself, it is a bi-product of the new additions in the 
 gameplay. 
  
  You get to race with 11 other racers, this is more than ever. That seems like a good idea but the 
 problem comes into play when you break out the items. The sheer # of item boxes is ridiculous and 
 compounding that with the extra racers and the extreme frequency of super items (blue turtle shells, 
 stars, bullet bills, POW blocks, etc.) it has become impossible to stay in 1st place. This may 
 sound good for newer players, but it's a nightmare for us that have playing since SNES. 
  
  The power slide has been dumbed down to the point that it can be turned off and infinite mushroom 
 has been broken due to the new speed boost mechanics. 
  
  The introduction of bikes is a great addition; you can do tricks or wheelies to gain speed boosts, 
 but this simply gives the CPU opponents ways to knock you down a few spots. Also, your character 
 has no top speed, so, if you get a mushroom, and a trick boost and a wheelie boost, you could easily 
 go careening into a tree without having any way to correct your angle.
  
  Battle mode is completely broken, simply because there is no one on one. Online play is strong 
 and ends up being the real reason to buy Mario Kart Wii. Since you end up playing online with players 
 on different skill levels, the characters get spread out on the track more and it doesn't become 
 such a rubber band experience.
  
  If you like playing Mario Kart with friends and can deal with a broken battle mode Mario Kart Wii 
 is for you. Or if you are new to the franchise and just want a high quality kart racer you should 
 probably grab Mario Kart Wii. But if you are looking for the second coming of Mario Kart 64 you 
 should probably stick with Mario Kart DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PShack
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  I see all these negative reviews whining about how the AI is unfair, the AI is too hard, etc. I 
 just don't get it. I've played my fair share of MK games before this one, and I always understood 
 that 50cc, 100cc, 150cc, each meant that the higher the number, the harder the race. All those 
 negative reviews seem bent on "I'm going to BEAT THIS GAME IN A DAY."  _  Nintendo does a wonderful 
 thing in creating a challenging game and they just get whining in return. I'm going to move on 
 to the other part of my review, as some people here are just trolls and aren't going to have their 
 view changed by me.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Gameplay's just great. The Wii Wheel is innovative. I've oddly gone into a random turn around a 
 couple of times on turns, but I believe that came from my poor position in relationship to the 
 Wii. It takes time to get good, which I like, but apparently others do not. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Graphics are also great on this game, better than Brawl a lot of times. No glitchiness, at 
 least on my TV.
  
  VALUE
  
  The value is awesome. The WiFi on this game is just great. I've NEVER experienced any lag on WiFi, 
 which I cannot say about any other Nintendo WiFi game to date, and I've owned a lot of them. 
 
  
  
  I've had this game for a month, and I'm hard pressed to find a bad thing about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twilight_69
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  I am a huge mariokart fan so this really got me excited, but when I first played I was sort of 
 disappointed.
  
  Positive:
  -The mutliplayer and online play are great, the online play was much better than brawl and is very 
 fluid and I find it quite interesting to play with people from across the world.
  -The motorcycles and the automatic or manual options are also a very nice addition to the game.
 
  -The battle modes are always as fun especially that map with half-pipes and stuff.
  - The wheel is actually pretty fun, when i race online I use the wiimote, but when I play with 
 friends or against AI, the wheel is pretty fun and is surprisingly precise.
  
  Negative:
  
  -this REALLY annoys me :You can be first place throughout the whole race and hen suddenly youll 
 get nuked by 5 shells and a gazillion other things 3m before the finish line and finish 8th.
  - The maps arent really that fun, they are not super innovative and barely have any obstacles or 
 really hard turns.
  - More than half the maps where taken from previous mario kart games, they could have made the 
 effort of making new ones....
  -What happened to Daisy, who the hells that other girl?
  
  So its not a bad game but I have the feeling that nintendo could have made a greater effort on 
 the maps and the first to last place really pisses me off, therefore I have to lower the score.... sorry
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: omaranty
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  hey everyone today im gonna review mario kart wii oh and alot of people were asking me if i have 
 an xbox 360 and no infact i only have a ds ,wii, psp, n64, playstation 2 and gamecube.
  ok mario kart's last game was mario kart ds it had afew technical problem the graphic could be 
 improven but now lets talk about mario kart wii.
  well...... its the first seccsesful mario kart online game.
  its very easy to pick up and you 
 deffenatly should pick it up.
  oh and its a little easy but youll never want to quit playing espiecaly if you have wi-fi capibilities.
 
  oh and sorry i couldnt make the pokemon review, but im sure that my next review is about super 
 smash brothers brawl so be sure to check it out.
  
  so remember what i saidand message me.
  
  so till next time game fans.
  
  score:9.5
  
 oh and lets not forget this june mario super sluggers is coming so any mario baseball fan should 
 get excited.
  
  LETS SLUG  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjgamefreak
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 1:36 am PT
Review:  I just got this game and I am very satisfied with it! It is better then all the Mario Kart games 
 put together, but it's a little hard though. The difficulty is kind of tough, but that's how a 
 Mario Kart game should be made. The graphics are good and the controls are awesome. I love using 
 the Wii weel to race, it's fun. Unlike all the other Mario Kart games you can pick wich kart to 
 have, and you can even pick bikes now, and the selection of characters is great too. Theres more 
 of a veriety. Theres more to the game, like choosing vs. mode. You can race against each other, 
 or you could be on a team also. There is a wide selection of kart stages to choose from, there 
 are new ones, and there are some from previous consols, like the S. N. E. S., the N.64, the Game Cube, 
 or the D. S. If you are a hardcore Mario and Nintendo fan, your going to love this game. I reccomend 
 getting it if you have a Wii system.
  
  
  
  Overall game play: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcleism01
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Although this game is undoubtedly one of the best Mario Kart games ever made there are a few faults 
 with this knew version of Mario Kart. The single player mode, with the knew choice of motorbikes 
 to ride, is very good for the first few days. The knew courses, the ability to do tricks, and the 
 option to drive motorbikes do nothing but improve the game. However, after a few tournaments, the 
 races become easy to win. The people at Intendo must be crazy. To not allow people to play everybode 
 for themselves in battle mode. Team mode is good but Nintendo should give us a choice. The saving 
 grace of Mario Kart Wii is wi-fi. You think your the best at Mario Kart well try wi-fi out, you'll 
 be surprised. So overall I am slightly dissapointed by the knew version of Mario Kart, I would 
 definitely reccomend it to people who have their wii connected to the internet but not to people 
 whoo don't unless you are a Mario Kart fanatic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyv2003
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Pros - Good Ol' Mario Kart racing action. The motion controls, paired with the Wii wheel, make 
 for some great driving. The new additions; bikes, and the trick system fit well into the franchise. 
 A good amount of unlockables. The best online multi-player setup for the Wii so far.
  
  Cons - Items have way too much influence compared to previous Mario Kart titles. Lackluster graphics 
 and character sound effects. The new battle mode isn't very engaging or fun. If you strip away 
 online-multiplayer, there isn't much in the way of new content.
  
  
  Ever since the SNES days, when a Nintendo console was released, a Mario Kart title was usually 
 soon to follow. The Wii is no exception, as MK: Wii was released to pretty solid numbers against 
 the gargantuan release of GTA: IV. Mario Kart stood its' ground though, outselling GTA: IV on the 
 PS3.
  
  So was the hype, and sales totals worth it in the end? For the most part, the answer is yes. While 
 Mario Kart: Wii may not be the greatest MK game ever (Mario Kart: DS still holds that title for 
 me) , it's still worth a purchase.
  
  When you first start up the game, you'll start a profile that has your Mii attached to it. When 
 you get into the main menu, you'll see that not much has changed in terms of game modes. Grand 
 Prix, Battle Mode, and Time Trials all make a return to Mario Kart: Wii.
  
  Grand Prix is where you'll be spending most of your time during your single player experience. 
 The mode is divided into different classes (50cc, 100c, and 150cc) , each offering a different level 
 of difficulty. My only gripe with Grand Prix, is that when you first play through 50cc and 100cc, 
 you're forced to use karts or bikes exclusively. In your first play through for 50cc, only karts 
 can be used, and then bikes for 100cc. Once 50cc and 100cc are beaten, you can go back through 
 using either.
  
  Battle Mode for some reason was completely turned on its' head for MK: Wii. Instead of having just 
 one-on-one battles, the game forces you to team up with AI partners, and goes by a point system. 
 Instead of just trying to pop other players' balloons, it seems like you're just driving around 
 throwing shells at anything that moves. The changes to Battle Mode really take away some of the 
 intense moments that its' given in MK games of the past.
  
  While Battle Mode leaves something to be desired, the Time Trials mode gets a extensive upgrade. 
 Every course in the game, has a Nintendo ghost which you you race against. Once you beat that ghost, 
 then an expert ghost is unlocked, which will take an immense amount of skill to beat. Some of the 
 game's unlockables go through Time Trials, which gives the mode more importance.
  
  Probably the largest question mark for MK: Wii is how the motion controls were going to fit into 
 the game. After about 40 hours into MK: Wii, I can safely say that I will never play a Mario Kart 
 another way. The Wii wheel peripheral adds to the frenetic fun of Mario Kart. Pulling of drift 
 maneuvers are so much more rewarding using the Wii wheel, compared with the other control schemes. 
 If you really don't want to adopt the new controls, then more classic styles are available as well.
 
  
  The other new additions that veteran Mario Karters were concerned about, were the bikes, and the 
 trick system. The bikes work their way very well into the MK series. They can be a bit harder to 
 control than the karts, but even out with their ability to gain speeds boosts with wheelies (pulling 
 back on your wii remote on straight aways) . The more experienced you are, the more likely you will 
 be to veer towards bikes, for the wheelie boost. The trick system fits itself very well into the 
 MK world. When you go flying off a ramp, just flick back your controller, and you pull of a trick. 
 Once you land, your kart or bike will receive a speed boost. Pulling off drift and trick combos 
 really give the game a more fast paced feel, especially in the 150 cc class.
  
  While I would love to keep going on about the great aspects of MK: Wii, there are definite flaws 
 that hold the game back. The biggest drawback of Mario Kart is the heavy reliance of items to be 
 successful. If the items in MK past weren't enough, they decided to add the mega-mushroom, POW 
 Block, and the storm cloud. The shroom, and POW block are just different variants of other items. 
 The Mega Mushroom just feels like a bastard child of the Bullet Bill and invincibility star. The 
 POW block will make all the drivers spin out, unless you can counter it. The storm cloud is easily 
 the best of the new items, as it's like a mini-game of hot potato. When you get the storm cloud, 
 you get increased speed, but if you it in possession at the end of the item cycle you get shrunk. 
 You can pass the cloud along to others by trying to pump into them along the way.
  
  With the heavy usage of items, it's not an uncommon happening, to be hit by a blue shell, then to 
 get red shelled, and then get hit by lightning. All of this dropping you from your #1 spot to 7th. 
 It just feels like the game punishes you for being ahead much more so than the previous MK titles.
 
  
  Multiplayer has always been the biggest draw of Mario Kart. The newest entry into the series doesn't 
 disappoint with multi-player action. Your traditional split-screen multi-player is available. But 
 where the game takes a step ahead is with its' online multi-player. You simply decide whether to 
 take your skills to your region, or try to race against others worldwide, or with your friends. 
 Once you make your choice, you are taken to the "globe" where you'll be able to see the location 
 of your competition. The setup of online matches are very intuitive, and engaging. I have had very 
 few connection problems with my stints during online play. MK: Wii is definitely the most stable 
 online play I've had with my Wii so far. The VR points are the ranking system for MK: Wii. As you 
 win races or lose them, your VR points total will increase your decrease. While this doesn't directly 
 effect anything else, it makes for some killer bragging rights. The VR points will definitely be 
 an attraction for the hardcore MK player. Another cool feature for online play, is that you can 
 download and compete against other player's ghosts.
  
  MK: Wii really doesn't shine in the graphics department. While it's an improvement over Mario Kart: 
 Double Dash, it won't floor you with its' technical prowess. The new courses are definitely an 
 improvement of the classics. There will seem to be alot more happening on screen for the new courses 
 than the classics represented.
  
  If you've played any Mario games of the past, then you'll be right at home with the music in MK: Wii. 
 All of the classic tracks make their presence known. The sounds effects are a pretty mix bag. The 
 driving effects, and the item sound effects are handled very well and draw you into the experience. 
 The character sound effects are a different story. I would say that more characters have annoying 
 sounds attached to them, then ones that don't.
  
  If you're a veteran of the Mario Kart series, then you have plenty of reasons to pick up MK: Wii. 
 The new controls, online-multiplayer, and trick system bring some fresh new ideas to the series. 
 
  
  The game isn't perfect, and relies a lot more on luck than previous Mario Kart games. But if you 
 can look past that, the lackluster Battle Mode, and the un-inspiring graphics and character sound 
 effects, there's alot of fun to be had with MK: Wii.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmjkl22
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  If you like every mario kart you will love this game awesome graphics rad game play and the steering 
 wheel is awsome. With cool multiplayer and wi-fi nothing bad about this game, nothing go mario kart 
 go long live the mario kart series. I hope they keep on making mario kart games. Get this game. It's 
 the best game ever made do yourself a favour and by this game. It rules ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! you can even play 
 with the GameCube, classic controller and  
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!!!! ! ! !  
 ! ! ! ! !  
 !! ! !  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamers_106
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  There no question about it i bought this game to test my skills online and play with my friends
 
  
  first get some maps 
  
  there are a lot of familiar maps that u will recognize on this game i say bunch of them old, but 
 a lot of them are remade that added things to the old maps it wont take u long to find them. they 
 widen the rode u see they wide it up. they mess up one of my fav maps back in the past. its harder 
 back then now its not 
  
  second get charterer and carts/bikes
  
  there are charterer/bikes that u cant unlock just by grand pix some a lot of them u can and i like 
 how your mii is able to play in this game. create some unique char by using your mii and play bikes 
 are cool there a little differnt from carts they turn easier of course so u need a lot better timing 
 for bikes if ur playing manual which i prefer. automatic i cant really say i dont like using it 
 i can get to 1st to 3rd without turbos. able to do tricks now on both carts/bikes ever time u do 
 a jump trick a get a mini boost that can help u. 
  
  time to play online
  
  wifi quicker then brawl i find people a lot faster then brawl but they put spec tat mode most of 
 the time there on there final lap when u play u might play with some char that are not a challenge 
 to u but there are some challengers that will give u a challenge but a wish they give me a chose 
 between cc because sometimes i play in mirror mode but that ok but i wish i could choose. its give 
 u ranks u start with 50000 points as u get in first place ur rank grows but do not come in last 
 place it shrinks as u go up the harder to rank up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigMace23
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Yet another mario kart game...... still GOLDEN though
  Before getting this, i was eager to find out how they would use the wii to benefit the mario kart 
 series... and when i heard about the wii wheel, i knew i had to get it. The wheel puts a very interesting 
 and fun feel to the game that i loved, but i must say that if you want to beat the game with all 
 first places and unlock everything (characters, karts, etc.) ..... you will probably have to use 
 a different method of playing. This game continues the tradition of the mario kart games.... at 
 times frustrating, but you don't want to give up. On top of the new additions, multiplayer is also 
 quite good and is extremely fun. So overall, the game is very fun, challenging, and innovative 
 which puts a nice twist on the game. If you own a wii, this is definitely a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: confusd
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a well known franchise now, and i suppose the steerinf wheel was just a additional 
 gimmick to try and sell the game. The wheel works well, but youll want more than one to enjoy the 
 game with friends, and 15 dollars for a plastic shell? come on nintendo. The wheel does add the 
 expierience, but after a few sit downs you'll be used to it, and not really notcie you playing 
 with it. The new courses are great, but it feels like they arent really new, youve got your ice 
 world, youre jungle world, and of course, bowsers castle which, you guessed it, still requires 
 just a bunch of traps and lava. You can probably have all the courses in a few hours, but the multiplayer 
 is where its at anyway. the motor cycles are a fun additon, but basically they're the same as the 
 cars, with a different look and tricks. Oh yeah, the trick system, i almost forgot, and after youve 
 played you might too. basically you flick the remote to get a speed boost, nothing special but 
 it works. Overall Mario Kart wii is a fun addition to the franchise, but youll probably only pull 
 it out when you have friends over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenP
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing the Mario Kart Franchise since I was a Wii Lad (See what I did there?) with the 
 Original Super Mario Kart. I've never owned a Nintendo system (I played at friends' houses) until 
 I got my Wii so Mario Kart Wii was the first Mario Kart game I've ever owned. 
  
  Not only are there about 25 characters to play as but there are 24 different kinds of vehicles, 
 4 different modes to play, over 32 maps to race or battle in and the best thing of all, online 
 play. I have a blast inviting some buddies over to play Mario Kart, we always play as our Miis 
 to make it more interesting.
  
  The game, however, is far from perfect. The Computer NPCs in the 150cc Grand Prix are close to 
 impossible to beat, but that may just be my lack of skill when it comes to driving games peaking 
 out. Many of the items that you are constantly barraged with literally make you want to throw your 
 Wii Remote out the window. Many a time have I been on the final dash to the finish line with a 
 guy right on my tail when I'm hit with a Blue Shell and I end up getting second place.
  
  Needless to say there's a high chance of me screaming some choice words. In the wise words of XKCD, 
 Mario Kart is responsible for most of the Profanity that comes out of my mouth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jknight94
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  In a wave of never-ending horrible third party wii games Nintendo gives the wii another big first-party 
 game. Nintendo makes Mario Kart great and makes it innovative. 
  
  Graphics- Well it has great graphics compared to other wii games.
  
  Controls: Sometimes the 
 wheel is a bit hard to control but it's good for he most part and adds a lot to the game.
  
  Tracks- This game's new tracks are crazy and are probably the best tracks in a kart racing 
 game or even a racing game in general! the old tracks are great for anyone big on nostalgia as 
 well.
  
  Online play: Online can be played with more than 10 people and allows for two people to go split 
 screen and vs other people online in team battles or regular races. Probably the best onlne experience 
 for the wii this far.
  
  
  Age factor: This game might not ever be unfun since racing online will keep you around after the 
 tournaments are stopped being made and even after you beat the grand prix on all three difficultys 
 and unlock all the characters.
  
  
  Also wacky new items like the bullet bill can turn the tables in seconds. All in all this game 
 is great there's only a few small problems like when using the gamecube controller you can't pull 
 off tricks and the tournaments are immposibble to even get close to the top score on even when 
 you do almost the best you can possibly do. I'm going to give this a 9 and say that this is a great 
 addition to your library of wii games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cb_penguin
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is a lot of fun in single or multiplayer, but in my opinion multiplayer is the best. 
 What is more fun than beating your parents or siblings by good 50 sec. on the race course. Anyway, 
 it has the typical nintendo graphics so those who are looking for serious, realistic graphics try 
 something else. The race courses are really imaginative and fun to ride on. Having never played 
 a Mario Kart game before, the nostalgic courses don't do much for me. Ghost Valley I find kind 
 of hard and dumb. In single player there is a lot of variation in the courses, meaning that on 
 courses like Luigi Circut and Peach Gardens its possible to get so far ahead that the game is boring, 
 while on any of the bowser's castle courses you can end up fighting not to stay in 12th. In that 
 way it appeals to everyone who likes a quick game. Whats really impressive about Mario Kart Wii 
 is the wi fi. It allows you to choose whether you want to play with people in your area or around 
 the world. Then, once it finds all the players it shows you their Miis and the continant they are 
 from. No matter what course you're on in Wi fi mode you are constantly changing rank. The Wii wheel 
 is really inventive, and doesn't take much time to get the hang of it. It makes the game a lot 
 more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icemanic
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 24, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Mario Kart on the original SNES I hated every second of it. The courses were 
 boring, the gameplay was lame and it was flawed in every way. Oh how things have changed over 16 
 years, six games and six consoles.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is better than the others, but far from perfect. The new courses are fun and imaginative, 
 the online play is flawless and the gameplay surprisingly addictive. However, there are many flaws 
 to the mix, the most annoying being that whenever you hit a wall, weapon, other racer or boundary, 
 you slow right down. The other main issue is the rubbish AI. The addition of two new weapons, bikes 
 and jumps make this a worthy addition to the collection however, and you will find yourself spending 
 hours upon hours with the online mode.
  
  If you have a Wii, I recommend you take a look at this games, but I would forgive you for skipping 
 it all together. If you have children this is defiant look. Otherwise, a letdown in some areas, 
 redeemed by online play and fun courses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackFr67
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Finally, after two long years, Mariokart has arrived for Wii. And it was worth it. The steering 
 wheel works great, as do all the other control schemes. The Pros: This is a FUN GAME. 4-year-olds 
 love it ,12 year olds love it, Grandma loves it. It's just right for everyone.
  
  I was one of the people who was worried about the inclusion of motorbikes. Now I'm not. The tricks 
 are great, and they don't detract from the experience at all. They even add to it.
  
  The graphics are great. The people looks shiny, but that makes the look nice and cartoony, just 
 like Nintendo characters should be.
  
  Basically everything in this game is Perfect. Except two things.
  
  THE CONS: 32 races is a 
 lot. That's great, but many of the old races feel, well ,boring. No jumps or anything very exciting 
 are in them, but the nostalgia's there.
  
  Overall opinion: BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dave1518
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  When I first found out that Mario Kart was moving to the Wii, I was needless to say excited that 
 i would finally be able to relive the excitement from when I first got Double Dash and Mario Kart 
 64, and even though i still enjoy playing it as much as I liked Double Dash, there are several 
 parts where it falls short of its predecessors.
  First of all is the amount of items that can help you go from 12th to 2nd. It used to be that if 
 someone was way ahead of the rest of you, you could hope that someone would get a blue shell, and 
 if no one did than you had to try to catch up some other way. Now, not only is there more than one 
 of these types of items but they also appear more frequently if you are in a bad position (places 
 between 10 and 12 will almost definitely get a bullet bill and be shot up by at least 5 places) 
 and less frequently if your in 3rd, 2nd, and 1st. It's almost as if the game makes it so that people 
 who can't play the game enough to beat the grand prix mode are made able to beat expert players 
 with less effort than before.
  Another thing that bothered me is how all of the battle modes are all team based. There's not much 
 for me to say on this since it's pretty self explanatory.
  Allright now its time to talk about how the game did do better than previous installment.
  First 
 and foremost is of course online play. It's pretty awsome to be able to see how you stack up to 
 other racers around the globe and it is probably one of the best organized online games that have 
 come out for the Wii, but again the item distrubution makes it hard to really measure who is better 
 and who lucked out.
  Also even though many people liked the tag team aspect of Double Dash (I did too) I don't believe 
 that the game suffers at all after having reverted back to 1 racer per kart.
  All in all even with a couple of flaws the game has kept my attention longer than Double Dash ever 
 did, and eventhough the single player modes can get frustrating (damn items!) it's still a blast 
 to play if you've got a couple of race-ready friends to play with.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sAQPat
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Mario kart wii has got to be the best in series the time trials a little hard espesially waluigi 
 stadium but besides that it is the best ever!!! j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameboy00j
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 24, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  I can summarize my feelings on this game in one sentence (or so) : I have unlocked a lot of ghosts, 
 and extras, I can whoop my daughter in every time trial race there is.... and yet I can not beat 
 her at all in VS racing.
  
  Yes, the game boasts some neat new tricks, some great new tracks, and alot of fun for family and 
 friends; offline AND online. Then you want to get serious and race for cups. 50cc, 100cc, no problem. 
 I think they suffer from the RNG too, but nothing like the 150cc mode. 
  
  I'm sorry, but when the best strategy you can have in a racing game is to be in last place the 
 whole time, and hope for a lucky roll of the RNG in the last 5 to 15 seconds, it's not much of 
 a racing game. And Mario Kart is just that, not much of a racing game. If you keep that in mind, 
 it'll save you lots of frustration. /end crying rant.
  
  Now, if you're 7-16 years old, have the summer off, then by all means, knock your socks off with 
 this game; it tons of fun in a lot of ways. But if you're the casual gamer who thinks a few hours 
 here and there will yield much progress, save your money. 
  
  Score: 
  8.9 - if you just want to enjoy it with friends online, or the normal matching system. Some RNG 
 there too, but it's on equal footing, and if you DO have skill you will win. 
  
  4.5 - If you are only looking for a game for yoruself, will not play online, and are only a casual 
 to modestly good player, save the frustration. This game is not worth the time/money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_rock_74
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun i love to play the muliplayer because it is a lot of funny but the best in 
 multi player is to play the coins battle!! Ok here is my brake down about the game!
  
  
  
  Sound:10 The sound was very good because it sounds like real cars and when you run into someone 
 that player usally makes a noise which it make that young kids laugh and they have a blast playing 
 it! (even if the can not keep the car out of a corner lol)
  
  
  Graphics:10 The graphics where great on the game it was just like on DK mountain when you go into 
 the DK cannon and it shots you onto a mountain where there are a lot of cliffs that you can fall 
 down in. (The little kids 3-6 never get enoff of this game) I know because i have 2 cousins that 
 are 5 they love the game!
  
  
  
  Contols:9.5 I love to use the whell when i play the game but when you turn it is a little touchy 
 so when you turn a little bit it turns a little more than expected. But other than that the controls 
 are pretty easy. I takes about 10-15 minutes to get used to them (so it is not that long tell you 
 are a master) !!
  
  
  I rated the game a 9.5 i would put a little bit more detail in this review but now i want to go 
 play the game some more because it is that fun! So i hope all of you that read this have a blast 
 playing Mario Kart Wii like me so thanx for reading bye!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comando86
Rating: 4
Date: May 28, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is the worst game in the franchise. When playing a family 4-way race, the AI opponents 
 are BRUTAL. Its nearly impossible to have a fun race and win. You're too busy fighting off the 
 computers cheap and dirty tricks throughout the race (regardless if you're in first or 11th place) . 
 Before, the Mario Kart Franchise was fun for ALL ages and ALL skill levels; where a 5 years old 
 toddler or 65 years old grandpa can grab the controller, race and STILL have a fun time. 
  
  In single player mode, when starting out with 50cc and 100cc, you believe you've gained the 
 skills level to compete in 150cc but its nearly impossible to overcome the four to five BLUE shells 
 on the final lap! Leaving from first place to sixth - seventh or even last place. And like all 
 Mario Kart games, it doesn't matter if you're leading the pack by a quarter or half a lap, the 
 AI will always catch up on the last lap (its amazing to watch the little radar - mini-map - and 
 watch the second and third place AI just get GODLIKE speed through the track and is all of the 
 sudden passing you up while knocking you down with red and blue shells) . 
  
  Overall, its the worst game in franchise history. Losing its multi-player (easy to learn and play) 
 fun and the competitiveness but still beatable first player experience. Please don't support Nintendo 
 on this game and do yourself a favor by avoiding headaches, broken controllers, and massive amount 
 of verbal abuse and DON'T PLAY THIS GAME (don't even RENT it!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is the latest version of Nintendo's kart racing franchise and it also happens to 
 be one of the best console racers ever.
  
  Now with this being my first Mario Kart game I am going to go a little bit less harsh on it cause 
 this is all new to me. Now for those who don't know Mario Kart's objective is to come first in 
 all races. But instead of just racing you have a variety of powerups at your disposal like the 
 simple projectile the green shell or the mushroom which gives you a speed boost. There are a few 
 powerups which i think really should not be in there, the blue shell being at the top of the list 
 becuase it's basically a punishment for those who play the game well.
  
  The courses here are a mixed bag some are from older Mario Kart games and some are brand new. The 
 tracks are all good and fun to play through with shortcuts and clever places to utilize the right 
 power up. It seems that many a gamer has an opinion on the Wii Wheel, I'm not a big fan of the 
 wheel while it does work and always works I seem to do better with the Wii-mote and Nunchuk combo.
 
  
  The graphics are shiny and sparkling for the Wii but there's hardly any improvement over what was 
 done on the Gamecube but it looks good none the less. This game's biggest strength is it's multiplayer 
 while competing on the same console is all well and good it's the online play that really keeps 
 this game going. This is good because the single-player mode won't take much effort until 150cc 
 and even then it's still pretty easy given that you've got the hang of the controls by then.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is a fantastic racing game and the lifespan will most likely outlive you! A 
 must buy for the Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swissusadude
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Those of you who are huge fans of Mario Kart Double Dash might be disappointed by the fact that 
 Mario Kart Wii is back to single kart and bike racing, but once you start playing you will realize 
 that this is actually a good thing.
  
  The game seems to flow much better with single character racing, and the tracks are a great mix 
 of old ones to some very creative new ones. There are also plenty of characters and their respective 
 race vehicle to choose from. 
  
  By far the biggest improvement is multiplayer, from team racing to online racing. For those of 
 you who are frustrated by the often poor connection quality of Super Smash Bros Brawl will be happy 
 to know that I have rarely experienced any lagging and that it flows very smoothly for most of 
 the time.
  
  The only downfall might be the graphics, but they are more than acceptable for a Wii. And Gamespot 
 claims some of the tracks are "boring", which I do not agree. They might not have that many jumps 
 but are still very enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 22, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is a game made as a graceful alternative to those that can't handle or don't want to 
 handle the real simulation driving genre. In this sense Mario Kart does just that and gives us 
 fun game play with a few new features along with the basic formula fans have loved for years.
 
  
  Mario Kart allows a multitude of game play options as you can use, classic controller, gamecube 
 controller, wii remote, wii remote with nun chuck, or the wii wheel. The newly introduced wii wheel 
 is a plastic shell that emulates the driving of the actual vehicle. All of the configurations are 
 equally playable, but i found that new drivers like the intuitive nature of the Wii wheel. I personally 
 had more success using the wii remote with nunchuck, but i had more fun with the wheel along with 
 added difficulty. New weapons have been added, such as the giant mushroom, lightning cloud, and 
 pow block. If you've been playing Mario Kart games at all you'll be able to play this easily. The 
 introduction of cycles adds some new challenges to explore. Karts still have the drift, but the 
 drift itself has been modified to limit "snaking." Karts and catch drag off of karts in front of 
 them for a boost and also have the opportunity to catch double boost during drift. Cycles on the 
 other hand can pop a wheelie and gain a boost. This however, limits your turning so it is ideal 
 in straight ways. To balance out this bikes can drift but are only given one boost. A new tweak 
 is the doing tricks. Whenever you hit a jump all you have to do is shake the wii remote and you'll 
 do a trick. Shortly after landing you'll receive and extra boost. The cars are well balanced and 
 you have a set of light, medium, and heavy bikes and cars to choose from.
  
  Another new addition console series is the existence of full online play through the nintendo wi-fi 
 support. The online supports up to 12 players for battle and race modes. The online also has full 
 ranking systems and the ability to upload your own ghosts and race others'. I raced with 9 people 
 without any noticeable lag and the setup allows you to get into a race easy and quickly. Race tracks 
 are chosen by the people and then the game picks one of those choices at random. You can play people 
 on your friends list, from your region, or across the globe.
  
  Mario Kart has its usual engines burning out and characters jeering at one another. All of the 
 audio we are used to listening to from past Mario Karts is in full force. Some of the old school 
 tracks reappear with remixes for their music and is surely going to bring back memories.
  
  On the negative side of the equation mario kart doesn't real give us anything new. I'm not sure 
 how Nintendo needs to go about revamping the series, but we need to go to newer places and the 
 inclusion of old tracks takes up half of the racing and seems like Nintendo is out of things to 
 do. Maybe a travel to other aspects of the Nintendo universe is needed?
  
  If you were never a fan of the Mario Kart series, this will not change your mind. For those of 
 us who can't get enough shell throwing madness, this is a welcome title whose online and competitive 
 gameplay will keep us racing for days to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracula_16
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  So yeah, let's get that out of the way first; if you already like/dislike past Mario Kart games 
 then this game will do probably nothing to change your mind. As you can tell from the score I gave 
 it, I've thoroughly enjoyed my time with Mario Kart Wii but it's certainly not without its faults. 
 
  
  The Mario Kart series is known to be very accessible and this title is [in some ways] a step even 
 further in that direction. The game comes with a free wireless steering wheel which you pop your 
 Wii Remote right into. You turn the wheel just like you would turn a normal steering wheel in a 
 car. It's the very definition of a novelty. It's fun for about half an hour but after that you'll 
 realize that it's very imprecise compared to a Gamecube controller or a classic controller. I can't 
 imagine anyone sticking with the wheel as their main control option. 
  
  The crux of the game is racing around Nintendo themed race tracks while using weapons like shells 
 and banana peels to make sure that you maintain your lead. There are some new weapons like a giant 
 mushroom which first appeared in New Super Mario Bros on the DS. The blue shell is just as cheap 
 as it's ever been. It's easily the worst weapon in the series' history, in my opinion. 
  
  Mario Kart Wii is something that almost anyone can get into in 10 minutes or less and have a great 
 time. The controls are easy to learn and the game doesn't usually punish you for doing lousy because 
 you can use weapons to try and gain some ground on your opponents. You'll almost never need to 
 use brakes in a race because you can drift around corners and gain a boost of speed if you time 
 it correctly. The drifting is now easier to do because you won't need to jiggle the analog stick 
 back and forth; after a certain amount of time your wheels will attract blue/orange sparks and 
 that's when you should let go of your drift button because you'll get a boost of speed. 
  
  
  Another one of the new things that's been added to this edition of Mario Kart is the ability 
 to drive motorcycles instead of karts. They don't get as much of a boost from turning [when compared 
 to karts] but they can do wheelies which will make you go fast when you're driving in a straight 
 line. Motorcycles are clearly the better choice because you'll never really need to drift for a 
 super long time. 
  
  One of the more subtle additions to the game is the trick system. You can press a button when you 
 go off a ramp and you'll pull off a trick as if you're some kind of Motocross star. These tricks 
 all look nice and they're different for each character. They range from back flips to mighty butt 
 smacks. 
  
  For your racing needs there are sixteen brand new tracks and sixteen "classic" tracks to choose 
 from. I put the word "classic" in quotes because some of the courses that Nintendo has chosen to 
 bring back are awful. I'm talking about Shy Guy Beach and that stupid ghost house themed track. 
 Those tracks are not balanced at all for the additions in this Mario Kart like the wheel, new weapons 
 and motorcycles so why did they bother to bring them back? Even if they were balanced, they're 
 so poorly designed that it wouldn't matter. That's not to say that all of the "classic" tracks 
 are bad -- in fact, there are some gems like the GameCube tracks. The brand new tracks are unsurprisingly 
 better, though. There's a great variety in their layouts and each one has a unique feel. 
  
  Mario Kart Wii's graphics are definitely not on par with Super Smash Bros Brawl or Super Mario 
 Galaxy but they're still impressive. The environments clearly steal the show when it comes to eye 
 candy. You'll notice Miis in the crowd rooting you on which does a good job at reminding you that, 
 yes, this is a Nintendo game through and through. Coconut mall is my favorite as it features the 
 most unique style. 
  
  The music is probably the worst thing about the game if I'm being honest. It's so generic that 
 it might as well be that lame stuff that you hear in a hotel elevator. The only thing that stands 
 out as good is Sherbet Land's music. Other than that song you probably won't notice that the music 
 is there because the engines sound much better. The developers of Mario Kart Wii makde the unfortunate 
 decision to record a few cries and yells for each character and they have those noises repeated 
 so often that it's annoying. 
  
  Other than the standard grand prix races, you can try to make it higher up in the half-baked leaderboards 
 or perhaps try battle mode. There are some "classic" tracks and some new ones in this mode which 
 is nice, I guess. There's the standard balloon popping or a coin collecting game. It's essentially 
 a watered down car combat mode. Everyone's locked in an arena and there are two teams. They're 
 each trying to collect weapons and then hit their opponents until victory ensues. It's lame compared 
 to the racing. 
  
  
  There's also a decent amount of online options available to you. You can play races or battle mode 
 with up to eleven others. I noticed no lag at all even when I was playing with people in Mexico 
 or France. This means that there was no excuse for Nintendo to release Super Smash Bros Brawl with 
 its lag infested online. Excuse me while I smash my head on this keyboard. 
  
  While I'm nursing this headache, let me wrap this up. Mario Kart Wii is a very fun game if you 
 were already a fan of previous games in the series. (This means I qualify) It's one of the best 
 online experiences on the Wii so if you're into that sort of thing then go nuts. It's also a perfect 
 game for parties because it's very easy to get into. Thanks for reading.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  like said earlier this is like double dash, with its flaws picked out and more things added. these 
 things are more great tracks to challenge us in the classic time trial/ grand prix, the wii wheel 
 and if you havent noticed an excellent item edition. this tiem you might know of if you played 
 NeW super mario bros DS... 
  
  DATS RIGHT DA MEGA MUSHROOM!!!
  
  it was a great edition to the game but i think it needs to have a longer duration because it only 
 lasts about five seconds. But overall the netest thing is that they added motorcycles/motor bikes. 
 the strangest thing is that after playing through grand prix for a while usccesfully you can awkwardly 
 play as your mii in a little red suit... this was very strange for mine becausei mad it look strange 
 but, like all the other mario games it made a hilarious moment at the first time seen.
  
  
  
  if you have a choice to get Smash bros brawl or this GET THIS!!!! it also allows the use 
 of your good old GC controller if you have no desire to use the wii mote or the wii wheel. 
  
  The wifi features are great and i use it almost everyday.
  
  
  
  
  this game maintains 
 most of the maps from the other mario kart games but it gives them graphicle improvements. it also 
 keeps the rainbow road and adds adds a few annoying things to it (like a couple pits that i keep 
 falling in to!)
  
  
  overall this is the best game of its genre and if this is a genre of this type its the game for 
 you. and if you dont like this genre then you should get it anyway due to the fact that it revolutionizes 
 racing games to a whole new level of fun!!! (get it and put your freind codes on the forums so 
 we can play sometime!!!) 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dieyetagain
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii
  
  A great game that i love and others should love. It's fun. easy and, well, fun! You get to be your 
 good old Mario or Bowser and my personal favourite Toad plus more. Also if you unlock it you can 
 drive with your Mii! A great feature in this game are the different types of vehicles you get to 
 choose from eg. A Motorbike with High speed but low acceleration or a different bike with low speed 
 but high acceleration. The standard kart is the all round vehicle allowing begginers to race freely 
 and fun without worrying about how slow or how your handling is too intense.
  
  Some scores now... Graphics on this game are outstanding, considering that that HD isn't even out 
 for the Wii yet. So i cannot wait to see it WITH a HD cable. The landscape is also high quality 
 with the texture just right. It's really outstanding. I give the graphics a 10/10. Seriously I 
 couldn't find one thing wrong the graphics.
  
  The sound, well the sound is the good old fast, blood rushing, energetic music which makes you 
 want to race! Every map has it's own unique beat and tempo which makes it great. The sounds of 
 the karts are awesome aswell. For a motorbike it makes the deep rumble sound and for a kart a sharp 
 rumble sound it sounds great. I give the Sound a 9.3
  
  The gameplay on Mario Kart is really good what makes me so happy about htis game is it's..... wait 
 for it..... MULTIPLAYER ONLINE MODE!!?!!? Yes, that's right! you AND your friend can BOTH play online 
 versing eachother and others!! That is just fantastic. The next fantastic thing is that they have 
 old maps from past Mario Kart games like my favourite Sherbert Land from the N64 and more from 
 N64 and the GBA and the SNES! I give the Gameplay a strong 9.8
  
  Now that gives us an overall score of around 9.7 but i'll just round it off to 10 because 9.5 seems 
 a bit low even though it only a 0.5 difference but thats a lot in this game.
  
  I hope this review was useful and that you can relate to it.
  
  Yours sincerely, Dieyetagain. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevinmaxtor
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Amazing, got it on launch day, played if for 8 hours right through the night. Lots of options, 
 character, karts, bikes, unlock ables, 32 tracks in all, with new items and abilities make this 
 the best Mario Kart out to date, online play also makes this a must have with up to 12 players 
 online, and 4 players on a single system, all the modes are back, battles, solo and team racing 
 all with new tracks, you can use the game cube, wii mote, classic, and wii mote with the wheel 
 and wii mote with the nun chuck to play! Comes with the wii wheel for better handling, Nintendo 
 is keeping it up, with the best Mario Kart graphics and a very good selection of sounds from both 
 the characters and cars to the game soundtrack itself! Sometimes it can be too easy, mostly based 
 on your luck, and the internet online play and even lose connection even when you have a fast connection, 
 but overall this is a great Mario Kart, and it's worth your money. It's right up there with the 
 best games like Brawl and Galaxy ! Buy it now! =) You will be impressed my both the game play and 
 the value of this game! All in all I give this game a 9.0! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpgmadboy
Rating: 8
Date: May 20, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  There are plenty of character to choose from this time round and you have to unlock quite afew 
 but one of the characters, Rosaline requires a Super Mario Galaxy save file. 
  
  Some famous tracks return in the wii version and more tracks become availible. What i like about 
 mario kart wii is that you are able to play online on one wii console with two people so the other 
 person doesn't have to sit and watch. Online offers variety and can get rid of boredom. Only bad 
 thing is you can't talk on the wii and there isn't even text chat. You have to use the silly phrases 
 nintendo supplies you with.
  
  Another thing nintendo gives you is the opitunity to swtich control for example you can use the 
 gamecube control. I however used the wii remote because it uses motion and i wanted to get the 
 best gameplay experience.
  
  If you own a hungry wii buy mario kart it will give you hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ucanimurself
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of Mario games but to be honest I feel that nintendo makes a lot of their games based 
 off of luck. Meaning, anyone can play, which is a good thing but at the same time feels ridiculous. 
 Here are the pros and cons of this game.
  
  PROS: 
  
  There is a new way to drive. If you shake the steering wheel you can get a boost and if you are 
 a motorcycle you can hold B and lift up to do a wheelie. I thought this was a great new addition 
 to the Mario Kart series. 
  
  The Characters: There are a lot of new characters, which is the only reason why I continue to play 
 this game. Not only are there a lot of characters to unlock but vehicles too. It makes the game 
 have a good replay value. 
  
  The Internet: The internet connection is not that bad. It is probably the best I have seen out 
 for the Wii.
  
  The Steering wheel. It is actually really fun to use and it is accurate. 
  
  
  CONS: 
  
 
  For some reason, all the unlockable cars in any Mario Kart I have seen get worse. Why would someone 
 want to unlock a car with poor handling? Since the steering wheel is involved it is crucial to 
 have good handling. 
  
  I think nintendo also has to have better items. I mean the storm cloud? Half of the time it hurts 
 you. I liked the idea in Double Dash where they had character specials. I thought that was really 
 good because it made every character different. 
  
  When it came to more players in battling at first i thought it was a good idea. But i find it difficult 
 to attack people with the steering wheel. The turning is my only complaint and in battle the levels 
 involve a lot of turns. I think 16 players is way too much for a racing game. They should have 
 it 8 players max in terms of Battle. 
  
  Other then that I think this game is the best out for the Wii. Despite my opinionated downfalls 
 I think this is a must own for the Nintendo Wii. It is also a great game to have with friends. 
 So I rate this game an 8.5. 
  
  I hope you found this review useful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_toad123
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Wow! That pretty much sums up the game. The game play and the controls are great! The Wii Wheel 
 is the ultimate controller ever. I feel like I am actully in a car (sort of) . You can also use the 
 Nunchuck, a gamecube controller, or a classic controller. Like the other Mariokarts, this game 
 has new tracks, old tracks, and just plain fun! The multiplayer is really fun. Play with up to 
 four friends at a time, in VS, Balloon Battle, and Coin Runners. Or, if you have a Wi-Fi connection, 
 play with 12 players around the world. There is a lot more character selections in the game, you 
 can play as King Boo, Baby Peach, Baby Mario, and even your Mii! Plus, there are a lot more unlockable 
 karts. The motorcycles are the best part of the game. The tricks make the game even better. The 
 only bad part about this game to me, the Nitro Grand Prix tracks are a little long for 3 laps, 
 and that there is some VERY hard courses in the game. The items are also a mix up too. That is 
 why I didn't give it a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javrixx
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This is the funnest and best replay value game on the Wii so far. The reason I say this is because 
 you won't get bored playing multiplayer ever. Singleplayer will take you quite a bit to master 
 anyway, but once you've done that and collected all the hidden characters and karts/bikes that 
 you can, it is off to the real good stuff of this game.
  
  The multiplayer match ups are quick, lag free, and so much fun. The game installs a new Wii channel 
 (optional, but you're crazy not to have it) just called the Mario Kart channel. There are ongoing 
 tournaments and plenty of player made ghosts to race that keeps the game fresh all the time. 
 
  
  The racing itself is so much funner when you know you're racing other people. I'm constantly yelling 
 and screaming at these people who I'll never meet when i get hit with a red shell, knocked off 
 a bridge, etc. It makes the game enjoyable and just so much fun to play. I haven't played WoW in 
 almost 2 weeks because of this!
  
  Also, the ranking system is great. The cap is 9999 but good luck getting there and keeping it.
 
  
  
  So bottom line, if you're into playing with other people and love a ranking system, this game is 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ukdeaddog
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart wii is an excellent game, i give it a 9. Mario kart wii is a good game for all ages 
 and very easy to pick up although the wii wheel can be a bit tricky at first yet once you get used 
 to it it is the best way of controlling it.
  There are many other ways of controlling it which is a good feature for some one with not enough 
 wii controllers for multi player fun, you can use the wii controller and nun chuck, classic controller 
 and game cube controller.
  
  In this edition of Mario kart they have included bikes which i like, i now always use bikes rather 
 than karts.
  
  The online feature is a good one, virtually lag free and fun, you can play with up the 11 other 
 people online and can play two player online as well.
  
  Most features have stayed the same but the battle mode has changed rather than just playing with 
 humans you play with computers which means you can play battle on your own and with less friends 
 its more fun.
  
  graphics wise its not much better than double dash but their fine the detail of graphics decreases 
 during slit screen but overall an excellent game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingwargod
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is back and better than ever! Although much of the same game play, Nintendo has 
 added some new additions which just simply add more fun and are appealing to look at. It has a 
 fun single player mode, but it really shines in the multiplayer modes, and the online. Yet as good 
 as this game is, it has its share of flaws which keep it from being perfect.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  The gameplay is great, you are trying to race around the track, having items 
 to help you reach the end, and finding shortcuts, trying to reach there the fastest. But the biggest 
 problem about this game is its A. I. The A. I is very cheap, maybe not so much in the 50cc and the 
 100cc modes, but in the mirror and 150cc mode, they are very cheap. Blue shells are getting shot 
 at you like crazy, and what really ticks me off is that in previous Mario Kart there was a short 
 period of time after you got hit that you couldn't get hit again, but that is being done away with 
 in this Mario Kart, so once you get hit once, get prepared to get hit several more times. The new 
 items are ok, they don't take any away from the game, but I really would have prefered items that 
 were unique to each character like in double dash, but obviously more balenced. Another flaw about 
 the single player is how they took out the mission mode, which was introduced in the DS version, 
 which added a lot to the single player mode. Another thing new to this game is the inclusion of 
 tricks and bikes, I personally love these additions as the add more fun, and require more strategy 
 in picking vehicles. Finally, Mario Kart Wii has taken out snaking, which I beleive is for the 
 best because now winning a race require more driving skills rather than "snaking" skills. Another 
 huge disappointment is the battle mode, as it is one of the worst ever. The reasons why the battle 
 mode has to be one of the worst every is because it is exclusively team based, it is timed, the 
 maps are too big, and THEY TOOK OUT THE FUN BATTLES like bomb blast and that shine sprite collecting 
 thing. The battle really lets the gameplay fall quite a bit. Overall, the gameplay is very much 
 the same which a few welcome additions, although better then ever in the multiplayer and online 
 mode, single player has taken a few steps back, which makes the gameplay very tedious in single 
 player modes. 
  
  Presentation: 8.8/10:
  Mario Kart Wii has extremely stunning graphics, and many of the courses are well made, and look 
 spectacular. Although not as good as Brawl and Galaxy, the graphics for Mario Kart Wii are one 
 of the best on the Wii running at a solid 60 fps. Yet in 3 and 4 player modes, the frame rate gets 
 reduced in half, as there is more going on. After looking at single player for a while, looking 
 at multiplayer was quite disappointing, as it looks no where near as clear. Yet the reduction in 
 frame rate can be ignored as multiplayer is as fun as ever. The presentation for Mario Kart Wii 
 is some of the best graphics on the Wii, and despite the reduction in frame rate in multiplayer 
 modes, is still pleasent to look at.
  
  Sound: 7.5/10:
  Not much to say here, the sound flows nicely for the game, nothing memorable like Brawl though. 
 But the character's noises are very annoying, especially listening to the Mii's voices...
  
  Multiplayer: 9.5/10:
  This is where the game shines. Other than the reduction in framerate, 
 the multiplayer can be considered NEARLY flawless. Mario Kart has always been a multiplayer game, 
 and that is no different here. Multiplayer is a blast, playing with your friends/family is amazing 
 sharing all your laughs and experiences. And I love how you can have the option to race with other 
 computers in multiplayer, since racing 4 players in one huge map can be boring after a while. And 
 in VS races in both single player and multiplayer modes you cvan take out the items, which can 
 be good, as it tests your true racing ability without the cheap A. i bombarding you with items. 
 Multiplayer is back and despite one tiny flaw, is one of the best multiplayer experiences ever.
 
  
  Controls: 10/10:
  Controls are simply flawless. There are now five controls, the wii remote on its side by itself, 
 the newly added Wii Wheel (which does unfortunately take time to get accustomed to) , the gamecube 
 controller, the classic controller, and the wiimote and nunchuck. The reason why the controls are 
 flawless is if you don't like using one control, you have 4 others to choose from.
  
  Online: 9.8/10:
  Online, along with multiplayer is the highlight of this game. The online is 
 a blast, you can race with friends, even though the annoying friends codes are back, or in a regional 
 or worldwide race. Unlike brawl, Mario Kart Wii finds people in an instant, and I mean an instant. 
 There is also absolutely no lag, and for the first time in Mario Kart history, you can go online 
 2 people to one console, whcih is great. In online, it is very much like single player mode where 
 you have the option between battle and VS mode. Everyone starts off with a license with 5000 points, 
 the better you do in a race, the more points you get, making online very addicting and better than 
 the single player mode in my opinion. There are no where near as much blue shells being fired at 
 you, and unlike in single player mode, where you result is sometimes dependent on your items, this 
 is not the caase in online, where skill plays a huge role. And best of all, there is usually someone 
 who is your "rival" who is just as good as you, giving you lots of challenge. The only minor flaw 
 about online is that since it finds people so fast, you can be sometimes put in a room of like 
 4 people, what the heck is that, 4 people in one gigantic map. I would have preferred if they spent 
 a bit longer finding people and putting you in a room with more people.
  
  In conclusion, Mario Kart WIi is a must own in everyone's library, with stunning graphics, and 
 a stellar online, and multiplayer mode, Mario Kart Wii will always having you coming back to play. 
 With its share of flaws, Mario Kart Wii is tied with Mario Kart DS as best in the series!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nillod
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I love this game a lot but it is probably my third favorite in the series after ds and 64. the 
 racing mechanics are excellent but the one thing that i absolutely have to denounce is the items 
 and how easy the game is. I have had numerous times where things were going well and suddenly i 
 get hit by a blue shell and somehow end up in sixth place a few seconds before the finish. i know 
 its gonna happen but not as many times as it has. another thing i do not like about the items is 
 that it in this particular game, its makes it too easy for even the worst players to come in first 
 when they have raced terribly almost the entire time. i know this is Nintendo's stance but i do 
 not think it should be implicated into MK. other than that, the game is a blast to play and i am 
 happy that it is out now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siLVURcross
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 18, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is the latest installment in the Mario Kart series. Though dating since the SNES, 
 Mario Kart has proven itself again and again it can provide the simplest and most amusing kart 
 racing game, but can it do it again on the Wii?
  
  To be honest people, I've played every single Mario Kart, ranging from the SNES, 64, GBA, GC, DS 
 and now the Wii, and I must say I am hardly impressed with what Nintendo has offered in this game. 
 
  
  I'll say it right now to save myself time, Double Dash was better. Heck, even the DS version was 
 better, and I hated it because I was horrible at snaking. 
  
  But what makes this version so bad?
  
  Well to start off, the Grand Prix is no longer available 
 in multiplayer mode, meaning you have to chose your tracks and go from there instead of the classic 
 Double Dash standard of All Cup with your friends.
  
  Mentioning Double Dash has also reminded me of the Co-Op feature that was implemented, though Mario 
 Kart Wii offers Team Based racing similiar to the DS version, it was not enough to win me over 
 compared to the great memories I've had with my friends clawing each other in the air, and duking 
 it out on the tracks.
  
  Did I mention snaking? Yes I did. Nintendo decided to make things easier for new racers by not 
 implenting a drift button like older Mario Kart, instead you push the analog or steer hard either 
 right or left to drift, now while this seems easier, it doesn't really help at most times. Rather, 
 it's frustrating when you drift when you don't want to, and don't drift when you want it. When 
 I've played Double Dash, controlling when you drift is crucial to a victory in a race.
  
  Now some of the neat things they've added were bikes, but by adding bikes, how is it Mario Kart? 
 Might as well call it Mario Vehicle Racing and add trucks next time. Heck, instead of racing on 
 circuit tracks, they race in a dirt terrain, like the Grand Canyon, oh wait that's MotorStorm. 
 While the cool stunt tricks are neat to do, they're not much to add awesomness to this game.
  
  Another feature is the online component. However with my experience of GT5, racing online can 
 get frustrating with lag, glitches etc. Fun, but like Brawl, lag can really kill the momentum of 
 winning a single race.
  
  Though the wheel was included, it doesn't add much but a shape so you can get a sense of driving. 
 Personally I wouldn't even recommend the wheel, you'd be better off with the GC controller. Because 
 if you've played Mario Party 8, we all know Wii remote sideways does not work well with driving, 
 and the wheel doesn't help it either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BogeymanX
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is a game where you get the most out of your competitive spirit. Mario Kart Wii's 
 remarkable controls allow you to feel like you are actually driving.
  
  Single-Player: You get your most known modes: Grand Prix, and Time Trials along with two more. 
 Single-Player versions of VS and Battle. The Grand Prix is pretty solid, and as you advance through 
 50cc - Mirror Mode, you can see that there is difference between the difficulty. Time Trials is 
 not the best again and mostly to find short cuts.
  
  Multi-Player: As always, Mario Kart Wii is really great multi-player, you don't have as a wide 
 as selection as in Double-Dash, but you have VS and Battle. The VS is fine with Wii and Retro courses, 
 but as far as the Battle mode goes, you can't kill each other in 3 - 4 players. The Battle mode 
 puts you on teams, either red or blue. You have Balloon Battle, but counts score not which team 
 loses their players first. There is also Coin Runners where players must collect coins. Not much 
 excitement there. 
  
  The game supports online play. Why play online play? For a large screen... just play on the same 
 Wii console, you'll probably have more fun laughing with your friends, then laughing by yourself.
 
  
  Mario Kart Wii gets a 9.0 out of 10.0 for having a magnificent multi-player and a single player 
 that works well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  After Mario's five-year hiatus from home console karting, expectation for the latest in the beloved 
 spin-off series has had plenty of time to bubble and simmer. So, half a decade later and well into 
 the current console cycle, does Mario Kart Wii take the chequered flag?
  
  As you'd expect, Nintendo hasn't messed around too much with the core driving mechanics. This is 
 still the frantic racer it's always been; the banana peels fly, short-cuts are hidden away on every 
 course, and you can't relax until you cross the finish line. Everything you know and love is still 
 here, but there are a number of additions that make it tick a little better. For a start, races 
 now consist of twelve competitors. There's more mayhem than ever, and it actually makes the game 
 a bit more user friendly. Skilled players will find it more difficult to pull away from the pack 
 seeing as more shells and other assorted power-ups will be whizzing around the track, allowing 
 less experienced players more of a chance to finish higher up in the table.
  
  To continue with the theme of making Mario Kart even more user friendly, each copy of the game 
 comes with the Wii Wheel, a steering wheel shell for the remote to sit in. Do you remember your 
 parents playing racing games in the past and twisting the controller as they turned corners? Now 
 that twisting will actually control your car. It's a well-made peripheral that's comfortable to 
 hold and intuitive to use, but it just doesn't feel as responsive as an analog stick. You'll get 
 the occasional bout of under-steer and over-steer, which really makes drifting round corners more 
 difficult than it needs to be. Competitive players will probably want to spurn the wheel in favour 
 of one of the more traditional controller set-ups, such as the Classic Controller, GameCube pad, 
 or the remote-nunchuk combination. All are responsive and easy to use, so it's just down to personal 
 preference.
  
  But if you're determined to make the most of the pretty plastic wheel that Nintendo made such an 
 effort to promote, you'll be glad to know there are two modes of transmission to makes things a 
 little easier for you. In Mario Kart land, transmission has nothing to do with changing gears; 
 rather, it determines how your kart drifts and boosts. Automatic transmission initiates a drift 
 automatically as you start to turn a corner, which is particularly handy for the wheel users. That's 
 great and all, but what's the point of manual transmission? Manual requires a little more dexterity 
 on the player's part. You'll need to press a button (dependant on which control set-up you're using) 
 to start the drift and control your car to make sure you stay on course, but you get the benefit 
 of drift turbo-boosts. If you drift around a corner for long enough, sparks will kick up behind 
 your wheels and, after you finish the drift, you'll get a small boost. Holding a drift for longer 
 can get you a bigger boost, but you'll have to pick and choose which corners you try that on. Needless 
 to say, manual transmission is a requirement if you want to go in search of record-breaking time 
 trials.
  
  Once you're all geared up and ready to hit the tracks, you'll find a familiar array of game modes 
 to choose from. Grand Prix consists of the staple 50cc, 100cc, and 150cc engine classes (along 
 with the unlockable Mirror 150cc where the tracks are reversed) . You race against eleven CPU players 
 over a four-race competition to see who takes the gold. The only difference is that each class 
 is limited to a certain type of vehicle. 50cc is a kart class, 100cc a bike class (yes, bikes!) , 
 and 150cc lets you choose either. Burning around on the bikes isn't just a gimmick though; compared 
 to their four-wheeled cousins, the bikes are far more nimble and have the ability to do wheelies, 
 which gives you a short speed increase down straights. The trade-off is they're not as robust as 
 the karts and can be barged around the track more easily, and they can only achieve the standard 
 drift boost when playing in manual transmission. It's a welcome addition because it gives the racing 
 a twist (even if it's just a small one) but they're just as easy to use as the karts and don't 
 unbalance the game.
  
  Eight cups consisting of four tracks each are available on each engine class, and for the most 
 part, the courses are great fun. The new tracks feature some surprisingly original elements, most 
 notably Mushroom Gorge's bouncy toadstools. What's more disappointing is that of the 32 courses, 
 only half of them are new. Four of the cups are "classic" themed and are made up of courses picked 
 from previous games in the series. Some of the best tracks of yesteryear make an appearance (DK's 
 Jungle Parkway from the N64, Ghost Valley 2 from the SNES) , but you still can't help but feel a 
 little cheated that only half the content is original. Some of these courses are (purposefully) 
 dated, but the original ones are impressively colourful and sharp-looking. The range of classic 
 and re-mixed Nintendo anthems are the perfect accompaniment, punctuated by the cries of Mario and 
 company as they get thwarted by a lightning bolt of fall for that fake item box.
  
  Although you can only play the regular grand prix tournaments in single player, you can create 
 competitions with your own selection of tracks with up to four players locally. Battle mode also 
 makes a return and can be played with up to four on the same Wii, but the fact that the mode is 
 now team-based and time-limited means you'll probably spend more time racing. It's an unnecessary 
 set of forced rules which don't do anything to make it more fun. Time trials are there for the 
 speed-demons who crave to shave seconds off of their lap-times (and you can unlock staff time trial 
 ghosts if you're quick enough) , but the online support is where Mario Kart Wii really comes into 
 its own.
  
  Although it's plagued by the over-protective friend code system (like every other online Wii game) , 
 the online racing and ranking system is top notch. Finding a game worldwide, by your continent, 
 or with friends is easy and doesn't take more than a few minutes. Once you're in the race, you'll 
 be pleased to know there's barely any lag at all, regardless of the geographical locations of your 
 competitors. Races are smooth, so you'll have no excuses if you start crashing all over the place. 
 Ranking is handled with a single figure and there's no leaderboard as such; your rank appears next 
 to your name in the lobby so you can see how good you are in relation to the rest of the room. 
 However, time trials are one aspect that is very well supported in the leaderboard department. 
 You can see how you stack up against your friends, your continent, or the whole world and even 
 download ghosts to test your mettle against the best of them.
  
  All of these fantastically streamlined online features are contained within the Mario Kart Channel. 
 You can get here from the main game menu, but if you don't mind adding one more channel to the 
 main Wii menu, you can access all time trial rankings without even having the game in. You'll get 
 alerts when friends send you time trial challenges, and if you want to take them on straight away, 
 it's a matter of popping the disc in and getting straight into the action.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is an impressive overall package, and judging by the great online support, an indication 
 that Nintendo is starting to take online gaming more seriously. If you want a fun racer that can 
 be enjoyed by yourself, with family and friends, and against the world, it's definitely a game 
 for you. It hasn't strayed very far from classic Mario Kart conventions (perhaps most noticeably 
 in recycling half of the courses from old games) which might be of some concern to the long-term 
 future of the franchise. But in the here-and-now, Mario Kart is still a blast, and that's all that 
 matters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylandude392
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Mario Kart. Such fond memories I have of playing 64 when I was 6, and I barely remember the 
 original. Up until now, Super Circuit for the GBA had been my favorite in the series, but then 
 along came MKW and the Wii Wheel.
  
  Speaking of the wheel, I think I'll start with that. Personally, I love it. I love it more than 
 I could ever love the Zapper (which sucks) . It responds correctly and, as much as a game where 
 you throw bananas at each other, makes you feel as though you're actually driving. I honestly think 
 the wheel is underrated. If you don't like it, don't use it! Seriously, all it is is another control 
 scheme that you won't use. It's no different from any other game besides the fact that you have 
 a wheel collecting dust. It can be a few more bucks for you when you get rid of your Wii. Just 
 use your Gamecube controller if you feel as though you can't drive.
  
  I never really got attached to Double Dash for the GC for one critical reason, there were 2 people 
 in one kart. The whole premise was lost on me. Now we're back to the better idea of having one 
 person in a vehicle. The first thing that you'll notice about MKW is the fact that there are 4 
 extra racers on the track. I don't understand why they decided to do this, but I'm not complaining. 
 All it does is make races more crazy, and more crazy = more fun. Bikes and tricks are another big 
 thing added. The ladder being extremely cool. Ramps scattered along the course can line you up 
 for that perfect speed boost to cross the finish line. Of course, the half and quarter-pipes can 
 actually be slower than just driving around, which is unfortunate. Enter bikes. They have an interesting 
 trade off. On one hand, karts get a larger speed boost from drifting around corners. On the other, 
 bikes can pop wheelies for extra speed. I'll just say it, BIKES GOT THE BETTER DEAL! While it is 
 possible to be awesome in a kart, it's noticeable that bikes are superior.
  
  Next up, online play. You finally have a good reason to set up that router or USB connector because 
 this game is actually worth playing online. For the first time in the history of Nintendo, online 
 play is awesome. It feels satisfying to beat people around the world knowing you did it without 
 the help of lag.
  
  The Mario Kart Channel and tournaments are a nice addition, but don't add or detract much from 
 the overall experience. The exception to that rule is down and uploading ghost data. It's just 
 nice to be able to test your pure skill against other people without your butt being ridden by 
 koopa shells.
  
  The last point I'll be making is on the difficulty level. Yes, 150cc and mirror mode can be difficult, 
 but it's by no means impossible. The extra challenge will actually make you want to play more and 
 try to better your skills. The only complaint I have on this is if you fail to get the trophy/ranking 
 you desire, you'll have to play the whole circuit over again, but it's not that big of a deal.
 
  
  My closing statement is that if you're planning on buying a game for your Wii, the only thing better 
 than this is Super Smash Bros. Brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tpaul37
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  8.5 out of 10? how is this possibe if Super Smash Bros. Brawl got a 9.5 out of 10? Im not hating 
 on Smash bros fans, and i actually enoyed brawl but Mario Kart Wii is much better.
  
  The thing is that in Mario Kart Wii, there is more game modes, more stuff to do and better online 
 play. In Mario Kart you can pick from 24 characters, and play on 24 new and retro tracks. Some 
 modes you can do are grand prix (kinda like a story mode) , time trials, races, classic battles 
 and a new game called coin runners. Coin runners is like baloon battle but you try to fight for 
 coins by hitting oponents. Online you can do vs. races, team races, battles and coin runners. You 
 can play with strangers or friends. But get this! there is online ranking for each game, unlike 
 Brawl. You start with 5000 points, you can go up or down depending on your rank. Remember when 
 you waited a half hour to find 3 strangers to fight? Well in Mario Kart Wii you find 11 people 
 in less than 10 seconds, and theres barely any lag.
  
  There are still some bugs that need to be fixed but besides that, this is a must buy game for wii. 
 All you need is a wii-mote to play. If you have access to online play i would give this game a 
 9.7 out of 10. If you dont have online this game is about a 8.0 out of 10. Either way I highly 
 recomend it to anyone with a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shloobonya
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii 
 is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario 
 Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! 
 Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii 
 is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario 
 Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! 
 Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii 
 is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario Kart Wii is awesome! Mario 
 Kart Wii is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_lung
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  If anyone has played mariokart 64, it seems to have the hybrid of that with drifting. The graphics 
 are upgraded to "gamecube" standards with previous tracks. I give them props for the online feature. 
 It's extremely fun and addicting when you're trying to become the best of the best. But enough 
 of the small introduction let's break it down into pieces. I'm scoring based on 10s.
  
  Multiplayer: 8. You have the four players on one console. That's the standard good part about playing, 
 but do you notice it's up to 12 players? Perhaps the system can handle so many users and so many 
 computers at the same time. It's fine. The gamecube version had the same problem. if you had three 
 to four players, then the computers wouldn't be in the game, however there's only two online. what's 
 up with that. Sure, if you have a small screen it's hard to see all the plays, but what if you 
 have a grand tv, and besides that your second player is just a guest instead of having its own 
 profile. Whatever, the point is that it's fun to play with other players whether with three other 
 friends or up to eleven others online.
  
  controls: 10. I'm not usually a wiimote kind of person, but if you aren't a game player then you 
 should probably start with the wiimote. I like the fact that you may choose between the remote, 
 classic controller, or the gamecube controller. Choices lets anyone enjoy from the classic way 
 to the new way... just don't break your wiimote when you lose or something....
  
  play: 7. I expected more from the hype. I've played supernintendo, 64, ds, gcn, and arcade version, 
 and the play seems to favor the ds version. I think double-dash has given us too much with its 
 specials and 2-character use, however this game could have let us use their specials as an option. 
 If double-dash were online i'd play that instead. The add-ons that allow the game to be interesting 
 is the boost speed by tailing other characters, tricks from jumps, wheelies from motorcycles. All 
 they're lacking are taunts or a horn to flip a bird online if you know what i mean.
  
  characters and karts: 10. great line of character adding with yourself included. It would of been 
 a bonus if you were a baby version like peach, but that's still cool. The different vehicles including 
 bikes is a huge bonus that change the outcome of winners and losers. There's a huge difference 
 in vehicle use than in any of the previous games, so this makes the play much interesting.
  
  So my rating is 8.75, but since i can't make it that it'll show 8.5. For a game that's similar 
 or much more addicting than this, try kartrider. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humantnt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Easily The Greatest Nwfc Game Yet,12 player online = the best nintendo multiplayer game too date, 
 mario kart wii is a innotive fun game with great new features but doesnt seem repetitive to the 
 old games in anyway.
  
  Some New features are Motorbikes, Trick System, the score system for battle, Online Play And Much 
 More, they have also fixed the drift system as in mario kart ds many people cheated with a thing 
 called snaking making the game less fun online..
  
  it is a long game with many unlockables, perfect for partys, sleepovers, playing with your family 
 Or Playing Solo.
  
  Mario Kart May be agitating at times, especially when u are 1st and a stupid item comes out of nowhere 
 and hits You, But then again if youre the one throwing this item it can be lucky.
  
  this game is great but just not very addictive, its Audio, Visuals & Character Selection Are Extreme. 
 There Is Such A Variety To Choose From, And The Levels Are So Cool And Creative I Must Say This 
 Is Definitly A Top Nintendo Game Argubly The Best Mario Kart So Far....
  
  The Audio Is Terrific Especially With The Wiimote Speakers, Like When U Do Tricks Etc..
  Mario 
 Kart Wii Is Amazing In Many Ways But Its Rank 1 On Wii I Do Not Think It Deserves As I Think Twilight 
 Princess And brawl Are Much Better Games..
  Well That Raps It Up Then....
  
  Real Score 9.4
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 16, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I have had an opportunity to try out Mario Kart Wii for a couple of weeks and can say that I have 
 enjoyed the experience. I have yet to play it on multiplayer outside of connecting online, but 
 the classic elements appear to remain strong while the new additions have some mixed results.
 
  
  The game has expanded the playing field from 8 to 12 racers at once. This also means a rise in 
 the number of possible characters to play. The current roster includes Baby Mario, Baby Luigi, 
 Baby Peach, Baby Daisy, Toad, Toadette, Koopa Troopa, Dry Bones, Mario, Luigi, Peach, Daisy, Yoshi, 
 Birdo, Diddy Kong, Bowser Jr., Wario, Waluigi, Donkey Kong, Bowser, Rosalina, King Boo, Funky Kong, 
 Dry Bones and Mii. The addition of the Mii character is huge for the game, as it incorporates the 
 set weight for the character to determine the karts and motorcycles it can ride.
  
  Now you move into the vehicles. Each weight class has a particular set of karts or motorcycles 
 to use. The karts are fairly standard in gameplay, as they feel just like the Gamecube's handling 
 differences. Power-sliding still leads to speed boosts, but you no longer have to flick the joystick 
 side to side. The motorcycles are the new addition. They do not get a double boost like the karts, 
 but you can pop a wheelie to gain a speed boost. It lasts for a short time or until you get hit 
 by another vehicle or item. 
  
  Items have also evolved a bit. You still have the classics, including fake item boxes, bananas, 
 green shells, red shells, mushrooms, blue shells, bob-ombs, lightning bolts and stars. The new 
 additions include blooper (distractors) , lightning clouds (speed burst but shrinks you after short 
 time) , POW blocks (spins out other vehicles) , mega mushrooms (grow, speed up and smash opponents) 
 and bullet bills (turn into a bullet bill and auto-drive while knocking others out of the way) . 
 For items you can hold or throw, you have to readjust to your control scheme to best meet the challenge 
 of a course.
  
  The controls are the next area of interest. There are 4 ways to play. The wheel is the newest of 
 the options. You simply insert the controller into the wheel and the game reacts to your turning 
 and flicking of controls to perform mid-air tricks or pop a wheelie on the bike. The other options 
 are a little more straight forward: wii-mote w/ nunchuck, classic controller or Gamecube controller. 
 If you use the wheel for a while in multiple modes, you eventually earn a golden wheel icon next 
 to your name.
  
  Stages are the next area. 16 classic stages have been revitalized from the previous versions of 
 the game on all Nintendo systems. The new mix has been put into 4 new cups (Shell, Banana, Leaf 
 and Lightning) . The new courses include drive through a new Rainbow Road, Luigi Circuit, snow-covered 
 mountain, gold mine, volcano, highway and mini mall. You will compete on the 50cc, 100cc, 150cc 
 and mirror modes to unlock characters, vehicles and additional modes.
  
  The other major addition is the online mode. This attempt at online play is much smoother than 
 Smash Bros Brawl. It is extremely reactive. You have the choice of competing in races or battles. 
 In these options, you can also compete individually or on teams. This can also be done at the regional 
 or global levels or directly to your wii-friends. This is a great feature for people who do not 
 have a social network near them to play the multiplayer. You earn points in each of the modes to 
 distinguish yourself as a good player. There is also an option to race online ghosts or upload 
 your ghosts for others to challenge. Finally, you can compete in tournaments where you rack up 
 points and try to come out in front. Some of these online features have also been adapted in the 
 single-player mode to allow for practicing.
  
  Now the game may sound like a major improvement, and while some areas are, others can be seen as 
 a bit frustrating. The offline battle and race modes are great, but you now have to compete on 
 teams and cannot choose to go solo. The wheel is a great concept, but it is still not as realistic 
 to compete with compared to the Gamecube controller since it is harder to hit tricks and manage 
 the motorcycle. The distribution of items based on current place is a useful tool, but if the pack 
 is close and a computer player gets ahold of something devastating, you can easily drop from 1st 
 to near the bottom of the pack. It is also possible to do the reverse but much less likely.
  
  There is certainly a lot to love about this game and I will be playing it quite a bit for quite 
 a while. I just look forward to the next edition that works out some of the kinks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobain112
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 16, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  .Wii Wheel comes free and is extremely fun to play with.
  .Strong online play - 12 player battle mode.
  .For the first time on wii you can play two player 
 split - screen online multilplayer.
  .32 different tracks will keep you entertained for a huge amount of time.
  .Motorcycles are a 
 great diversion.
  The Bad:
  .Completely unbalanced Power Ups - it should be completely random.
  .You can go from First place 
 to Last place which is extremely frustrating.
  
  Mario Kart finally comes to the Wii with its new wii wheel! (Which i'll talk about later.)
  Nintendo 
 have decided to add Motorcycles to Mario Kart Wii which really gave me mixed thoughts. Is it fair 
 that motorcycles can wheelie and get a speed boost? I have come to the conclusion that the difficulty 
 and fairness is not so great. Not actually because of the Motorcycles VS Karts aren't fair.
  
  What they've changed in Mario Kart Wii to make it very annoying and unfair is the fact that 
 the Power Ups (Items) are completely unbalanced. For instance, if your 12th out of 12 (last place) 
 you'll get something like the Cannon Ball item which transforms your current vechile wether it 
 be a motorcycle or a kart into a large Cannon sort of thing and automatically drives for you about 
 three times faster than anyone else enabling you to go shooting to the front to give you a better 
 chance of winning.
  I have nothing against this but what really frustrates Wii owners is just the fact that all the 
 items are unbalanced and not random atall. If your 1st place out of 12 and you collect an Item 
 you'll get nothing to protect yourself except bannans just to slow other people down. This problem 
 doesn't sound all so big but really does add a great change to the difficulty.
  
  However! Do not fear, Mario Kart does definitely give what a typical Mario Kart Fan wants and more! 
 The trick system is great fun allowing the player to flick the wii wheel in an upwards motion just 
 before you take of a jump doing a forward, front flip, or even a side flip which is really satisfying 
 once you nail a trick and get a speed boost.
  
  Yes Mario Kart Wii does feature online play via Nintendo WFC and works very well. Those of you 
 who have been a fan of Mario kart since the N64 version and remember just how fun playing with 
 family or friends was, you can now jump into a game via nintendo WFC with up to 12 players WITH 
 a friends list if you want to race with a friend or two with just one person in the room! Its a 
 great feeling to know your playing with other people around the world in mario kart wii.
  
  There are 16 new tracks and 16 retro tracks that goes back all the way to SNES and NES tracks, 
 for example SNES Mario Curcuit. The new maps are all extremely good and so is the remake of rainbow 
 road.
  
  You can also add a mario kart channel to the wii dashboard so you can check the latest rankings, 
 leaderboards, and friends list without the mario kart game disc inside which really is quite great.
 
  Overall mario kart is a very good game although annoying in some parts like the fact you can go 
 straight from first to last. While its strenghts definitely outweigh its weakness's Mario Kart 
 Wii is definitely one of the best Mario Kart's in the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 28, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  If you are familiar with the mascot kart racing genre at all, you should be familiar with the Mario 
 Kart series. Not only is it a widely popular series, it's the series that essentially invented 
 the genre with Super Mario Kart way back in 1992. Now Nintendo has brought the series to the Wii 
 for the first time with Mario Kart Wii. 
  
  While Mario Kart Wii is another decent entry in the series thanks to the excellent Wii Wheel control 
 scheme and well implemented online play, the whole experience is hampered by a major sense of dj 
 vu. However, many people will probably be able to look past this issue and enjoy Mario Kart Wii.
 
  
  The basic premise of the Mario Kart series has always been focused on letting people race as their 
 favorite characters from Mario's universe. You can play as characters such as Mario, Luigi, Bowser, 
 Princess Peach, Yoshi, and many more. From a game play perspective, character selection is not 
 as important as the kart selection, with each kart having its own strengths and weaknesses. 
  
  By introducing bikes, Mario Kart Wii vastly increases the number of available vehicles compared 
 to the series previous entries. The bikes don't handle all that differently from the karts, but 
 they can perform wheelies, which give them slightly increased speed at the cost of steering capability.
 
  
  Just like previous entries in the series, your main goal in Mario Kart Wii is to finish at as high 
 a ranking as possible while punishing your opponents with power-ups such as red and green shells, 
 the dreaded blue shell, lightning bolts, bananas, and more.
  
  Over-powered power-ups have always been a part of the Mario Kart formula, but Mario Kart Wii takes 
 the term "over-powered" to a whole new level with the bullet bill power-up. 
  
  All considered, the bullet bill power-up is a bit too powerful in that it lets a racer get close 
 to the lead in one go, with no racing skill required. The other strong power-ups are at least balanced 
 out by the fact that you do need some racing skill to make the most of them.
  
  Mario Kart Wii offers a healthy amount number of modes for single-player, multi-player or if you 
 have an online connection for your Wii system. 
  
  In the single player mode, the main attraction is Grand Prix, which has you racing against 11 artificial 
 intelligence opponents (AI) in a preset lineup of four courses. This is the mode you'll need to 
 play quite a bit if you want to achieve most of the game's un-lockable content, which includes 
 additional characters, karts and tracks.
  
  The single player has never been the strength of the series, and this is still the case in Mario 
 Kart Wii. This is primarily due to the fact that the AI is boring to play against, even though 
 the game lets it cheat at times.
  
  Fortunately, Mario Kart Wii is a blast to play both locally with friends and online. The online 
 play is definitely the star of the show here, as it allows you to play against up to 11 human opponents. 
 
  
  Local multiplayer is also decent, but not nearly as entertaining as the online play since you can 
 only play with up to three other people. And unlike the game's online mode, you have to tolerate 
 the company of the lackluster AI. 
  
  The game does let you exclude the AI from local multiplayer matches, but this also hampers the 
 experience as most of the tracks in the game are obviously designed for a full amount of players.
 
  
  Mario Kart Wii offers an abundance of options for how you play with no less than four separate 
 control schemes offered. The Wii Wheel, which comes packaged with the game, is arguably the most 
 intuitive of the control schemes, as it actually feels as if you were driving a car. 
  
  The Wii Wheel initially takes some getting used to, but in practice, it quickly becomes a very 
 rewarding experience in its own right. If you don't like the Wii Wheel however, you can play with 
 a Wii remote and nunchuck, a gamecube controller, or a classic controller.
  
  Graphically, Mario Kart Wii is acceptable, but far from impressive. The karts themselves look nice, 
 and the environments are suitably colorful. But the character models look very blocky up close, 
 and the textures are only slightly sharper than they were in Mario Kart: Double Dash on the Gamecube. 
 The only truly notable fact with the graphics is that the game moves smoothly at 60 frames per 
 second with no drop whatsoever in frame rate. 
  
  Mario Kart Wii is not impressive in the sound department either. The music is mostly composed of 
 basic tunes that fit with their corresponding tracks well enough, but none of it is high quality. 
 The voice over work for the game is made up of the short voice clips you would expect from the 
 series characters, and they get repetitive fairly quickly.
  
  The biggest problem with Mario Kart Wii, however, is simply the fact that the base game play is 
 completely unchanged from previous entries in the series. Essentially, Nintendo has served an old 
 cake with some brand new icing in the form of the game's online play and the Wii Wheel control 
 scheme.
  
  But the old cake that is the ancient Mario Kart formula still holds up surprisingly well, and the 
 new icing helps the experience last for new players and veterans alike. ending. 
  
  If you are newcomer to the series, Mario Kart Wii is a great place to start, especially with the 
 new Wii Wheel control scheme. Veterans may have trouble getting past the feeling of dj vu they 
 may encounter while playing the game, but if you have kept up with the series and still enjoy the 
 classic formula, the online play will undoubtedly be immensely satisfying for you.
  
  Pros: Classic formula still holds up relatively well. Excellent online support. Wii Wheel control 
 scheme is very satisfying in usage.
  
  Cons: Boring rubber-band AI. Bullet Bill powerup is cheap- even for the series standards. Major 
 sense of deja-vu.
  
  Recommendable for: Newcomers to the series will undoubtedly enjoy Mario Kart Wii. Veterans may 
 be left wanting due to the game's major sense of deja vu, though the online play may be enough 
 to satisfy you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhawk256
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 16, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  What more needs to be said about Mario Kart at this point? Toss some Mario characters into pocket-rockets, 
 wacky courses, and weapon pick-ups into a game, then tack the name of the console onto the title, 
 and there's your new Mario Kart  always been fun and always will be.
  
  It manages to distinguish itself from other games in the series, though. Instead of the two-driver 
 dynamic of Double Dash, Mario Kart Wii returns to the old-school every-man-for-himself style of 
 racing. On the other hand, bikes now join traditional karts as selectable rides, and each character 
 eventually has six or eight vehicles to choose from.
  
  Bikes can't accelerate as fast as karts, but players can wheelie with bikes on straights to pick 
 up extra speed. Such a dynamic prevents any one section of the course from getting too boring. 
 The differences in performance between all of the different vehicles, however, are almost completely 
 superficial. That extra boost in handling means jack when red shells and banana peels keep screwing 
 you up.
  
  And there are more ways to get screwed (and screw other players) in Mario Kart than ever. Mega 
 mushrooms transform you a kart-flattening giant, POW blocks force every other player to drop their 
 items, and all of the classic uber-powered weapons (the star, the blue shell, the lightning bolt, 
 the bullet bill) are still here.
  
  All of these game-breaking pick-ups ensure that anyone sitting pretty in first place won't stay 
 there for long. In fact, you'll probably do better if you hang back in twelfth place for the first 
 two laps and scoop up all the powerful stuff! Great if you want to play with your newbie friends, 
 but not so great when taking on AI in the Grand Prix mode. You'll love Mario Kart Wii if you have 
 a glutton for punishment.
  
  The game includes a whopping 32 courses  half new and half old. Most of the new courses are fantastic; 
 DK Summit takes you down a snowy mountain full of half-pipes and moguls, Grumble Volcano constantly 
 requires leaps of faith over pits of lava, and Moonview Highway is an uphill fight against oncoming 
 traffic.
  
  The Wii version supports every control input under the sun: Wii remote, remote with nunchuck, classic 
 controller, Gamecube controller, and also the new wheel attachment that comes with the game. Quite 
 frankly, the wheel is too unwieldy for turning and isn't recommended for players who actually know 
 what they're doing. The Wiimote plus nunchuck setup is the most preferred option for the ease of 
 performing tricks. 
  
  Tricks are a huge part of gameplay now. Performing a trick in midair results in a speed boost when 
 you land. Most courses offer plenty of opportunities to get air, so remembering to perform tricks 
 is a crucial tactic for making fast times in Time Trial mode. This is another dynamic to the gameplay 
 that prevents courses from turning into "drive in a straight line and turn around corners" routines.
 
  
  There is just one problem, though. Every character feels compelled to say something like "Wahoo!" 
 or "Yeah!" in the most annoying, high-pitched voice imaginable every two seconds. There are also 
 more baby versions of characters than ever now. The audio experience is unpleasant to say the 
 least.
  
  The most worthwhile addition to the series has to be its twelve-player online mode. Finally, Nintendo 
 allows random players to have identities beyond their twelve-digit friend codes by displaying their 
 Mii and region as well. Matches are wonderfully lag-free and quick to start, making this the preferred 
 mode of play when you just want to kill time for a few hours. You can play the battle mode online 
 too, but let's not kid ourselves: that mode was never fun.
  
  It's hard to not have a good time with any Mario Kart game. Once you exhaust every course in every 
 speed class and unlock every character and vehicle, though, you'll probably feel like you've had 
 enough Mario Kart for one lifetime. And if you don't, the online mode will keep you occupied until 
 you can't throw koopa shells no more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 16, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  After reading all the pre-release reviews bashing this game for it's "toned down gameplay" and 
 "overly aggressive AI", i was concerned... but even prior to that, once Nintendo announced they 
 were going back to single kart racing, i was pretty disappointed and concerned about the lack of 
 skill required to play the game (i personally found the 2 seater gameplay the require much more 
 skill) . And also after the frequent complaints about the Wireless Wheel (with holding support included) 
 setup... overall, my fears that i would loose interest in my fav gaming series were a concern. However, 
 as soon as i popped my copy into the console and tested the Wireless Wheel setup, i was BLOWN AWAY. 
 The controls are perfection, bar none... they are extremely tight, the sensitivity is excellent.... the 
 overall feel is just incredible. I love the controls so much, i could never go back to the analog 
 stick control scheme, which i originally thought was as good as it could get. The introduction 
 of jump stunts to gain boost works well and very balanced. The new tracks are great, the remade 
 tracks look great and work very well with the new gameplay style. The online play is outstanding!!! 
 Not once have I experienced any LAG, played about 30 games and played with people all over the 
 world. This is by far the best Mario Kart game to date.
  
  Cons
  - Graphics could be better, even for the Wii
  - No 2 player Grand Prix
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenmachine05
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart seems to be a series that, despite a lack of kart racing competition, stays on top of 
 the racing genre. Each new Mario Kart game (with the exception of Double Dash) is stunning in not 
 only gameplay, tracks and music but also just sheer fun. Here's the breakdown of the praise I'm 
 giving Mario Kart Wii:
  
  Gameplay: Where do I start? The mechanic of the game is the same as always, but would we have it 
 any other way? The real difference comes in the form of the Wii-specific steering wheel. This new 
 accessory will seem a little unusual at first, but it will soon be a welcome change. You can still 
 use other types of controllers, but I'll go into that in a bit. You can now drive your karts in 
 automatic or manual. Manual means mini-boosts, automatic means none. Simple as that. There is a 
 nice smoothness in each turn on the tracks and there is no out of control sense of speed which 
 is crucial for a game like Mario Kart. The classic racers are back again, along with a few new 
 unexpected ones. Get ready for a neat surprise. Same goes for the tracks. Nintendo got it bang 
 on with this game, no other words for it. 10/10
  
  Graphics: There is nothing in this department that couldn't have been done on the Gamecube with 
 a little effort, but the graphics are beautiful nonetheless. There is a nice, crisp shine to almost 
 everything in the game that looks very sleek. Item animation is also looking good. Mario Kart has 
 definately come a long way in the graphic department. 8/10
  
  Controls: I usually squash controls into gameplay, but gameplay would have gone on too long if 
 I did. There are 4 ways to play Mario Kart Wii.
  
  Controller 1: The Steering Wheel - The new steering wheel, which I mentioned earlier, works very 
 nicely with this game. It just takes a little getting used to. Just stick the Wii remote in it 
 and play!
  
  Controller 2: Remote&Nunchuck - No explanation needed. Works alright.
  
  Controller 3: Classic Controller - Not the best choice for this game, but it still works fine if 
 that's all you have.
  
  Controller 4: Gamecube Controller - If you're really used to the old analog stick way of playing, 
 this is your best option. Probably the next best thing to the steering wheel. Overall Controls: 
 9/10
  
  Sound: The music is memorable and very clear. At risk of making this review even longer and more 
 boring, I'm ending the sound category now. 10/10
  
  Value: With online play and a few great mode for single racers, this game is absolutely worth the 
 money. You can definately get a lot of replay value out of Mario Kart Wii. In fact, you might not 
 take it out of your system for a long time. 10/10
  
  So, to end all of these shenanigans, Mario Kart Wii is fantastic. It's a must have for any Wii 
 owner. Thnx for reading!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  The good parts of this game is the new tracks, about all of the new tracks are really nice and 
 they are good in detail so that you can easily see where you are going, you can also go to the 
 older tracks from the older games which is really nice for people who really liked the older Mario 
 Karts. The graphics are amazing, they are shiny, clear and fairly detailed, even the older Mario 
 Kart tracks are improved in graphics which is really, really nice. The Grand Prix mode is back 
 and it works just the same, you race in a 4 race setup with this time 12 competitors, on every 
 other Mario Kart, it was always 8 competitors, they really "upped" the challenge on that. Speaking 
 of that, they really upped the challenge on the game itself, some tracks get a lot harder as you 
 keep going in laps, the computers actually use items to get you lower in ranks, and so on. The 
 online capability works very well, there is never really any lag, just depending on how good your 
 internet connection is or how low your Latency is, higher latency equals more lag, lower latency 
 equals little or no lag. The new items are really cool, for example there is an item where a thundercloud 
 appears above your head, if you don't wanna be shrunk and go slower, you might wanna bump into 
 someone else which creates somewhat of a challenge. 
  
  The bad parts of this game is too much action in a race, let me give you a good example here starting 
 from the beginning of a race:
  
  10 seconds - you get hit by a red shell
  5 seconds later - get hit by a lightening bolt
  5 more seconds later - out of nowhere get hit 
 by a bullet bill
  You may be in first place for about 10 seconds - you get hit by a spiny blue shell
  
  [note: 
 this may not always happen] .
  
  You can never be driving at full speed for 25 seconds without being hit with something especially 
 in 150cc. You may be in 1st place and you slip on a banana peel, good chance you will go from 1st 
 to probably 4th or 5th then working your way back up.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart Wii has at least 1 thing that everybody likes wether it is from multiplayer, 
 online, or single player, this game has so much to offer and it is just a great game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: claudelruff
Rating: 8
Date: May 15, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is a game of its predecessors. It is a safe and plausible new addition to the Mario 
 Kart universe. The game feels familiar from the beginning, Grand Prix, Time Trial, VS and Battle 
 modes are all there. There are changes, a wheel that comes with the game, dual players of Double 
 Dash are gone motorcycles are in. The control scheme now has four choices, wii wheel, nunchuk and 
 wii remote, GameCube controller and the classic controller. 
  At the beginning, you're asked to create a license by selecting your mii of choice. You are then 
 presented with a selection screen. Single Player allows you to play the Grand Prix races, 50cc, 
 100cc, 150cc. Playing these allows you to unlock many things within the game, including your very 
 own mii. There are thirty two tracks, from a wide range of Mario Kart incarnations, four for every 
 Cup Race. Multiplayer is your local matches with up to two to four people, with four modes of choice. 
 Nintendo WFC is your portal to the online Mario Kart Wii universe, using your wi-fi connection. 
 You can choose one or two players, two players being split screen, after you choose you can play 
 VS or Battle. VS mode allows online racing action with up to twelve people. You can choose worldwide, 
 regional or friends. Battle mode is the same, except its team based for the games of Balloon Battle 
 and Coin Runners. The Mario Kart Channel can be accessed either in the game menu or through the 
 Wii Menu; you will be prompted if you wish to do this. Through the Mario Kart Channel you can access 
 your friends, register friends, race ghosts, download ghosts, check your rankings, and race in 
 tournaments.
  The game has a lot to offer the Wii owner just entering the Mario Kart universe and past players 
 from the Super Nintendo days, online being my favorite and most addictive, having not played the 
 Mario Kart DS version, I can't compare the two. The gameplay has been refined as to become more 
 accessible to many people. I find the wii remote and nunchuk most comfortable but, I have been 
 beat many times online with someone using the wii wheel. I was never a fan of the battle modes; 
 I've played a few times on single player to practice and online but, I always return to VS mode 
 in online play, the one more game theme plays a prominent role for me. You're given a VR rating 
 of 5,000 at the beginning of your online play, VS or Battle, this will go up or down according 
 to how you play. When you do go online the VR rating somewhat determines whom you play with. I'm 
 usually around 7,000 plus, when I go down I find much easier competition, when I'm up the competition 
 becomes very stiff. Then there are the zen moments, either you can't be beat or you respect your 
 opponents to the point that by the fifth race you feel he or she is your friend. Those are the 
 friend codes you would like to have but probably will never have, the only fault in a great experience, 
 as you try to recapture it by playing just one more game. 
  With graphics that run smooth as silk, addition of new courses, being online and so many options 
 of play, you can't go wrong with this one. Could there have been more tracks? Sure. How about voice 
 chat? I don't know. How about the power- ups? They could have toned them down but, with practice 
 you learn to deal with them. Did they mess with Battle Mode to much? According to my nephew, too 
 much change was a bad thing. The real question is did they improve Mario Kart? Yes. Did they reinvent 
 the wheel? No. My score 8 out of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_Rebel
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  First, this game is good but, not extremely awesome and the best game ever. It's good but, I do 
 have mixed reactions as it is fun but, it gets alittle repeditive. There are about 18 (?) new courses 
 to compete in although some seem like redesigned courses from later games. There is a host of new 
 characters to unlock including for the first time ever, baby daisy. You can also race against the 
 entire Mario universe as no other than, yourself. You are determened into you class by your wieght 
 and height of you Mii on the Wii console. So, if it puts you as a large when you want to be a medium 
 don't freak, just go to the Mii channel and make youself shorter or lighter!!! There are a few 
 new items but, nothing real outstanding to see. It is a fun game made better with the addition 
 of the Wii Wheel (which will hopefully be used for other future racing games) to add a sorta new 
 feeling to the Mario raceways. There seems to be almost no (if not no) soundtrack as I can only 
 hear the characters hitting each other and freaking out when they get hit by a item. The franchise 
 is still running strong but, needs some new ideas to spice itself up to keep on racing towards 
 the next Nintendo console. All in all, its a nice game and is perfect for families and group fun. 
 It should bought by most racing and Mario fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makedonijo
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 14, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorite wii games to date. The best thing about the game is that it "Plays 
 well with others" just like brawl it has sick multiplayer but, the thing is you don't have to play 
 with other people who own it and have played it. For example if you play with someone who doesn't 
 own brawl it isn't going to be fun, but for mario Kart you can play with anyone because it has 
 a very small learning curve. 
  
  Of course Nintendo could have done more with it but what they have done is basically enough for 
 me. Fun tracks a bunch of different characters and karts. The bikes are a great addition to the 
 game and are very creative. My favorite thing about the game is the online multiplayer. Balloon 
 battles are great online and so are races, the only thing i can say about the online multiplayer 
 is that there isn't a very good ranking system in this game or any wii game to date, cmon nintendo.
 
  
  Overall this is a great wii game that every wii owner should go and pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-batgirl
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 14, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Ever since i heard Mario Kart Wii would include bikes i was pretty sceptical. Mario Kart was BUILT 
 for karts, and here I am playing a MK game with both bikes and karts.
  
  
  I'll start with the positives....
  The graphics are really nice and fresh, aswell as the beautiful 
 track design, perfect for powerslides and minu-turbos. And, SNAKING IS GONE, yay! 
  
  The music is really cute, especially Toad's Factory, reminds me of Malcolm In the Middle for some 
 reason. 
  
  The characters and unlockables are alright, some are pretty damn hard to get.
  
  THE WIFI IS 
 AWESOME. You start off with 5000 points and you gain or lose these depending on where you finish 
 in the race. And when you choose to race against someone you dont know, [either worldwide, or continental] 
 the game matches you with players with around the same amount of points as you. Collecting more 
 points is was too addictive to be healthy. Then obviously theres friend codes, another one to add 
 to your signatures then.
  
  Back to the bikes...
  When i first had a go at Time trials i managed to totally perfect my Luigi Circuit time on the 
 Standard Kart. Only to see that a bike would have been a much more suitable choice for time trials. 
 Pretty annoying. And I hate to say this but, I really like the bikes. It offers a totally different 
 feel to the game, the bikes turn better but dont have as powerful a drift-boost.
  
  Single player can be a bit easy, until you get to Mirror cups, which are pretty insane. 150cc , 
 was a bit challenging too at times. However for a real challenge try getting 3 stars for the cups.
 
  
  As you may have heard there are a few total ****ers like totally messing up the world rankings 
 on time trials. They drive round the first lap painfully slow then just turn round and sit there 
 watching us law-abiding Mario-Karters sweating to get a good time. THEN, get an amazingly good 
 time due to some sort of hack. Thankfully, Nintendo is deleting these so hopefully theyll all be 
 gone soon
  
  Overall Mario Kart is an AMAZING game, and you dont deserve a wii if you dont have it. Its really 
 addictive, im constantly trying to get a better time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Tweedy
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  ... is a bit disappointing. The basic Mario Kart formula is still good, but it seems like they should 
 have done more to improve the game between the Game Cube and Wii iterations. The only innovation 
 is the inclusion of motorcycles as well as carts. That makes for a bit of variety, but the carts 
 and cycles really aren't much different from each other.
  
  The graphics are quite disappointing. Normally, I don't fuss much about graphics, but this looks 
 like a Game Cube game. The character models are slightly more detailed, but the tracks aren't. 
 I know Nintendo likes to keep a catroonish look, but they showed with Mario Galaxy that you can 
 have your cake and eat it. Mario Kart Wii does not look nearly as good as Mario Galaxy, and that 
 feels like something of a cheat.
  
  The biggest complaint is that they absolutely ruined battle mode. Battle mode is now time-based. 
 Rather than popping all your foes' balloons to eliminate them, you just keep chucking shells at 
 each other until 2:00 is up, then see who got the most points. That might not be so bad, except 
 that you must play as part of a 6-man team against another 6-man team. That means that if just 
 you and me want to play battle, we'll each have to have 5 computer-controlled teammates, which 
 pretty much makes the whole game just a matter of luck, since you get points for what the computer 
 does. You can put your controller on the ground, go pee, come back and find that you won in your 
 own absence. There's no way to turn teams off. DUH! DDUUHH!! What were they thinking? Battle mode 
 was fun with 4-player every man for himself. Now that fun is gone, replaced with a stupid mode 
 that isn't even worth playing.
  
  Another good thing they got rid of is the ability to have two players control one cart. That was 
 fun, and it gave novice players a way to participate without being stomped on.
  
  All-in-all, the new Mario Kart feels like a solid step sideways from the old. There are lots of 
 tracks and characters, which is good, and it's online, which is good, but the graphics are mediocre 
 and they needlessly eliminated several cool features. If they'd kept two players per cart, kept 
 battle mode, and given it graphics on-par with Mario Galaxy, then I'd probably give it 8.5 out 
 of 10. At it is, I think 7 is all it deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gustavocardozo
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 14, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Lo que hizo tan especial a Mario kart 64 no fue tanto el haber pasado de un entorno 2D a uno 3D, 
 con mi punto de vista creo que lo que nos hizo querer y gozar tanto Mario Kart 64 fue su sencilles, 
 donde las opciones eran las basicas y necesarias, donde no se tenia uno que poner a pensar en que 
 carro usar con que personaje y para que pista, sino que uno se sentaba derecho a jugar y disfrutar. 
 Otro punto importante y que deberia ser algo malo para un juego resulto siendo lo mejor para Mario 
 Kart 64 y esto son los errores de programacion, los bugs, donde en cada pista se podia intentar 
 algo diferente, algo nuevo. El goce del juego multiplayer era ver quien podia realizar cierta maniobra 
 para acortar camino, donde la especialidad y la experiencia de un jugador era lograr los atajos 
 mejor y mas rapido. 
  
  Aunque hay pistas de los juegos anteriores en Mario Kart Wii, les hace falta ese componente de 
 diversion que tenian los juegos originales (Me refiero a las pistas de Mario Kart 64 especialmente) .
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerver1
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's tradition of rehashing games every generation continues with the latest entry in the 
 famed Mario Kart series, unoriginally titled Mario Kart Wii. From the get go, the case of deja 
 vu sets in as it is the same old game maintaining the core gameplay of Mario characters racing 
 each other while using shells, bananas, and other items for victory with some twists. It has the 
 has the same flaws the series has suffered through recently of insane rubberband A. I. and some 
 new ones with this release on the Wii with missing modes. The trade-off is exceptional online play 
 and perhaps the best online Nintendo themselves has done on the Wii. New additions like the bikes 
 and the introduction of a new peripheral, the Wii Wheel, make this entry worthy of the series. 
 Mario Kart Wii is still fun to play especially with multiple people and online, but the core gameplay 
 not receiving a significant overhaul makes it another Nintendo rehash for the latest console.
 
  
  Mario Kart Wii's single player is mostly unchanged in terms of structure. The Grand Prix mode is 
 still consisted of 50 cc, 100 cc, 150 cc, and the unlockable Mirror modes for players to race alone, 
 but the twist this time is that 50 cc is only for karts, 100 cc is only for bikes, and 150 cc is 
 allowed for both vehicles. The character depth of Double Dash is gone when choosing a team matters 
 because of special items, so picking a character in this Wii version does not really matter since 
 special items are just in the normal rotation now and weight is the only factor to consider. The 
 obvious roster of Mario characters is here along with some obscure ones, specifically the hidden 
 characters along with Mii support I won't spoil and lots more babies this time. The only other 
 significant single-player mode is time trial, where you can race staff ghosts for more unlockables 
 other than putting a fast time and bragging about it online. Standard races and battles are also 
 playable alone in case for practice against the opposition.
  
  The amount of tracks in this new Mario Kart is a staggering 32, where 16 of them are original ones 
 for the Wii while the other 16 are retro tracks from previous games. The selection of the retro 
 tracks are pretty good with personal favorites Sherbet Land and Bowser's Castle from Mario Kart 
 64 as well as two others from the SNES original. While some retro tracks did not receive any major 
 graphical changes, specifically the ones from Double Dash, the SNES and N64 are updated significantly 
 with the current engine along with the GBA and DS tracks. Most of the new tracks are designed for 
 the new tricks system in mind with more jumps and obstacles to avoid. Usually, the new tracks do 
 not really shine until the Star Cup and Special Cups, but the courses in the Mushroom and Flower 
 Cups provide a good warmup for what is come and a good ramp up in difficulty.
  
  The core gameplay is unchanged from what is seen in Mario Kart DS since Double Dash is a big departure 
 from the traditional Kart action which the fans were not pleased with. The return to form was the 
 right decision in the end, but the same flaws are still here and very noticeable. The obvious flaw 
 is that the insane rubberband A. I. makes the single-player Grand Prix very frustrating especially 
 in the 150 cc and Mirror modes where luck plays a huge role. These races are filled with dirty 
 comebacks and the agony of defeat, specifically getting blasted by a spike shell in the end of 
 a race being in first and then finishing like fifth. Their balance of getting the power items when 
 at the back of the pack and getting defensive items like bananas and fake item blocks is still 
 here and well, which gives the A. I. opponents a chance to catch up to even up the playing field. 
 The increased count of racers from eight to twelve make the action more chaotic and increase the 
 chances for disappointing finishes if a barrage of lightning bolts, opponents with stars or Bullet 
 Bills, and red shells comes your way. New items like the POW block and the lightning cloud, where 
 you have to bump it to someone to give it away otherwise you turn small like a lightning bolt, 
 are okay additions to the assortment of items at your disposal. Karts and bikes play similarly, 
 but my personal preference is bikes because you can wheelie for more speed in a limited one. The 
 trick system is a new gameplay addition and another reason to boost after jumps.
  
  There are plenty of control options at your choice in Mario Kart Wii. The choice for new comers 
 is obviously the Wii Wheel being packaged with the game. The setback to using the wheel is there 
 is a learning curve to get good with it, which means over steering will likely happen. Power slides 
 still matter when turning, which is changed significantly to prevent snaking as seen in the DS 
 game as the longer the slide will get you a boost. You have to shake the wheel to do tricks during 
 a jump, but another drawback to the wheel is items being mapped to up on the d-pad on default. 
 The highly recommended choice for control is the Nunchuk and Wiimote combo where analog control 
 is perfect and everything else is mapped pretty well on default settings while still shaking the 
 Wiimote to do tricks. There is also support for Gamecube and Classic controllers, but the only 
 setback is tricks being mapped to up on the d-pad. If you ever want to perform consistently well 
 and compete online, the Nunchuk and Wiimote is the controller of choice, while the Wii Wheel offers 
 a learning curve, but came be mastered.
  
  Mario Kart Wii's multiplayer is surprisingly executed well with online play up to twelve players 
 while the local multiplayer is a pure disappointment. Locally, a maximum of four players can face 
 other in various races and battles. The races this time on multiplayer are structured like the 
 single-player Grand Prix mode where eight other A. I. opponents will also compete if four players 
 are playing. It would have been nice if the exhibition option seen in single-player is available 
 on multiplayer, but it is not there as well as only having the human players racing each other 
 rather than worrying about the other A. I. opponents. The lack of two player grand prix like previous 
 games is disappointing to fans of the series if they want to unlock more vehicles and characters 
 with another player. A bigger disappointment is the battle mode, which is only team-based with 
 different modes. Relying on A. I. teammates is the not the best thing to consider now with battles, 
 but at least it is a little better online. Speaking of online, Nintendo has finally pulled off 
 satisfying online play on the Wii with minimal lag, leaderboards, and a scoring system. It still 
 uses a specific friend code if you want to face off with friends, but worldwide and regional play 
 is surprisingly fun when stealing wins pulling off the dirty comeback with barely no lag at all. 
 The lesser amount of players in an online match does not make it as competitive as it should have, 
 but the more in one match equals more fun. Courses are randomly chosen by the player choices, which 
 makes the flow go smoothly. The Mario Kart Channel is there but in-game and downloadable for use 
 in the Wii menus.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is not a huge improvement graphically over Double Dash to a point they nearly look 
 the same. The only difference is there is more chaos and lighting in the Wii version compared to 
 the previous iteration on Gamecube. The 32 courses made that sense of variety ranging from volcanoes, 
 jungles, snow summits, and the tradition of a Bowser's Castle and Rainbow Road, which is perhaps 
 the best Rainbow Road since Mario Kart 64. The retro courses other than the ones from Double Dash 
 look way better now especially the SNES tracks going from Mode 7 graphics to this current engine. 
 The characters also look nearly the same from Double Dash except for the new ones that debut in 
 this game. Performance-wise, it runs great on single-player at a solid 60 frames per second and 
 online as well. The framerate, however, takes a huge dip when playing local multiplayer with three 
 or more people dropping to 30 frames per second. That flaw is a total distraction from the overall 
 look, but it is disappointing for a Nintendo game since their games always have a consistent framerate.
 
  
  The sound in Mario Kart Wii is expected for series standards with catchy tunes from the later courses 
 like Rainbow Road's theme that reminds you of Super Mario Galaxy as well as the retro tracks for 
 nostalgic reasons. The voice acting on the other hand can be annoying at times, with annoying voices 
 from the babies and every effect having a vocal reaction. Even the Wii speaker on the Wiimote can 
 be annoying at times if it is loud, but it helps out if a power item like a red shell or a star 
 is coming behind you. Playing this game will give the speaker a total workout when nailing tricks 
 and bumping other opponents.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is basically Nintendo checking off another title to put out on Wii at least once. 
 The core gameplay is still fun of throwing shells, getting shrunk by lightning, despite feeling 
 like deja vu if you played the previous games like Double Dash and Mario Kart DS to death. This 
 is still the king of rubberband A. I. as if it was ramped up a notch with more spike shells and 
 lightning bolts. Sometimes, it is better to pull off the dirty comeback with a star, golden mushroom, 
 or a bullet bill rather than staying in first place praying to not get hit by a spike shell. Multiplayer 
 locally is a big disappointment with missing modes and bad decisions, but online is surprisingly 
 executed well like an online game on 360 and PS3 despite still using friend codes. The graphics 
 are marginally improved since Double Dash while the sound is what to expect from the series with 
 the occasional annoyance of various characters. The Wii wheel bundled with the game offers a different 
 take to the game along with a learning curve while the Nunchuk / Wiimote combo is the best way 
 to play this game. Fans of the series should buy this in a heartbeat for the awesome online play, 
 but those who wanted a big overhaul, you are not going to find it in this one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 13, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Good: - online play is top-notch, a true first for a Nintendo game - gameplay feels new and familiar 
 at the same time - motorcycles and tricks are very nice additions to the series - huge character 
 roster including the option to use your Mii - the Whiil is a very fun peripheral to use and really 
 opens up the game to everyone - 12 player races are really cool - 
  
  Bad: - items are terribly annoying and cheap, particularly in single player - no mission mode - 
 some control modes have inconvenient button setups - 
  
  When Mario Kart DS came out in 2005, it not only introduced Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection but also 
 revolutionized the series in many ways. Now that the renowned racing franchise has headed to Wii, 
 does it live up to its predecessors or does it depend entirely on the new Whiil controller to be 
 any good? 
  
  The gameplay in MK Wii is very similar to other Mario Kart games, but also feels quite different 
 and new additions add a lot to it. First off, the Wii Wheel, better known on my profile as the 
 Whiil. This new controller works very well and is very fun to use, but the advanced gamers will 
 gravitate towards a GameCube controller right away. However, I later found that the remote/nunchuk 
 control mode works very well, arguably better than the GC controller, so I recommend you give it 
 a shot if you've been using a GC controller. You can choose between karts and bikes this time, 
 the bikes actually being much better than the karts. With the bikes, you can only get a one-level 
 boost on a mini turbo, but you can do a wheelie that significantly straightens your movement, but 
 also highly boosts your speed on a straightaway. The karts now have nothing special to them, except 
 that they can do tricks as well as the bikes and can get a bigger mini turbo. Tricks are a great 
 addition to the game as well. When you go off a jump into the air, hit the trick button (or shake 
 the remote/wheel) to do a trick. Some of these are pretty cool and they also give you a boost when 
 you land, adding some sense of strategy to the game. Before each race, you can choose whether you 
 want to be able to manually drift and be able to get mini turbos or automatically drift and not 
 be able to get mini turbos, and this option makes the game a bit easier for beginners and makes 
 using the Whiil better. 
  
  The single player in MK Wii is pretty much the same as it's been before, only they removed the 
 mission mode that had added a bit more to MKDS' single player. The Grand Prixs were actually not 
 as enjoyable for me this time as I repeatedly get hit by blue shell after blue shell when I should 
 be dominating a race. Otherwise, you have your time trial mode and VS mode, but really that's it 
 for single player. Thankfully there's a whole lot more to the game than the single player. 
  
  The multiplayer and online play in MK Wii are absolutely oustanding and easily make up the 
 core of the game. The regular split screen multiplayer is just fine, but it can be hard to see 
 where you're going sometimes because your screen is so small. The online play, however, is easily 
 the highlight of the game. You can play with one or two players from one console, which is a great 
 feature to have available. The only problem with this is that you can't actually be using two licenses 
 (save files) at once, so only player 1 can get his VR up. Speaking of VR, the abbreviation stands 
 for VS Rating. You gain or lose points depending on how you do in a race. It can get tough to raise 
 at some point, though, and you have to constantly win races to continually get it up. The online 
 play goes up to 12 players, a first for a Nintendo game. It is also easy to find people and never 
 takes much time. They have also made it a whole lot easier to play with a friend, allowing you 
 to join the game they are currently playing in, but you can also create a room for just you and 
 your friends where you can chat with select phrases between four race series'. You are even repeatedly 
 told that a friend is playing online. The use of the Mii is also very cool and gives each player 
 an identity rather than just a name. 
  
  I guess Nintendo decided that the online play in MK Wii was so good that it deserved its own channel. 
 The Mario Kart Channel allows you to enter tourneys, race the top time trial ghosts in the world, 
 and more. The channel actually appears seperately on the Wii menu, allowing you to access it to 
 check stats and stuff even without a disk. 
  
  Technically, Mario Kart Wii really isn't bad, but isn't anything too special either. The graphics 
 are good and all, but I feel that they aren't all Nintendo is capable of, which is still ok with 
 me because I think they're good enough. The visuals are very bright, which makes the gameplay feel 
 pretty nice. The sound in the game is just fine, no problems there. The music is also good but 
 again, nothing particularly special like Mario Galaxy or Brawl. The controls have some minor annoyances 
 as far as the Classic and GameCube controllers go, but the Whiil and remote/nunchuk controls feel 
 just fine. On a GameCube controller, you have to reach down to the D-Pad to do a trick, which is 
 very annoying, especially since the Y button isn't even used for anything and was left wide open 
 for convenience. The Classic controller is the same way, only you have to totally lift your finger 
 off the control stick to hit the D-Pad, which is even worse. 
  
  Little difficulties aside, Mario Kart Wii has achieved true excellence. The game is really fun 
 and definitely earns the "Fun for Everyone" label (as long as you have multiple Whiils if you're 
 playing multiplayer) . Really, I recommend this game for any gamer or non-gamer, but as a more-than-casual 
 gamer, you will need online play to fully enjoy this game. The online play in MK Wii is the best 
 yet, and makes you seriously wonder why Smash Bros. couldn't have had online play like this. So 
 overall, Mario Kart Wii has surpassed my expectations and delivered a game that is as worthwhile 
 as just about any other. 
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 7.5
  Sound: 7.5
  Value: 10
  (this does not necessarily affect the overall score)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_The_Cage
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  When i first hear Mario Kart was coming to the Wii I felt a bit strange since I didn't like Mario 
 Kart Double Dash as much as I like Mario Kart DS, if you ask me I'm all into the one character 
 per Kart gameplay, so at first with the GC instalment i was kind of shocked.
  
  Now I can safely say Nintendo has gone back to basics with this game, you once again see one character 
 per kart but you can choose different Karts, also Mario kart Wii has the biggest grid I've seen, 
 12 karts go head to win the o so precious Mushroom Cup, yes 12 karts freaking karts, it's a bit 
 much when you see the amount of items that can bee thrown a you, especially when you're going first, 
 and all you get is a banana or a green shell. Nevertheless the games is as fun as it has always 
 been, you'll spend about 10 to 15 hours to clear the entire game, not much but if you see at the 
 other features included you will be playing this game much longer.
  
  One of this features is online play, and unlike the one Nintendo introduced in Brawl, this actually 
 works fine when you're playing against someone who isn't on your friend list, as it is ranked you 
 can expect to play against people of your level and not get kick in the ass by some 17 year old 
 japanese guy as to what happen in MK DS, even though you can play freely pretty much against anyone. 
 The connection works beautifully when playing I only experience some minor lag but not something 
 one cant handle.
  
  Another feature is the Mario Kart Channel where you can check friend rankings, download ghost data 
 and regional and worldwide stats. It's a functional channel if you're the competitive type who 
 wants to know who is next to beat and to see if you're top amongst your friends.
  
  As if karts weren't enough you can know choose from a variety of motorbikes, which vary in different 
 stats. When on a motorbike you can perform a wheelie for a momentous speed boost but when performing 
 a wheelie your turning radius will decrease, in contrast a kart gets a speed boost by drifting, 
 which in my opinion is much better that a wheelie.
  
  Regarding the new battle mode I'm not so sure if everyone will like it, as you are split into teams, 
 nevertheless you still have the seam ol' three balloons as in previous games but the score is different 
 as it is not individual, you can loose all three balloons and you don't "die, you keep re-spawning 
 until a team wins.
  
  Finally the Wii Wheel quite an achievement, I thought it would suck but no, it actually feels good 
 to plat with it, so if you're a Mario Kart fan you should buy this game and if it is your first 
 time, you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerseynut2004
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  When you look at Mario Kart Wii on paper, it looks like some silly racing game with Mario and the 
 gang. However, when you start to play it, you become engulfed in it. The improved graphics make 
 it mesmerizing. The very fact that 32 tracks are included in the game, and on top of that half 
 of them are retro leave you in awe. The roster has unbelievably gotten bigger, including 24 of 
 the Mario series' best characters and the possibility of using a Mii. The fact that you can use 
 dirt bikes and the like, and that you can perform wheelies sells the game right there. Having 8 
 cups now instead of the usual 4 makes the game last way longer and provides even more enjoyment. 
 By far, though, the biggest improvement over Double Dash is the Wii Wheel. Not only is it extremely 
 accurate and perfectly senses motion, but it adds massively to the experience you get when racing. 
 The feeling you get when you hit the person in 1st with a red shell on the last stretch of the 
 final lap and winning by 0.017 seconds is amazing. I don't know how Nintendo did it, but they created 
 a Mario Kart that tops every one of its predecessors in every way, and if you don't have it, get 
 it, and place it where it rightfully deserves to be put-alongside the classics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruuin
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 13, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Nestled comfortably in the shadow of the GTA IV hype machine rests Mario Kart Wii. It not only 
 stands as opposition against the argument that video games are nothing but trashy cash grabs, but 
 it serves to be a really solid title in it's own right. We wouldn't expect anything less from one 
 of Nintendo's top franchises. With video games it's sometimes just as good to avoid being disappointed 
 as it is to be completely blown away.
  
  It isn't without minor flaws and a couple of steps backwards, but Mario Kart Wii is colourful, 
 vibrant and a boatload of fun to play regardless of your skill level as a gamer. It continues the 
 tradition of accessibility and cute, cartoony fun and finds ways to appeal to casual gamers while 
 still providing enough skill requirement that the hardcore audience won't be disappointed if they 
 have to join in for a round of go-kart action. Make no mistake though, your skill has a hardcore 
 gamer won't be able to completely compensate for a fair bit of luck that is required to consistently 
 finish at the top of the podium.
  
  The strengths of the series continue to be the strengths of the new Wii version of the game. Tracks 
 are fun and exciting for the most part, the controls are tight even when using the Nintendo Wii 
 wheel and the random element of power ups ensures that the casual crowd always has a chance to 
 stay in the race, even if they haven't invested hours upon hours of practice into the game.
  
  The random and chaotic nature of the races can be the biggest complaint about the game to be 
 sure, but some may also consider that one of Mario Kart's greatest strengths. It's quite possible 
 to have a solid lead in a race for two of the three laps, only to end up at the back of the pack 
 by the time you cross the finish line. It's frustrating to be sure but the unpredictability of 
 the races are part of what make this game so much fun. Truthfully all things are equal in Mario 
 Kart since nobody will ever be immune from that frustrating feeling of getting ripped off. 
  
  But failure at your expense is almost certainly the result of somebody else's joy. While this 
 may not be evident in the single player aspect of the game it's clear that the focus of Mario Kart 
 Wii is on multiplayer. The online mode is well implemented, if not heavily censored and the Mario 
 Kart channel is a fun little toy to compare your results on each track to that of your friends.
 
  
  So while the online implementation is solid in this title, Mario Kart shines where the series always 
 has, and that's on split screen multiplayer. There's no doubt that the most fun you'll have playing 
 this game is with a bunch of friends sitting around in the living room. There isn't anything that 
 can replace a little bit of in person trash talk after launching a blue shell at a cocky race leader. 
 
  
  Despite being the most fun part of Mario Kart Wii, the on the couch multiplayer still isn't without 
 fault. With three or four players the four corners of the screen become pretty small and given 
 the chaotic nature of kart racing, you want to see as much as possible. I found the two-player 
 split screen to be equally faulty. Despite running a little cleaner the extreme widescreen view 
 on my high definition tv wasn't particularly ideal for the twisting and loopy nature of some of 
 the tracks. Often times corners and traps were cropped out of frame, making them unavoidable if 
 I didn't know the track off by heart.
  
  Still though, the fact that everybody suffers the same obstacles makes it somewhat forgivable and 
 for the times when multiplayer isn't an option, the single player experience is pretty solid. The 
 tracks are a ton of fun and there are plenty of unlockable characters, karts, bikes and circuits. 
 For anyone looking for a cleaner bit of fun, Mario Kart Wii will certainly fill that need. All 
 the better if you've got an extra controller, wheel and friend at your side. It's a solid title 
 and a must have for Wii owners.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienman16
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Music is excellent and very catchy (especially Maple treeway) , Wi-Fi is ace and shows your rank 
 for others to see around the world. Voice and sound effects are great, you even get a mario kart 
 channel that can go on your wii menu that let's you play ghost races and competitions.
  There are a lot of ways to play mario kart: wii remote on it's own, Gamecube controller, wii remote 
 and nunchuk and the classic controller. You can play as characters such as: Mario, Luigi, Wario, 
 Waluigi, Peach, Daisy, Yoshi, Toad, Donkey kong, King boo, baby Mario, baby Luigi, baby Peach, 
 baby Daisy, Toadette, dry bones, birdo, diddy kong, bowser, bowser jr and the new characters to 
 mario kart: Rosalina from Super mario galaxy, Funky Kong, even dry bowser and your own mii! This 
 game is superb and won't let you down.
  Best racing game in the world! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davids_4_Life
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  Maintanning some original Mario Kart assets and with a few new tricks makes this game a unique 
 one. 
  
  With an awesome Multiplayer mode that allows all 4 player to take part in a full grant prix for 
 the 1st time also adds to it's armour and with the best online mode for Wii so far, it also adds 
 to the challenge. The online system has a score and the higher the points the better you are.
 
  
  With more drivers than ever before which introduces new driver such as Funky Kong, Rosalina, Dry 
 Bones and Dry Bowser and with more tracks including old favourites such as DS Daisy Gardens and 
 GC DK Mountainmakes this game as exiting as all Mario Karts put together!
  
  A few new weapons were added (the cloud that makes you faster but when the cloud ends it'll turn 
 you small, a Bullet that drives for you for a while and a mushroom to turn you bigger) aswell as 
 old favourites such as the Star and the Blue Winged Shell that kills the driver in 1st.
  
  Overall it's a fantastic racing game.. typical for a Mario Kart game but i was disapoint there 
 wasn't a option for a possible Double Dash mode (were two characters team up in a single kart) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelove1
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  The Mario Kart series has in everyones eyes been an excuse to keep Mario liked by consumers. But 
 once Double Dash came out people started thinking differently. And Mario Kart Wii has done the 
 same thing following the basic design of Mario Kart DS. 
  
  Now in Mario Kart Wii there are two new things, there's bikes/motorcycles and a new trick system. 
 The bikes are really no different than the cars in any way at all. But having the choice between 
 a bike or car makes you feel like your not so limited. And people keep saying how the BIKES are 
 the only cars for the trick system but I don't know if they haven't played the game or are to lazy 
 to try it with a cart. But anyway these things have no flaw and add alot to the game.
  
  Nomatter what gamespot or ign or any other sites tell you the items are fun and go great with the 
 new and old tracks. The trick system is also great on both places. To make it so you can do tricks 
 on the old tracks nintendo added some ramps and other things. This all makes for a great game.
 
  
  Another thing is multiplayer and online play. The regular multiplayer is now team exclusive witch 
 doesa make you feel limited and can get frusterating when you have to be on someones team and they 
 don't even know what mario kart is. But the online is a big plus. All in all mario kart will dissapoint 
 no one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesteroflies
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I must say i was very scared at the idea of bikes in a mario kart game... IE the kart part of the 
 title. Lets just say that i was very impressed when i first raced with the dirtbike. The new tracks 
 while very well designed can be very frustrating at times. But it doesn't knock the game down at 
 all... you can't win every race. The tracks are challenging and are fun to play. While the classic 
 tracks are by far my fav ones to race, bring back old school memories when i was a little tike 
 playing on the snes. :) Battles have been changed somewhat but i think are well made, and the tracks 
 are great (classic and new) . ONLINE=what i spend most of my time on, each time i join a game, there 
 is no telling what i will see or whom i will race against. The online is flawless in every way. 
 No lag and easy to find ppl to race at any given moment of the day. I like seeing where each racer 
 is from and some of the creative miis they have made. Graphics from what alot of ppl have said 
 is eh.... so so... but i love em, staying true to the nintendo philosophy of gameplay over graphics. 
 Soundtrack is flawless as well, and the voice is fun and very well done. This game deserves a 10 
 in my eyes...
  
  Jester 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nets15
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  mario kart wii is avery interactive game with many ways to play. you could use the wheel that comes 
 with it, (great deal) you could use the gamecube remote which is the easiest but least fun, or 
 the wii remote. it has al the original charcters plus some new and interesting charcters like rosilina 
 (super mario galaxy) and one big suprise. there are many karts/bikes and a variety of courses old 
 and new. has great multiplayeronline and off. two people on the same wii can play wi-fi together. 
 online is not laggy. graphics could be better but still worth buying. it may not be as great as 
 mario galaxy or super smash bros. brawl but its close. my response is  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munkeynin
Rating: 8
Date: May 12, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  As someone who has been playing Mario Kart from the days of the SNES to present, I was excited 
 to see what this new version, the Wii version would bring. From the N64 to Double Dash to the DS 
 version, each time a new and wonderful twist was added, and in doing so, the fun factor was multiplied.
 
  
  That being said, I was disappointed with this version. It almost felt as though the company was 
 rushing to get this out and in doing so left some pretty nasty little glitches. One huge glitch: 
 I've seen my friend's character fall through the ground at least twice, when there was no apparent 
 reason for the character to do so. Both times they were on courses involving a multi-level track 
 (Maple Treeway was one track where this occurred) .
  
  Other minor gameplay issues also come up, issues that are more frustrating that game flaws: First, 
 the Pow item and other items will disrupt mid-jump flight causing the person to land in the lava 
 or some other hole guaranteeing a loss of your current position by at least 2 or 3 places (i. e., 
 1st to 3rd) . Second, I've noticed some awkward hit detection between karts (I've seen Bowzer get 
 tossed by Yoshi, when it should be the other way around) . Third, the "drifting" aspect of the game 
 has been significantly changed. In order to get the blue sparks, you have to select manual, but 
 doing so makes the steering much more stiff (forcing you to drift constantly, annoyingly so) . If 
 you choose Automatic, you have better control, but can't access the acceleration boost that sparks 
 give you. How is this an issue? Some courses that have much wider turns become frustrating with 
 manual, because drifting would cause your kart to turn too sharply, but not drifting runs you into 
 the opposite wall. This is a minor issue that can cause frustration to Mario Kart veterans, who 
 mastered the blue sparks in Double Dash. It's been noted that this drifting dynamic was changed 
 to get rid of "snaking." Unfortunately, this has created a whole new issue, noted above.
  
  Another issue that has garnered praise is the variety of karts available to each character. Again, 
 my personal opinion is that this should have been balanced further. Make each character select 
 the same vehicle - kart, motorcycle, etc. - so that way your choice of character once again plays 
 a vital role.
  
  In regards to the Mario Kart Wheel (Wii-el?) , I'll admit that it is aesthetically cool to play 
 the game holding a wheel between your hands (kind of like when we were kids) . My only real complaint 
 with this is the learning curve on turning the wheel. Just like the Logitech days of old with Gran 
 Turismo, there will be times when the wheel causes you to over-correct on a turn, which can lead 
 to a series of mistakes. The only other flaw is one built into the Wii itself with this controller, 
 the fact that your arms will get tired after extended game play. Gamers will adapt though, and 
 we still have the game cube controllers available should we tire of the Wii-mote and its ilk.
 
  
  That being said, there is no mistaking the fact that the graphics are beautiful and that I certainly 
 enjoy the new, updated versions of classic courses. On the subject of courses, one course I particularly 
 enjoy is the Mall (players will know which one I'm talking about) . During the course, you'll spot 
 your created Mii's either on posters, cheering you on from the 2nd floor, or going back and forth 
 in cars (looking for parking) . 
  
  Overall, I would say that this is a solid game. Compared to other games out there, this is a fun 
 and great multi-player game and certainly a great game in general.
  
  My review is only based on the latest version of an overall great series, hence why it may seem 
 a bit harsher than expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I know many are going to say my review seems a little generous, but I must say, I had a lot of 
 doubts about this title. I've played all the Mario Karts (except for the GBA version) since the 
 SNES one was introduced and after playing the DS version I figured there wasn't much left for the 
 series.
  
  Yet, as soon as I put in Mario Kart Wii, I fell in love with the series all over again.
  
  
 As with Smash Bros. Nintendo hasn't changed the formula too drastically for this one either but 
 if you remember, this was the first mascot racing game ever that inspired numerous knockoffs since 
 then. Several familiar characters, drive around tracks based on the games and you try to rocket 
 to first place but instead of simply trying to win by speed, you use a series of crazy items to 
 knock out opponents. These are the staples of the Mario Kart series.
  
  First and foremost, this game comes with the Wii wheel, while you can play with more traditional 
 controls, I LOVE this wheel. Even since the SNES game I wished I could play this with a racing 
 wheel. I loved old arcade racing games like Outrun where you had an actual wheel, so for me the 
 Wii wheel felt so natural and smooth, I'd never go back to a Gamecube controller myself.
  
  Another thing that has been added to the gameplay are motocycles as well as various cars to choose 
 from with different attributes. Another mascot racer I personally liked was Sonic Riders, despite 
 its steep learning curve I liked the trick system used in the game to give you speed boosts and 
 while some may argue this, it seems as though Mario Kart Wii picked up some ideas from Sonic Riders 
 in the form of the trick system. Both the bikes and cars can do this. When you hit a high jump, 
 a quick flick of the wheel will allow your character to do a spin or flip and land with a boost 
 of speed. The newer courses lend themselves more to this than the retro courses but there are places 
 on the retro tracks (particularly Waluigi stadium) where you can get some nice tricks in.
  
  Of course the biggest edition to this is the inclusion of online play. Mario Kart Wii may actually 
 have a more robust online mode which, unlike SSBB has leaderboards and worldwide rankings. This 
 is good and Mario Kart has always been primarily a multiplayer game. 
  
  Many other touches made me like this one the best of all in the series. While the character roster 
 has some odd choices (Baby Peach? Zombie Bowser?) It also allows you to have your Mii as a racer 
 as well as Mii's appear in the crowd on certain tracks.
  
  I know some are upset at the simplified powerslides to accomodate the motion controls and the elimination 
 of snaking. Though the thing that does annoy me about Mario Kart is the insane amount of items 
 that start pelting you at the worst times in higher difficulty races. It seems like when you're 
 inches from the finish line, you suddenly get pounded with POW blocks, lighting and the infamous 
 Blue Shell of Death. By the time you get going again, three racers are out ahead of you.
  
  Graphically, Mario Kart Wii isn't mind blowing and pales compared to SSBB and Mario Galaxy, the 
 new tracks added are some of the nicest in the series and the retro courses got a nice facelift, 
 but nothing stands out. The music is fun, though some characters voices get annoying after a while.
 
  
  Still, for all it's worth, this Mario Kart is my favorite of the series. Online play, added trick 
 system, lots of characters and easy to pick up controls still make it one of the best titles out 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 8
Date: May 12, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Bad: I think instead of creating new interesting gameplay and tracks, Nintendo relied to much on 
 the Wii Wheel. The new controls are nice, but they cant make a game. There are only sixteen new 
 tracks and the other sixteen are just mediocre tracks from older games. And they are definitely 
 running out of characters to put in this game (baby daisy, baby peach, dry bowser wtf??) The graphics 
 were pretty terrible. It looked like one of the first games on the Gamecube. Like I said, I think 
 Nintendo relied to much on the invention of their Wii Wheel and not enough time on better tracks, 
 characters, and graphics. 
  
  Good: This is a mario kart game and it plays like the other games which automatically makes it 
 a decent game. The Wii Wheel is nice. It feels nicer to use the wheel instead of a controller. 
 It also makes it easier for almost anyone to pick it up and play. The new bikes obviously helped 
 but not to much. There is a lot to do in this game that will keep you busy. There are 8 circuits 
 and 4 difficulties (including mirror) that will give you a lot of one player time. The time trials 
 are trickier this time around. With 10 different vehicles per weight class it gives you many different 
 attempts at the time trials. Not to mention there is multiplayer (which is the best) . Now that 
 it is online makes it even better for mario kart fans around the country. 
  
  Overall its not a bad game, but I feel it could've been a lot better. It was fun for awhile, but 
 it wasnt one of the games that really impressed me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frozenleaf
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I was definitely looking forward to this game & I was totally going crazy about that fact that 
 it released earlier in Europe. So I got it immediately. 
  
  I was curious about the Wii Wheel, so I decided to only play on the Wheel first. In real life I 
 don't have a driver's license yet, but Mario Kart does have one for you! (4 players max. for saving 
 profile. Definitely a plus, because this way you can save your own records)
  
  I was very excited to unlock all characters, I didn\t know which one I'd get, but I was definitely 
 curious about the 'baby generation'. (I go for cute this time. But I got annoyed by Baby Mario, 
 don't ask me why.)
  
  (Also a plus if you have Mario Galaxy. You'll see why ;) ) 
  
  Next up the races. Their all very impressive and very well done (graphics) . Not to mention I quite 
 like the bgm. I enjoyed the old races too (the ones they took from the DS, N64 and so on) 
  Also the new races tend to get my attention and turns out to be one of my faves (Koopa Cape & Coconut 
 Mall are definitely a lot of fun) 
  
  As to the ghost trials you can defeat all over the world, this is also a plus. I like to have a 
 'goal' in a game and Mario Kart has made this possible for me to do so. I enjoyed the wins & losses; 
 I can see now there are millions out there who are enjoying Mario Kart as much as I do (and are 
 so much better than I am) 
  
  I also played the battles a lot of times. I also like how they kept the old 'battlefields' but 
 did change it a bit. (Like the one with the blocks.)
  So in terms of change from old to new, I think the battles did a better job than the races. But 
 then again, the online thing beats it all. This might be one of the reasons you should go get the 
 game.
  
  There's no complaints about this game so far. I like unlocking cars/bikes & characters. I like 
 to defeat people all over the world. 
  
  BUT (There's always a but) in the end I hated the Wii Wheel. Since I started off first with the 
 wheel, I didn't have any problems with the control. Though I always thought the control could be 
 a bit better, like when I have to turn. So, I decided to play without the wheel, I seriously don't 
 recommend this. It was just a crazy moment I have and I thought it might be same similar feel to 
 the Wii Play with the cow race. 
  But that's a no-no too. So I played with the Nunchuk and now my driver's license show that I use 
 the Wii Wheel for like 52% ? So I'd say, Nunchuk is way better and that way the cord of the controller 
 won\t ever slap my face again.
  
  Overall ; a game I definitely recommend to the Mario Kart players and all who own a Wii. You'll 
 love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryBomber5
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  I've played mario kart double dash, and mario kart ds. Now I have mario kart wii, and it's my favorite. 
 
  
  Here are a few things different about mario kart wii:
  
  ~Wii wheel
  ~Bikes
  ~Ability to perform tricks/stunts
  ~A total of 26 characters
  ~Amazing online play (Up to 12 
 players)
  ... And more
  
  Now lets get onto the review:
  
  Gameplay 9.6/10 - When you play the game, it may feel a bit weird at first, but once you get use 
 to it, it's really fun! Esspesially with the wii wheel, it works great! It does take a while to 
 get use to, but its fun. I prefer the gamecube controller, because I play better with it. The only 
 problem I have with gameplay is the items, which can get very unbalanced. Whether your getting 
 hit with red shells, or blue shells, the items will get extremely annoying at times. 
  
  Sound 9.2/10 - I don't really have much to say, the sound is pretty good. I like how the music 
 gets faster every lap. I don't like some of the character voices, those get can annoying. But overall 
 it's pretty good, but not the best.
  
  Graphics 9.0/10 - The graphics were awesome in my opinion. They aren't super mario galaxy graphics, 
 but they are good enough. The only problem I have is the way the characters look. They don't look 
 bad, but they could of put more detail... Overall the graphics are just fine. 
  
  WI-FI 9.8/10 - Online in my opinion is one of the BEST features in mario kart wii. It is one of 
 the best online games i've ever played! It is extremely addicting, and you will be playing it for 
 a long time. You can race up to 12 players, and whats really cool is that you use your mii's as 
 your profile name. I think thats really cool, because you can show the world what you look like! 
 Also, there is a new rank system. Mine is 7800 atm, it's a great feature, because it shows how 
 good you are. One more thing I forgot to mention, is the battle mode. Now battle mode isn't that 
 bad, even though it's team based, you will still enjoy it. The only thing I don't like is that 
 it's timed. 
  
  Well, thats basically it, mario kart wii is a must have for any wii owner. It's very fun, and it 
 will definitely be one of your favorite racing games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giga-man
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I've been a huge Mariokart fan for years, playing every console release for the franchise my entire 
 life. I gotta say, while Mariokart Wii is very impressive and graphically great (and wonderful design) ; 
 I have to point out the EXTREME difficulty of it.
  
  I can't talk about MK: Wii without mentioning MK: DS first. Mariokart DS had the biggest varitey 
 of karts ever. 3 karts PER CHARACTER on a HANDHELD. I have no idea why the developers didn't let 
 Toad drive Bowser's bike on the Wii. There is an amazing varietey of characters but when one looks 
 at the karts.. well... they're all the same. That's not even the bad: The point of Mariokart Wii 
 has is to pity the loser, and do everything in its power to ulimately destroy the person in first 
 place... USING ANY MEANS NECESSARY. It's quite annoying to be in first place (something I found 
 to be hard to believe) , especially when 5 red shells, 1 blue shell, a POW block, AND a gigantic 
 chain chomp are after you. The guy in last place just has to wait until your frail and weak kart 
 is destroyed by cactus-kitty-kat-thingy.
  
  But enough about the bad, allow me to praise the game:
  
  Mariokart Wii has a new and improved 
 multiplayer functions, along with new stylish tracks and the abolishion of that (not very) annoying 
 "snaking" technique (which I loved with every square inch of my body... bu they took my precious!) . 
 So now it's all been replaced by that new "Xtrme Sporrrrrts" tricks. (which are pretty cool... 
 I suppose) , but thankfully, the drift turbo is still alive.
  
  The new tracks are great and exciting, with all sorts of places to pull off some of them "Xtrme 
 Sporrrrrts" tricks, and huge amounts of fun in every single track. No one will ever be bored with 
 the tracks. NEVER. (though some of the SNES tracks are kinda... old) . In short, tracks are great 
 and imaginative (like always) .
  
  So basically, I say: Buy the game, but don't expect it to be like MK: DS, because it's all grown 
 up and it's ready to kick your- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  For me, Mario Kart Wii began with a resounding "meh." "Yes, this is definately Mario Kart," I thought 
 as I played through my first 50cc race, "but will it really be anything more?" Thankfully, the 
 game quickly picked up speed and ended up crossing the finish line in first. A number of new additions 
 help to keep the admittedly familiar game mechanics fresh, and help MKWii become one of the best 
 Mario Kart games yet.
  
  The first issue I would like to touch on is the Wii Wheel. This is a plastic shell in which players 
 can insert the Wii Remote and then use to steer their karts like real cars. It felt a bit strange 
 at first, but it quickly became the most preferable form of control. Hardcore players should take 
 note that there are many other ways to play the game, but the Wheel holds its own and actually 
 works very well. This brings me to another addition: bikes. The bikes in MKWii turn a little more 
 sharply than karts and cannot powerslide as well. Whereas karts get two levels of powerslide, bikes 
 get only one. On the flipside, bikes can do wheelies that will give players a slight boost on straightaways. 
 The two vehicle types come off as pretty well balanced. Both can also perform tricks when going 
 off of jumps by shaking the Wii Wheel around. Tricks provide players with a boost when the vehicle 
 hits the ground.
  
  The other major addition made to the MK formula for MKWii is online play. Although many probably 
 wince when they hear the words "Wii" and "online play" in the same sentence (I know I often used 
 to) , it really seems as though Nintendo is starting to get a handle on this whole online gaming 
 thing. Whereas the last Nintendo game to feature online play, Super Smash Bros. Brawl, was limited 
 to four players and plauged by lag, Mario Kart Wii supports a whopping 12 players and has never 
 lagged on me once. Think about that. Even hugely popular online games on the premium Xbox Live 
 service lag at times, but Mario Kart Wii has never shown signs of slowing down. Online play works 
 similarly to that of MKDS, where players will vote on which stage they wish to play on and the 
 computer will randomly choose one out of that list. In addition to the traditional VS mode, Battle 
 modes are now available for online play. There is the classic battle mode, which has recieved an 
 update (presumably for the more casual crowd) and a new mode in which players must collect coins. 
 In this mode, the team with the most coins by the end of a match wins. The streamlined battle mode 
 (players can no longer "die;" when they lose all of their balloons, more appear) feels pretty good 
 because you'll never be stuck spectating after losing all of your balloons. There is also a MKWii 
 channel that you can download to view high scores and ghosts for your favorite levels, but I don't 
 really use it. All in all, the online play is a big step in the right direction for Nintendo.
 
  
  Aside from the addition of the wheel, the core racing component of MK will be familiar to fans 
 of the series. Powersliding has been altered a bit in order to discourage snaking, which contributes 
 greatly to making VS mode fun again. It must be said, however, that the single player difficutly 
 is very spastic. Players racing in 50cc mode will probably never lose a race. The 100cc races are 
 definately more difficult, which might come as a surprise to some players. Part of this difficulty 
 comes from the fact that this mode only allows bikes, and the sharper turning and sliding will 
 take a bit of getting used to. But once you get to 150cc, it becomes clear that there is nothing 
 you can do to help yourself win. Just start the race up and hope that you end up in front of the 
 pack. Seriously, the catchup AI in 150cc is heinous. Items strike without mercy and in rapid succesion; 
 enemy karts seem to teleport in order to catch up to you. In short, you will have very little say 
 in whether or not you win a race in 150cc mode. 
  
  In spite of its difficulty and its general similarity to other Mario Kart games, MKWii remains 
 one of the best games on the Wii. It may not have as much new content as Brawl, but it's often 
 just as fun.
  
  Graphics: 8/10: Solid - for a Wii game. It's no Mario Galaxy, though.
  Sound: 8/10: I think you all know what to expect in this department.
  Gameplay: 9/10: The Wheel 
 works well, and races are a ton of fun even if it does all come down to luck in 150cc.
  Entertainment: 9.5/10: Aside from the frustrating higher difficulty level, this is one of the most 
 entertaining games I've played recently. Online play and new battle modes make this worth a look 
 for even those who've denounced Mario Kart.
  Overall: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sobaka770
Rating: 7
Date: May 11, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart for wii is the first one that I've ever played in the series, so this review gets the 
 benefit for being written by the person who doesn't have any specific expectations from the game. 
 
  
  The first thing you actually remark when you buy the game is a big box in which it's being sold, 
 because of the Wii wheel that comes with the game. since i've never done any Mario Kart before 
 i decided that I may as well start to play with the wheel straightaway.
  
  I'll be honest on this one: for a small bit of white plastic, the Wii wheel is a very nice way 
 too play the game, it's intuitive, it has some nice precision during the race, and it doesn't block 
 the Wiimitotes IR-port, therefore there is absoltely no trouble navigating in the menus. And there 
 is a whole lot of them...
  
  When you start the game you get to create your licence, then chose from many different game modes, 
 then chose the character, the kart, the race and then confirm your choice (as if Windows Vista 
 wasn't enough) .
  
  As any beginner I started my game with the 50cc tournament. The first thing that caught my eye 
 was the graphics. They aren't certainly on par with Super Mario Glalxy, but the have the same mario-style 
 charm in them, and conidering that the game should be able to run smoothly with four people playing 
 in split-screen, there can't be any negative remarks about the graphics.
  
  But anyway, the thing that i was looking for the most was the gameplay and considering how al of 
 my friends were excited about the game I was expeting it to be very polished... oh, well, that'll 
 teach me not to believe the hype.
  
  Overall there is nothing wrong with the general formula: the racing on insane circuits, inspired 
 from the Mario universe with weaponry can be really fun. however in my case the frustration was 
 definitevely prevailing, and that's why:
  
  I like playing the games with my friends a lot, but we don't usually come together as often as 
 i'd like to, so the single-player is what i do the most and in this aspect Mario Kart is a big 
 dissapointement. First-of-all, the computer doesn't have much of an I. A. but compensates the lack 
 of skill with constant cheating. In 50cc you're obliged to win every single game, because should 
 you make a small mistake and fail a race (8th place is enough) and there's no chance for you to 
 win the tournament because the bot that arrives the 1st will arrive the 1st all the time. As i 
 advanced to 100cc the bots started to compete against each other which gave me a little break but, 
 at the same time, despite the impressiv amount of weaponry i use to slow them down they always 
 seem to stay right behind me, waiting for my mistake, or for a nice shell to kick me off the road.
 
  
  And the weapons aren't helping much either. At first it is cool to throw shells, bananas and other 
 bombs at the ennemies, that's until you realise how unbalanced the whole thing is. The frustration 
 starts when you realise that the red shell has a 100%hit rate and the blue shell will certainly 
 kill you if you're in the lead. The impossibility of avoiding these projectiles reduce the "skill" 
 part of the game to the quasi-inexistent level. The small indicator doesn't help much as it starts 
 to flash a fraction of a second before you actually get hit.
  
  After that you got some other game breaking stuff as the lightning bolt and my favorite - the cannon 
 bullet. Not only these objets are riddiculously overpowered , but they also can only be obtained 
 if you're somewhere at the back of the group which usually means that the guy who actually plays 
 well and leads in the race can never win as the blue shell stuns him for 5 seconds and then some 
 other cannon. guy roams past him 3 times faster than any kart, following the perfect trajectory 
 - so much for the skill.
  
  Now I can understand that nintendo is known to create big party games, and not some hardcore stuff, 
 but they certainly went over the edge with this one. The game has almost no challenge in it: the 
 randomized weapons make sure that all the carts will stay together in a tight group until the last 
 moment, therefore as soon as you understnad how to turn, you can beat any veteran of the game.
 
  
  I must say i'm quite dissapointed with the game overall. It's not bad, it has some nice ideas in 
 it, but it has that feeling of being really old-fashioned. Even the Smash Bros has actually more 
 depth in it than this game.
  
  Oh, and a quick note on Battle Mode, which is surprisingly better than the normal racing (maybe 
 because the greates weapon you can get is the red shell, which can be for once avoided) . however 
 it seems that you can only play the match wil bots even if you're 4 on the same console which is 
 a big letdown because you can't really say which team is better as the bots contribute to the overall 
 score considerably, strange move from nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oliverzwiebel12
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 11, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii Review.
  
  First off when I played Mario Kart Wii for the first time I was very excited couse I was a big 
 fan of Mario Kart Double Dash! When I got behind the Wheel Wii for the first time controling it 
 was very hard, I kept making big loops and got very mad each time it went wrong! So I switched 
 over to the Wii mote & Nunchuck. This was a succes, winning wasen't hard at all (unless I got owned 
 by all the items that were thrown at me) ... 
  But still, this game is nervebreaking till the end of the race! You can be first all the time from 
 the first lap to the last, but you still can become last at the last moment! Even if your just 
 an inch from the finish line! Thats what keeps this game amazing! And if you just want to train 
 your driving skills. Well then you better just switch over too the time trial mode or the VS mode 
 without the items. (Witch you can edit at the options screen!) The bad thing about this game is 
 that they made Battles teamed! What the hell Nintendo!?!? This isent any fun!? If your whole team 
 screwes up and you had like 50 points! You can still lose becouse of your silly team mates! The 
 makers of Mario Kart Wii should make some download at the Wii Downloads Channel so we could enjoy 
 the battles again!! If the battles would not be teamed, I would give this game an 9.5 or higher!! 
 
  
  The rest of the game is just great! Unlocking everything is an huge adventure and you'll even still 
 be satisfied after you unlocked it all! Choosing the character at the end will be hard, but you'll 
 find your favorite character in no time! 
  
  And the Cups... A M A Z I N G! These levels have such a great fun grade! Every level will never 
 get bored! Of course... There's one level we really hate, and one level we just absolutely love! 
 Every cup has something special! They maybe could have chose some better levels at the Retro Cups 
 like Waluigi Pinball from the DS. And put out some empty levels with freaking annoying penguins... 
 *cough!* Sherbet Land! *cough!* and replace it with better one's... But not every game is perfect... 
 (as far as I know)
  
  As well Nintendo addes some exciting new Items in the game like the Giant Mushroom, easy to get 
 and oh so handy! But the bad thing about the items is... ITS WAY OUT OF BALANCE! Wich is very annoying 
 but makes everything much and much more risky! As I says before, you could be first place all the 
 time, and still end up last becouse of this. Some people would like this, and alot people will 
 envy this!
  
  And another new thing in Mario Kart is... The stunts, and the new grinding. I love the new stunts! 
 You could stay before everyone and keep up with everyone by just doing these stunts at the best 
 time! It keeps you busy and will be alot of fun, specialy becouse some characters stunts are very 
 funny!
  And the new grinding ability is better if you ask me! It could be annoying some times couse the 
 blue flames will just not pop up when you need it! But after you used it a few times, you know 
 how you can get them very fast! 
  
  Well... Nintendo dit a great job, some odd stuff were added... But still, they did a great job! 
 
  
  My grade, 8.5 out of 10! Not bad, but for Mario Kart... They could have done better! 
  
  Review 
 made by Oliverzwiebel12 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spectacular66
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 1:24 am PT
Review:  So I decided to buy Mario Kart Wii despite the mixed reactions from most people, just because I 
 am a fan of the Mario Kart series. I took the time to play the game at a GameStop and was impressed 
 by the way the courses were designed. Very nicely done. The control is also VERY good. Keep reading 
 on for my take on Mario Kart Wii!
  
  As soon as you fire up Mario Kart, you'll make a license using your Mii's face which will serve 
 as your save file (3 more can be made) . At the main menu you'll be given the options of Single 
 Player Mode, Wi-Fi Connection, Multiplayer and finally the Mario Kart Channel where you can share 
 your records and data with those around you.
  
  The main issue I had with the game was how unfair the AI could be sometimes. Having 2 or even 3 
 Spiny Shells come after you in a row can be downright devastating! Sometimes the most powerful 
 items in-game appear a bit too often and can knock you down a few places in a race which costs 
 you points and maybe losing the entire cup. I wasn't too happy with some of the items and how they 
 worked at times too. The POW block spins out everyone besides the user and makes them drop all 
 their items and the Thunder Cloud hovers above a racer for a few seconds before detonating into 
 a lightning bolt that shrinks you unless you pass it off to another player. I've had this particular 
 item appear when I was in third or even second place, and since you have a storm cloud above your 
 head, you'll move a bit quicker and may end up passing anyone in front of you until you get shocked...
 
  
  Drifting has also changed; you can only gain mini-turbos the longer you drift- the tighter the 
 turn, the better the boost is. This is to counter snaking and probably help the newer players get 
 a feel for the game- as for me, it didn't bother me the slightest bit. Only karts have the luxury 
 of enjoying the more powerful Super Mini-Turbo while bikes have the option of doing wheelies for 
 speed at the cost of being more unstable.
  
  All bad things aside, Nintendo decided to add a little more challenge in their track designs. I've 
 noticed how the levels are a lot more action-packed than those of previous installments. More jumps, 
 ramps, curves, hills and other structures appear in the game's brand-new 16 courses- not to mention 
 nice Wii-hanced versions of 16 classic courses from the previous Mario Kart games. I was happy 
 to drive through Sherbet Land and Mario Raceway from Mario Kart 64. It brought back great childhood 
 memories. Battle Mode, is also a lot different this time around. Matches are either Coin Runner 
 or Balloon Battle and are only team based. On Wi-Fi battles only last 3 minutes and you are teamed 
 up with whoever is playing with you and anyone in the same Battle Rating bracket you are in. 
 
  
  For Wi-Fi mode, you are given ratings for both Vs. Mode races and Battle Mode matches. Your rating 
 goes up as you win and goes down as you lose, starting at 5000 points. Up to 12 players can compete 
 at any time.
  
  While it's a very fun game to play (especially with the Wii Wheel) Mario Kart has great graphics, 
 level designs and a cheap AI... While completing all cups may be a pain in the rear the unlockables 
 will make up for all of it. Being able to play as your Mii is a very nice improvement too. This 
 is a game you'll want to keep in your library and Mario Kart collection for years to come, if the 
 AI doesn't kill you first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidRswii
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is now in the US and is packeged in with the wii wheel now before I talk about the 
 game let me just say that the Wii wheel is a great accsesory although it might take you a while 
 to get use to the Wheel since at first it is kinda tricky to use the wheel espcially when drifting 
 but after maybe a couple of hours you'll get use to it. Now on to the game well first I would like 
 to say that this is not double dash (even though it was a pretty good game) this is a follow up 
 from Mario Kart DS and well this game has maybe 15 characters to race with unlike Mario art DS 
 all the karts are the same in Mario Kart Wii. The graphics are shiny but not the best espcially 
 the character models they look blocky. Online is lag free although load times online can take a 
 while worldwide and regional races/battles are always enjoyable.
  
  PRESENTATION:
  Great use of our Miis since Wii play, great for the hardcore and the casual gamer alike, and this 
 game uses the Wii to its 100 percent
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Not mind-blowing, but charming and polished. True 16:9 is met with 480p, some decent effects, model 
 work is decent, track design is great, cool retro worlds, and lets not forget it runs at 60 frames 
 but depletes when you have more playerswhen 4 it cuts in half to 30 frames
  
  SOUND:
  The wiimote speaker is helpful, music is the classic feel, and from time to tiem the character 
 VO can get annoying
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Core gameplay is fun and easy, the formula remains the same with some new twists lieks bikes and 
 tricking, the AI is catch up AI once agian espcially in 150cc it gets frustrating
  
  LASTING APPEAL:
  Local multiplayer is fun but the online is mind blowing, rankings, ghosts, tournements 
 endless racing and battles this game will keep just as bust as Brawl did. 
  
  This is a must own game and deserves a gold trophy but get the silver witha 8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qelery07
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Pros: -5 control styles
  -Really fun Wi-Fi that actually displays nickname and region
  -Nice karts
  -Courses from previous games
  -New courses are well desgined
  
  Cons: -No 
 special items
  -Some tracks are fun while others are really boring
  -Where's the mph meter?
  -Not many new items
  -It takes ore items to win than skill usually
 
  -Single player is boring
  
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakeTW
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Very good game, great online play, one of the best online games for the wii. very above expectations. 
 a very good price with the wii wheel and the game. Besides Brawl and a few others this is the best 
 game for the wii system. great game. one of the best i have ever played. very exciting. although 
 short the great gameplay makes up for it and the online. also whats cool the mario kart channel 
 that comes with it you can race ghosts and check tournament info very cool. great game for anyone 
 who likes racing and mario. alot better then what the reviews say. the only problem with the game 
 is the length. Very Good Game, A little short in the Grand prix but overall very good. The right 
 game for anyone who likes racing!!!!!! love this game so much i play it all the time. only use 
 the wheel though because anything else does not feel right. just a plain straight out great game 
 for a system with not that many great games, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APerryman
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart wii was one of the most highely anticipated games of 2008. There were many adverts on 
 tv and events to show off the game. Now it is here and just how good is it? Well it comes with 
 a wii wheel so what would you expect the price to be 50,60? Well its only 34.99, an amazing price 
 for an amazing game. Then there is FREE online play with no lag and no abuse or hackers. Then theres 
 the game itself, it is so fun in single player and is even better in multiplayer and online. There 
 is so much to do and unlock it'll keep you playing it for hours. Time trials, Expert Staff ghosts, 
 Gold Wii Wheel, All the charatcers, all the bikes, all the karts, all the courses, stars by your 
 name and more.
  
  To all those who have read my GTAIV review as well as this please do not pm and say why have you 
 given an '''''adult'''' game only 3.5 and a 'kiddy' game 10? Well its because this is what gaming 
 is about, haveing fun not killing people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belwyrm
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 10, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  I've enjoyed Mario Kart since it was first released. It's a fun game to play with others, long 
 after the single player mode has become dull. Nintendo didn't really take any chances on their 
 latest installment, and the tried and true formula works well.
  
  The Wii wheel is an excellent addition. It's really fun using it to drive around, and doesn't take 
 that long to get used to. There's lots of unlockable bikes, carts, and characters to keep you occupied 
 for a while, and the online multiplayer is really fun, letting you test your mettle against other 
 racers. I enjoyed the mix of tracks, from the super easy, to the frustratingly difficult. 
  
  The nostalgia factor does wear off, however, when you realise there's no free for all battle 
 mode. I was really disappointed by this because, while racing is fun, sometimes I want to bash 
 my friends. Also, if you're in the lead, you get the most horrible items. Banana peels and fake 
 boxes. It's kind of annoying that instead of the items being randomly recieved you get them based 
 on your current position. I can see this in the multiplayer mode, to help make it fair, but in 
 the single player mode I want to crush the computer.
  
  Luckily the online mode doesn't suffer by having to have friend codes. None of my friends have 
 Wii's, and I'm dependant on an online mode that allows me to mix with people I don't know, so this 
 game works that out.
  
  Overall it's a fairly fun, good addition to my Wii library. And it's alot of fun when I have friends 
 over to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiwillstand
Rating: 9
Date: May 9, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii brings the franchise to the Nintendo Wii, and with the new Wii Wheel, it is definitly 
 one of the most immersive titles out there.
  
  With sixteen new tracks, and sixteen cl@ssics (adding up to be 32) , there is a lot of diversity, 
 and choices in the game. With that, you can choose from 4 Karts, and 4 motorbikes (total of 8) . 
 So there is a lot of choices you can make in this game that will satisfy your needs.
  
  With the addition of ramps, and aerial stunts, the gameplay can become very intense, and energetic. 
 Plus, there are new items to choose from, such as: the thunder cloud, and the big mushroom.
  
  As usual, there's the addition of Time Trials, where you can try to score the world record 
 times on tracks (and compare them to others across the world via Wi-Fi) . Then there's the Battle 
 Mode, where you can choose from Ballon Battle, or Coin Battle. Though it's no longer free-for-all, 
 and now team-based, you still get the same amount of enjoyment.
  
  Also, with a great number of chracters to unlock (some which I have yet gotten) you will be busy 
 for a long time.
  
  The real action comes from Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. Connect to the internet, and you then have 
 the choice of racing people, or battling people, in your region, or across the entire world. With 
 very little lag, and an excellent points system, there is no failure in sight. Plus, you can battle 
 friends via the friend code system, and race time trials from other gamers across the earth.
  
  Though the graphics are not much of an improvement on Mario Kart Double-Dash, they are slightly 
 better, and are a lot nicer to look at. They are satisfying, and don't ruin the gameplay. Especially 
 with the great use of steering with the Wii Wheel, the gameplay has never been better.
  
  In the end, Mario Kart Wii is an amazing racing game, that no Wii owner should be left without. 
 Though it has its falts, it will please any longtime, or newcomer fans of the series. Pick up the 
 controller, and I'll see you online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuiS-07
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  The Pros of this game is endless ill start with the characters
  You can now play as some new characters never featured in previous mario karts such as Bowser jr, 
 Dry Bowser and more. The good thing is that unlocking the characters is not just a matter of your 
 progress in the game (eg. you beat star cup 50cc and now unlocked bowser jr, but the you beat the 
 very next cup and unlock dry bowser) you may need to beat cups, get star ratings in cups, unlock 
 expert staff data (time trials) or just win 1000 WiFi races.
  
  Now Tracks, The tracks in this game feature tracks with bright colours and very modern graphics, 
 but the game also features a selection of retro cups. which holds races from the Snes (eg. SNES 
 Ghost Valley 2) , the GCN (eg Peach Beach) , DS (Yoshi Falls) , and N64 (sherbet Land) . 
  
  Online play, The online play in this game is excellent, despite that you can get kicked out of 
 a game for waiting too long, it holds lag free matches against people Worldwide, Continental & 
 Friends. 
  
  Though It would seem that you would most likely go to continental races because people in your 
 continent have the same time zone and wont leave the match when it is 3PM at your house but 3AM 
 at theirs, and they have usually had the same experience. I got my game on the first day it came 
 out aswell as about 1000 people in Australia who did the same. So we have had the same experience 
 as each other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_bobbypin
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  um WOW! i have been playing mario kart since the very first mario kart was released ( Super mario 
 Kart) then onto bigger and better graphics (Mario Kart 64) then we were very interested with the 
 release of mario kart portable ( Mario Kart Super Circuit) and then we started yelling DOUBLE DASH!! 
 (Mario Kart Double Dash) and then mario kart portable in 3D (Mario Kart DS) and now look where 
 we are Mario Kart Wii! 
  
  Graphics: hmm they are good graphics nothing that hurts your eyes but its not astonishing either 
 but for the nintendo wii these are very good
  
  Sound: Who really cares? as long as its not crap who really cares?
  
  New Characters: Well 
 a couple of new characters were brought including, Rosalina (Super Mario Galaxy) Baby Peach (Yoshi's 
 Island) Diddy Kong ( Donkey Kong Country) AND YOU! thats right! when you beat 100cc Wii Cups you 
 get to race as YOU! and thats all i can remember for characters
  
  New Cars/ Bikes: pretty much everything is new and theres just no way to tell you all about them
 
  
  New ITEMS: new items include "POW block" Shakes the ground and spins opponents out of control causing 
 them to lose their items 
  
  "Mega Mushroom" increases your size, and speed for a limeted time, you will flatten any vehicles 
 that come in your way
  
  "Lightning cloud" sits above you and after a short time will zap you you can however pass this 
 onto another person by hitting them
  
  Overveiw: All in all Mario kart Wii is definetly worth all the money, its a fun great game thats 
 bound to do great at parties. This in my opinion is the best wii game available thank you for reading 
 i am thomas_bobbypin goodnight/morning/day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerair
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  In an attempt to make the Mario Kart series more accessible, Nintendo has gained many casual gamers 
 and lost some hard-core gamers: the game relies too heavily on items and chance. While true skill 
 will win you most races, there's always an element of luck to the game. This is why it is frustrating 
 at times. However, items are what make this game unique and fun to play. 
  
  The new maps are creative and exciting, but contrasts to some of the relatively boring older maps. 
 The SNES maps are great for nostalgia, but only highly sentimental people will enjoy them.
  
  The multiplayer is great. Nintendo WFC is what makes this game worth buying.
  
  Lots of 
 unlockables and challenges will keep you playing for hours, which makes this game really last.
 
  
  Overall, this is a fun game with its fair share of faults but nonetheless is a great sequel in 
 the Mario Kart genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamer400
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii has a huge emprovement! And of course you know it's the Wii Wheel, WFC Worldwide, 
 and the Mario Kart Wii channel which is making it way better and have better control!
  
  The Good
  
  Better control becuase of the Wii wheel.
  
  Way better graphics.
  
  New 
 items.
  
  Awsome courses and battle arenas.
  
  Brand new characters.
  
  WFC where you can battle people from across the world.
  
  The Bad
  
  Almost always you 
 can get stuck in 150cc races becuase the CPUs are so hard so you usually you have to try over and 
 over again untill you finally beat the hard CPUs.
  
  This game is mostly the best game in racing you can have pretty much.
  
  And if you love racing 
 games that are realistic than this is the game for you!
  
  You can use the Wii Wheel, Gamecube controller, Wii remote and numchuck, and Nintendo classic controller. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _summer-
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off is I would like to say this is an amazing game and you will not regret buying this.
 
  
  Mario Kart Wii makes good use of controler schemes, you can use the Wii Wheel, Wii'Chuck, GCN Controler, 
 and last but not least the Classic Controler. All these controler schemes makes it comfortable 
 for all types of players. 
  
  The graphics in this game are a nice upgrade from its previous titles, although thats ok because 
 Wii games are not all about graphics... Right? Although on some tracks Nintendo really outdid themselves 
 with the detail.
  
  The gameplay can be casual or competitive, depending on what you prefer to do. It is very fast 
 paced, for example you can easily go from 1st place to 9th place depending on how lucky you are.
 
  
  The sound is pretty impressive in this game, not much to say here.
  
  The learning curve can be from 0-60 minutes, depending if you are familiar with other racing games. 
 The part that might take a bit of getting used to is the Wii Wheel, it is very tricky at first 
 but as soon as you get used to it you will find it more simple and enjoy it more.
  
  The online in this game is REALLY good. I never had any lag yet which impresses me unlike other 
 games (Brawl... ect) . Plus it has a cool point system which sort of shows how good and expierienced 
 the people you are facing are. Although most people like bumping up their points just to show off 
 their amazing skills.
  
  Overall, this game is a must have for ALL Wii owners and it is definatly worth all its money. All 
 I can say is I hope you find this useful and hopefully it encouraged you to buy this game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mntnbkr
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii takes a little from all of the previous Mario Kart games and makes this game the 
 best one in the series. From the addition of the Wii-wheel and the use of the Wii-mote to the online 
 play and the addition of 12 people races this game has a lot of new additions that add to its greatness.
 
  Single player: Like previous games in the series you have to race in the single player game to 
 unlock the higher, harder races and to unlock other characters. This is the perfect way to learn 
 the board if you are into the manual drifting. The races consist of 12 characters all vying to 
 be the first one to cross the finish line. To do this they use anything they can find in the boxes 
 littered across the track. Weapons include green and red turtle shells to fling at people, banana 
 peels to make racers slip, mushrooms to give boosts, etc. Another mode in the single player is 
 Battle mode which pits you against 11 characters. Battle is a sort of Deathmatch mode that pits 
 you against 11 computer controlled characters and the sole purpose is to knock the other characters 
 balloons off the back of their cars. Awesome! VS mode lets you and a friend race against each other 
 and 10 characters or battle against the 10 characters.
  Multiplayer: Online racing has never been so fun! This game just screams to be online! Racing online 
 against 12 other players with turtle shells flying is about as hectic as anyone can imagine but 
 the fun never stops! 
  Online: Whether you are racing or in battle mode, online is the best feature of this game and there 
 is no lag. I have yet to see any lag and I played it online at launch. With the addition of the 
 Mario Kart channel that lets you race against ghosts and compare your track times with players 
 around the world the online portion of the game is almost perfect. I would have to say that the 
 only negative thing that I have to say about this game is the exclusion of voice talk in the game. 
 
  Overall: Mario Kart Wii is the best game in the series and a must have for any fan of the series. 
 The online racing and online battle modes can't be beat and are lag free. This game is a definite 
 buy in my opinion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkraush
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 7, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played Mario Kart for GCN, so I was seriously hurtin' for some more Kart when this came 
 out. I agree with the majority of the reviews here, the game overall isn't anything new but it's 
 still really fun. The graphics are standard mario on Wii, so they're solid. The first time Blooper 
 finished all over my visor I thought that was a pretty cool effect. Again we see the retroactive 
 trend with the levels, and again for pretty much no reason a large number of older tracks were 
 left out, that's disappointing but not a huge deal.
  
  The gameplay is very simple, anyone can pick up the wheel and get the hang of it in seconds, and 
 can learn the "advanced" techniques in hours. The only way to get above the competition seems to 
 be to find the best vehicle for your playing style and to become familiar with the tracks. However, 
 items can screw you over no matter how good you think you're racing, which again appeals to casual 
 players. I think for these 2 reasons a lot of people hate on this game, but I like it, personally 
 I like that I can lose to a friend who plays a lot less than me while going all out just cuz I 
 get shafted so badly by items. It should also be noted that there is still a lot of skill involved 
 in the racing, this isn't Mario party where you can pretty much drop your balls on the wiimote 
 for an hour and might get randomly assigned victory.
  
  The highest point of the game is the online play. Now I'm no Computationologistician so I don't 
 know how they made the online soooo much better than in Smash Bros, but I like it. You get instantly 
 matched up with players from anywhere in the world and the gameplay is seamless. Theres also a 
 rating system that tells you how well you do as you go, a must for this generation of gamers all 
 looking to show how huge their Donky Kong Balls are online.
  
  The lowest point of the game for me was that you can no longer play the Grand Prix mode with 2 
 players, why they would just do away with a really good feature for no reason is beyond me.
  
  Overall this game is really fun, its easy enough to play while drunk, and has the right amount 
 of "fairplay" features to keep the playing field (or in this case race track) even. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amesomeness
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 7, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Maro Kart is one of the best franchises out there. This was the most anticipated game of 2008 for 
 wii that wasn't Brawl. It is not the best game in the franchise but it is preety good for a while. 
 There are now bikes in the game. They don't handle all that much differently from karts. The only 
 thing is that it has less weight than karts. There is a lot of characters in the game. The easiest 
 one to get if you have Galaxy is getting Roselina. All you have to do is have a game save of Galaxy. 
 But for some people you have to do stuff that most likely includes the Grand Prix. The problem 
 with this game is that it tries to hard to get to the casual. They got to the casual before. I 
 remember playing Super Mario Kart on the SNES and lovin it. Te thing they could have done is just 
 changed the power sliding whch they id either to automatic or manual. Anyway they try to ge to 
 the casual in a number of ways. First the power ups. They are not balanced. They have too many 
 over powered power ups. Sometimes you lose for no reason just cause some one blasted past you as 
 a missle or whatever that big black hing moving at a great speed. The 2nd thing is the wii wheel. 
 This is not a bad idea. But it is hard to control at first. For me i had trouble getting the coins 
 in coin runner battle mode and tring to do wheelies. For the hardcore they are just going to get 
 a gamecube controller. Onlne is great. But the over powered power ups does get online not as fun. 
 It hardly takes no skill to play this game and win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lild1425
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  More characters, new tracks, a couple new items, bikes, and tricks... these are the new features 
 in the new game. Although Nintendo probably realized they needed to change the formula, this game 
 is the worst in the franchise. The levels are wonderful, but the game is plagued by the items. 
 Probably in an effort to completely balance the game out, Nintendo made the game incredibly frustrating 
 as skill isn't rewarded, but the items you get determine your place. The tricks are pretty cool 
 and the fast bikes make carts almost obsolete. Nintendo made it sound more of a preference when 
 it came to bikes and carts, but it takes only a couple races to get the learning curve of bikes 
 and when you do, carts won't be able to keep up. A few items make the game feel a bit gimmicky. 
 Another gimmick is the steering wheel. Especially when using the bikes, the Wii remote is too responsive 
 and people find it way more comfortable to use the gamecube controller. This is the second game 
 in a row where the Wiimote has failed and consumers would rather use the gc controller (like in 
 Brawl) . The power sliding is cool at first, but after awhile I wish it was like the old days where 
 you had to tilt back and forth. With the new powersliding, the game is easier and thus less skill. 
 The battle modes are still more of the same, but I guess "if it ain't broke, don't fix it."
  
  Story:
  There is none, but there is the standard 50, 100, and 150cc. There probably should 
 be a story mode of some sort. The cc races have been around since the beginning of the franchise.
 
  
  Graphics: 
  The levels and character design are absolutely gorgeous.
  
  Value:
  Singleplayer won't last too long, but the WiFi is awesome and obliterates that of Brawl. The value 
 depends on if you can stand the frustration of items dominating the game. Overall, Mario Kart DS 
 is much much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Durffen
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  The Mario Kart series has been around for sometime, starting with the SNES game Super Mario Kart. 
 Mario Kart is also the first Mario spin-off title that still lives to this day, that is not counting 
 the games in which Mario teaches typing and the other spin-off titles that quickly died. To this 
 day, Mario Kart is one of, if not, the best Mario spin-off series there is.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is just like its predecessors; an interesting pick up and play racing title that 
 we all have loved for years. Mario Kart Wii is what Nintendo is calling a "bridge title", which 
 is a game that persuades casual gamers to start trying more hardcore games; so Mario Kart Wii is 
 still bringing in the casual crowd, while still satisfying the hardcore. Just like the past Mario 
 Karts, you have the Grand Prix mode, which consists of 3 different difficulties, 50cc, 100cc, and 
 150cc. To appeal to more people they have added a little twist. If you have been following the 
 game, you should know that you can now race with motorbikes, a first in the Mario Kart franchise. 
 In 50cc, you can only race with karts, in 100cc, you can only race bikes, and in 150cc, you can 
 race both. The Grand Prix mode is identical to most of the past Mario Kart games except with differences. 
 It's disappointing that you can not do some co-op Grand Prix like good ol' Mario Kart 64, nevertheless 
 Grand Prix is as fun as usual. Several modes have changed, such as the disappointing team based 
 only Battle Mode.
  
  There are 16 new tracks and 16 retro tracks. The retro tracks consist of tracks from the GBA Mario 
 Kart, the SNES Mario Kart, Mario Kart 64, and Mario Kart DoubleDash. Sadly, there is not a Baby 
 Park. But, some of the new tracks are great, and keep things real hectic and fun, like Mushroom 
 Gorge, which has you bouncing from one mushroom to the other, or Moonview Highway, in which you 
 are driving through tons of traffic and tolls. Why not take a second to see who is in the toll 
 booth? It may be you!
  
  Mario Kart Wii has some key differences in the gameplay elements. Once again, the addition of bikes 
 has changed things up a bit, but is still a great and fun new addition to the Mario Kart series. 
 With bikes, the turning is tighter and you can perform wheelies. Karts may have better drift boosts, 
 but between the two of them, they are pretty balanced. Also, when going off jumps, you can shake 
 the Wii-mote, or press a certain button on the GC or classic controller to do a trick in mid-air 
 and gain a minor boost when you land. Some tracks really like DK Summit really encourage this. 
 This is a snowy track with an half-pipe, in which you go up the half-pipe, shake-or press a button 
 to get a boost, and ride back down. There are only 3 new items, which may be for the better, because 
 seriously, the game does not need anymore rubber banning then it already has. You can go from 1st 
 place to 10th in a matter of seconds, which can be really frustrating. One of the new items is 
 the Storm Cloud, which is an item that works against you, and if it stays above your head long 
 enough, it will shrink you, but, when the cloud is above your head, it increases both your acceleration, 
 and top speed. If you can ram into a opposing kart, you can pass it over to them. It is another 
 item that makes the game more hectic, and more fun.
  
  Mario Kart Wii carries over all of the good elements from the past Mario Kart titles, and then 
 some. Snaking is gone, and is replaced with something that is similar, but more balanced. Now, 
 you are not required to keep mashing left and right to get a boost when drifting. Now it is the 
 longer you drift, the better the boost will be. This innovation keeps things way more fun and balanced. 
 When in a kart, you can hold a drift for a generous period of time, and at first, the sparks under 
 you're tires will be blue, but if you hold it longer, the sparks will turn orange, and the boost 
 will be longer. Sadly, bikes can't get the extended orange boost, which once again, keeps things 
 more fun, and more balanced. You can choose between 2 different karts and 2 different bikes, and 
 there are 3 unlockable karts and bikes for each size. Totaling up to 10 vehicles for each racer.
 
  
  You have 5 choices for controls, the Wii Wheel, the Wii-mote, the Wii-mote Nunchuk combo, the GameCube 
 controller, and the classic controller. The Wii Wheel is actually really fun to use, and it takes 
 some getting used to, but once you get it down, it is really rewarding. The Wii-mote is pretty 
 much the same thing, but it could perhaps be a little worse without the Wii Wheel shell. The Wii-mote 
 and Nunchuk combo is my personal favorite for when I really want to do well. You have the easy 
 precise control of the analog stick, with some motion controls here and there. The GC pad is good 
 to use, some button layouts are the best, especially for Double Dash veterans. The Classic controller 
 is pretty much the same as the GC pad. Using the Wii Wheel is really fun to use when just messing 
 around with friends or any other modes, and it takes awhile to get used too, but if you want to 
 be serious and win, you may want to resort to one of the controllers with an analog stick.
  
  The online play is where Mario Kart Wii really shines. Connecting is quick and easy, in every 
 match that I have played it was pretty much lag free. Mario Kart Wii has a great ranking system, 
 in which you start off with 5000 points. You can either gain points, or lose points depending on 
 what place you come in. Both Battle mode and VS mode have there own individual set of points. You 
 can view leaderboards, either in the game or on the Mario Kart Wii Channel. You can race against 
 the ghosts of other people online to compete and best their time, you can view all of your stats, 
 for instance you can view the number of time that you have been hit, you hit someone, wins and 
 loses, percentage in first place, and much more. Even with those naughty friend codes, Mario Kart 
 Wii has best and most complete online play package that the Wii has seen. Of course, if there was 
 one WiFi title that really needed voice chat, Mario Kart Wii would be it. You can use text chat 
 with friends, but it is pre-determent text chat, like "Hello", or "Want to play again?". It is 
 quite difficult, but with everything else on par for the amazing online mode, gamers can live without 
 it.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is a decent looking game for its price. However, there is quite a bit of room for 
 improvement, for example the developers could have paid more attention for detail. What the game 
 does have is very vibrant colors, some good lighting effects, and runs very smooth at 60 frames 
 per second. Of course, when playing split screen, the game tends to look worse then it would in 
 single player, and frame rate starts to jump anywhere from 30 - 60, especially in four player mode. 
 But it keeps the 60 frames running very smoothly when playing online. It runs in 480p and 16:9 
 widescreen.
  
  It's always good to hear old tunes from the SNES Mario Kart and Mario Kart 64. Mario Kart Wii features 
 a mix of tunes from each generation of Mario Kart. It also includes new tunes for the new tracks. 
 These are great as well. Some of the character voices could have used improvement, many hover on 
 the annoying scale.
  
  In total, there are 27 Racers, 10 vehicles for each racer, 32 tracks, and an incredible online 
 mode. If you have not picked up any other games, this will keep you going for a long time.
  
  The things that really bring this game down are the rubber banning, which can be extremely 
 frustrating and the graphics. The graphical update from GC to Wii could have been much better with 
 more detail in the characters. The game does tend to get repetitive in certain parts.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart Wii is a great installment in the series. The mix of 16 new tracks and 16 old 
 tracks is great, the gameplay is extremely fun, the online play is incredible, and there is so 
 much stuff to unlock. The game could have used a little more detail, and way less rubber banning, 
 but it is a great title for both casual and hardcore gamers, and should satisfy anyone who has 
 been a fan of the Mario Kart Series.
  
  Durffen - Live-Wii. net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dc456
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 7, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has always had a knack of releasing wacky sports games that aren't all that realistic. 
 But yet some retain significant value, but the Mario Kart franchise has always raised the bar for 
 gameplay in a racing game.
  
  Ever since the SNES days Mario Kart has unleashed an amazing, wacky and enjoyable game, no matter 
 what platform it's on. So fans of the Mario Kart universe will be pleased to know that Mario Kart 
 Wii is the Karting game to have.
  
  Mario Kart Wii really brings the game back to its roots and makes for one of the best titles on 
 the system. This is above all Mario Kart as you know it, your constanly trying to beat your opponents 
 through outperforming them or using unique items in the game to either launch or use on yourself 
 to get the upper hand on the competition.
  
  Although this wouldn't be half the game it is if it didn't offer anything new and MK Wii really 
 brings plenty of new things to the table.
  The most obvious new feature is the new addition of bikes/motorcycles.
  Most of them don't go 
 as fast as the karts but they do have advantages, such as the ability to perform wheelies in order 
 to gain more speed on straightaways.
  The next new feature is the addition of a few new items. These include ones such as the pow block 
 and supershroom. But probebly the most unique one is the thunder cloud, which continuely electricutes 
 you making you go faster, but unless you hit an opponent and give it to them the cloud will shrink 
 you like the lightning item does.
  The next feature is another obvious one, which is the addition of the new Wii Wheel which comes 
 packaged with the game. The wheel has been redesigned and done almost to perfection. This new Wii 
 wheel features a better design but having the wheel round, adding a space to use the pointer on 
 screen and the addition of a B button on the back.
  One of the more expected changes is the addition of 16 new tracks and 16 tracks from previous games. 
 the tracks from other games especially unique though in that, the blend of visuals is done very 
 well.
  Finally (if the others didn't satisfy you) there is the long awaited addition of online play, which 
 has you hop into a game with up to 11 other people/ or friends and race almost instantly. Plus 
 the addition of worldwide ranking using the Mario Kart channel will have you playing for quite 
 some time.
  
  But even with all these new things Mario Kart wii does have some faults such as the extremly hard 
 diffuculty in 150cc mode. It just becomes infuriating when you are in the lead for 2 laps but suddenly 
 come in last when everything is unleashed upon you by every other player. It is just to much of 
 a challenge to stay in 1st place.
  
  So overall Mario Kart Wii is a great game and a must have for Mario Kart fans or any Wii owner 
 for that matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLuFAlc0n
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is an awesome game for the Wii, seriously great and awesome,35 for a game with 
 a free Wii Wheel.
  This game carries on the legacy of Mario Kart, from the SNES to the Wii so far, well in case you 
 don't know, Mario Kart is the best racing game you can ever have and the best racing overall, a 
 lot of companies and brands tried to outperform and copy a game that Nintendo invented, but all 
 of them failed since Super Mario Kart was born. Mario Kart Wii has added and upgraded a lot since 
 those days, the graphics has been more better than double dash and improved a lot that is comparable 
 to Metroid Prime 3, everything is bright and detailed, especially the peach beach, compare that 
 track to the gamecube version and ask yourself which is better? Gameplay (best part) has improve 
 by miles, you have 4 types of control system, wii remote only (with wheel) , wii and nunchuck, classic 
 and gamecube. this time, you can go onto ramps for extra boost, and do tricks in mid-air, oh and 
 don't forget wheelies. you still have that wide range of weapons and has new ones like giant mushroom, 
 POW block, and more, some from the DS like the blooper (more effective weapon than before) and the 
 bullet bill, and still has the traditional weapons like the shells, banana, and star, mushroom, 
 and more. the tracks are way more detailed than ever before, it's not just graphics, it has new 
 inventive tracks, and rainbow road, is based of super mario galaxy, surprising huh. Well we know 
 that this might not be the first online game for the Wii, but has a lot of fun, this time, instead 
 of 4 from the DS, you get 12 players multiplayer online, you can make your private rooms and more, it 
 is just great, sounds still hold the magical music from traditional mario games, and from the past 
 generations, and sounds awesome, but brawl is still must and got to be 'The Soundtrack of the Millenium, 
 beats GTA, and yeah if GTA got a 10, because it had online? well this has better features of online 
 gaming and a great game, a legacy that cannot be broken down, and it's legendary generations of 
 Mario Kart, which you've known awesome, from the past, until now, Mario Kart is still legendary!
 
  
  
  Goods/+
  Sharp, Good looking Graphics
  Legendary Gameplay
  Legendary Sound
  12 Multiplayer Online
  Can do Wheelies
  More players than ever in MK history like about 36
 
  Lots of tracks
  Holds some tracks form the past generations
  16 cups to be won
  Still has shorcuts
  Lots of 'Baby' people
  You get bikes for the first time
  Still has the 
 'Mirror' Mode
  It is still legendary since Super Mario Kart
  Lots of hidden secrets that you won't expect in Mari Kart Wii
  Oh, and guess what? Blue Falcon 
 is in the game (C. Falcon's F-ZERO ride)
  You have rankings, in competition and time trials
  2 - Player Online
  
  Bads/-
  No snaking anymore
  Where's Shy Guy?
  Steering can be too 
 sensitive
  It can be hard, and irritating
  Some part of 150cc, and Mirror Mode is just pure mean
  
  
  Gameplay/Innovation - 10/10
 
  Graphics - 10/10
  Sounds - 10/10
  Value - 10/10
  Presentation - 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vertiglug
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  The game offers the same old racing style that the series have been so famous for. The mulitplayer 
 I haven't gotten completely into yet. It seems to have some moderate fun involved and the one player 
 is actually pretty decent. I have enjoyed it very much, althou it is a very easy game and the wii 
 controller wheel can glitch if you turn it 2 far, but beyond that I have no real complants with 
 the game. Somehow when you play it thou, you feel like it misses something that could make the 
 game a lot better. The game could of been completely perfect and just as good as brawl and others, 
 but it lacks in some areas. The repetitive driving and the easy gameplay features. The game doesn't 
 last too long. I have heard the online gameplay is excellet and I look forward to playing it. Its 
 a game you still want to own for your wii thou 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedGuy93
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is one of those games that gets you amped up like know other. There is so much going 
 on at once that you get crazy just thinking about it. On your left you could have Mario on star 
 power trying to ram you, and on the right you could have Donkey Kong who turned into Bullet Bill 
 trying to ram you. This game is intense, highly addictive, and is one of the games that will make 
 a name for the Wii.
  
  The Review
  
  Gameplay: 9.4/10
  I really do enjoy what this game has brought to the Wii. It features a grand prix mode, time trial 
 mode, and a battle mode. Battle and racing modes can also be played online with anyone in the world. 
 It is a blast to play against British people who stink at the game but got it because it happened 
 to be in a store near them. Also, they added the Mii to the game, along with certain cars depending 
 on the Mii's characteristics and personality traits. I also like them bringing back most of the 
 characters. I also like the speed characters in this game (Yoshi, Diddy Kong, and the Babies) for 
 their acceleration and dependibility on the final decision for the places of each racer. The only 
 new character I'm excited about is Rosalina, because it's nice to get a little love from the Super 
 Mario Galaxy game. Also, she resembles a mix between Peach and Daisy, and a little of Wario with 
 her competitive racing skills. I'm 
  okay with Baby Peach, just because she was in Mario and Luigi: Partners in Time, and Yoshi Island 
 DS, and I liked her roles in that game. She brings a nice, sweet, but dragster type racing ablity 
 to the table; she also attracts the litle girls who play Mario Kart Wii even more. The characters 
 that I don't like are Koopa Troopa and Baby Daisy. First off, the use Koopa Troopa shells as items 
 in the gameplay itself, so why have Koopa Troopa? It's like Mario throwing Marios out onto the 
 field to hit other opponents' karts. It just doesn't seem right to me. Also, has anyone heard of 
 Baby Daisy? It's just too many babies. She's pretty much Baby Peach with brown hair and a yellow 
 dress. I was never a fan of Daisy herself because she seemed to much like a clone of Peach. Also, 
 where is Baby Luigi? Get rid of Baby Daisy, because Baby Luigi was a classic racer, my favorite 
 in fact. At least he's been in video games before.
  Other than some errors to my eyes, you gotta love the stages. Going with the retro stages from 
 each previous Mario Kart game was a great idea. I also like the new stages like DK Summit, Cocnut 
 Mall, but most of all, Koopa Cape. They also feature cheat short-cuts to give the sly racing type 
 an advantage.
  Also, I liked when they added the Bullet Bill and the Super Mushroom to the game, but the Blooper 
 Squirt covers a little part of the screen, so that has pretty much no effect whatsoever.
  
  Controls: 9.8/10
  I am excited for Mario Kart Wii for introducing the Wii Wheel to the game. 
 Doing that brings a "life-like" simulation of being the driving character in the game itself. It 
 particularly maps out the road for you, too. I also like how they feature power-ups that are coming 
 behind you and that are close, so it gives the driver an edge. Also, thank goodness for the different 
 camera angles to see what is behind you. The driving techniques of MKW are superb. You can go with 
 the Wheel or the classic gamecube controller with this one. The AI of this game is great. In one 
 instant of you turning you turn on the game. I just wish they had a jump button so you could hop 
 over opponents i they are going slower than you are.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  I have okay hearing, but I can hear this game just fine. On my TV, I don't need to put the volume 
 above 10 for me to hear this game clearly and efficiently. The music in this game is great, and 
 it is moving so much to where the point I don't want to play the game, except listen to the music 
 itself on the loading screens.
  
  Graphics: 9.8/10
  The graphics are the best on the Wii. They are clear, colorful, and full of quality and efficiancy. 
 Even without reading glasses, I can see the screen perfectly. Well done Nintendo!
  
  Difficulty: 10/10 
  The difficulty of this game is just right (as you see below) and is that 
 for any age of people playing the game. The game also goes into a lot of depth and brings out the 
 true driver in you.
  
  Fun: 9.5/10
  This game is fun!. From the online play to the grand prix mode, the time trial mode, and the racing 
 and battle modes, this game won't let you down! It's also fun to beat your allies or rivals in 
 a classic nerve-racking game. It also makes me want to keep playing until my arms fall off.
  
  Review Score: 9.75/10 
  GameSpot Rounded Score: 9.5/10
  Grade: A
  Two Words: Superb Multiplayer
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ficko66
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 6, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  -Solid Gameplay
  -Fun and crazy; definately a game to play with friends (by yourself is still a blast tho)
  -The 
 revamped levels are cool
  -The new levels are super sweet
  -Imaginative items
  -Although the motorcycles have a learning curve, they are still fun and add flavor to the game
 
  -Music is pretty good
  -The Wheel works great. I personally prefer it over a controller but be careful when you scratch 
 your nose in the middle of a race or you may find yourself flying off the track!
  -All the old characters are back plus some new faces
  -In summary, this game feels like a good 
 Wii edition to the Mario Kart series
  
  The Bad
  -Many of the characters sound dumb. They did away with certain character's traditional vocalizations, 
 like Bowser and Diddy Kong. They don't sound like themselves at all. The Mii's sound literally 
 stupid too. For the most part tho it's easy to overlook, especially if you don't play those characters.
 
  -The graphics are pretty weak... Its most noticable (at least to me) in the character selection 
 screen.
  -You will get bombarded to no end with items no matter your position in the race. Like the Gamespots 
 review said, you will feel like you're getting punished for racing well, or for racing bad for 
 that matter.
  -They got rid of the special items that were unique to each racer in the gamecube edition.
  -The 
 items could use a bit more variety.
  -When you have more than 2 players on split screen, the resolution and frame rate bottom out. You 
 almost feel like you're watching a cheap taping of the game play.
  -In short, this game is fun and definately worth purchasing if you enjoyed other editions of the 
 game however, Nintendo really should have put as much effort into Mario Kart as they did Super 
 Smash. They game easily could have been a "must have" like Smash, but I feel Nintendo kinda dropped 
 the ball. But like I said before, go check it out because it's still a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemstarr
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  This is my first time playing any Mario Kart game so I am a novice to the series. It's going to 
 be hard to difficult to rate this game because there are certain parts I love, parts I find hard, 
 and parts I can do without.
  
  Most fun: Grand Prix racing is really fun with this game. It's not too difficult that you'll want 
 to give up playing but it's not so easy that you'll always be in first place. 
  
  Hardest: Time trials against ghosts seems to be a lesson in futility. I, nor my friend who has 
 tried more than I have, have beaten a ghost. I know it can be done. I believe that beating a ghost 
 so many times will unlock something but it seems like it will never happen.
  
  I can do without the Battles. The balloon and coin battles look fun but it's more frustrating than 
 entertaining.
  
  I still rated the game high because even though there are some parts I find not as fun as others. 
 the fun parts make me want to keep playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  The good: Uses the Wii wheel, great graphics and music, fun at many times, offers a great challenge
 
  The bad: Controlling in some levels gets extremely frustrating
  
  The 6th game in the main series, Mario Kart Wii is the best racing game to hit the Wii yet. There 
 have been many mediocre and terrible racing games there, such as M&M racing, and (as some might 
 consider but I don't) Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity. Finally, we have a Wii racing game everybody 
 can join, with new characters like Baby peach, the observatory babe from Super Mario Galaxy, and 
 other characters you might've not heard of. But what would a racing game made by Nintendo be without 
 using your Mii's? This game uses that.
  
  Game-play: 10/10
  
  The game-play is incredibly addictive, with so much to do while racing to the finish line. Also, 
 notice a difference in the number of racers? That's right, there are 12 racers this time! 12! This 
 means, there are dozens of outcomes to races.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Graphically, I don't see any problems. This is one of the few Nintendo games released for the Wii 
 that don't have Gamecube like graphics, as some critics consider. Luigi's course looks incredible, 
 and the character sprites are serious awesome!
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Great music!! The music is splendid!
  
  Camera and Control: 8/10
  
  In controls, the Wii 
 did a great job with it. However, some fields, for instance the Mario Kart 64 ice course, is incredibly 
 frustrating to control on, as not only will you slip and slide, but many times you'll also run 
 into walls.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  Mario Kart Wii is the next Wii title you need to play.
  
  Average Score: 9.6/10
  
  Mario 
 Kart Wii makes great use of the Wii wheel, and it still contains the MK roots to make it a great 
 Wii racing game. With new characters, a wheel that might be hard to control sometimes, and loads 
 of brilliant graphics and music, this is easily the best racing game for the Wii, and anybody loving 
 speed will definitly find it here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toon_Link_Fan
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  First I'll talk about the graphics. The graphics are a step up from past Mario Karts in my opinion 
 and are a semi strong-point of Mario Kart wii, but with games like Mario Galaxy out Nintendo could 
 have done a tad bit better.
  
  Secondly I'll move on to the characters. The characters are great, and with 26 (including mii costumes) 
 characters to choose from it will be a tough pick for who you'll want to use. Although while Baby 
 Mario and Baby Luigi were fine, adding Baby Peach and Baby Daisy was pushing it, especially for 
 Baby Daisy because she's never been in another game.
  
  Thirdly I'll move on to Wifi. From what I've seen and heard the Wifi is almost flawless, being 
 able to race with others all over the world with minimal lag is a great function to have. Sadly 
 I haven't played Wifi yet, but I hope to play it soon.
  
  Finally I'll move on to normal gameplay. The gameplay to me is superb, it is challenging enough 
 for Mario Kart vetrans, and easy enough for new players to get the hang of Mario Kart. Also adding 
 bikes makes it a lot better in my opinion. Although the only bad thing is in the higher cc's the 
 AI is very cheap and will do what ever is necessary to make you last. You know you wanted me to 
 talk about it, the Wii Wheel is a great way to play the game, but it is very hard for some people 
 to get used to the Wii Wheel to drive the karts and bikes. Multiplayer with friends is awesome, 
 it's fun to get a few friends together and play. Even when your friend makes you fall to last place 
 you'll still be thinking about how much you love playing this game.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is a magnificent game that every one with the Nintendo Wii should purchase. I give 
 Mario Kart Wii a 10 out of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengeance00
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  Today gentleman I am going to re-review Mario Kart Wii cause now that I have played it with a normal 
 controller I can say it is playable. Its one of those fun little that may not excite or engage 
 the average gamer but will happily played by children, partners and game-illiterate people in general 
 while with a gamer its more of a relaxing play then a must unlock everything fest.
  
  Once again Mario and his arch villain Bowser have gotten board of the whole 'cut the rope of the 
 bridge' routine and have gone to the local go kart ring to race each other with a cast of other 
 characters for sparkly trophies and have a good day out in general. With the remotes in a bin heading 
 for the sun myself and another friend got playing and were always coming 1st and 2nd in each race 
 (except once when a blue shell blew me back to narnia only to emerge from the wardrobe in time 
 to claim last place) . And so we played online and this is where the fun is at, here players choose 
 the map and its will either be normal or mirrored to keep things going, and as we are playing people 
 and not stupid bots we actually were able to the number 3 to 12 on our rank.
  
  What I thought Nintendo would do was to give the game controls on the remote that would help the 
 game feel better but like most Wii games the controls just got in the way (I think the only game 
 that has used them well is Dragon ball z BT2+3) .
  
  The graphic and sound are nice to look at and easy on the ears it also has no annoying repetitive 
 sounds which games like this sometimes have. The landscape is colourful but not in an extreme sense, 
 with the added obstacles newcomers will be kept entertained then people who have been playing these 
 for a long time.
  
  It annoys me that the Wii has such capabilities over its competitors but isn't willing to execute 
 them with good well-designed games and concentrates on appeasing the pensioners and other console 
 illiterate then delivering games like call of duty and unreal tournament (I mean COD4 is on the 
 DS for Christ sake, why not the Wii) then the usual game ports of the PS2 games, short lasting 
 gimmicks and bugged games like red steel (starting pistol FTW) .
  
  Overall the game has put in some other vehicles and with the inclusion of online play has helped 
 the series from becoming just another old game port from the cube.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjacques
Rating: 5
Date: May 6, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  A huge, huge disappointment. The whole emphasis in on the items, not racing skill. In last place 
 on the final lap? No worries, a bullet bob will sort you out, and that poor sod who's been in the 
 lead from the start and who's much better than you driving-wise will finish 9th as he gets screwed 
 over. This has been increasingly an issue as the mariokart series has progressed but this is the 
 first one, for me, where the game is simply spoilt by it. 
  
  And what's with the multiplayer? You can't exit a grand prix series in a closed friends room, without 
 rebooting the Wii? Same if you're watching live TV on a continental/worldwide race? Even the home 
 button has been made inactive. You and a friend can't both queue to join the same worldwide race 
 - one of you needs to join, then the other one spends half an hour trying to get in?
  
  
  Broken. Pure and simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEWINDWAKER10
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  In 1992, the Mario Kart series was released on the Super Nintendo Entertainment System. Since then, 
 it has become one of Nintendo's most popular series, along with Zelda, Metroid and the Mario series 
 in general. The Kart series has made the racing genre much more accessible for everyone. Over the 
 years, the series has been fine-tuned while still retaining its easy-to-pick-up play style. Now, 
 with the introduction of the Wii and the motion-sensor controller, the Mario Kart series continues, 
 and guess what? It's more Mario Kart.
  
  As previously mentioned, the Mario Kart series has been around since 1992 and since then, has grown 
 to six games (eight if you count the arcade GP games.) With this many games out, the series is 
 bound to repeat itself in a few areas, and for the most part, that's fine. The Mario Kart series 
 is known for it's ability to be played with friends on the same console, which means there's always 
 plenty of fun to be had. Each Rainbow Road is as difficult and exciting as the last, and even unlocking 
 the characters by yourself can be interesting enough to keep you playing for quite some time.
 
  
  But this time around, Mario Kart Wii just seems like more of the same. As mentioned before, while 
 this isn't a bad thing overall, returning players will notice a lot of the same tricks and tracks 
 designs from previous games. Some tracks almost feel like the same track from a previous game, 
 but with a different theme and looked at through a mirror. While it's not expected that each track 
 be completely original and unique, it just feels like the designers copy and pasted a few tracks.
 
  
  While some of the tracks may give a feeling of deja vu, there are 32 of them to pick from, so at 
 least there's a large selection. 16 of the tracks are new, while the other 16 are from previous 
 Kart games. While the ability to choose is nice, some of the "retro" tracks that were selected 
 aren't all that popular from the previous games, so there isn't much of an incentive to play them 
 a second time around, since they weren't all that great the first time around.
  
  That being said, the retro tracks haven't come in untouched. While many of the tracks (mainly the 
 SNES/GBA tracks) have been translated into 3D, most of the previous 3D tracks feature some new 
 additions to make them more in tune with the new additions in Mario Kart Wii. But while they have 
 been modified slightly, the tracks will still look and play just as you remember them.
  
  In addition to the 32 tracks, there are 25 playable characters in Mario Kart Wii, most of which 
 you'll have to unlock. Doing so is a great example of the kind of audience that the Kart series 
 caters to. For some of the characters, you must simply finish the Grand Prix modes and finish in 
 the top three. But for others, you must complete tasks that most Kart players wouldn't even consider 
 completing, which means there is a nice reward for the hardcore Kart players.
  
  While Mario Kart Wii may cater very well to the hardcore player, it also tries to maintain it's 
 pick-up-and-play mechanics, which doesn't cross over very well in a number of different ways. Especially 
 in the 150CC races, the items become ridiculous, knocking a first place racer all the way down 
 to 12th in a matter of seconds. Even though this may work to the players advantage, it mainly gives 
 the AI the upper hand, since they have a greater chance of being behind you.
  
  Even with the item problems, the algorithm behind the selection can seem off at time, especially 
 during 1-on-1 races. Even though the player in second place is technically in last place, the game 
 still gives them items as if they were in second place, giving them little or no chance to catch 
 back up. This can become frustrating, especially if the gap between the players is quite large, 
 making your defeat almost imminent.
  
  On the topic of multiplayer, the Mario Kart Wii still retains the great local multiplayer that 
 the game is known for. However, Battle Mode is now broken down into two teams, and when these games 
 are taken online, they're played on maps built for 12 players, rather than the four that are allowed. 
 Also, when playing with three or more people on one console, the game cuts its frames-per-second 
 in half, making it look not nearly as smooth as when one or two people are playing.
  
  Outside of local multiplayer, online play has been introduced to the console Kart games, and it's 
 a vast improvement over previous Nintendo titles. Games begin quickly, and there is virtually no 
 lag at all. You can race worldwide, in your country only or simply against a few friends. The friend 
 code system is still in place, which means you'll have to swap codes if you want to play with friends, 
 but the whole experience is so much quicker and easier than previous attempts, that it can almost 
 be overlooked.
  
  In addition to playing online, there is also a new Mario Kart channel for your Wii that comes with 
 the game. It contains leaderboards and stats from yourself and all of your friends. You can compare 
 time trial scores, along with simply spectate current online matches. The channel works without 
 the disc, which makes keeping up with the game rather simple.
  
  Another thing that comes with the game is the wheel, which is one of the main draws of the new 
 Kart. Most of the previous racing games make use of the Wii remote itself, but this time around, 
 Nintendo has included an accessory that makes the experience that much more authentic. Along with 
 the wheel, players can use the Gamecube/Classic Controller, along with the Wii remote and nunchauk. 
 It's all up to your preference, but the new wheel works just fine, especially since it comes free 
 with the game.
  
  The last large addition to Mario Kart Wii is the introduction of tricks, not to mention motorcycles. 
 The trick system is quite easy, and gives players a short boost when they land one. There are jumps 
 all over the courses to ensure that players will make full use of this system, especially when 
 it comes to 150CC.
  
  Also, bikes have been added into the series, and they feel completely natural. While karts can 
 receive a second 'level' speed boosts, bikes can pop a wheelie on straightaways and recieve a slight 
 increase in speed. Also, drifting is no longer determined by players jiggling their joysticks, 
 which eliminates 'snaking', giving new players a much better chance at winning online against experience 
 players.
  
  Aesthetically is where Mario Kari Wii shines the least. It doesn't look much better than the version 
 before it, and even the bystanders in stands, who consist of Miis from your console, are rendered 
 in 2D, which shouldn't really even be an option at this point. While a few details have been fine 
 tuned, and the game itself runs very smooth, it just isn't a large enough step ahead to be considered 
 up-to-par. Audio-wise, Mario Kart Wii sounds like every Kart game before it, although the character 
 sayings do begin to feel repetitive after landing tricks over and over.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart Wii is more Mario Kart. No more, no less. The addition of online play is a 
 nice addition, and in itself is worth getting the game for. So in the end, it comes down to one 
 question: do you like Mario Kart? If the answer is yes, then pick up Mario Kart Wii, because it 
 stays very true to the Kart formula and has plenty of replay value, but don't expect to be amazed. 
 If no, then I would still recommend looking into it. It's a great game, and definitely a must own 
 for the Wii owner who loves to party. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roa33
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Next gen Mario Kart has finally arrived and has yet to prove the series to be bad. In my opinion 
 the courses are awesome compared to previous games ones and the fact that one can win based on 
 strategy is rather nice rather than who can button mash in snaking (Overpowered way of going around 
 the track using repeated drifts on straights and curves) the fastest.
  
  The only thing I kinda despise in this game is how dum it is to actually be in first early in a 
 race simply because for some reason Nintendo decided that getting bombed with 3 blue shells within 
 1 minute would be hilarious or something, not to mention a couple of lighting bolts and pound blocks 
 thrown in the mix. 
  
  Other than overpowered "item getting" the overall racing is better than ever. 
  With the mix 
 in between the bikes and karts people can choose which they prefer, although many people seem to 
 use bikes because of their ability to pop a wheelie and speed up fairly quickly compared to a kart. 
 Although the bikes are nice on some stages, they are just crazy stupid on like rainbow road and 
 bowser's castles stages because karts and simply touch the bikes and they go flying off the stage 
 or into lava. So in reality what stages are chosen and how you race determines the better between 
 karts and bikes. 
  
  The only reason I give this game a 9/10 is probably just like any other nintendo game out there 
 THE GRAPHICS AND SOUNDS :) . Although many cannot really make cartoon like characters look good 
 graphically the graphics in this game are in my opinion the same as the gamecube and in some characters 
 like toad and dry bones actually worse. Along side the ok graphics comes the sound which when your 
 in a intense racing situation most really aren't going to care anyways. But as always the gameplay 
 of Mario Kart is way worth the laking in the graphics and sound department. 
  
  If you have ever played a Mario Kart game or any fun racing game this one will probably top it 
 off at the same or better level. Oh and the online racing is nice, but you may not want to go on 
 with me there ;) (Im really just a casual racer, no threat)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Mario has had a lot of spin-off, including Mario Kart, Mario Party, Mario Superstar Baseball and 
 Super Mario Strikers, to name a few. The Mario spin-offs started with Super Mario Kart on the SNES 
 and the Mario Kart series is still probably the best Mario spin-off series. And now, here's the 
 newest game in the series: Mario Kart Wii.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is the first Mario Kart game to include a wheel controller, which you need to put 
 your Wii remote in, to play. It's called the Wii Wheel. But it's just optional to use. You can 
 also use a GameCube controller, Classic Controller, Wii remote with a nunchuck or even just the 
 Wii remote alone.
  
  One thing I don't like about this game is that the AI can be quite cheap. It's worse here than 
 it was in the previous Mario Kart games. Sometimes, you'll be getting hit with a lot of items during 
 the races, especially if you're in first place. But still, the races can be fun. It would just 
 be better if the cheapness would be reduced a little bit. As with other Mario Kart games, there's 
 the Battle Mode, where you can do some combat with other drivers. There's also a mode called Coin 
 Runners, which is fun as well. This game changes the snaking from Mario Kart DS and this time, 
 you won't have to be press left or right while drifting, which is a good thing. You'll now be able 
 to mini-turbo automatically. Another thing I don't like about this game is the when you play on 
 multi-player mode, the AI always races with you. Why can't they have option with just the player 
 control characters racing? It's too bad how they removed Mission Mode.
  
  Like Mario Kart DS, this game includes Wi-Fi mode. The Wi-Fi mode here much better than it is in 
 Super Smash Brothers Brawl, because there's less lag. Sometimes, I get disconnections while being 
 online, but the Satellite Internet I have probably has something to do with that.
  
  Overall, this is a really good and one of the best Mario spin-off games. It has a few flaws though, 
 as I mentioned before. If you're a fan of the previous Mario Kart games, you should obviously check 
 this game out. But if you hate cheap AI, you might want to rent this game first.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOnlyValius
Rating: 5
Date: May 5, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I just got done playing this game four player and had one of the worst experiences of my life. 
 For this review I will just list out the fails below.
  
  Fails:
  
  Items are way overpowered. You drop places to0 quickly.
  No option for non-team battle mode.
 
  No reward for racing well.
  Bikes add nothing to the game/Might take away from it
  
  This game took the fun out of Mario Kart.
  
  In one instance my friend missed the enitre first 
 lap got eight bullets and finished second right behind me.
  
  Overall: I loved Double Dash it was one of my favorite games. I have also own all other versions 
 of this franchise. Nintendo let me down on this one.
  All of my friends agree with me that this game is disappointing me. 
  
  Even when we turned 
 to battle mode to save us from the frustration of Racing we were disappointed. Battle mode is only 
 6v6 and it scores like deathmatch not lose three life and your out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firze
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion its a really good game, this mario kart brings you all the fun you can have with 
 the multiplayer, especially the online option, and rating thing, it makes you be more competitive. 
 It's the same with the Grand Prix eventhough all mario karts have this option, this one is extremely 
 good, with the new ranks like 1 star and all that, also how u need certain rank to unlock some 
 of the karts/bikes and characters. The characters are not that bad i mean mario and his friends, 
 however this should need more characters like kirby or something :) something like a brawl but 
 with karts hehe. Battle mode: ok first of all i never liked this option it was always boring (at 
 least for me) but in this case of the MKWII this is terrible , they just focused on multiplayer 
 and online, i mean i never play it but when i did it was timed and in group :S that was boring 
 and u dont unlock anything withth that. 
  
  Summary: Excellent multiplayer and online mode, fun and entertaining to play for hours, a lot of 
 characters to chose and bikes/karts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK3fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it, the Mario Kart series has a new innovation of kart/racing games today. Before MKWii, 
 Double Dash dominated the mario kart series as the best. But now, MKWii is the most interesting 
 and intense by far. The controls are amazing, especially for the Wii Wheel, and the character choice, 
 in my opinion, is really good. Although there are some clones, there are still some unique characters. 
 But, one of the major flaws is ITEM BALANCE. If your in 12th place, you get all Bullet Bills, stars, 
 POW blocks, lightning, etc. If your in 1st, you get shells, bananas, and fake item blocks. It constantly 
 pisses me off on how unbalanced it is. But, saying that, another unbalanced thing is the skill 
 in 150 cc. Two words: NEARLY IMPOSSIBLE. Rainbow road is also very hard for me, since I use the 
 Wii Wheel. I fall off the edge around...5-10 times? But, I'm not saying this game sucks. It is 
 an amazing game... so buy it... now...
  -BK3fan
  PS my first review w00t 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkatanWarrior
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 5, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  When I heard that Mario Kart was finally coming out for the wii I was excited. I could finally 
 put double dash down, and I was eager to see what new feature Nintendo had come up with. If it 
 were anything like the team options in double dash, I was in for a big treat.
  
  I've loved Mario Kart since it's super nintendo days, and still regularly play the SNES, and N64 
 versions. Not one installment in the series has disappointed me, and then I got this game...
  
  One of my biggest fears, that I thought would never come true is that Mario Kart Wii would 
 follow suit with Strikers (Cheap all around, unnecessarily difficult to unlock secrets, and generally 
 in the later stages of the most difficult courses, not fun to play) Sure enough, that's exactly 
 what happened.
  
  No longer are there close calls with red turtle shells on the second lap, that cause you to have 
 to play better than you ever have before to catch up, instead the cpu waits until the last lap, 
 for any jump, and hits you with several items, which loses you the race.
  
  It's to a point that skill doesn't even play a part, exactly like strikers, and you're forced to 
 rely on luck.
  
  Other than the CPU cheapness, there are several other issues I have with the game. The Wiiwheel 
 is fun, but it's not even close to a good enough feature to revolve the game around. It's almost 
 a cop out, and prevented any bonus features since the last game, with the exception of bikes instead 
 of karts.
  
  The walls are another huge issue. In previous games hitting a wall would result in bouncing off 
 of it, often losing you a place or two. This was fair. In MKwii however you hit a wall and immediately 
 stop, which often makes you lose up to five places.
  
  The addition of SNES and N64 tracks are great for nostalgic purposes, and are a treat for people 
 who have stuck with the series, but once again are simply not enough to be a main feature.
  
  The graphics are slightly better than double dash, nothing special, the sound, music, and multiplayer 
 are all great, and it's still one of the most fun wii games to play, but I'm disappointed in the 
 direction Nintendo is choosing with it's mario titles.
  
  Other issues are the incredibly difficult tasks you have to go through to unlock characters. Double 
 dash was just right, this game is unfair to anyone that doesn't perfect their skills at the game, 
 and frankly it's just not good enough to devote that much time to.
  
  The new characters beside funky kong, dry bowser, and rosalina, are boring, and barely worth unlocking. 
 Who actually wants to play as baby daisy? anyone? I didn't think so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onnu2001
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Not so much a review, but rather some unorganized thoughts and opinions.
  
  First of all, I must say that I was pleasantly surprised with the game.
  
  Being a Mario Kart 
 fanatic since the original (and still best) title in the series, I've been quite disappointed by 
 all the sequels that have followed. The Nintendo 64 and DS versions were good, with the DS version 
 being the best in ages, but neither lived up to the original.
  
  My friends and I could play that game for HOURS on end. All the shortcuts, all the humor, all the 
 great tracks, all the great battlegrounds have been noticeably missing from the newer games in 
 the series.
  
  Mario Kart Wii takes a nice step back in the proper direction. The game features some of the best 
 track designs the franchise has seen in many years. Tracks that feature progressive environments, 
 such as the Volcano Mountain level that goes from seizemic activity to full out eruption and destruction 
 of parts of the track.
  
  AWESOME.
  
  The addition of classic tracks is nice, especially those old SNES tracks. Just wish there were 
 MORE!
  
  The Wii Wheel worked amazingly well. It far exceeded all of my expectations. A slight crank on 
 the wheel is all that you need to handle most turns, but a sharp turn on the wheel will get you 
 sideways for those tight turns. After two races, I had the feel for the handling down pat. Great 
 job Nintendo.
  
  Be warned, my cousin and a friend bought 3rd party wheels for the game and had so many problems 
 with them they returned them for the Nintendo wheel. Some out there don't even have slots for the 
 Wii Mote sensor to be exposed through. 
  
  Good character selection, good sound, nice powerups, weapons that are a bit more effective than 
 the DS version (i. e. they actually slow your opponent down) , nice graphics, and the wheel interface 
 works very well.
  
  Overall, I agree with Gamespots 8.5 score. It's not the best game, or even the best Mario Kart, 
 but it's definately fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianack96
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This game is underrated. I cant believe they gave this game a 8.5. It deserves at least a 
 9. Anyways this game has solid graphics though they didnt change much since the gamecube mario 
 kart. There are lots of charachters and lots of items that will give you very enjoyable races. 
 The multiplayer is great! I have alot of fun. What this game does lack is a story mode which all 
 games should have by now. For example: Brawl had a story mode and if a nintendo charachter fightiing 
 game can fit in a story mode that is great, this game should have one to. There is a single player 
 which will last about 5 hours. This game hasn't really added much from the gamecube one except 
 online modes. The online is why this game gets a 9 from me. You can use a chat mode before and 
 after a match which makes decisions 1000x easier. The online is better than Brawl. However it does 
 have problems. You will need perfect internet connection if you never want to lose connection or 
 lag. Yes finally a wii game has rank. Good job mario kart. I reccomend this game to you whatever 
 age you are!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hwy11north
Rating: 5
Date: May 17, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  I have been a big Mario Kart fan ever since the first game. I loved double dash, and I couldn't 
 wait to see how they were going to improve it for the wii. Unfortunately, I couldn't have been 
 more disappointed. First off, the wii wheel is pretty much useless, it doesn't add anything to 
 the game at all, it's just another cheap gimmick reminicient of the zapper and power pad 2 aka 
 balance board, and the gamecube controller is the way to go. 100 and 150cc modes are incredibly 
 biased against you when you are the leader, as you get hit by about 4-5 blue shells per race, and 
 many others items. When you get hit by a POW block, some computers behind you get hit, and some 
 don't. Some who get hit recover faster than you. I've even seen a computer character in front of 
 me get hit by a lighting bolt, and not shrink, and no, he wasn't invincible. The field finishes 
 unbelievably close to each other (Your winning time could be 2:50, the guy in 12th 2:53) . I cannot 
 stress how frustrating this is. The AI in this game reminds me of MK 64, as it is very difficult 
 to gain a sizable lead, no matter how skilled you are. Even though Nintendo wants this game to 
 be easy for babies and old people to play, I can't see it being easy for them either. Battle mode, 
 a major part of every mario kart game, has been completely destroyed. With a 3 minute time limit, 
 bad arenas, and team based battling, there is almost no fun to be had. What were they thinking? 
 The new tracks are good, the new characters are stupid (baby daisy) , and the graphics, while acceptable, 
 are extremely shiny. Nintendo seems to think that by making games shiny, people will think the 
 graphics are better (ie Super Mario Galaxy) . The game also has that dumbed down, wii-ified feel 
 to it, such as the ability to use Mii's, and things like the paper thin miis that sit stupidly 
 in cars in Coconut Mall. The Mii's you can unlock also have incredibly dumb voices. Nintendo is 
 clearly marketing this game to new fans (most of whom like the babyish theme) , and has unfortunately 
 alienated all of their true fans in the process. I guess we still have the good Mario Kart games 
 of yesteryear to continue playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurleyreyes
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I hate the foggy-like appereance of the colors in the Wii version! Its ok that the light effects 
 are way better than Double Dash, but why did they made the color palette so pale! A characteristic 
 of this series was always its vivid colors on the characters and the race tracks, but now it looks... 
 like, joy-less, kinda sadder. Also the HUDs were better on the later games. And the menus are 
 also very serious, like in the normal wii setup menu... Im disappointed with the graphics on this 
 game. Miyamoto says that gameplay is much more important than graphics, and he is partially right, 
 developers must prioritize gameplay, thats ok, but that doesnt mean to totally discharge the 
 visual aspect of a game. I think a good presentation is important in every aspect of life... I 
 was hoping to see the same graphic quality as in Mario Galaxy. However this game is as fun as I 
 expected, not better than MK64 which I think is the best in the series, I was hoping to see Wario 
 Stadium on the classic courses... but no 'sigh'... Well, this is only my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-kill33
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  For over the last decade Mario Kart has stood as the pinnacle of "not so serious" racing fun. As 
 each new installment hit, so did a list of new pro's and con's. As debatable as Which Is The Best? 
 might be, it is safe to say that with the latest Wii edition, Nintendo are definitely on the track 
 to success.
  
  The lack of single battle mode and unfair racing tactics aside, what we are offered is a game with 
 heaps of features and unlockables, an enormous character roster, a good amount of tracks (good 
 and not so good) ... and the icing on the already delicious cake, worldwide online support. The 
 online mode is where this game is at, challenge friends or complete strangers from anywhere on 
 the globe. Its a shame there isn't a voice chat option, but this is the closest to perfection Mario 
 Kart has gotten on a console thus far 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalibusTheCrab
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii has joined PGR4 in motorbike racing with cars! Mario Kart Wii has loads of new bonuses 
 including racing with your very own Mii (Must be unlocked) and Retro Tracks that you will remember 
 since The SNES, N64, GCN, DS and Gameboy! What more could you possibly want?! The game has now 
 doubled its number in tracks and almost characters that wil keep you hooked on to multiplayer till 
 the next Mario Kart comes out! There are no more teams as there was in Double Dash but the new 
 option of Bikes will make you forget the teams within a second of playing! A new optiom of racing 
 in teams of 6 against another team is great fun but can be a little irritating if your team keeps 
 coming in last while your the only one doing all the work. The battle mode has been changed to 
 have a timer in the battles instead of last man standing rules which will keep all the players 
 playing till the end.
  Overall, Mario Kart will be one of those games that will be kept for life on your game shelves. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkspineslayer
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Mario kart Wii for nintendos little white box that could has come out in full force and has been 
 fairly sucsessful at running down rockstars 8000 pound gorilla GTA4 considering both games popularity. 
 but has the game that once defined and invented mortal kart kombat lost its steam? not on your 
 life and here is why.
  
  Gameplay, Single player: 9.0/10
  from the title screen on its the mario kart you all know and love, single player consists of grand 
 prix, time trial, single VS play, and single battle play. keeping it a bit more simple by ditching 
 mario kart DSes mission mode. 
  
  in any mode its as simple as picking from one of the starting 12 charecters, picking your pimped 
 out ride and hitting the track with 11 other racers in a epic struggle for 1st place. the speed 
 classes are a lot more defined this time around. 50cc will only be karts the first go through, 
 and 100cc will likewise be bikes untill you unlock the ability to say otherwise (i'll get to the 
 difference between a hog and a kart later) and 150cc will be any kart right from the start.
  
  other than that the difficultys are a lot more spaced out as well, 50cc is designed for beginiers 
 and will be the perfect oprotunity to test the new "Wii wheel" shell out (again more on that later) 
 while 100cc picks up the pace a little bit and 150cc pulls out all the stops with scary smart, 
 and sometimes cheap AI. this time around 150cc will put even the most vetran karters to the ultimate 
 test.
  
  the items are mostly comprised of the usual suspects from mario kart DS (boo is still AWOL) with 
 3 new items added to the roster. the mega mushroom does exactly what you remember it doing in new 
 super mario bros minus the 1ups, the new thundercloud will give you a nice speed boost for a short 
 time, but shrink you down like the ever annoying lightning soon enough unless you pass it to another 
 racer by no other way then raming them, and the POW brick giving everyone a warning to get to the 
 sky before the whole race is brought to a screaming halt for a peaceful millisecond. the POW block 
 will be the one item you will learn to hate with time, or will hate it off bat... either way yet 
 another item that is almost unblockable and hits multiple racers is unnessessary, and whoever thought 
 of it needs to be shot.
  
  onto the karts VS bikes topic, at first its going to be hard to see much of a difference, but as 
 soon as you get serious about your karting the few differences will make all the difference in 
 the world on your lap time.
  to put this short karts are exactly as you remember them, they charge up to a two stage miniturbo. 
 Bikes are general faster in acselleration, and can boost at any time by poping a wheelie (only 
 good on straightaways as they sever your turning ability) but only charge up to a one stage miniturbo.
 
  
  by the way miniturbos have been changed to make the trick easier for new karters to pick up and 
 to all but illiminate the controversial tactic in mario kart DS known as snaking *sniff* it all 
 depends on how long you drift and how tight your turn is.
  
  Gameplay, multiplayer: 10/10:
  
  take everything from the single player, minus having to care 
 about truely winning to unlock anything and add a couple of buddys ready to race and you got yourself 
 one hell of a time... and with so many controler options odds are you will have enough.
  
  controls: 8.5/10
  
  i'm going to come right out and say this, give the Wii wheel a good chance 
 when you first play, and don't get discouraged. the wheel takes a circut or two before you get 
 a handle for its turning radius and then your no less off than somebody using the Wiiremote and 
 nunchuck, classic controler or gamecube controler. as good as the wheel is however the acuracy 
 provided by the joystick can't be beaten (try GCN waluigi stadium and try hitting those boxes on 
 the jumps with the wheel) 
  
  this effectivly makes the wheel good for casual encounters and multiplayer, but in a realy competitive 
 match or time trial where being slightly off will ruin you its rather unweildy. the gamecube and 
 classic controlers remedy this, however tricks and wheelies require you remove your thumb from 
 the steering controls to the D-pad located conveniently just far enough away to make sure you need 
 an extra thumb to steer. also unwieldy XD
  
  this makes the Wii remote and nunchuck the best competitive racing controller for a few reasons, 
 it gives you the ease of tricks and wheelies afforded to you by the Wii wheel's quick flicks and 
 shakes, and the acuracy of the control stick.
  
  Grafics: 7.0/10
  
  the lighting effects new from double dash make a lot of difference, the game looks amasing in motion, 
 but comeon nintendo, you showed us what the Wii is truely capible of with galaxy and brawl, this 
 is just getting lazy.
  
  
  Online play: 10/10
  
  this is probably the greatest part of the game, nintendo has realy nailed online play with mario 
 kart Wii. there is never any lag whatsoever and tons of modes you can play with friends or random 
 foes over the normaly so-so nintendo Wifi connection. even going so far as to have its own Wii 
 channel downloadable off the options menu in game. makes you wonder why nintendo coulden't have 
 put in this effort with brawl?
  
  
  
  Final word: 9.0/10
  
  Mario kart Wii falls short in comparison to nintendos other recent hits for a few reasons, it is 
 no where near as graficly awsome as nintendos big 3 (galaxy, metroid and brawl) or packs in near 
 as much sheer content as brawl, but with the mix of new and familier blending perfectly together, 
 the steller online play and just being a great game altogether, Marios latest kart outing is a 
 blast and an experiance and just a game that needs to be in any Wii owners collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexy_chimp
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 4, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  To quote another review, this is the first time one of Nintendo's own Wii games have aimed to please 
 both hardcore and casual players, but failed. The casuals, as far as I can tell, will be satisfied, 
 but for the more serious players, dissapointment awaits.
  After playing Super Mario Galaxy and Super Smash Brothers Brawl, it is hard not to be dissapointed. 
 Super Mario Galaxy was polished to a blinding shine and Super Smash Brothers Brawl was packed full 
 of every feature you could think of. Which is my main gripe with Mario Kart Wii, it lacks polish 
 and features.
  The graphics. To put it bluntly, they suck. Which is not that big of a deal, they are good enough, 
 but come on. It just barely looks better than Double Dash, a Gamecube game that didn't even look 
 that good when it came out. The character models are just bad, probably on the level of a high 
 end N64 game like Banjo Kazooie. The tracks are fine, but nothing special.
  The most dissapointing thing is the lack of features. Remember the Mission Mode on the DS? Well, 
 it's not here. How hard could it have possibly been to put that in? An obvious lack of effort. 
 How about the option to turn items on and off in SSBB? Not here, which is a big deal because the 
 accursed Blue Shell is back to ruin your race.
  The two things that save Mario Kart Wii from a miserable failure are the online and the new tracks. 
 The new tracks are great, very imaginative and by far the most crazy tracks you have ever seen 
 in a Mario Kart game. The online is also great.
  If you have nothing to play, you might as well pick this up. It is a good game, there just could've 
 been so much more. There are more worthy games recently released, and you should put those above 
 this and your priority list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dean_Harper
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is a game I was not expecting to come out. I only heard about it for the first time 
 in March, and wasnt really all that excited about it (at least not as excited as I was for Brawl) . 
 I didnt pre order it, and i picked it up the day after it came out despite my not really wanting 
 it all that much. However, when I got it home and started to play it... WOW... I've never had so 
 much fun (besides Brawl) in my life! Now, keep in mind, I had never played a single MK game before 
 this. The character roster is huge on this game, as well as many courses for you to choose from. 
 The graphics are really great, perfect details right down to the sun glares you get on certain 
 stages. One great thing they did was incorporate the drifting technique from the DS version (which 
 I played not long after getting this game) , as well as the wide variety of karts. They also included 
 BIKES! Bikes are much better than karts in that they go much faster, but are also just as easy 
 to handle! The online aspect of the game is its shining jewel, however. There is NEVER any lagg 
 when I play, and this is against people from all across the world! You can play regional (your 
 continent) , Worldwide, or with Friends. The only problem with the game is that the Wii Wheel feels 
 somewhat awkward and is hyper-sensitive to turns, making it hard to turn very sharply, and also 
 very hard to turn softly. After using the Wii Wheel, I was longing for a GC controller. But it 
 is good that the game is GC compatible, so I really have no complaints because I could switch it 
 out. Anyway, EVERYONE should buy this game if you have a Wii. Its definitely worth it.
  
  -Dean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucario-kid
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Mario karts been around for ages, however unlike most game every single mario kart has been ****** 
 good! But if you thought they were good your gonna get the blue shell syndrome, cos mario kart 
 wii is 1000 mushrooms better!
  
  There really is nothing wrong with it, it has amazing online features, a whole host of charters, 
 tracks from every mario kart, (excluding the arcade ones) and one good steering wheel to boot!
 
  
  The bikes are va great inclusion, no matter what people thought about them ruining mario kart they 
 were wrong about it! This really is one of the best games i've ever played!
  And i'm sure KID will agree with me, that when you kik some doods sorry ass online it feels oh 
 so sweet!
  
  This really is the best mario kart ever, it looks its predecessors right in the face and gives 
 them one hell of a wedgie! AN ASTOUNDING 9/10!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonkishGamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  Reggie Fils-Aime stood upon a stage back in July of last year, all eyes on him. He stood upon that 
 stage, full of charisma and power, and confirmed that the next installment in the Mariokart franchise 
 would be coming to store shelves soon. Now, most of you reading this might not know who Mr. Fils-Aime 
 is. Mr. Fils-Aime is the American Head of Nintendo, and is a big head (ha, you see he actually 
 does have a big head) of the gaming industry. The basic concept of the game is simple. You pick 
 one of many characters from the Mario universe, you pick from a variety of karts, and then you 
 race. During the race there are multiple power-ups, attacks, and the like to gain and use against 
 your opponents. The idea is pretty simple, but in use it can become very chaotic and fun, one of 
 the trademarks and great things about this game. This is the first installment on the Wii, and 
 thus it enables you to use the Wiimote to control your racer. Conveniently the game comes with 
 a wheel you can plug your Wiimote into. The wheel feels really sturdy, not flimsy or too light, 
 but like a wheel. However, as with some of Nintendo's earlier and bigger games like Super Smash 
 Bros. Brawl, the game offers you the option of using the GameCube controller. Basically, if you 
 preferred using the Wiimote in Brawl, you'll probably wanna use it here. Both methods work fine; 
 I however like the feel of using the wheel packaged in. The graphics in the game are really the 
 only down point in the game. The graphics on certain characters are a little pixel-y sometimes; 
 they just didn't look quite finished, not quite polished as Brawl was. That and sometimes your 
 enemies attacks/rubberband effect can be a little annoying, sometimes overwhelming. This series 
 is also known for frantic fun with multiplayer as well, and this iteration is no different It offers 
 support including 2-4 players, or you can join races online and race friends across the world, 
 that is if you have friends in other continents. The game just really succeeds at being fun; it 
 provides a great fun atmosphere that makes for a great time. I personally had a blast with this 
 game, and if you're looking for a fun, simplistic racer on the Wii, this is definitely a good choice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefMrBam
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart has always been about crazy courses full of insane item filled racing with plenty of 
 Nintendo characters and Rainbow Road. All of these things make their way fully intact into Mario 
 Kart Wii along with some new additions. 
  
  As far as actual gameplay is concerned this is still Mario Kart the way it has always been so if 
 you didn't like it before you still won't. The racing is still fast, the computer still has ridiculous 
 catch up logic and items are still flying all over the place. New additions to this iteration are 
 the ability to race on motorcycles, a trick system, online play and motion control. 16 classic 
 tracks return along the 16 new tracks and most of these are still fun to play. The 16 new tracks 
 are varied and fun and the new Rainbow Road is just as twisted as any of the others. The field 
 of racers this time around has also been upped from 8 to 12 adding extra chaos to the tracks.
 
  
  Motorcycles control fundamentally the same as cars and essentially just give the racing a fresh 
 new look rather than changing the feel of the gameplay. The trick system is as easy as flicking 
 the Wii remote and watching your racer pull of some move in the air. Motion control is implemented 
 well and in what seems to be becoming a trend with Nintendo releases the option to use alternate 
 control methods is available so everyone should be able to find a control scheme to suit their 
 needs. These additions do little to change the feel of the game instead serving to freshen up the 
 presentation while maintaining the same frantic fun for which the series is known 
  
  Online play is the major addition here returning from Mario Kart DS, and it is a huge success. 
 Communication is still limited but the actual online interface is quick and easy. Options for racing 
 against friends, worldwide or regional players are all simply laid out and both racing and battle 
 modes are available. Even racing without friend codes the game allows you access to everything 
 and matches run smooth. Leader boards are in place to compare times and the simple point based 
 matching system allows the game to match players of like skill together. 
  
  Probably the biggest fault with Mario Kart Wii lies in the Battle mode. This has been switched 
 to exclusively timed team based games. Some people may enjoy the change and it is still very much 
 functional but making it exclusively like this rather than giving the option to play the non-timed 
 free for all matches of the past feels like a step backwards for battle mode.
  
  Mario Kart Wii may not re-invent the wheel but it is a fun, action packed racer with support for 
 great local and online multiplayer that is easily recommendable to anyone looking for a fun racing 
 game on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SfGiants11
Rating: 7
Date: May 3, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Before I start, I'll give you all a benchmark with which to evaluate my review and how it relates 
 to your personal tastes: Double Dash  64  DS  Super Circuit (unfortunately I never played the original 
 SNES iteration...) . 
  
  Honestly, I'd be lying if I said that any aspect of a new Mario Kart mattered as much as the design 
 of the new tracks, of which there are 16 this time around. I loved the tracks in Double Dash, since 
 at the time they all seemed relatively imaginative and original. Actually, most of them still do. 
 DK Mountain sticks out in my mind as a particularly creative and hectic course (and fortunately 
 Nintendo included it as a classic track in MK Wii) . In comparison, I was quite disappointed with 
 the newest set of race tracks that Nintendo pulled out of its hat for the Wii... There is really 
 nothing particularly inspiring or even pleasantly surprising about any of them. To state it bluntly, 
 it just seems like Nintendo is starting to run out of ideas... That, or it's intentionally dumbing 
 down the experience for a younger target audience. Some of the concepts are fairly intriguing, 
 such as the Coconut Mall course in which you race through a mall (umm, yeah) , but the way in which 
 they are pulled off ranges from slightly to very disappointing. The aforementioned mall track is 
 ridiculously bland and ho-hum, for example. The classic Bowser's Castle and Rainbow Road tracks 
 return as expected for Mario Kart Wii, and they're actually two of the better courses in the game, 
 but not the best of their kind (the MK64 Bowser's Castle and Double Dash Rainbow Road take those 
 honors) . But on a side note, I will say that this is easily the most difficult, and subsequently 
 frustrating Rainbow Road to date.
  
  The next fight I have to pick is with the graphics, which actually appear to be a step backwards 
 from Double Dash. The two games are almost exact replicas except for one gaping area: lighting. 
 Nintendo went way overboard on the lighting in MKWii, and because of this a lot of the new courses 
 appear washed out and the characters look like wax models. It really isn't a huge deal because 
 nobody was really expecting Gran Turismo 5 here, but it still makes me wonder about the level of 
 polish that Nintendo applied to the game (no pun intended) . 
  
  Now, the first time I played through all of the tracks in Mario Kart Wii, I was admittedly very 
 disappointed. Severely disappointed, actually. First of all, each of the new tracks are constructed 
 in order to fit an expanded roster of 12 racers, so there are fewer pitfalls and the roads are 
 much wider and less perilous. As a result, races tended to be much less hectic, thus taking away 
 the prime source of the fun that I generally have derived from past Mario Karts. But once I got 
 up to the 150 cc difficulty level (and eventually, mirror levels) , things took a sharp turn. Many 
 reviewers out there have complained about the imbalance created by the chaotic onslaught of powerful 
 items that often seem to overwhelm races and make the game seem more like a combat game than a 
 racing one, but I actually like this. It is truly the root of the challenge in Mario Kart. Sure, 
 I would want to snap my gamecube controller in half (The Wii Wheel has already been discarded, 
 but I'll get to that in a second) after going from first to twelfth when I got hit by a blue shell, 
 then shrunk, run over by Bowser and knocked off the stage by some other racer, but for the most 
 part it's all in good fun.
  
  Finally, online play. It works. That's really all I can say about it. There isn't anything spectacular 
 here, or mind-blowing, but it's there and at times it is a lot of fun. I have experienced problems 
 from time to time when the game spontaneously disconnects me from my opponent racers, but I'll 
 take what I can get from the online-challenged Nintendo. Baby steps, people. Baby steps.
  
  And really, I'm not even going to justify the Wii Wheel with anything more than a short, sloppily 
 constructed sentence with poor grammar: It sucks pretty freakin' badly. You will lose with the 
 Wii Wheel. Use the Wiimote-nunchuck combo or the Gamecube controller instead, as both work perfectly 
 fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runefox
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  This installment in the Mario Kart series offers a brilliant multiplayer mode. You can play with 
 anybody who owns it all over the world. Some features of earlier installments are lacking here. 
 In the DS version, squids were useless, thanks to the map. In MKW, however, squids suddenly become 
 a lot more dangerous.
  
  One big addition to the game is the arrival of tricks. When you go up a ramp, you can jiggle the 
 Wii Wheel to perform a trick. Upon landing, you will get a short-lived speed boost. However, this 
 also makes you more likely to fall into a gap if there is something in the way. This comes down 
 to careful driving vs fast driving - a hard decision.
  
  Although the game takes a step forwards, with multiplayer mode, it also takes a step back. The 
 old courses are mostly boring, even the ones that I enjoyed in the past.
  
  Since the game's flaws can be overlooked, I give this game 9 out of 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockwii13
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it, it's hard not to love Mario Kart. Since its debut on the SNES, Mario Kart has made 
 a big impact in video game racing history. Mario Kart Wii is the best so far, and one of the best 
 games for the Wii.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Mario Kart has always been a great game, and the Wii version keeps it up with it's new Wii Wheel. 
 The Wii Wheel really puts you in the game, and it makes you feel almost as if you really are about 
 to get nailed by a Red Shell. Plus, it comes packaged in, no extra charge! The unlockable Mii racer 
 makes it even more immersive. The races are great, fast-paced, and crazy! Then there is online 
 play for the first time in Mario Kart history. It's a blast! And it has no lag what-so-ever! You 
 could be playing against someone in Japan, France, and Brazil at the same time with no lag! 
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  The graphics for Mario Kart Wii aren't of the Super Smash Bros. Brawl 
 type, but they're still nice. The scenery for the race tracks is great. The graphics are clear, 
 vivid and colorful. The one thing that isn't so great is the characters and vehicles. They really 
 haven't upgraded from it's previous console installment, Double Dash!!. The characters just look 
 blockish and nondetailed, which brought its score to a 7.
  
  Music/Sound: 8/10
  
  Another thing that hasn't changed much is the music and sound. The music is nice, but isn't very 
 different from Double Dash!!. The sound is basially the same from all the other games. It's nice, 
 but not all that different.
  
  Value/Variety: 10/10
  
  Mario Kart Wii has a lot to do, and a lot of different ways to play. There are over 25 characters 
 to race as, not including all the Miis you might want to play as. There are also 32 tracks to race 
 on, 16 new to Wii, and 16 from past consoles. Plus there are many different karts, bikes, and motorcycles 
 to race in. There are also five total different contol schemes to fit anyone. You'll definitly 
 get your money's worth from this game.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is my favorite racing game. The game can't compare to Smash Bros., but is still 
 a game every Wii owner should have, and everyone should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: znator
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is a great entry to the franchise, and introduces many new things to the franchise.
 
  
  Tricks: For the first time you can perform tricks by shaking the Wii mote while your in the air, 
 after awhile this starts to feel natural that every-time your in the air you want to get that extra 
 burst of speed.
  
  Bikes: For the first time Bikes are introduced which of course defeats the purpose of calling the 
 game Mario Kart, however thats besides the points, the bikes are a lot faster then Karts, and drifting 
 is a little different then Karts, but once you Master Bikes, your in for a cool treat as you learn 
 how to Wheelie and take the lead.
  
  The Wii Wheel is a great control scheme for those who want to feel their in the game, however most 
 serious gamers prefer the feel of anything with a joystick, and I prefer the Wii mote and Nunchuk 
 control myself.
  
  Online is simply the best, you can play up to 12 people, either worldwide, regional, or friends, 
 and take them to town, the Mario Kart channel is also a great way to connect to see if any friends 
 are online and join a open room, Nintendo has also thought of ideas to play ghosts and time tournaments 
 online which is a great addition to a classic franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is a mixture of Double Dash!! and Mario Kart DS. Or, to put it even more simple: 
 It is a small upgrade upon Mario Kart DS. Same amount of cups, characters, and an online -- just 
 like Mario Kart DS. That is somewhat of a disappoint to me, I figured it would be unique in its 
 own way, but if you think about it, it really isn't.
  
  Game play is the same as every other Mario Kart game, except now, you can use a Wii Wheel that 
 just helps better stabilize the Wii tilting controls done by tilting your Wii Remote to move the 
 characters. Nintendo also added a tricks system in this game. when you're in the air, just tilt 
 the Wii Remote backwards, and you do an un-amusing trick from you character, giving you a small 
 turbo boost once you reach the ground again. The controls are responsive and work, luckily.
  
  The music played in this game isn't nearly as good as the others in the series. None of the 
 songs are that great, most are just annoying. The good thing is that they keep the old music from 
 the old tracks they brought back. Sound effects are tight and placed well, though.
  
  Value is pretty good, there is a lot to do in this game (mainly unlock characters and vehicles) . 
 The good thing is that helps with the value is the online play. There are tournaments and ghost 
 races -- with no lag, if I may add. I am very pleased.
  
  The one, very annoying reason why this game really isn't all that great is because of the AI. It 
 is so unforgiving and unfair at times (especially when you are in 150 CC. The AI will do WHATEVER 
 it takes so you are not in first place, it is ridiculous and unfair. If I wanted that, I would 
 go play Mario Kart 64. That is one thing that we will all have to do deal with, though. The only 
 way I would recommend this to anyone is if that person has online, because if they don't, it is 
 a waist of your fifty dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jagrofess
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart for the DS has been out for a while and has been well enjoyed by Nintendo fans. Mario 
 Kart Wii has had the same sucess. Using tracks from other games/systems including the DS gives 
 variety to the game. The wheel which comes included is fun to use if not hard to get use to at 
 first. The imaginative tracks are colourful and exciting with enough jumps and obstacles to keep 
 you on your toes. As with all games of late it can be played over the Internet allowing you to 
 race people all over the world. The introduction of bikes gives you a whole different way to play 
 the game as most bikes are faster but turn slower. Overall, this is a superb game that will keep 
 you hooked for many an hour.
  
  Note: The Wii Wheel can be a bit non-responsive at times but this is only a minor annoyance at 
 best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisgopher
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Once again we strap on our safety helmets and hit the tracks for some Mario Kart. It's a game that 
 everyone can enjoy, unless it is a big disappointment. The good news is that the latest installment 
 in the series is a grand compilation of the previous games and it plays like one too.
  
  
  The Good:
  
  - Lots of characters, courses, and karts/bikes.
  
  - Bikes may seem a 
 bit out of place here, but they fit in quite nicely and add a little variety to racing. They handle 
 completely different from karts.
  
  - Pulling off tricks to gain speed boosts is cool, but as easy as flicking the Wii-Mote.
  
 
  - Courses are challenging. The return of old courses is a welcome addition. Some say they are 
 boring compared to the new ones, I say they add something classic and different. This makes for 
 a total of 32 levels, plus mirror mode.
  
  - Online mode is the best for a Wii game yet. You connect fast, and racing runs as smooth as chili 
 diarrhea. You really don't need friends to play, you can play with random people from either the 
 regional area or worldwide and have just as much fun. Plus, there's a point system to compare rankings 
 between players. YES! COMPETITION!
  
  - The Mario Kart channel makes time trials difficult, since you can compare your times to the best 
 in the world and the top 10 next best.
  
  - Controls are great. You're probably going to want to play with anything other than the Wii Wheel. 
 If you want to win, don't use the wheel.
  
  - You get to race as your Miis, but you have to unlock that first...
  
  
  Bad:
  
  - Battle 
 Mode: No more solo against a friend. Teams are required and there is a time limit.
  
  - The items are more unbalanced that Tara Reid's boob job. Don't expect to hold 1st place in a 
 race without getting hit by 3 or more blue shells. Constant bombardment by powerful items will 
 definitely raise your blood pressure. The good news is however, in VS mode you can change item 
 appearances. 
  
  - Simply brushing or sideswiping against a wall or fence will cause you to come to a dead stop. 
 The wall collision physics suck here.
  
  - Some of the designs of the karts and bikes appeal to the 4-year old crowd. There is a duck cart....
 
  
  - The Mii voices sound TERRIBLE. They should have just been silent.
  
  
  When playing Mario Kart Wii you're going to experience some changes, most of them are good, and 
 some are not so good. But usually you can set aside the few problems and still manage to enjoy 
 yourself. The overall racing experience and online capabilities of the game make sure that you 
 are getting your money's worth. Also, you're going to spend a good amount of time unlocking everything 
 the game has to offer. If you have played Mario Kart in the past, don't pass up this installment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is addictive and the Wii Wheel is surprisingly easy to become comfortable 
 with. There is a total 24 characters to play as (26 if you count the two different Mii Outfits) 
 and 32 tracks to race. The old tracks unlike GS states are still fun as ever and also unlike GS 
 the items are unblanced everywhere!!!! One annoying thing you will notice is that sometimes a red 
 shell will pass five computers and hit just you or a blue shell will hit you right before the finish 
 line on the last lap. One good thing is that when in 8th Place or lower you always get items to 
 help you catch up, but that doesn't make it any easier. Luckily though when playing multiplayer 
 you can change any options from computer difficulty and speed of karts. Plus the inclusion of bikes 
 is another great addition however it may seem bikes have advantages over the cars (especially with 
 wheelies included) . However the difficulty only really matters if you are trying to unlock everything. 
 However 8 / 10 for me.
  
  GRAPHICS: I think the graphics could have done much better. Some polygons (especially on bowser) 
 are plainly visible however they are no doubt an improvement over previous games. Also when going 
 from 1 Player to 3 or 4 Players the frame rate drastically drops to only 30 frames per second ouch! 
 However the race tracks, backgrounds, and textures are a lot more fun and colorful and will keep 
 you playing. The graphics barely hamper the game so 9 / 10. 
  
  OVERALL: I wasn't planning on making this a long review so I'll sum it up and say 8.5 out of 10. 
 The game is addictive and fun, but large frame rate drops and annoyingly high difficulty can take 
 away some value from the game. Still worth buying though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssbb_haller
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely the sequel you need to buy. It is slightly off GTA or Brawl, but Mario 
 Kart Wii is a game that everybody will enjoy playing. It is a great multiplayer game. In this game, 
 there are many new features. First, the Wii wheel is a great way to play the game, or you could 
 go old-school with the GCN controller. Instead of 8 racers, there are 12 racers. There are 12 playable 
 characters, including 13 unlockable ones. You can even play as a Mii. There will be a character 
 that suits your style. The four game modes are the same. Grand Prix has 8 cups, which include 32 
 tracks, 16 old and 16 new. With the 50cc, 100cc, 150cc and mirror mode, there are many ways to 
 play. Although you can play as karts, bikes are also playable. They give a new feel to the game. 
 During the course of the tracks, there will be ramps on which you can do tricks on, giving you 
 a speed boost as you land. That is pretty awesome. Battles are different in this game. In Balloon 
 Battle and Coin Runners, there are teams and it is timed. This is probably my least favorite part 
 of the game because of the timed and teamed part. My favorite feature of the game has got to be 
 wi-fi. There is this little thing called the Mario Kart Channel. It shows your times on tracks 
 compared to other people in your friend list, regional, or even worldwide area. It even shows the 
 World record. It shows if any tourneys are coming up. Ghosts can be sent to your Wii, or you could 
 send them to other people. I dont think your friend list has a limit, which is a good thing. You 
 can never have to many friends. Up to 12 can race or battle. When playing against strangers, it 
 is untimed (unlike Brawl) , so you can play as long as you want. This game is a must have. I love 
 it. Just buy it. Just kidding. But seriously, go get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V-Dunstan
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is the sequel to the Nintendo DS installment and offers the very same manic fun 
 that it delivers in every version.
  
  Pros: Well, this game has some of the best graphics on the Wii. It has clean and for the most part 
 refreshing music. bots for multiplayer included. 12 drivers per race, 24 characters, overall 32 
 tracks, the cars have stats ( does not include weapon stat as featured in DS) it has online between 
 your friends, your continent and the world itself. It also has the inclusion of bikes which adds 
 further planning and decision making to your vehicle selection. And finally the 5 retro and 5 new 
 battle tracks.
  
  Cons: only single player GP, horrible and aggravating new weapons (plus the blooper) and well... 
 ITS JUST THE SAME GAME!!!
  
  And not to blame them really I mean, after years of success with this game and the lack of dramatic 
 changes through the whole series, why would nintendo change it stars now?
  
  Final Comments: a must buy for any wii collections, you'll have fun with it (maybe not if you have 
 played the others to death) and it offers alot more for multiplayer so have fun!!!
  
  Note: the final score is not affected by the claimIt is just the same game" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superluigi96
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  If there's one thing Nintendo's gotten good at over the years, it's making sequels. Every time 
 a new console comes out, it's a sure bet that every major Nintendo franchise is going to get a 
 sparkling new installment on it. So it was inevitable that we would finally meet Mario Kart Wii, 
 and like most video game sequels, it far surpasses its predecessors in almost every regard.
  
  Mario Kart is essentially a weapons-based racing game. While racing around the track, players 
 encounter item blocks that grant a random item to whoever hits it. These items can be used to further 
 one's progress in the race, hinder the progress of others, or both, and they appear quite frequently. 
 In addition to the traditional shells and mushrooms, this installment includes a few new items, 
 such as the POW block and lightning cloud. The POW block, when used, causes all other players to 
 spin out and drop all their items. Other players will know it's coming when a "POW" appears over 
 their heads, and can dodge it by going off a jump, and while it's definitely a powerful item, it 
 seems like a watered-down version of the lightning bolt, which does the same thing but also shrinks 
 the players, sharply decreasing their maximum speed temporarily. It seems unnecessary to me to 
 include the POW block if they're going to leave the lightning bolt in the game. The second new 
 item, the lightning cloud, is essentially a lightning bolt that affects only the player holding 
 it. When you get it from an item block, it automatically hovers over your head, and after a certain 
 amount of time passes, it shrinks you. It can be passed to other racers through contact, but most 
 of the time this item will end up hitting whoever gets it first. I don't like this item because 
 it's the only one that hurts whoever gets it instead of helps them. Why would I want to hit an 
 item block if I might get punished by the game for it?
  
  While the items are random, the odds of getting certain items are based on the rank of the player 
 at the time they hit the block. Therefore, a player in last place will get better items like Bullet 
 Bills and stars, where the player in first is lucky if he gets triple banana peels. While this 
 evens the playing field between newbies and experts, it can get frustrating when it becomes so 
 easy for players in the back of the pack to suddenly get to first place so easily. I was playing 
 a Grand Prix where, in the last ten seconds of the race, I came back from 11th place to win the 
 race. I shouldn't be able to do that.
  
  As far as tracks go, Mario Kart Wii has 32 of them, half of which are new and half of which are 
 revamped versions of classic tracks. For the most part, the new tracks are creative and fun, with 
 only a few exceptions. As far as classic tracks go, there are a few more misses. Some of them, 
 like N64 Bowser's Castle and DS Delfino Square are still as fun to play as they were back in the 
 day, but others, like SNES Ghost Valley 2 and GBA Bowser Castle 3 make me sad. There were so many 
 much better tracks to pick from, but it seems they went and picked the most boring tracks from 
 those games to include. Also, while the older tracks have received some graphical updates, they 
 still look very bland and dated compared to the new tracks.
  
  As far as graphics go, the game looks almost exactly the same as the GameCube version. The characters 
 still have relatively low polygon counts and look like plastic. The good thing is that the frame 
 rate consistently runs smoothly in single-player mode.
  
  
  Several gameplay additions include bikes and the ability to do tricks in midair. Bikes have several 
 pros and cons to them, but are relatively balanced with the karts. Bikes can't do super mini-turbos, 
 but they can wheelie down straight-aways to gain a slight speed boost. The trick system, which 
 is my favorite addition, allows the player to gain a speed boost by flicking the Wii Wheel (or 
 pressing the D-pad on another controller) when jumping to gain a speed boost upon landing. This 
 addition becomes relevant in many of the new stages, which intentionally include a lot of jumps 
 and half-pipes to provide opportunities to pull off stunts.
  
  The mini-turbo aspect of the game has changed as well. No longer can players perform the technique 
 known as snaking, a racing strategy I had no problems with until everyone started doing it online 
 on Mario Kart DS. To snake, a player would constantly drift and use mini-turbo by moving the control 
 stick left and right, meaning they could essentially go through the entire track on one giant speed 
 boost. Mini-turbos are now based on how long a player spends drifting and the degree of their turn 
 during the drift. While I prefer the old controller input way of doing mini-turbos (even though 
 I was awful at snaking) , online play will be more tolerable for new players and novices now that 
 the snakers won't be running rampant anymore.
  
  I'm still not quite sure what to make of the Wii Wheel that comes with the game. The first time 
 I tried it, I couldn't get used to the control scheme. The steering felt fine; the motion sensing 
 controls were clearly worked on extensively and respond well to the player's movements. The awkward 
 part for me was the button configuration for drifting and using items. Drifting is mapped to the 
 B button on the back, while item use is mapped to the D-pad on the front. Over my gaming history, 
 I've been trained that the button on the back of the controller is for shooting things, so I found 
 myself frequently pressing B when I wanted to shoot a shell, and ended up accidentally drifting 
 into the grass as a result. After enough practice, however, the Wii Wheel eventually feels like 
 second nature, and even though it's still easier to race with a classic or GameCube controller, 
 the Wii Wheel is still a viable controller option (unlike the Wii Remote option in Smash Bros., 
 which was kind of a joke) . I recommend you at least try the Wii Wheel for a few Grand Prix tournaments. 
 You might find out you actually like it, and if not, you can always switch to another control scheme. 
 (On a side note, I like this new trend of Nintendo allowing players to use classic and GameCube 
 controllers, and hope this becomes a permanent trend and not just a two-time thing.)
  
  Another promising addition I hope becomes a trend for Nintendo in the future is online gameplay 
 that's actually good. Up to 12 players can race in a single party, and there's not as many random 
 disconnects as there have been in other Nintendo games. Upon logging on and selecting a character 
 you'll be set up with a group relatively quickly, and if they're in the middle of a race you'll 
 be able to watch them. Once the game is over, the next one will start after players vote on which 
 track to play. Races are relatively lag-free, with only the occasional scenario in which an opponent 
 appears to randomly jump around the track, and this only tends to happen with opponents in far-away 
 places like Japan. Besides racing, other online features include battle mode and the ability to 
 download ghosts from friends and strangers alike. Speaking of friends, although friend codes are 
 still in this game too, it's relatively easy to register friends without having to write down numbers, 
 as there's a feature that allows you to invite friends on your Wii console to your Mario Kart friend 
 list. There's no way to communicate with opponents, unfortunately, but despite that, the online 
 aspect of Mario Kart is extremely well done, and is quite honestly my favorite part of the game. 
 A few more games with online play like this and people might start believing that Nintendo is taking 
 online gaming seriously.
  
  The release of Mario Kart Wii was mostly overshadowed by Grand Theft Auto IV, but Wii gamers should 
 definitely check this game out. Any fan of the series won't be disappointed with this installment.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadlazor
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Almost compares to Mario Kart64. Some of you are probably thinking im crazy but its just missing 
 some of those features that made the 64 version that awsome. You cant jump on all vehicles which 
 kinda sucks cause i always jumped the edge and tried to jump bananas. You can do tricks when you 
 get air which give you a boost. There are ALOT more levels. There are different vehicles (bikes 
 karts cars) all with different stats. The steering wheel brings you more into the game and you 
 look like a fool turing and leaning (if you get into it) . The game is visualy well done but if 
 you just want the visuals than you didnt buy a WII. The game is very fun when played with friends 
 and has lots of replayability. The online has been working for me so i cant say if its good or 
 not but i heard that its pretty fun 16 people sounds like a blast.
  
  So in closing this is a grood (great+good=grood) game if you liked the others and if youve picked 
 it up already your having a blast and if you havnt id advise you to and maybe another steering 
 wheel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoachCO62
Rating: 8
Date: May 2, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is a fun game but it lacks in too many areas to be considered a great game like 
 one of its predecessors Maro Kart 64. For the purposes of my review I will state that I have played 
 every Mario Kart game across all Nintendo System starting with the original on Super Nintendo. 
 
  
  To begin with as most people always will the problems I have with the game are probably the same 
 as most peoples problems. Firstly Battle Mode only can be played in team mode? That is one of the 
 worst ideas ever, compare with the battle mode from Nintendo 64 and this mode lacks almost as bad 
 as Double Dash. The problem is what made battle mode great was four player split screen at your 
 house, now you have to play with twelve karts which is ridiculous. Would it have been that difficult 
 to make team game an option and have the number of karts determined by a players choosing? 
  
  Second major problem with the game is the ranking system, why not lay out requirements for 
 A * ranking or an A-E rankng. I dont mind the difficulty but it should be explained how to achieve 
 a ranking, I have won ever race by over 10 seconds, never got knocked off a stage, and still had 
 a B ranking. It makes no sense on how to get a * ranking. 
  
  Third problem with the game is the stages, I understand having 64 stages (32 standard and 32 mirrored) 
 may seem like alot, however why not put all stages across all the games that were ever made for 
 this game. Why not have Wario Stadium? Ghost Valley 1? I mean who determined these stages they 
 picked some pretty bad old stages, why not have all the rainbow roads in this game that would be 
 alot more fun. If this was on Xbox 360 maybe they would add some Downloadable content but I doubt 
 nintendo will do so. One other thing why not put all the characters in the game that were in the 
 previous game (where is the red paratrooper and Petey Piranha?)
  
  So now onto the good parts of the game. Its still Mario Kart. The multiple control schemes, I love 
 the option of using the gamecube controller, since I dont like the Wii controller at all (it is 
 very unresponive, I only wish they had a choice for Metroid Prime 3) . 
  
  The New Weapons certainly make the game interesting, between the evil thundercloud, the Giant Mushroom, 
 and the Pow Block that screws you every 20 seconds. I would like to see a new weapon like a black 
 shell that hits every opponent in front of you. Or maybe a warp pipe weapon that has you switch 
 places with the person in first, or a random person (Like in the Mario Party Series) . 
  
  Another good thing about th game is the price, I know its only $10 but nintendo does it right keeping 
 the game at $49.99 as opposed to $59.99. 
  
  As usual with the Mario Kart Series it is the perfect difficulty, not to hard but hard enough that 
 you will stick with it until you unlock everything. 
  
  Another great feature is the Kart ratings, They are not numbered (think Madden 0-100) but rather 
 have a bar graph and a category, which is easy to read and understand. Instead of having 20 different 
 karts for each racer they have different looking karts that are the same for each racer in a class 
 (Small, Medium and Large)
  
  Finally online play, something nintendo should have done a long time ago, the online play is very 
 fun and the ability to play with two people from one console is a fantastic idea as well. Mario 
 Kart Wii is a solid game, and I am sure many will be satisfied, and should be, there are some minor 
 details I would fix in addition to the major ones I noted, but nothing too extreme (The amount 
 of blue shells for example, the fact that first place gets fake box, banana peels and green shells 
 for every prize) All in all mario kart wii is a solid entry in the mario kart series and equal 
 too if not better than Double Dash. It will not get the 9.9 of 10 (Why is there only 1 lightweight???) 
 rating that Mario Kart 64 got, but will be enjoyable for a long time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom713
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  A staple in the Nintendo library for over a decade, "Super Mario Kart" has established itself as 
 a top-shelf video game franchise by consistently giving gamers what they want. Through the years, 
 every game in the series has added something different to the winning formula, making the game 
 a better overall experience. "Mario Kart Wii," while suffering a few letdowns, mostly due to the 
 system it's being played on rather than the game's design itself, is a more than adequate sequel 
 that continues this trend by offering the best graphics in the series to date, combined with an 
 intuitive control scheme and more online options than ever before.
  
  As soon as this game is inserted into the Wii, long-time fans of the series will simply fall in 
 love with it, as it's soaked in the nostalgia that comes with being a revered and uber-successful 
 game franchise. However, at first glance, the game will seem like a beefed-up version of "Mario 
 Kart DS," as many of the same tracks from the DS version (in addition to tracks from the SNES, 
 N64 and Gamecube versions) find themselves in the Wii version. However, for those who look just 
 a little bit closer, there are a bevy of new options available that easily make this the deepest 
 "Mario Kart" of all time.
  
  The new tracks, for instance, are some of the most innovative and enjoyable in the series' history. 
 Tracks like Toad's Tunnels will force you to time jumps across mushrooms in what is one of the 
 most intriguing racing experiences one can have, while Wario's Mines is a different experience 
 altogether, featuring plenty of narrow pathways that make it extremely tough and extremely "Wario." 
 All in all, there isn't a bad track in the game, even though some will find a few much more difficult 
 to master.
  
  While the new tracks give the game a breath of fresh air, the addition of motorcycles also adds 
 a bigger element of speed than the game had before. Nonetheless, the most interesting gameplay 
 feature added is the ability to perform mid-air tricks, by wiggling the Wii remote (or steering 
 wheel) while jumping. After performing the trick, you'll be rewarded with a momentary speed boost, 
 which will help you steal the checkered flag. Some tracks, particularly the ones from older games, 
 don't truly take advantage of this new option, but for the most part, it's something the series 
 brings in that gives this reiteration of the franchise a more exclusive feel.
  
  New tracks and new control options aside, this version of Mario Kart will eventually be remembered 
 for having the deepest online options of any other Nintendo game previously. Pretty much every 
 gameplay mode is available in some sort of online mode, making the gameplay great with others and 
 worthwhile for anyone who wants a serious challenge. Nonetheless, the Wii's online capabilities 
 are still seriously lacking compared to the online configurations of its current generation counterparts. 
 This game would have been even better if players could have somehow communicated over a headset 
 and been able to keep track of their friends with more ease. Above everything else, this game proves 
 that Nintendo has some serious thinking to do about how it packages its online titles. Despite 
 those feelings some will have with how the game is presented online, the experience is still an 
 enjoyable one that unfortunately could have been even better.
  
  Unlike the online part of the game  which is solid, but could have been great  "Mario Kart Wii" 
 as a whole is an absolute blast that is destined to find its way into your home if you own a Wii. 
 The new steering wheel controls are great, the game's graphics are better than ever (even though 
 they don't eclipse the GC version by much) and there are plenty of unlockables and gameplay options 
 to keep you busy for a very long time. 
  
  By Patrick Hickey Jr. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoshiRules123
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Where should i begin...?
  well, the Wii wheel was a great idea. i like it better than the nunchuck, virtual console (even 
 though I DONT HAVE 1!!!) and the GC contoller. I also like the ammount of players they give u. 
 soooooooo many characters! i still dont have them all. I just love playing this game. Wi-Fi was 
 also a great idea. I love versing online people! any1 wanna race me? see my blog header.
  There's only one downside though: the graphics arent the best. great gameplay, great character 
 selection, great to play with family and friends, though! bring it to parties, youll have a blast! 
 tricks r so much fun, and so r the added items. my absolute favorite is... U CAN RIDE BIKES!!!!! 
 Its so awsome. evryone who has a Wii should get this game! it just rocks so much. it's a great 
 game and an even better series! long live Mario Kart! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Graphics for this game are pretty sweet for a Wii game, probably some of the best graphics for 
 any Wii game out there. It takes great use of the many tracks and courses over all the mario kart 
 games of the past which makes it fun to reminisce on old times!
  
  One of the unfortuante things about this game is the poor load times. Maybe that is a common this 
 but since I am new to the online gaming I had no idea loadtimes take so long, but like I said since 
 I am new to online gaming it may in fact be a normal thing.
  Online gameplay is absolutely addictive tho! Gettingt your ranking and point on your license up 
 is a pretty fun chore and I have had a lot of fun whooping other people online with my kart skills 
 :)
  
  One other bad thing about the game is the use of only 1 driver's license at a time. If you want 
 to play online you can only log in as one person and then the second player would have to be a 
 "guest" and what sucks about that is if you are a guest and whoop on everyone in the race you dont 
 get anything at all towards your driver ranking score! The guest is pretty much like a playing 
 that is playing for nothing to gain! That made it frustrating as I won a lot of races as a guest 
 and was not able to acheive any ranking points because guests do not get any, only the 1 drievr 
 who can log in. 
  -I would recommend that tehy allow for everyoen to use their driver's license when logging online 
 so that everyone can acheive rank points when playing, otherwise, you are playing for nothing!
 
  
  Overall the game is amazingly fun to play, lots of courses to choose from, it can piss you off 
 and be frustrating at times when you get hit with all the bonuses people throg at you and there 
 is no way to avoid some of them, it really came make you get pissed and hate the game because of 
 it, BUT the game is fun nonetheless!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hanklify
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  MARIO KART IS A CLASSIC AND WITH THE WII WHEEL, THE ONLINE AND ALL OF THE NEW TRACKS, THIS GAME 
 IS AMAZING. THE ONLINE PLAY FANTASTIC WITH 12 PEOPLE RACING OR BATTLING AT ONE TIME. THE WII WHEEL 
 MAKES YOU FEEL CLOSER TO RACE, AND IF YOU DO NOT LIKE THE WHEEL THEN YOU HAVE 3 OTHER CHOICES. 
 THE TRACKS ARE MADE OF 16 TRACKS OF CLASSICS FROM ALL MARIO KART GAMES, AND 16 OF THE MOST IMAGINATIVE 
 DESIGNING I HAVE EVER SEEN IN A WHILE. AND FOR YOU PEOPLE OUT THERE THAT JUST WANT TO DRIVE SOMETHING 
 OTHER THAN KARTS, THERE IS NOW THE CAPABILITIES OF DRIVING BIKES.
  AND FOR ALL OF YOU THAT JUST LOVE YOUR MIIS AND WANT TO SHOW IT OFF YOU CAN EVEN RACE YOUR MIIS 
 ONLINE OR IN THE REGULAR GAME. THE MARIO KART CHANNEL HAS BROUGHT SOMETHING NO OTHER GAME HAS AND 
 THAT IS A CHANNEL WHICH YOU CAN GO ON AND TRACK YOUR FRIENDS, GO ONTO TOURNAMENTS, AND EVEN RACE 
 GHOSTS. THERE IS SO MUCH NEW STUFF IN THIS GAME I AM POSITIVE I HAVE LEFT SOMETHING OUT. BUT THE 
 BOTTOM LINE IS A .......10 OUT OF 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Way back in the day, just when the genre for racing games were just being developed, many people 
 thank the Toy Story characters and Crash Bandicoot and the gang for getting the genre of racing 
 games a good start at the finish line, but many other racers tried and failed, and lost first prize 
 in the race. But there was one racing game in particular that stood out from the crowd, Mario Kart. 
 Ever since it hit on the NES, the game has spawned off many other titles, and the Mario Kart series 
 is one of the most celebrated games in history.
  
  Now, it's time for Mario Kart Wii- is it a winner in the race or a looser at the end of the finishing 
 line?
  
  Mario Kart Wii still contains the basic premise of the previous Mario Kart games. You race as Mario, 
 Princess Peach and the gang in enviornments filled with colourful flair and imagination, as your 
 race your favourite Nintendo hero to win first at the finish line.
  
  There are several ways in order for you to play Mario Kart Wii. You can play it with the Wii Wheel, 
 Wheels made by other manufacters for the Wii, Wii Remote and Nunchuck, Wii Classic Controller, 
 and even the sturdy Gamecube controller.
  
  Really, in all honesty, it does not matter at all how you play Mario Kart Wii at all, because the 
 game is great fun for everyone to enjoy.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is a game that still keeps the material, we all love about Mario Kart, but also 
 improves it by adding new slick and sharp gameplay, but it does not overcome the old Mario Kart 
 elements that we know and love, and that is what makes Mario Kart Wii so much fun.
  
  Remember riding motorcycles in previous Mario Kart games? I sure don't. Remember doing stunts with 
 your veichles? Nope. These improvements are great to the series, and are both easy and fun to use.
 
  
  The only small hole in Mario Kart Wii is a series of a few technical glitches such as Mario's clothes 
 coming off for a second when you are racing. This does show Nintendo were kind of rushing this 
 game a little bit.
  
  Overall, Mario Kart Wii is one of the most fun racing games I ever had the pleasure of playing, 
 having new stunts, tricks, and different modes of gameplay such as online mode, which don't sidetrack 
 from a classic Mario Kart experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spears5
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. It certainly does knock the other Mario Karts out of the running track, character, 
 and interaction wise, but as far as my eyesight goes, aside from the 3-D characters, the courses 
 are still in 2-D.
  Another minor problem I have had with the game is the Wii wheel. Admittedly, I was never any good 
 with the remote ever, and never any good at the mini-game in Mario Party 8, but still, i found 
 it very hard to maneuover the kart around the tracks. Long story short, I played 99% of the game 
 with the joystick.
  And that time of year came again: The programmers took their crack and did the new rainbow road. 
 This one promises to be ten times harder, although there certainly were a lot more speed boosts 
 than usual. Word to the wise: Use the first two speed boosts, and whatever other ones that you 
 can see that are near the barrier. The others are wolf in sheeps clothing. They are gurranteed 
 to set u back.
  I gave this a ten because iwas in a bit of a rush. It's more of a high 7, low eight sort of game.
 
  But Its definentely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiplor
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  although i enjoy this game, im going to start with the negitives.
  
  The "Catching up" System: 
  Kippa's dictonary defins the catching up system as" a way of making 
 the person in last place of a race have an edge of some discrpition and make it out of last"
  Mario kart defins it as: "The Bull#$*# way to come from 10 seconds behind to first place without 
 trying.
  
  This system is ridiculos, i cannot beleive that nintendo were so slack with this. saw a cpu fall 
 off a edge, into lava, TWICE!!!!! and it was about a 10 second gap between it and the next person, 
 yet he seemed to get a mega boost untill he over took the person infront, or caught up.
  
  secondly, it seems asif the person who mostly first is doomed to lose the race. it's hard enough 
 to thwart off challengers without being blue shelled or powed, or red shelled. it's a bit slack, 
 although in saying that, it makes it more compeditive i supose.
  
  now for the positives, THE MULTIPLAYER!!!!
  i was half way writing this when i decided to check 
 if i could go online now that traffic on the wifi net might of deid down, and it did so. i played 
 2 races and loved it instaly!! no bots, people from around the world, itesm everwhere, it was chaotic!! 
 i loved it ^_^
  
  the single player has alot to offer bedies honing your skills, such as unlock your mii as a playable 
 character, new karts and the trophies in there aswell.
  
  so aside from the ridiculous catch up system, and the somewhat bias to person coming first, this 
 is a great game. if you enjoy online multiplayer, then just do it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent_Scope090
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is my 5th Kart title to date. The 1st one being Super Mario Kart on the Super Nintendo. 
 At that time I knew little of this kart racer, and barley grasped the concept of the drifting and 
 the controls. The N64 version proved much the same but with some 3D graphics. 
  Then the Game Cube hits it big with its only other notable title (the other being Resident Evil 
 4) Mario Kart Double Dash. This game, although receiving great scores in video game magazines and 
 websites, proved just one again that Kart was already a flawless game and to expect more the same. 
 The dual controls though made the game more sociable and thus opened the way to the new style of 
 play. 
  Now that the Wii has Wi Fi capability, and a very effective one at that, It is able to reach games 
 all across the globe in a unified spirit of game play. Not only in multiplayer but also in the 
 scenery, music, color, graphics and not to mention all the zany characters, add to make the game 
 truly fun, addictive, and humorous. The new trick system and the bikes add a new challenge to those 
 tired of the tried and true snake-ing of Mario Kart DS. 
  So I hope this review is helpful, because I sure wouldn't want anyone to miss out on this one of 
 a kind gem, and would I buy a Wii just to play this game? Hell yes... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6411
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart has been a staple for Nintendo owners since the SNES. The Wii installment is no different. 
 It is a fun game for yourself, or with a group of friends, and gamers of all ages will enjoy it. 
 There are 32 tracks in all, and some great classic tracks make an appearance in this game. The 
 single player is just like any other Mario Kart with Grand Prix mode, and the Time Trials. However 
 there is one interesting addition. The battle mode can now comfortably played in single player 
 mode, with the computer playing both members of your team and the opposing team. Unlocking all 
 the characters and karts is not as easy as winning every grand prix, not this time around. You 
 will have to get great time trial scores, and play the prixs to perfection.
  The online mode plays smoothly. Unlike other Wii games, you connect relatively quickly. It is not 
 difficult to connect to a friend, and get your kart on.
  Some of the downfalls of Mario Kart Wii are the new weapons. Any Mario Kart veteran can tell you 
 stories of losing the game at the last second because of red shell, or lightning bolt at the wrong 
 time, but Mario Kart Wii takes this to a whole new level. Much of the Single Player Grand Prix 
 is luck. Do not expect to take first and hold it for any extended period of time. Blue shells constantly 
 appear. Lightning Bolts constantly appear. A new weapon, the POW block, constantly appears. Item 
 barrages are also commonplace. Blue Shell, Shrunk, red shell. The POW block also has an interesting 
 side effect, it takes away any items you are currently holding. Now, on an average size track you 
 experience two of these a lap. This means that any mushroom required shortcuts are very hard to 
 take, for in many instances you will find yourself either having to use your mushroom right away, 
 or risk losing it.
  All in all Mario Kart is a very good game. It will provide you with of hours of fun, and is definitely 
 a must own for the Wii. All craziness of the single player aside, five years from now when you 
 are playing this game with some friends, you will be happy you own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woman4games
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  You know those games that are hyped up in every form of media and turn out to be total letdowns? 
 Or those games that keep getting delayed and when they finally come out, you wonder why they weren't 
 just cancelled? This is not one of those games.
  
  I have enjoyed every Mario Kart entry, but folks, this one takes the cake. It takes everything 
 that was good about the previous games and makes them even better. I love the fact that old racetracks 
 were revived here. With the updated graphics and extras added throughout the scence, they feel 
 brand-new again. I thought I was going to launch through the ceiling when I unlocked Bowser's castle 
 from the N64 version. That, my friends, is my all-time favorite track. And don't tell me you didn't 
 feel the same way when you saw your old 'fave! 
  
  But that's not all that makes this game so much fun. Have you checked out all the new tracks? Rainbow 
 road is friggin' incredible. I wholeheartdly agree with gamespot's review that someone let their 
 imagination run wild on several of the tracks. No complaints here.
  
  This game also offers quite a challenge against the computer. Damn! Usually, I could just sail 
 right past everyone else, but not so in this game. They actually put up quite a fight. That leads 
 me to one of the few bad elements: you really get whipped up on if you are in first. But hey, everyone 
 wants first, and who doesn't like being challenged for it? Plus, there are so many more great elements 
 that it's easy for me to overlook any bad that may exist. Which is why I gladly gave this game 
 a 10.
  
  And let's not forget all the other good stuff........ such as the new VS mode, an online mode, unlockable 
 characters, and custom karts! It's enough to make your head spin.......... I love it! This isn't 
 just a simple racing game that you're finished with in a couple of days. It just keeps offerring 
 more and more good stuff, making the replay value very high. 
  
  Bottom line: this game was well worth hopping in line at midnight for. It gets my highest recommendation 
 and will likely remain in my library for years to come. And if it's not yet a part of yours, do 
 yourself a favor and buy a copy. Like, today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingtrooper44
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  At first this whole deal with Mario cart wii and its motion wheel wasn't going to work out that 
 well also with the motorbikes. How is this going to work if you wouldn't really have a steering 
 wheel on your motorbike! I did not think this was going to work out well. I am expecting in this 
 game for it to have some good quality tracks that attract you to want to keep on playing them I 
 would never figure out until i play Mario Kart wii.
  
  AFTER I GOT THE GAME
  
  Once i got Mario Kart Wii and started playing it with the wheel. I thought that this isn't that 
 bad than I thought it would be. The steering with the karts is nice and smooth and pulls you in 
 right away. 
  
  This game has wide tracks what I didn't like. You have enough room on the tracks as it was in double 
 dash. If you fall off then you fall off. I eventually saw that you go slower on the tracks than 
 back in the previous games, which I didn't like. They were going for a more casual play witch I 
 thought it was fine speed and the tracks where wide enough in the last game. Mario kart wii I mean 
 come on think of a better name at the end than just wii. WHAT HAPPEND! 
  
  Now the good news. Mario kart wiis new tracks are awesome they have a lot of thought put into them 
 and are very creative. All of the tracks are fun to play. As I said earlier this games steering 
 with the wii wheel is very fun to play with and it doesn't have a delay. The bikes in this game 
 worked out pretty well it fells great on the wii wheel and I think it was a good addition. The 
 tricks in this game worked out great also you want to keep doing them because they give you a reasonable 
 boost.
  
  Now I was thinking earlier when the game wasn't out yet that I don't know about the online. I thought 
 that super smash bros. brawls online were a little laggy on mine so I didn't know about Mario kart. 
 When I got to play this multie player I was amazed. No lag at all the game ran so smooth it pulled 
 you in right away. I like the thought that you can play with random people around the world not 
 just your friends. I thought that is was great to see were all the people that you are playing 
 with are from. I thought that the ranking system in this game worked out very well. I was exited 
 and it was more fun when we had a 12 player online. I think this online on Mario Kart Wii was a 
 huge success. I think Mario kart wii is a great game to add onto the series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 1, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Interesting new trick system; some great new track designs; Wii integration is mostly 
 good, including the online modes.
  
  The Bad: Items are more unbalanced than ever; game punishes you for being good; every mode feels 
 stripped from past entries; no system link capability; levels are way too wide; wheel peripheral 
 is just a gimmick; underlying gameplay is still essentially no different from past Mario Kart games; 
 graphical presentation is lacking, especially with only 30 FPS during local split-screen; unfair 
 enemy AI, as usual.
  
  To call Mario Kart Wii a disappointment would be a massive understatement. The game is a downright 
 disaster in the most meaningful ways. Nintendo has truly shot itself in the foot by resting on 
 its laurels and producing a really lazy effort here. Unfortunately, despite the overall failure 
 of this Mario Kart title, it is going to sell and be immensely popular with the Nintendo fanbase. 
 It's a Wii game, and it's Mario Kart. That's enough for most people, but the facts must be spoken.
 
  
  What does the game do right? Actually, there are some nice improvements that make the downsides 
 so much more unbearable. For example, a newly integrated trick system creates a way to boost your 
 speed even better. It becomes a good part of your races as you pull off all kinds of jumps and 
 speed boosts.
  
  Another thing done right is that the game works well with the Wii's online capabilities and channel 
 system. Setting up an actual online profile and getting to see others' is a great thing, and online 
 stat tracking is fantastic. It's odd that such things did not appear in Super Smash Bros. Brawl. 
 Also, it bears mentioning that there is no lag at all to speak of in the online modes.
  
  However, it is the underlying package and gameplay that suffers. The local multiplayer has been 
 stripped down to complete bare bones now. Battle mode can only be played on teams in short intervals, 
 and the VS racing matches are always in 100cc, and end after a preset number of matches. There 
 is no opportunity for different modes, LAN play (like in Double Dash) , the framerate is not as 
 impressive, Gran Prix can only be played single player... the whole game is a massive step backwards 
 from both the DS and GCN games before it.
  
  It also bears mentioning that the items are worse this time around, and there are no tweaking options 
 at all. The blue shell is joined by several other incredibly cheap, undodgeable items - the POW 
 block, the lightning cloud, and many others. There seem to be even more occasions when cheap losses 
 happen from random idiotic items hitting you. Just try completing Rainbow Road without being hit 
 off the edge ten times in a row. It's nearly impossible.
  
  Combine that with the lame, annoying AI, the cheap wheel peripheral, and many other flaws, and 
 you have yourself the worst Mario Kart since the N64 days. It's pathetic. Don't buy it, please. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  This game is great. It has some neat new characters as well as a bunch of veterans to be found! 
 In a lot of ways, this game is better than the prequel; Mario Kart DS. Although in other ways, 
 it lacks fairness as the items can be frustratingly cheap sometimes. But that was to be expected 
 from the beggining.
  
  The graphics in this game aren't too bad. They certainly aren't the best that you've seen on the 
 Wii, but they get the job done so they're good enough in my opinion. The sound is one of the game's 
 strong points. There are many new and classic tunes to be found throughout the game.
  
  The multiplayer is superb. Whether you have 2 players or 4 players, you are guarentied to have 
 a blast playing this game! The online is without a doubt the best the Wii has to offer up to date. 
 Being able to have 12 player races online is incredible. Also having a friend be able to play with 
 you is great too! I have also yet to experience lag as well.
  
  Being able to compare you timetrail times with friends, people in your region, or around the world 
 is another great feature. If you have a lot of friends, it is a blast to see how you rank amongst 
 them.
  
  This game is highly reccomended to anyone. May you be a newcomer or a veteran to Mario Kart, this 
 game will keep you entertained. Though single player can be on the easy side sometimes, the online 
 play will keep you challenged no matter how good you are! Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furior_celtica
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  Normally, I'm very happy with my reviews, and my scores that I give out are not that special, but 
 this ten is special. This ten represents a little over 15 years of amazing gameplay and legendary 
 tracks. This isn't just a racing game. For anyone who has played Mario Kart will know that they 
 are holding a 15 years of work and almost the history of major events of video games. And unlike 
 Super Smash Bros., the series ceases to be bland, and has yet to show any kind of repitition. So 
 here goes:
  
  Game Play : 10/10
  
  Game play couldn't have reached a higher level on any other system. Driving with the Wii Remote 
 or the Wii Wheel seem to be equally as fun, and both control very well. All the characters currently 
 unlocked are great, and have some pretty nice Karts to start with. I recommend bikes, and my favorite 
 character is Koopa Troopa. There are even customize-able rules, such as where the items are placed, 
 how tough the CPUs are, and various other options. And you still get 50cc, 100cc and the tough 
 150cc.
  
  The battles are still fun, and if you don't like to race, it's the perfect thing for you. There 
 are two battles, coin runners and balloon battles. Both of them were highly perfected.
  
  Racing in this game was like none other. In other games, you may just be leading in first the whole 
 race. In this game, you can go from 12th (Yes, 4 new placings.) all the way to 1st, back to 7th, 
 and forward to 2nd in one lap. The reason why, there is a lot more action going on. With 12 karts, 
 around 6 items per lap, times that by the possibility of items, (Blue Shell, Bullet Bill, Lightning, 
 now the Super Mushroom) and you've got one hell of a game! 
  They even put a warning system in the game pointing out where dangerous items are being shot at 
 behind you!
  
  Tracks: 10/10
  
  Ahh, the infamous section where Mario Kart can't be beat. There are 16 classic tracks and 16 new 
 ones, and both are just as fun. 
  
  The new tracks, including Luigi Raceway and Mario Circuit (Finally, Mario gets something for once...) 
 are extremely fun to play and have been very fun to play over and over and over again. The tracks 
 are high speed, even if you are on 50cc with a bunch of "Easy" set CPUs. The tracks have the perfect 
 difficulty, and there will be thousand, upon thousands of funny gameplay stories on the forums, 
 or at least on GameFAQ. (The Mario Kart DS board there was a small family.)
  
  Now on to the classics. Yes, your tank of nostalgia will be emptied as you finally cure that need 
 for classic tracks. You get alot of tracks in this catergory, and there are tracks from N64, NES/SNES, 
 GCN, and even DS. My favorites are Delfino Square (The one with a bunch of shortcuts.) and Yoshi's 
 Island (The track that can be completed in a little over 1 minute.)
  Overall, with the release of the new game, the classics seem to be the best tracks, ever. And on 
 the new Nintendo platforms released in the future, I look forward to seeing Mario Circuit, or Luigi 
 Raceway as a classic.
  
  
  Really, I don't have any other catergories to judge on, so I'll just give this game a perfect score. 
 Even if I got a better racing game rating system out, it would still be a perfect game. 
  
  
  Oh yeah, and by my classification of this game, it was worth the wait. The 15 year wait. I 
 see a big future for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  I bought this game at the day of release. Smash Bros Brawl is still far away, so I thought this 
 could keep me warm..
  
  I believe I am very right! Any Mario Kart is a guarantee for fast paced, frantic fun. The problem 
 is that if you don't have many friends who play games, the single player mode will get boring after 
 a while. But now, finally you can race against anybody in the world with the almost-perfect online 
 mode!
  
  There is absolutely no lag, and you can race with up to twelve players! Missing the grand-prix 
 option in online mode is a disappointment, but the fantastic time-trial/ ghost mode is too good 
 to call this a flaw. All the famous mario-characters are back, including the great koopa (yay!) 
 and the not-so-great waluigi and toadette (nay!!) You can also ride a motorbike, which is a nice 
 thing! 
  
  It is a shame that you have to complete the way too easy 50cc mode to unlock all the extra stuff, 
 like driving with your own mii.
  
  Anybody complaining about Mario kart is not a racegame, but relys on luck.. away with you, go play 
 something like forza or gt, shoo shoo. This is the ultimate party game, whether you like racing 
 or not! 
  
  One time, a few meters before the finishline, I got hammered by 2 red shells, a pow block and a 
 lightning bolt, which caused that I didn't win the race, but ended fifth. So what, that's what 
 Mario kart is about!
  Now if you excuse me, I am going for a ride... WHOOHOOOOOO!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrVenture333x2
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart has been a staple for Nintendo owners since the SNES. The Wii installment is no different. 
 It is a fun game for yourself, or with a group of friends, and gamers of all ages will enjoy it. 
 There are 32 tracks in all, and some great classic tracks make an appearance in this game. The 
 single player is just like any other Mario Kart with Grand Prix mode, and the Time Trials. However 
 there is one interesting addition. The battle mode can now comfortably played in single player 
 mode, with the computer playing both members of your team and the opposing team. Unlocking all 
 the characters and karts is not as easy as winning every grand prix, not this time around. You 
 will have to get great time trial scores, and play the prixs to perfection. 
  The online mode plays smoothly. Unlike other Wii games, you connect relatively quickly. It is not 
 difficult to connect to a friend, and get your kart on. 
  Some of the downfalls of Mario Kart Wii are the new weapons. Any Mario Kart veteran can tell you 
 stories of losing the game at the last second because of red shell, or lightning bolt at the wrong 
 time, but Mario Kart Wii takes this to a whole new level. Much of the Single Player Grand Prix 
 is luck. Do not expect to take first and hold it for any extended period of time. Blue shells constantly 
 appear. Lightning Bolts constantly appear. A new weapon, the POW block, constantly appears. Item 
 barrages are also commonplace. Blue Shell, Shrunk, red shell. The POW block also has an interesting 
 side effect, it takes away any items you are currently holding. Now, on an average size track you 
 experience two of these a lap. This means that any mushroom required shortcuts are very hard to 
 take, for in many instances you will find yourself either having to use your mushroom right away, 
 or risk losing it. 
  All in all Mario Kart is a very good game. It will provide you with of hours of fun, and is definitely 
 a must own for the Wii. All craziness of the single player aside, five years from now when you 
 are playing this game with some friends, you will be happy you own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bighaben
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  I, like everybody else, was extremely excited with the prospect of a Mario Kart of the Wii. I , 
 like everybody else was eager to play it, and when I finally got the game I found myself not enjoying 
 it as much as I thought. Don't get me wrong, the tracks, are great, probably some of the best ever 
 made, but only a handful of the tracks are actually good, the rest are all going to settle themselves 
 into the backwaters of Mario Kart tracks. And the retro ones seem to be the worst from the past 
 games. All told, its still fun, the wi-fi is great, even if it is a little touchy, I seem to get 
 kicked off a lot. No lag though so that's great, though its common to see things hit karts but 
 to see no reaction from the kart hit. Oh well, just typical online stuff. This game is great, but 
 it falls short. What really makes it bad is that the DS version has more things to do! It has a 
 whole other game mode, Why on Earth does the Wii version, with more disk space, have less game 
 modes then the DS version. That's where I discovered this game is more of a shell with so much 
 potential sucked right out. I find lackluster carts, two stunts per character, a fun idea, that 
 is fun, but could have so much more substance. I can understand that they would keep with 4 grand 
 prix, but I think the game can expand to more grand prix without ruining anything. More unlockable 
 characters would be nice, honestly I see lazinesses all over this game. Everything just falls short 
 of its potential. That being said, this game is still Mario Kart, its still fun, and its been sped 
 up thanks to the new stunt system which can make you go flying pass the competition. But it's been 
 off balanced with the usual super annoying items that make you want to throw the controller on 
 the ground. All told, this is a great multiplayer game, and you shouldn't pass it up, just expect 
 to not be with it as long as with past Mario Kart games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hammond13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  This is this the best ever hit on the Wii, Mario Kart Wii. Like Super Mario Kart for the SNES in 
 1992, Mario Kart 64 for the N64 in 1997, Mario Kart Super Circuit for the GBA in 2001, Mario Kart: 
 Double Dash for the GCN in 2003, and Mario Kart DS for the DS in 2005 is now coming for the Wii. 
 It was 16 year ago when the first Mario Kart came out. Then, 5 years later, they made the next 
 game, then 4 years later, the next one, then 2 years later, the next one, then 2 years later, then 
 the next one, and 3 years later, the new one for the Wii. The game come with the wii wheel for 
 free and cost still $50. If want a another one, it will cost you $15. The game have 16 new courses 
 and 16 old courses from the past Mario Kart games. The game have Wi-Fi and plays up to 11 players. 
 You can play with a friend. You can play with bike which is cool. It came with the Mario Kart Channel 
 on the Wii Menu which it has all kind of stuff. I gave it a 9.5 because some courses are short, 
 but that okay. So Wii owners you should get this game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wonkyman
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Since it's debut on the SNES, the Mario Kart franchise has had my dollar. The gameplay has always 
 been finely tuned to deliver a fun party-game racing experience that beginners and experts can 
 both appreciate. And that's exactly what makes Nintendo's current offering in the franchise so 
 interesting. Mario Kart was the keeper of the Wii philosophy long before the Wii existed. It appealed 
 to gamer and non-gamer alike. It was the one game that I knew would be a hit if I had a group of 
 non-gaming friends over. So how does an already accessible franchise transition to the Wii? 
  
  They add a Wii Wheel.
  
  I remarked to my friend as we hunted down a copy of the title 
 last Sunday that I would be playing using the Wiimote and Nunchuk. I just didn't believe the Wii 
 Wheel would add anything to the franchise I grew up with. But I also told him that I'd give it 
 a try. So we bought a couple copies, got home, popped one in my Wii and what was the reaction to 
 the little plastic casing? A resounding meh. I was ready to write it off as useless.
  
  Then my mom came in. She's always been a little more interested in the Wii than other systems I've 
 owned, but she doesn't play games. I've convinced her to make an omelet in Cooking Mama, bowl a 
 few frames in Wii Sports and even battle wits with me in Big Brain Academy, but as far as challenging, 
 traditional games go, she's quite inexperienced. Nevertheless I handed her a Wii Wheel and asked 
 if she'd like to give it a try. And that's where the brilliance of the Wii Wheel kicked in.
  
  She and Baby Peach did as well as fourth place by the time she got the hang of it. We tried 
 her on a Wiimote/Nunchuk at one point, and she tilted them when she made a turn without thinking. 
 She knew it wasn't motion sensitive that way, but she did it because she was immersed in the game.
 
  
  It's easy for us as longtime gamers to look at an innovation and brush it off in favor of the way 
 we're all used to playing. I personally prefer a traditional control scheme, as I'm sure many of 
 you do. The Wii Wheel isn't for us. It's for the rest of the world. The ones who never owned a 
 console until the Wii. Mario Kart Wii has a certain genius to it. It offers the controls we core 
 gamers love. It offers the controls that a rookie gamer would find more comfortable. And it gives 
 us a game we can all appreciate.
  
  Since the launch of the Wii, the casual versus hardcore argument has raged. Mario Kart Wii proves 
 that both camps can enjoy the same title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somanshreddy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  So easy to drive not in the begining but after practicing wii wheel it is awsome ranking i mean 
 wireless top 10 ranks. Mario is cool. I like his wild wing. I wish they would give one more wii wheel. But 
 we can play with the wii remote and nunchuck, classic controller and gamecube controller! It deserves 
 to be rank 1 in the wii i wish they had longer bullet bill and rainbow mode or whatever. Best racing 
 4 player game ever best in the series. You have to get this game if you are a wii fan and mario 
 racing. Why 100 words my brain gets mad at me. Oh man. By the way the wii wheel idea is awsome. The 
 characters available at the start are Mario, Luigi, Peach, Baby Mario, Baby Peach, Bowsor, Koopa Troopa, Toad, Waluigi, Wario 
 etc. I downloaded the mario kart wii channel. I want to enter a tournament. Ok then nice writing the 
 review.
  
  
  THE END
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart's History is about as good as any other.. See Mario has always been known for his Goomba 
 Squashing, and his flawless platforming throughout the NES to the most recent Mario Galaxy on the 
 Wii. Mario is one of the most recognizable characters in gaming, he is probably the ambassador 
 of gaming. But now Mario does other things.. like Golf, Tennis, Soccer, Basketball, Baseball etc.. 
 but his most famous and best multiplayer Mario game has always been Mario Kart. Its not like Mario 
 Kart did anything unique then other kart racers.. but it did have all the characters in the mushroom 
 kingdom, and had great controls, and creative levels.. But that is all in the past Mario Kart games.. 
 
  
  Every time a Mario game comes out it does something that is very unique the sets it apart from 
 the last Mario Kart Game..
  Snes: Start of the series
  N64: 3-D
  GBA: Portable
  G-Cube: 2 playable characters per Kart
  DS: online
  and Now.. Wii with 
  The Wii Wheel and 
 Motion Controls.. But how does it work?? well..
  
  The first thing you notice when you unbox the larger then normal package is that it comes with 
 a simple yet helpful peripheral in the game. The Wii Wheel is nothing more then a plastic shell, 
 where you put your wii mote into.. yet it makes it better! The wii wheel although being simple, 
 adds extra weight making you feel more into the game, like you are actually driving a real car. 
 And its better then what i thought but its not perfect.. One thing that is weird about it is. Its 
 very simple to pick up.. yet very hard to master.. and in that regard everyone knows that if you 
 steer left you go left.. right you go right. and playing on 50cc should be no problem winning first 
 place every time. But once you go into 100cc and 150cc its a lot harder. Your turns have to be 
 right one, and its a shot at the gamer for this.. its easier to use a control stick to get the 
 nice turns then on the wii wheel.. so its easy to pick up hard to become a pro at it.. 
  
  The Wii wheel while being by far the funnest while playing with friends online and offline.. the 
 game also allows gamers to use 4 different other control options.. so i want to go down a give 
 you a mini review of each control scheme..
  
  Exhibit A: Gamecube controler
  By far the easiest to pick up.. if you want to get high scores and records, use this, although 
 the new trick technique is harder.. the controller sets you up with more accuracy is not as much 
 needed.. So if you want to unlock stuff, use the G-Cube Controller.. you get the most precise turns 
 and responds.. but its also not as fun
  
  Exhibit B: Wii Mote/Nunchuk 
  Its really hard and weird to get used to... since you are controlling on two different controllers 
 it takes the most time to get used to all the buttons and such.. this way takes the Wii Wheel controller, 
 and the G-Cube controller together.. but it takes on some of there problems, as well as some of 
 its own..
  
  Exhibit C: Classic Controler
  meh there is not much to say here.. the controller has the same complaints as every other game 
 its compatible with.. awkward button placements.. so its worse then G-Cube controller.. yet it 
 adds something different 
  
  Exhibit D: Wii Mote on Side
  Prob. the worse way.. since it takes the point of having the wii wheel in the first place.. the 
 lost of weight and everything to consideration make its my least favorite, and i don't see why 
 anyone should pick this method..
  
  So THOSE ARE THE CONTROLS LETS GET TO THE GAME!!
  
  Mario Kart wii has the best tracks in any mario game period.. from great original one such as Coconut 
 Mall, Wario Mines, and Mushroom Gorge. As well as shout out to Mario Galaxy theme tracks like Rainbow 
 road, with star pellets, and a shooting star like in Mario Galaxy. Also a Fall Themed Tracked based 
 of one of planets in mario Galaxy. A lot of them change over the course of the race.. Like the 
 volcano track, where some of the land falls off during the race. They are well designed, and have 
 a lot in them have nice hills to jump and get extra boost from. Overall with the addition of older 
 tracks as well as these great new ones. This is the best tracks in a Mario game to date
  
  Well the characters don't do much, the only factor is the weight of each driver to tell you what 
 cars you can/can't pick.. there is 3 sizes S/M/L pretty simple.. yet Mario kart has a ton of never 
 before new comers.. Like Princess Rosalina, Baby Daisy, Funky Kong, and Dry Bowser.. Now i am overall 
 disappointed in this area.. there is a lot of crap characters.. would it be nice have play as Capt. 
 Falcon in Mario Kart? at least we have the Blue Falcon. But inside the Mario World.. it would have 
 been nice to play as lets say.. Wart from Mario Bros 2, Kamek (was suppose to be in Mario Kart 
 64 instead of DK) , and Petey Piranha plant. 
  
  But one great addition to this game is.. Miis!! yes you can now play as any mii you have saved 
 on your Wii. that means you can play as you or any other creations.. it really is a neat thing.. 
 so simple yet so cool. Based on the height and weight of the mii will determine the weight class.. 
 Who wants to pit Hitler vs Peter Griffin in a Mario Kart Showdown??
  
  Finally Nintendo Gets online.. now you can play 12 player multiplayer online, and for the first 
 time Online Battle Mode.. its really fun, although you have to use FC, its not too bad.. also the 
 Mario Kart Wii channel is great you hope other games will have/get them (SMASH BROS!!) overall 
 its great way to spend time with random players online and check leaderboards, time trial records 
 etc.. 
  
  The New Items are a pain now.. although they look cool.. Pow Block, super Mushroom, and he worse 
 item lightning cloud.. it makes the game more unbalanced.. i mean the lighting cloud only works 
 in a crowed game. Its a waste 1-1.. since most likely the player will dodge and it will hurt you 
 making you fall behind even more.. Mario Kart has always been crazy.. but this is even more to 
 a point where you will have too many WTF moments. you do nothing wrong, yet one round you score 
 1st next round 11th!! it takes out some of the skill of Mario kart vets, and makes it more casual.. 
 Also a personal good change.. NO MORE SNAKING!! i thought it should have been illegal.. now its 
 nearly impossible.. Nintendo has moded the Turbo boost making you play fair.. to some this is an 
 outrange.. to other like me its positive, because its totally cheap.
  
  Overall Mario Kart wii does a lot of things right, and makes the game that much more enjoyable.. 
 yet it creates some new problems with the overall scheme of the game.. if you like Mario Kart its 
 a must buy.. and if you have a wii buy this game.. its def. worth your time
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: Fun, yet crazy.. made some changes.. some where good, others not so good
  Graphics: 
 Best Looking, but still could use some few touches
  Sound: Great Mario Kart music.. but nothing too great like some games.. some more recognizable 
 music would have been nice..
  Value: 50 bucks.. with the multiplayer makes this a steal.. by yourself.. it will get boring after 
 a week.. nice party game!
  Overall: Nice addition to the Mario Kart Series.. Check it out if you have a wii.. i'll see you 
 on the track!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tennis12master
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I got Mario Kart Wii the day it came out, Sunday, April 27, 2008. And.... I couldn't be happier. 
 The game is great fun for casual gamers, and will satisfy the hardcore gamer to the max. The difficulty 
 for this game is hard at the first race (especially on the slippery Sherbet Land track) but after 
 a few other races, you'll get the hang of it. There are a total of 32 tracks, 16 brand-new fresh 
 out of the Nintendo vault, and 16 are returning favorites (including GCN Waluigi Stadium-total 
 perfection) . The game is a good bargain for cheap gamers because it comes with a Wii Wheel attachment, 
 and it doesn't cost any more than a regular Wii game! But, if you want more Wii wheel's, each costs 
 $15.00 each. The game runs super-smooth, even when online, and is a Wi-Fi compatible game, which 
 allows you to play online with friends, and strangers (up to 12!) . You're also able to bring a 
 friend with you online! Although not the greatest-looking Wii game out there, it still retains 
 those nice and colorful Mario trademarks that we've come to know and love. Once again, there are 
 8 different cups, and 3 different difficulties, including 50cc, 100cc, and 150cc. What's a big 
 difference in this one from the other Mario Kart games is that there is an inclusion of Bikes in 
 the mix, in addition to karts. They're not hard to get used to, but there are some perks to them, 
 such as if you lift the wheel up while on straight roads, you're bike will get a small speed boost, 
 small, but still a speed boost. There are all of the previous Mario Kart items from the previous 
 games included, plus two new ones (which I won't spoil, but if you really want to know, PM me.) 
 Overall, this is a game that fans of will come to play for years. Now, it's time to review the 
 Wii Wheel. The wheel is, in fact, a hunk of plastic, with which you can snugly fit the Wii remote 
 into (horizontally, of course) . The wrist strap comes out of the back, which DOES kind of get in 
 the way of your right hand, but you learn to just ignore it. This product is a great new addition 
 to the Mario Kart series, and I highly recommend trying out the wheel first before fishing out 
 from the attic your Gamecube controllers. So, give it a spin, see how it plays, and I'll see YOU.... online!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  A new Nintendo system, another reiteration of a flagship title. Does it live up to expectations? 
 For the most part it does. Bring up to three friends with you as you race through the mushroom 
 kingdom for the gold cup. 16 new tracks await, along with 16 tracks from past games. More characters 
 take to the road than ever before. Play solo in Grand Prix, with friends in a Team grand prix against 
 opponents or play the various battle modes. You can also take your game online to see who is the 
 Mario Kart champ.
  
  Gameplay 8- The gameplay itself has remained the same ever since the series debuted. Only this 
 time you can use the motion controls to steer with the wii remote, however the remote controls 
 are bad at best, and half the time would drift in the completely wrong direction I was trying to 
 go. Your best bet is to use the GC contoller, and many of the driving issues will be resovled. 
 The cpu's can also be very cheap on the 150cc races.
  
  Graphics 8- Nintendo's classic, colorful, artsy graphics. Though not a giant leap over the predecessor, 
 the visuals look nice, and character models are more detailed in the lighting skin than polygons.
 
  
  Sound 7- Same sound effects from previous installments. New music is neither grating on the ears 
 nor extremely outstanding.
  
  Fun Factor 9- This is one of those games that is more fun with others than by yourself, as you 
 can only do so much alone. But thankfully you can go online as well.
  
  Replay Value 8- The online racing will keep bringing people back as well as the multiplayer modes. 
 Make sure to use the GC controller instead of the remote. And keep the Wheel for something with 
 better steering controls like Excite Truck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariomanmartian
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  The Mario Kart series has always been great and has always impressed gamers, but this one is definetaly 
 the best yet. Heres why:
  
  The wii wheel is a great way to control your Kart, yes its only a piece of plastic that you slot 
 your wiimote in but it feels so right and helps you control your kart a lot better. Plus its FREE!
 
  
  Then theres the gameplay. Its easy to control your vehicle and you get to choose whether you drift 
 manualy or automaticly. Then theres the addition of bikes. At first I wasn't too sure that the 
 bikes would work, but they work great. They're more manuverable than the bikes and on straights 
 you can do wheelies for extra speed. So the bikes are just as good as karts.
  
  The graphics are great too. Yes, they look a lot like Mario Kart Double Dash graphics, but thats 
 not a bad thing. its bright, sharp and colourful. 
  
  The new tracks are excellent. Their beautiful to look at and are always exciting. There are 16 
 new tracks and 16 old tracks. The old tracks look refreshed and are fun to play on again. Also 
 all the tracks now have ramps so you can do a trick and get a speed boost when you land.
  
  And if that wasn't enough, now theres 12 player online!!! So now you can show off your skills to 
 people all over the world. And you can do balloon battles and coin runners online too.
  
  There are some great new items too. The only problem with the game is that the blue shells are 
 so frustrating, your about to win a race and then BOOM! a blue shell hits you and you come last.
 
  
  So apart from the Blue Shells, this game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chevydriver1123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Mario Kart since its birth on the Super Nintendo, so I had high hopes that 
 Mario Kart Wii would deliver.
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  The addition of the Wii Wheel to the Wii's arsenal of console attachments did pretty well. It takes 
 a bit getting used to but you will adapt quickly. The learning curb is just about the same as in 
 the rest of the series not too many changes there. With the exception of how Mini-Turbos are done, 
 you no longer have to tilt the joy stick left and right while your power sliding all you have to 
 do is hold the slide. The AI was greatly improved which had been a pet peeve of mine. This time 
 around the AI is very aggressive towards you.
  
  Sound
  
  The way they updated the music from the Super Mario Kart and Mario Kart Super Circuit was very 
 well done. One of my pet peeves with the series is that one cant adjust music and sound. Sometimes 
 you just want to tune it down from the shells, and bob-omb explosions and race to the themes but 
 Nintendo seems to not like that. 
  
  Graphics
  
  I have never been a huge graphics person but the way how the SNES and Gameboy Advance tracks were 
 updated for Wii were done very well. My personal favorite has to be Bowser's Castle 3 track from 
 Super Circuit.
  
  
  Content
  
  After the wonderful job Nintendo did with Mario Kart DS, I was hoping they would expand on it. 
 I was disappointed on how the kart/bike selection was limited compared what they loaded into DS. 
 Although they didnt kind of made up for it by putting in a few more characters. I was disappointed 
 on how they got rid of the last man standing part in Battle Mode and made is solely based on team 
 play. 
  
  
  Overall Mario Kart Wii does deliver but a delay or two could have made it better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  CONTROLS ~
  
  There are 4 ways to play just like Brawl had, (1) Wii-Wheel, (2) Wii-mote & Numchuck, (3) Classic 
 controller, and (4) Gamecube controller!
  
  (1) The Wii-Wheel~ The Wii-Wheel is of course the new controller they want to try with the game 
 and from my review of it, it works very well. The motion senser is amazing and it feels like your 
 really driving so its alot better then just turning ur wii mote sideways. The Wii-wheel is pretty 
 convient. 2 to acelerate, and the d-pad is to fire your weapon forward or backwards. it's quite 
 easy. (8/10)
  
  (2) The Wii-mote & Numchuck~ The Wii-mote and Numchuck is (to be filled in later) (?/?)
  
  (3) The 
 Classic controller~ The Classic controller is (to be filled in later) (?/?)
  
  (4) The Gamecube controller~ The Gamecube controller is very nice. It's alot better way of using 
 it then mario kart double dash did. it's alot more like the mario kart DS controls. R to jump L 
 to shoot items and A to of course acelerate! (9/10)
  
  GAMEPLAY~
  
  In Gameplay I will rate and talk about the (1) Races, (2) Cars, (3) Characters, (4) Gamemodes, and 
 (5) Online Multiplayer!
  
  (1) Races~ The new races are quite original and well made and just plain fun! They also added alot 
 of old ones from NES, N64, GBA, GC, and DS! In Mario Kart Double Dash I always disliked their not 
 being enough races and this game has as much as Mario Kart DS! Their are 32 tracks to race on and 
 all of them are fun. I really don't dislike any of them. You will love the value and fun in Mario 
 Kart Wii's race tracks. (9/10)
  
  (2) Cars~ Their are BIKES now! Which are pretty cool! They move faster and are smaller and easyer 
 to menuver in. There also is a pretty good selection of cars and bikes to choose from if you prefer 
 speed, aceleration, weight, ect. They are nice. Not as many choices as previous games but enough. 
 (8/10)
  
  (3) Characters~ Nothing really special here. Just the basic Mario Kart/Mario Party/Mario Tennis 
 Characters such as, Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, Donkey Kong, and Peach. Along with some unlockable characters 
 to be found out later. They all have unique looking cars and are all pretty much the same but its 
 fine. (7/10)
  
  (4) Gamemodes~ There is Race Mode, Time Trial, Battle Mode, and Versus. Race Mode is the normal 
 racing mode where you go through a 4 race championship thing and try to win gold by getting the 
 most wins and points. Time Trial is a race mode where you race as fast as you can around the track 
 under record timing! Battle Mode is a mode where you get on teams, red and blue, and shoot the 
 other team as much as you can and try not to get hit. You only have 3 balloons (lives) and after 
 you get hit 3 times you're out! Versus is a mode where you can play any race without havting to 
 do a 4-pack and you can do it with up to 4 players. (10/10)
  
  (5) Online Multiplay~ (to be filled in later) (?/?)
  
  GRAPHICS & MUSIC~
  
  The Graphics 
 greatly inproved sense the last game and are greater than ever. The detail on people, cars, and 
 tracks are great!
  
  The Music is also great. It will give you a memory jolt just by going through all the tracks and 
 listening to the music.
  
  TOTAL SCORE~
  
  score of first impressions, (8.5/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: u1tralisk
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  The base Mario Kart gameplay is there, but has been changed to the point that it leaves you feeling 
 as if you've bought someone's attempt at making a Mario Kart game and discovered they've fallen 
 a bit short. Its still an ok racing game, likely the best one on the Wii, but has numerous short 
 comings which detract from the overall experience. 
  
  But lets put some positives out there, after all, I don't hate it. It still has bunches of characters 
 (although little reason to differentiate between them) and multiple Kart choices as well as the 
 new motorcycles. Drifting to get mini boosts makes much more sense now, as the back and forth mechanic 
 in previous games was completely unnatural. The new levels are cool, and I enjoy playing some of 
 the old N64 levels and GCN levels. Online multiplayer works simply and is fun.
  
  Now for the negatives. Mario Kart is, ultimately, a multiplayer game. Yet co-op grand prix has 
 been removed, thereby forcing you to play through much of the game in single player mode in order 
 to unlock things. Items are way out of whack, resulting in constantly getting hit with blue shells, 
 lightning, ink (which is just plaing annoying) , and pow blocks. Winning in single player is as 
 much a gamble as skill. Rewards are few and far between. Winning gold in a GP series should unlock 
 something. So far, 1 in 4 wins have resulted in unlocking a new thing (mostly tracks though) . Perhaps 
 they just have too many tracks, but you can always come up with something to unlock. 8 cups times 
 3 difficulties is 24 items (characters/karts) , and its hard to understand why they wouldn't be 
 able to come up with that many things. Half of the starting characters could be locked, thereby 
 giving you the sense of accomplishment without significantly increasing the amount of content to 
 create. Balance is not an issue for Karts if you only come up with new models, every Kart doesn't 
 have to have different stats. The unique powers for different characters (giant shell for Bowser, 
 egg for Yoshi, fireballs for Mario and Luigi, etc) in Double Dash was a great addition, and they 
 have scrapped it here for no apparent reason, balance of weapons certainly can't be an excuse. 
 
  
  In the end, it feels like Mario Kart 64 redone on the new system, but with the balance screwed 
 up. A rehash of Mario Kart 64 alone would get you a great game and this one is good, despite its 
 flaws, but I don't think its going to have the life span of previous titles and I find myself yearning 
 for Double Dash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toad697
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Right. I was sooo looking forward to this game when it was announced and when it came to my door 
 on release date I was not disappointed. 
  
  The character roster is perfect, ranging from all time legends like Toad to some surprising newcomers 
 (I'm looking at you, Funky Kong.) . All of the new tracks are superb but some of the Retro tracks 
 were quite disappointing. When they could have been putting in all-time favs like DS Waluigi Pinball 
 and GCN Wario Colosseum they end up putting in boring ones like GCN Mario Circuit and DS Desert 
 Hills. That's not to say that there isn't one good Retro track because some are looking far better 
 than they ever did like the awesome looking N64 DK's Jungle Parkway and GCN DK Mountain. 
  
  Then there's the online mode. While Mario Kart DS had a nice 4 player Vs. Race, it wasn't enough. 
 Where was the online Ghost Exchange or Battle Mode? Well, here it is, in Mario Kart Wii. Another 
 thing is the removal of snaking, which, in fact, is a fair idea. While some people called it a 
 skill, they weren't wrong but I was tired of going on MKDS and just constantly losing because my 
 3 other opponents were snakers and I was just fed up.
  
  If there is one thing that I could complain about (or two things in fact) is that the amount of 
 frustration you will encounter in the game is incredible. Firstly this is due to items being so 
 unbalanced and CPUs just firing a blue shell just along that final straight that, well all that 
 time you were flying ahead was worthless as they take you on the final stretch. It is annoying. 
 Also the battles are team-only now which is good and bad because I always liked doing teams but 
 I wish I could just do that last kart standing mode again.
  
  Overall Summary:
  Whether you're a fan or not, this an essential racer and one of the best games on the Wii. Don't 
 let the bad things stop you from buying this.
  
  The Good:
  + Huge selection of Tracks and Characters
  + Online Mode is Awesome
  + Lots of Control Choices
 
  + Best Mario Kart Yet
  
  The Bad:
  - Battle mode is a bit disappointing
  - Very, VERY Frustrating
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SD93981
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  I've always loved the Mario Kart Series. A friend introduced me to Mario Kart 64, and I own all 
 the Mario Kart games from Double Dash and onwards, and l liked them all. So it is with great reluctance 
 that this newest addition is a bit of a letdown.
  
  Graphics: Eh. They could have done a lot better with the Wii's capabilities, and the graphics look 
 a bit... "dull". The frame-rate is generally good, but it's slightly sad to see that Mario Kart 
 DS is outperforming the Wii at frame-rates (I haven't, however, forgotten that the DS has much 
 lower graphics than the Wii) 7/10
  
  Sound: Well, to say in a nutshell, BGM wasn't bad, if a little uninspired at times and most SE's 
 are ok. But the voices is what kind of ticked me off here. They've replaced so many voice actors 
 in Mario Kart Wii, and although characters usually only speak in grunts and cheers, etc., it's 
 still annoying to have different voices, especially when they change characters'... characters 
 to suit the new voice. e. g., Rosalina seems like a generally calm person in Super Mario Galaxy, 
 but she acts and sounds like a complete "wackjob" in Mario Kart Wii. Also, the game will often 
 use the same sound file repeatedly in certain parts, like when Peach is jumping over the mushrooms. 
 Everytime she hits a mushroom, she says the same "Woohoo" sound again and again. It gets kind of 
 frustrating.
  I can understand replacing 1 or 2 voice actors at a time, but when 60% are changed, you kinda pick 
 that up pretty quickly. (It was a bit of a rant, I apologise; I won't deduct too many marks for 
 it) 7.5/10
  
  Gameplay 1 (General) : Ah. The Crux of the problem, in a sense. This part could have easily achieved 
 8.5-9.5/10, as it contains all the features that Mario Kart fans know and love. The Wii Wheel is 
 incorporated in a great way; it works well, and it's also pretty cool to use. It can "potentially" 
 lower the skill gap between "Pros" and "Rookies". And it even has a sensor hole for the Wii Remote 
 so you don't have to keep popping the remote out to select something on the menu. Also included 
 is a multiplayer mode, which is absolutely excellent, but more on that later. Ghost/Time Trial 
 Mode, Grand Prix, Battle Mode, karts, they're all here. But what really concerns me is two main 
 things, items and bikes.
  Items have always been a major part in Mario Kart, and can sometimes make or break a race. It's 
 usually what sets Mario Kart apart from it's opponents. The new items are boring and uninspired, 
 but one can live with that. But something else must have changed, because I never remember these 
 items being so annoying! Now, they will *often* make or break a race, and strong items are just 
 so common now! Blue shells, the "race leader destroyer" are now so common, it's just not funny 
 to use one anymore. Lightning also. Regularly, when racing against the CPU, I'll be on the final 
 stretch, then get clobbered by a now *overpowered* blue shell, and just watch as 4 bots cruise 
 over the finish line ahead of me. Also, once, while playing Coconut Mall (A level within the game) , 
 I had half a lap's worth lead on 2nd bot on the last lap, and then I was hit with *6* consecutive 
 blue shells, followed by a red shell, to end up in 3rd place. That was probably my bad luck, but 
 I'm still shocked it even happened. So basically, the point I'm trying to make, is that strong 
 items are no longer rare, and they've been insanely overpowered.
  Next is Bikes. I think, in concept, it was a good idea, as it would, again, level the playing field 
 between "Pros" and "Rookies". Instead, Pros now use bikes as well, which are better than Karts 
 in almost every way, except in mini-boosts. So now, we have everyone using Bikes, and no-one playing 
 at an extremely high competitive level using Karts. Nintendo has essentially made Karts redundant, 
 even so with their best idea, Online Multiplayer. I don't think it's a coincidence that most World 
 Record Holders for time trials use the Same Character and the Same Bike. They may as well call 
 it "Mario Bike Wii". 6/10
  
  Gameplay 2 (Multiplayer) : I've been speaking about a lot of bad things about Mario Kart Wii so 
 far, but this makes up for some of the faults, more or less. Online Multiplayer is great. You have 
 the Mario Kart Channel, which enables racers to race in Championships occasionally across the world, 
 and also shows you the current world record time for your time trials, and shows you where you 
 rank in comparison to the world, in easy-to-read Mii faces across a horizontal "graph". You can 
 also challenge your "rival" ghost; a ghost who's time is *just* better than yours, and you can 
 play against it offline after downloading it, or you can challenge your Continental, or World Champion's 
 ghost in an effort to beat their time. Online multiplayer when racing or battling is also good, 
 with a Rating system which starts at 5000 and increases or decreases depending on how many people 
 you beat in an up-to-12 player race or battle. (Seperate ratings for both) . You can even have a 
 guest on your Wii to accompany you onto the Online stage and race together with a friend against 
 everyone else in the world, but I recommend a fast internet connection, or you may get disconnected. 
 The multiplayer was a great addition, and I see it as the best feature of Mario Kart Wii. 9.5/10
 
  
  Average: 7.375
  
  Verdict: 7.5
  
  In closing: Get it if you really want Mario Kart Wii, or are interested in a decent driving game 
 on the Wii that you can use the Wii Wheel or your own other Wheel with, but this shouldn't be on 
 your "Must Buy" list if you ever have a priority list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leeh795
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  I would have to say I enjoyed mario kart since SNES, i played the N64 version and think it is one 
 of the best (even purchased it on the Wii Shop) . But this newer version seems to be ... worse? 
 in a few ways.
  
  Cons: The game doesn't feel like it's properly polished:
  - The character selection screen looks like it got made in 2 minutes. It's like google. com made 
 the game's menus...
  - Graphics are not very great, disappointing compared to Super Smash Bros. Brawl. 
  - Doesn't 
 feel "NEW" or "COOL" anymore; empty feeling after playing for an hour.
  - The new maps BG music is getting pretty dull. Sounds aren't as dramatic either.
  
  Pros: 
 Very good Online gameplay.
  - You can play online with different players with the click of an option.
  - Two people can play 
 per Wii online very well done there.
  - Integration of all the OLD mario kart tracks.
  - FREE Wii steering wheel w/ purchase of game.
  
  Bottom Line: Just buy the game since it's 
 still good to play with.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bajoobajoob64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is an amazing addition to the series in that it combines the old nostalgic levels 
 with a couple of new ones and throw in the Wii Wheel and hours upon hours will be needed to satisfy 
 the thirst you will acquire from just holding the little plastic wheel and watching Mario and company 
 fly around to every twitch of the wrist.
  This being said, however, the only thing I found to be annoying is the lack of new tracks. Many 
 levels from previous installments in the series are incorporated and while the new levels are very 
 fun to play, this only makes the player want more of the fresh product that Nintendo has to offer. 
 The creativity on some of the new tracks is incredible and impressive and at times I wish all 32 
 tracks were brand new. I know that I'm being very picky but after playing this game I know that 
 the creativity level was definitely there while designing the new levels and many more could have 
 been offered. Other than that I find the game to be very enjoyable and actually seems to be the 
 most fun when playing with a couple of other people. To make the multi-player experience more enjoyable 
 and on an even keel, multiple wii wheel are a must. Overall, this game is a must buy for any proud 
 owner of a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario2295
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 29, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  It pains me to review mario kart and give it only a 7 as a lover of mario kart games since the 
 64. Lets start off with saying most of mario kart is not broken the controls are amazing with the 
 wheel, all multiplayer games i have played are not laggy and the selection of courses are great. 
 Now for the flaw: Items. Items in the mario kart series have allways been a staple and makes mario 
 kart mario kart. Over the years items have gotten more and more powerful but allways great to have 
 in the game, not anymore. Some items are so overpowered when i see them apporching me i no that 
 i cannot win the race. In grand prix the first two cups are fine but when i moved on to the next 
 two i started losing with humugus leads because of a blue sheel hitin me and then right after a 
 red sheel making me loose. Now when i loose over something i have no control over i get preety 
 mad. Now you might say you have those items too but you only get them when youre close to dead 
 last and im usally at least 3rd and if i do go to last it dosnt matter becasuse the computers only 
 use the combo right before im about to win. Overall the game is great if you can get past the overpowered 
 items. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastergamer450
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  awesome game, wii wheel has its dis adv. but it makes it a whole different game. the new character 
 selections are widely and well picked, new stages are amazing!!!!!!!!!!!!!! The wi fi is no lag 
 no matter where you are playing someone in your state or country or even across the world its is 
 amazing that there is no lag the whole time i have played wi fi. It offers good gameplay awesome 
 new stages a great difficulty level, 150cc is way fun!!!!!!! and of course, the style!!!!!!!!!! 
 awesome style when you jump of ramps or any bumpy surface. Mario Kart Wii is an unforgettable game 
 and wii last you a long time. There are some downers, for the wii wheel, when you go off ramps, 
 occasionally when you shake it, you turn your direction and fall of the course, this is a minor 
 setback. Overall, Mario Kart Wii is an awesome interactive kart racing that was started back on 
 SNES, its the same touch but just great add-ons 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccastar001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This, like all of my reviews, can also be seen on my blog at www. gamers-space. net
  
  Here's a direct link to this review: http://gamers-space. net/node/18
  
  Since this is my first 
 review I want to explain my review process first. First off, I understand I am reviewing games 
 that have already been reviewed online and in other publications for days or even weeks already. 
 I do not have debug consoles or receive pre-release copies of games, however, and have to purchase 
 my games at retail just like all of you. Also, I will not review a game until I have experienced 
 it in its entirety, that includes beating a game with a defined ending, playing all game modes 
 where applicable, and for games with neither defined endings or varying game modes (MMOs for example) 
 I use my own judgment to determine when I have played enough to deliver a fair and concise opinion 
 on the game. I do not impose any word minimums or limits on myself so my reviews may either be 
 very brief or very lengthy depending on the game and how many words it takes to get all my thoughts 
 out. After the body of my review I am going to summarize my thoughts into "Pros" and "Cons" sections 
 as well as a brief one-or-two-sentence synopsis of the entire review and an overall score on a 
 scale from 0-10. The final score is going to be a percentage that I convert to base 10 (i. e. an 
 85% would become an 8.5 final score) and judged in several areas such as gameplay, story, graphics, 
 and sound. As such, my scores will not simply be an arbitrary numeric representation of how I feel 
 about the game. Instead it will be the average of several arbitrary numeric representations of 
 how I feel about specific properties of the game. With that let us move on to my first Gamers' 
 Space review: Mario Kart Wii.
  
  Every new console has their exclusive flagship franchises and as the oldest kid on the block, Nintendo 
 has a handful compared to their competitors' one or two. These are franchises that are synonymous 
 with the developers and have a long history to live up to. Mario Kart is one such franchise with 
 Mario Kart Wii being the 6th installment in the series. After receiving critical acclaim across 
 varying genres with their Zelda, Metroid, Mario, and Smash Brothers outings on the Wii, Nintendo 
 has a good track record to maintain. The Mario Kart series is unique in that it has always been 
 an accessible casual game with hidden depth and advanced techniques for hardcore and competitive 
 gamers.
  
  That leads us to the biggest and most controversial change in Mario Kart Wii. Up until this installment 
 hardcore Mario Kart players used a technique called "snaking" to gain a competitive edge over their 
 competition. The technique, present since Mario Kart 64; the second game in the series, involved 
 going into a power-slide at the start of the race and wiggling the analog control from side to 
 side in a snake-like manner to maintain the power-slide and accompanying speed boost for the entirety 
 of the race instead of just around turns. This technique was both adored by competitive players 
 able to master it and admonished by the casual gamer audience as cheating. Nintendo has sided with 
 the casual side of their customer base and made changes to the power-sliding mechanics to remove 
 snaking from the game in Mario Kart Wii. Instead, the amount of speed boost you gain from a power-slide 
 depends on the amount of time you spend holding down the power-slide button, is expended when the 
 button is released, and resets the counter. Competitive players can still gain an advantage over 
 their less experienced adversaries by using these speed boosts more often at every available opportunity 
 but the learning curve for this has dropped tremendously making Mario Kart Wii a much more casual 
 game than many of its previous installments, upsetting many long-time hardcore Mario Kart players.
 
  
  The play options are as extensive and varied as ever with a few changes and new features. The Grand 
 Prix option returns with 32 tracks and 3 different engine speeds. 16 of the tracks are brand new 
 with the other 16 being from older games in the series. Each set of 16 is split up into four cups 
 of four races of increasing difficulty. While it is nice to play on polished series classics, the 
 older tracks are overshadowed by the incredibly fun, original, and challenging new tracks. The 
 level design of the new tracks is very good, including challenging obstacles, risky shortcuts, 
 and clever ways to implement new game techniques. The time trial returns where you can race around 
 the track of your choice solo to achieve the best track time. Accompanying this play mode is the 
 awesome ghost system. The ghost system allows you to record your own times and race against an 
 effervescent copy of yourself to improve your best time and track strategies. You can also unlock 
 ghosts from Nintendo developers and download ghosts online from other players. Also returning is 
 versus mode allowing you to race on your choice of 4 courses or one-on-one with a computer driver 
 or human competitor and battle mode. Battle mode has undergone some changes from the familiar 3-balloon 
 life system. The balloons are still there but now it is all team based. The winning team is the 
 one to score the most points by the end of a time limit and if you lose all three of your balloons 
 your team loses one point and you respawn. This is a disappointment for players who enjoyed the 
 old elimination-style battle mode, which doesn't even make an appearance as an option in Mario 
 Kart Wii.
  
  While many players are lamenting the changes to the games power-sliding mechanic, Mario Kart Wii 
 includes several new gameplay changes to master. Jumping off ramps now gives you the opportunity 
 to do tricks in mid-air, granting you a speed boost when you land. The game has also included several 
 different Kart types with different stats like speed, acceleration, weight, etc. and includes bikes 
 with their own bonus and missing abilities. Bikes can do wheelies on straight-aways to gain a speed 
 boost but lose turn control and are more vulnerable to spinning out on a collision. Bikes also 
 lose the ability to gain the second level of speed boost from a power-slide. The selection of vehicles 
 is varied and allows you to customize your racing experience to your own play style and playing 
 in the many different game modes unlocks several new characters, vehicles, and other goodies to 
 refresh your game experience.
  
  The game includes the usual cast of power-ups as well as new additions like the thundercloud, POW 
 block, and big mushroom. The usual punishment of players in first place continues. If you are in 
 first place the power-ups you receive will be bottom-of-the-barrel fare like bananas and green 
 shells while each place behind first you are increases your chances of getting goodies like lightning 
 bolts and bullet bills. Let us also not forget the bane of all talented Mario Kart players, the 
 dreaded blue shell, returns to heralds of curses and thrown controllers, but be weary, the Wii 
 Wheel does not have a protective rubber case. The chances of being struck down from behind increase 
 in this iteration as the number of possible racers on each course increases to 12. Many talented 
 Mario Kart players have berated weaker players for their luck, but it is not luck, Nintendo has 
 made no effort to hide the advantages it gives to losing players to keep everyone on an even playing 
 field. This can make for one of the most frustrating game experiences out there as you make record 
 time only to be thwarted by well-timed lightning bolts over pits of lava or blue shells inches 
 from the finish line. However, complaints littering the internet of rubberband AI (rubberband AI 
 is where computer controlled racers always snap to a position not far behind you no matter how 
 large of a lead you amass) are false. After extensive testing I can assure Mario Kart fans that 
 any leads you gain in single player will be legitimately maintained so do not fret if you gain 
 half a track lead only to fall from the course, your lead will most likely still be safe when you 
 respawn.
  
  For the first time on a non-portable console, Mario Kart contains online play where you can experience 
 the versus and battle modes online with up to 11 other players. While the online features of Mario 
 Kart Wii are improved in comparison to other online-capable Wii titles with friends lists, points, 
 rankings, and special titles and nicknames, the online arenas feel very impersonal. Mario Kart 
 is a sociable game for better or worse and should really have included voice chat.
  
  Wii gamers shouldn't expect much in terms of graphics with hardware a few grades weaker than their 
 competition but Nintendo has been praised time and again for their ability to make the best of 
 what they have. Mario Kart Wii is almost indistinguishable from Mario Kart: Double Dash on the 
 Game Cube, especially on the Double Dash courses. However it is nice to see refurbished courses 
 from older systems as far back as the original Super Mario Kart on the SNES. There isn't much to 
 speak to as far as sound either. There are sound effects for the vehicles, environments, and a 
 few lines of dialogue for each character, but nothing very exciting. Some of them are even kind 
 of cute... the first time you hear them. But hearing the same character saying the same thing each 
 race can get aggravating and have you hunting for the sound options. The soundtrack is also bland 
 and forgettable, disappointing for Nintendo after incredible tracks in Super Mario Galaxy and the 
 bevy of content available in Smash Brothers: Brawl.
  
  Finally, one of the chief novelties for Mario Kart Wii was the included Wii Wheel. The first one 
 is free since it comes packaged with the game at the price of a normal Wii title. I have spent 
 play time with all of the available control options and here is what I've found:
  
  The best control option is the Wiimote/Nunchuk combination. The button placement is comfortable 
 with all the controls in intuitive positions. The ability to use the Wiimote's motion-sensor for 
 wheelies and tricks is the best option as it is the most quick and responsive of all the control 
 schemes. The only downside of this control option which it shares with all others except the Wii 
 Wheel is the need to use the analog stick, which you also use to steer, in conjunction with the 
 item button to control equipping and the direction projectile items are thrown. This can be a detriment 
 when trying to pull off precise course navigation and item shots simultaneously
  
  The next best control option I would honestly give to the Wii Wheel. There has been a lot of criticism 
 for this peripheral well before the game's release, and while it isn't without its downsides, it 
 is still a comfortable and decent control option. The biggest negative point for this control scheme 
 is it lacks the precision of steering control when compared to an analog stick. You simply can't 
 change your turn radius with the same speed and precision you can with a thumb stick and as such 
 you'll always perform more professionally with another control scheme. Also, the use of the motion-sensor 
 to steer as well as tilting and flicking the wheel to perform wheelies and tricks can cause erratic 
 movement and loss of control if not careful. Everything else about this control scheme is good 
 though. The button placement is convenient and comfortable and your hands are freer to handle other 
 controls without the analog stick. As mentioned above also, this is the first control scheme to 
 allow item control without the same analog stick used for steering. The wheel is a very comfortable 
 size and weight as well, and contrary to my initial pre-misconceptions, does not feel the least 
 bit cheap or flimsy. Finally, it just has a certain charm and can be a fun little gadget for casual 
 play with friends
  
  The Wiimote alone control scheme is identical to the Wii Wheel but without the added substance 
 of the wheel and isn't even worth mentioning.
  
  The Gamecube and Classic Controller for the Wii are going to be the control scheme of choice for 
 old-school Mario Kart players too stuck in the mud and resistant to change to realize its shortcomings 
 in this title. The buttons cannot be remapped and the placement is very uncomfortable. The left 
 shoulder button is used to deploy items and feels unnatural, the D-pad is used for tricks and wheelies 
 and is an uncomfortable reach from the analog stick, and the conveniently placed Y-button isn't 
 mapped at all. I would put this control scheme on the list as third behind the Wiimote/Nunchuk 
 combo and Wii Wheel for competitive and casual play respectively.
  
  PROS
  
  * Imaginative and Creative New Tracks
  * Refurbished Older Tracks Dating Back to the SNES
  
 * Great Ghost Mode for Improving Track Times and Techniques
  * Large Variety of New Gameplay Mechanics like Tricks and Bikes
  * No Rubberband AI
  * Familiar 
 Mario Kart Formula
  * Online Play
  * Free Wii Wheel
  
  CONS
  
  * Gimped for Experienced Players
  * New Power-Ups and Player Numbers Increase Chances of "Lucky" 
 Finishes
  * No Option for Old Battle Mode
  * No Online Chat
  * Unimproved Graphics from last Mario Kart Title
  * Poor Soundtrack
  
  SYNOPSIS
  
  Mario 
 Kart Wii has drifted even more into the realm of casual party game and in that role it is excellent 
 but experienced players who have stuck with the game through the ages will be greatly disappointed 
 with the changes to the familiar formula.
  
  8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arelagon
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  In the previous Mario Kart games, the tracks just felt... right. Mario Kart Wii brings some great 
 new tracks to the table, but ruins the nostalgia on some of the old ones. DK Mountain, for example. 
 The best part of that track was ripping down the side of the mountain, bumping and jostling while 
 firing off items. The ramps that MK Wii added in the middle of this part completely ruined the 
 feel of the track. This happened on most of the tracks that were brought back. Otherwise, the character 
 selection, kart selection, controls and overall group or solo fun brought it to a 9. The bikes 
 add a different element to the game, along with the Wii Wheel. Wi-Fi play is one of the best new 
 aspects of the game, if not the best. Once you've beaten your family, take your war to the world 
 and challenge everyone! A definite must buy for anyone looking for a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiMan21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is back with the true sequal to Mario Kart 64.
  
  Graphics: Well the graphics are the greatest but I don't expect Nintendo to come out with games 
 with over-the-top graphics like sony or Microsoft, but they do got some nice shadings and stuff. 
 At least enough to make me stare at the sky and karts all day, I'll give it a 8.0.
  
  Single player: Single player is fun if you feel like unlocking everything in the game, If your 
 a hardcore gamer like I am you will want to go through the game right away and unlock everything 
 and reach the highest rank in the game for every track, the Computer system isn't the best but 
 I can work with it, and the Items are a little over ballanced but I will go into more detail a 
 little more later in the review, I give it a 8.5.
  
  Multi-player and
  Online: For Mario Kart being a great party game for everyone who likes the mario series and racing 
 games, I'd say get this game if you have a large family or people come over to your house often, 
 its a fun Multi-player, up to 4 players can play at a time offline and 2 online. Now for the online, 
 Its probably one of the top online games for Nintendo so far, Lag-free good ranking system, addictive, 
 fun, everything that you expect in a Online experience, I was a bit dissapointed in the Super Smash 
 Bros. Brawl online because of the horrible lag, but I was a bit surprised with Mario Karts online 
 because I thought Nintendos online was going down the drain. But overall for Mario Karts Multi-player 
 and Online I give it a 9.5.
  
  Gameplay: For a Nintendo game its not surprising that Mari Kart Wii has good gameplay, Nintendo 
 allways knows what to put in a good game that will give the players a positive experience. So thats 
 pretty much all I have to say for Gameplay because that pretty much sums it up for that, I give 
 it a perfect score (10) .
  
  Overall rating: 9.5/ For its oustanding Multi-player, Singleplayer and Online, Not to forget a 
 free Nintendo Wheel and a Mario kart channel included when purchasing the game, its pretty much 
 one of the best Wii games thus far on the Wii shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innocent_J
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  The wii wheel. It's brilliant and fun, however it's not the best way to play for everyone. I, for 
 example am better with the wiimote ad nunchuck, Every method of playing works perfectly. The only 
 complaint in the game many people have is the difficulty of 150CC. Not that it's hard, but it can 
 be downright unfair at time. Especially at the end of the race, if you're in first and the finish 
 line is right in front you, the CPU will have SOME way of putting you in last. It doesn't happen 
 A LOT, but it happens more than anyone would like. Example: I was literally 2 seconds away from 
 the finish line with everyone else pretty far away. Too far to throw a bomb at me. But as i was 
 approaching, a bomb lands in front of me. How? No idea. Then about 4-5 racers zoom past me. The 
 addition of bikes ad tricks surprised me, but they put it together very well. It doesn't take away 
 from the game play at all. It makes it more fun to me. Online MK is sweeeeet. Plays flawlessly. 
 It's just like playing offline. 
  
  Graphics: 
  Im sure everyone can agree to this. The graphics are awesome. Everything looks nice, crisp. Even 
 the old tracks have been polished to look new. Espcially when a track is outside and the sun is 
 out :)
  
  Sound:
  The sound as well is well done, no complaints here.
  
  The Bad: Not alot, but sometimes unfair cpu.
  
  The Good: Multiplayer is a BLAST. My goodness 
 its fun. So is just about everything else. It will keep you busy for a long time. More characters, 
 karts and bikes, tricks. It's cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shraylo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The good: Crisp, clean graphics; addictive; no lag online; online tournaments; able to use Miis; 
 steering wheel adds a whole new level of fun; great soundtrack; old and new tracks come together 
 in superb Wii graphics; dirtbikes are a welcome addition
  
  The bad: Absolutely nothing!
  
  
  It seems Nintendo has been dishing out their best titles fairly quickly. It hasn't even 
 been a year and half since the Wii hit shelves, but already we have seen the release of such great 
 games as Super Mario Galaxy, Zelda: Twilight Princess, Super Paper Mario, Super Smash Bros. Brawl, 
 and now, Mario Kart Wii. But this isn't just another racing game with the Mario name. Mario Kart 
 Wii blends addictive gameplay, superb graphics, and a lag-free online system into the best Wii 
 game yet.
  
  The game comes with the "Wii Wheel", a plastic steering wheel that makes a huge difference in gameplay 
 once you put the Wii Remote inside. Tilting the steering wheel allows you to turn your vehicle 
 in-game, and while it takes a while to get used to it at first, it definitely makes Mario Kart 
 Wii more enjoyable than if you were to play it with the Wii Remote + Nunchuk, classic controller, 
 or GameCube controller (all of which are usable, by the way) .
  
  Once in game, you will set up your "license". This license tracks your game progress, telling you 
 which championships you have won and have yet to complete, your ranking, and your favorite track 
 and vehicle. These stats are useful online as well. With the Mario Kart Channel, you can compare 
 your overall times with other players in your region or around the world, and even download ghosts 
 of the top players, so you can see what they did that made their time so much better than yours. 
 You can also enter online 
  tournaments, and register friends.
  
  The single-player modes allow you to enter the Grand Prix, try to set a new time record, have a 
 normal race with custom rules, or enter team battles. In the Grand Prix, you will have to race 
 4 tracks and try to get first place. Here, you can unlock new tracks, and new characters. Difficulty 
 levels are the 50cc (karts only) , 100cc (bikes only) , and 150cc (karts and bikes) . After you have 
 beaten the 50cc tracks, you can race in the 100cc and further hone your skills. Time Trial mode 
 is pretty explanatory, in which you will have to race for the best track time. A normal race will 
 pit you up against other Mario characters in a race to the finish. This is great if you are pressed 
 for time. Team battles put you on a team with which you will have to complete a task, such as breaking 
 balloons or collecting coins. All of these modes are great fun.
  
  Some other parts of the game that are worth noting are the inclusion of tricks, the great graphics 
 and the lag-free online racing. If you are going off a rap, you can tilt the steering wheel upward 
 to make your character do a trick, which, when landed, will give you a minor speed boost. The graphics 
 are superb, and are a joy to look at. Unlike Guitar Hero, Mario Kart Wii always has your attention 
 focused to the screen, so you really get a chance to soak in all the lush scenery and little details 
 that the graphics have to offer. Lastly, it is awesome to be able to race against people from the 
 US, the UK, Japan, and even Australia and not have the frame rate slow down at all.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is kart racing at its very best. It's a must-own for any Wii owner, and it could 
 be possibly the best Wii game to date. If you like racing, if you like Mario, and you like online 
 play, you will love Mario Kart Wii. Pick up a copy and you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickenscratch
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  So after getting my fill of Mario Kart Wii over the past few days, I came to a realization. I had 
 fun. Now it's not to say that every other game I've played was boring, but it's rare that I keep 
 coming back to a game for it's sheer enjoyability. Because really, that's all MKWii has going for 
 it. 
  
  Considering that I havent owned a Mario Kart title since the N64 days, I was happy to see the bright 
 and vibrant worlds that made the original so appealing to me as a child, were still faithfully 
 intact. Everything is so cheery despite the chaos unfolding all around. Yet it doesn't seem excessively 
 kiddy. All in all the visual stylings are very well done save for a few retro tracks that just 
 don't translate to 3D.
  
  The gameplay modes are decent in their variations. You have the single player Grand Prix where 
 many unlockables can be found, Time Trials to race against the clock, Battle to duke it out (in 
 teams) and online via Nintendo's much maligned WiFi Connection. If you've ever played any Mario 
 Kart ever, then you will know what to expect as far as modes are concerned.
  
  The gameplay itself hasn't strayed far from the classic formula but the bikes are a welcome addition 
 to freshen things up a little bit. It's still the item-snatching, balloon-popping, tire-skidding 
 chaos fest I fell in love with so many years ago. But therein lies its flaws. It is chaotic. The 
 rubber-band effect is so strong here, that when I convinced my roommate to give it a try, he ended 
 up going backwards here and there and falling far behind the pack. But after he handed the Wii 
 Wheel back to me, I was still able to pull of a first place finish. But if say I were in first 
 place for the majority of the race then there's a pretty good chance I'm going to get my ass handed 
 to me on a silver platter during the final lap and wind up a dismal seventh place.
  
  Overall the best additions to the series is the Wii Wheel and online play. The wheel is simply 
 a joy to play with. It's alot more responsive than I first thought it would be, but I must say 
 I was seriously surprised. Since then I refuse to use controllers unless we have some local multiplayer 
 going on. It's rather comfortable to hold but I did have to remove the wrist strap cause it was 
 getting in the way (don't tell Nintendo) . And best of all, it's not an eye-sore. Looks good, fun 
 and easy to use. what more could you ask for?
  
  As for the online, it just works. Which is all I needed after Brawl. You can hop into a race at 
 the drop of a hat and can play both regional games or worldwide. The only options you have are 
 Vs. and Battle but really there isn't much else to this game. All are fun and generally lag free 
 even in worldwide. It even tells you when your friends come on between races and if they wanted, 
 they could hook-up with you in a race rather easily. There's only preset messages and the dreaded 
 friend codes. Lack of voice chat on the Wii is really not an issue to me anymore after I realised 
 how much I would be cussing at potentially little kids, and then they would cuss back, and the 
 we'd decide to settle it on the track, where I would again get my ass handed to me.
  
  All in all, it's a great title, a fantastic party game, and has online that works.
  Far from 
 a serious racing game but that's just not what I was looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceman_1486
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  The lon awaited wait for a new mario kart game is over and fans won't be dissapointed. The graphics 
 are nice and the wii wheel makes it feel like you are driving the kart. The sensitivity is nice 
 and if you over steer you better be ready to hit the rail. The added addition of bikes makes this 
 game more interesting. You can pop-a-wheelie to get a turbo boost. When karting you can "snake" 
 to get some added boost. New is the fact that you can do tricks on jumps. The longer the jump the 
 better the trick. All you have to do is shack the wiimote and a trick will be performed. Once you 
 hit the ground you will get a speed boost which can mean the difference between finishing first 
 or second. There are several new tracks and they have brought back older tracks along with some 
 of the newer ones form the ds. This is a great game and a great addition to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: u8nogard
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  My intent was to pick up this game so that my son and I would have something to play together. 
 Yeah, now I am addicted to this game. I have always loved Go Kart racing games so this one just 
 fit right in. i will have to say that this one is one of the best, if not thee best that there 
 is for the wii. I don't need to say anything about the game nor quality of it... just read the 
 real reviews and other players reviews that talk about the game; that or jsut go out and rent/buy 
 it. You will not be disappointed.
  
  The only one thing about this game that irritates me... the ITEMS. for what ever reason, if you're 
 in 1st place for any significant amount of time (especially towards the end of a race) ., you are 
 the target. Prepared to be hit by several blue shells, red shells, and whatever else until you 
 are stuck in last place with no hope for recovery. This has happened time after time; it's very 
 annoying... there are too many items that cannot be defended against. I haven't found anything 
 yet on what to do about this issue.
  
  I love the online feature... playing against other humans is much more satisifying vs. the computer. 
 Twelve online multiplayer mode is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunar52
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Man oh man is this game a blast. Red, green, and blue shells flying all over, bullet bills speeding 
 through the track, goop on the screen, and mega mushrooms stomping opponents. This is Mario Kart 
 Wii and I wouldn't have it any other way.
  
  I picked up Mario Kart on Sunday morning (April 27th, NA release) and brought it back home and 
 put it into my Wii. What I didn't know I was in for was a crap load of racing.
  
  Let me break it down:
  
  Controls: 10/10
  
  Just like in Super Smash Bros. Brawl there 
 are 4 different control methods to choose from including the packaged-in Wii Wheel, The WiiMote 
 + Nunchuke, GC controller, and the classic controller. I have only tried the first three but I 
 have to say I like the Wii Wheel and WiiMote + Nunchuke equally. At first I hated the Wheel but 
 I have gotten used to it. 
  
  The main buttons on the wheel are...
  To steer you just steer.
  2=Gas
  1=Brake/Drift
  A=Mirror
  B=Brake/Drift (recommended)
 
  D-Pad=Items
  Tricks off ramps=Thrust Up, Down, Side
  
  The main buttons on the WiiMote + Nunchuke are...
  To steer you use the analog
  A=Gas
  B=Brake/Drift
 
  Z=Items
  C=Mirror
  Tricks off ramps=Thrust Up, Down, Side with WiiMote
  
  GamePlay: 10/10
  
  This game is fun. F-U-N. It's pretty much the same Mario Kart but with the 
 biggest changes than its predecessors. Mario Kart Wii also includes for the first time the ability 
 to use bikes. Don't worry as these control A LOT like the Karts. Some people may actuallly perfer 
 the bikes. Snaking is out this time and you have the choice to go Auto (which SUCKS) or Manual 
 (Which Rocks) ... In manual to do a drift all you need to do is hold the B button and turn the corner. 
 It's pretty easy to learn.
  
  Tracks: 9.5/10
  
  The tracks in Mario Kart Wii are great. With all the strategic "splits". 16 new tracks and 16 classics 
 totaling a WHOPPING 32 tracks. Some of the new tracks are Mushroom Gorge which features Mushrooms 
 you can bounce on and off, Wario's Gold Mine, Koopa Cape which has an underwater section thats 
 in a big pipe, Bowser's Castle, and of course the infamous Rainbow (Frickin) Road. Some of the 
 classics include Ghost Valley 2 from SNES Kart, Delfino Square from DS Kart, Bowser Castle 3 from 
 GBA Kart, and DK Mountain from GCN Kart. All in all great courses but a few courses can be a bit 
 frustrating/boring at times. 
  
  Music: 9.5
  
  The game features great music that strengthen the whole racing experience. I like how Rainbow Road 
 has a hint of the Good Egg Galaxy theme from Super Mario Galaxy. Great music but not the best.
 
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  
  Not much has changed from It's GameCube Predecessor. The graphics are a bit better but there is 
 not much to say on this half.
  
  Online: 11/10
  
  I'm breaking the rules. But I have to. This games online is FAN-FREAKING-TASTIC. It is so easy 
 to get into a race/battle with a friend. After a regional/worldwide race you continue for as long 
 as you want or until everyone one else leaves. Or you can also join a friends game right after 
 your race. The feeling you get from owning some n00b from Japan or getting owned by someone in 
 the U. K. makes the Online very deep. The game also comes with the Mario Kart Wii Channel that you 
 can access without having a copy of MK Wii in the disc drive. Here you can download friend/stranger 
 ghost data from around the world to practice against the best of the best. There is also Ghost 
 Data from the Devs. The online is definitely the prime attraction in this game.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  Overall this game has incredible replay value. It will keep you coming back 
 for more.
  
  Overall Score: 9.6/10
  
  Don't expect terrific graphics but with incredible online racing and crazy, as always, local multiplayer 
 there is no reason not to pick up Mario Kart Wii.
  
  You will get hooked.
  
  -Lunar52
  
  Add me if you want...
  
  4511 0866 2497
  
  Screen Name: Lunar - Canada.
 
  
  I'm online a lot.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARIFFLES
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Of all the crazy Mario sports games there is one that stands out as the greatest of them all. The 
 game is called, Mario Kart. The latest in the kart variety is Mario Kart Wii. As an addition, the 
 game comes with a stylish new Wii wheel peripheral to act obviously as a steering wheel.
  The Wii wheel is just one of the ways in which you can control, there is also the option of using 
 the Wii remote and nunchuck, the Wii controller or the Gamecube controller. So there is a good 
 mix of controls for different people and isn't a problem for beginners or newcomers. Driving is 
 a lot different in Mario Kart Wii to the previous games as an option for 'automatic' and 'manual' 
 control is available. Now this has nothing to do with switching gears, the automatic controls drift 
 for you when you turn sharp enough but at the expense of not being able to hop or drift boost. 
 The manual control lets the driver drift on their own and still being able to hop and drift boost.
 
  Now as good as it sounds, motorbikes have been included in Mario Kart Wii and adds even more variety 
 to vehicle selection in the game. Not only can you drive motorbikes, you can now do massive tricks 
 off jumps on them too. All you do is simply flick the remote into direction and thats all to it. 
 This can also be done in karts too.
  This time, the characters are divided into weight classes with each class having its own selection 
 of vehicles. Lightweight class includes characters such as Baby Mario and Luigi, Toad etc. Medium 
 weight class includes Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, Peach etc. Heavyweight class includes Bowser, Wario, 
 Waluigi and King Boo etc.
  Everything is here in terms of multiplayer modes like 4-player race or battle, which is a little 
 different this time as the score is determined as how many balloons are popped by a team and not 
 a survival type thing. Coin runners is a new battle option but is really only just the shine runners 
 battle mode from the DS version except with coins. The addition of Wi=Fi battling makes gameplay 
 a constant challenge and will keep you occupied for hours trying to beat that guy from Switzerland.
 
  All the items are back too except for the ghost item which has mysteriously disappeared somewhere. 
 Two more items are included such as the POW block and the giant mushroom from the New Super Mario 
 Bros game on DS. These new items don't really have an impact on gameplay and aren't all that special.
 
  Overall, this game is perfect for you and your friends and is a must buy for all Wii owners and 
 will keep you entertained for hours and hours. 
  
  ARIFFLES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-XZ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii for the Nintendo Wii is a great racing game for everyone, and may just be the best 
 entry in the MK series yet. With great single-player and multi-player modes, absolutely amazing 
 online play, and the Wii Wheel that comes with the game, which is actually more easy and fun as 
 most have expected.
  All of the usual characters from previous games return here, with some newcomers like Funky Kong 
 (from the Donkey Kong Country series) , Princess Rosalina (from Super Mario Galaxy) and Baby Daisy. 
 You can even play as one of your Miis and take on the game as your virtual self.
  The race tracks are mostly a retro renaissance, with a lot of tracks from the original game on 
 SNES, to the last entry, Mario Kart DS, return to Mario Kart Wii along with a couple of new tracks 
 to try out.
  The online modes are some of the best you can find on Wii. It has so many features, it had to be 
 separated into two Wii channels (One of which is the Mario Kart Channel, which can be downloaded 
 to the Wii menu, and the game itself) . Playing online is very fluid, with seemingly no lag at all. 
 Mario Kart Wii's online play are on par with SSBB's online play, and at times, it's actually better. 
 
  Overall, Mario Kart Wii is one the best racing game you can find, and of course, it's one of the 
 best Wii has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatusItani
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Straight to the facts. I LOVE the Mario Kart series. Progression: SNES   N64   Gamecube with bits 
 of hand held sprinkled on here and there. I suggest renting this one before purchase because you 
 will either love it or hate it. My friends & I; hate.
  
  Graphics: I have low expectations for graphics of the Wii because it doesn't need outstanding graphics 
 to deliver a quality game experience. Mario Kart Wii, however, looks like it could run as an early 
 title for the Cube. Pixels and jaggies as far as the eye can see, I had sore eyes after playing 
 for a portion of an hour.
  
  Gameplay: Hollow, repetitive, good chaotic driving, elimination of need of skill. For those new 
 to the series, workable since you have nothing to compare it against and hey, bikes! For those 
 who have been around, they are taking a step back from Double Dash. The power slide has been reworked 
 and is extremely frustrating. The items are as unbalanced as ever and you can go from first to 
 last in no time flat; new items are unoriginal. The bikes are nothing special except they can do 
 wheelies for a boost of speed.
  
  Other: The plastic wheel that delivered with this game is a poor advertising gimmick; if you plan 
 to play this game to any level of enjoyment I suggest the classic or cube controller. 
  
  Other than that I repeat; RENT THIS ONE FIRST. If you like it, more power to you. If you don't, 
 well then you are like me; incredibly disappointed.
  
  Edit.
  
  Ok, I know I should have looked into everything the game had to offer before writing my review, 
 I accept that so I am going back and finishing what I started. There are two angles that I will 
 be reviewing from; online play and the ability to use Miis as drivers.
  
  Online play first. I played a wired connection to nintendo's online and that may be why we were 
 able to lots of good online time. We both played, me using the Mii I created as a middle weight 
 class and my buddy as a heavy weight. The two of us tore that race track up. It was fun and chaotic 
 just like Mario kart should be, this adds half a point to my score.
  
  The Miis are the second one and I have to remark on the ability of the Wii to determine the weight 
 and high of the actual mii character and convert that to a driver. Im tall and thin; medium weight. 
 My buddy is tall and stocky; heavy weight. There was certainly a level of depth that was added 
 with the miis if you got too sick of the other pre-determined drivers. That adds another 4/10 of 
 a point.
  
  The last tenth of a point was in the unlockable karts that you can choose from, simple but interesting. 
 Ok, thats it. Pce. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steelers_86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I almost didn't buy this game, not because I didn't like the other Mario Karts, but because there 
 are a few other games I am currently playing. But I'm so glad I decided to go ahead and get it 
 - I can't put it down!
  
  First of all, I'm not huge into all things Mario; I passed on Galaxy and Brawl, but I always save 
 a special place in my gaming heart for Mario Kart!
  
  I love the wheel... even though the wrist strap makes it a tiny bit awkward... the controls are 
 a blast on the wii! I've enjoyed just about every one of the courses and game modes (balloon battle 
 being my hands down favorite) . The motorbikes are awesome, I dont know what we ever did without 
 them!
  
  Some of the unspectacular parts of the game are the graphics and the sound. Also, the fact that 
 you can be miles ahead in 1st and have one item ruin the race with 10 seconds to go is a little 
 tedious at times.
  
  I have not ventured to play online yet, but I can only assume that it is equally amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heartboy11
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 28, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Still not even close to how good Mario kart 64 is. After the mess up of game cube I was hoping 
 for a return to the glory days but was massively disappointed. Gaining a speed boost is too easy, 
 the karts are more advanced then they should be for a simple and item based racing game. Item use 
 is limited because you still loose all your items when you get hit and are not valued correctly 
 so you don't get them when you are in an appropriate place. Racers can't spread out enough so if 
 you are in last you have a very low chance of actually getting an item and if you are in first 
 you can get hit by one item and are instantly in last. The completely useless mushrooms are way 
 overrated. Blue shell should lock onto only the first place person even if that person changes 
 after it is fired. Lightning cloud is a disadvantage and shouldn't be gotten if you are in last. 
 I was really hoping that this game wouldn't be messed up like it was on the game cube. I'd even 
 pull out my snes and play the original over playing this one. Maybe worth $5 definitely not worth 
 the $50 being charged now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Last year, Nintendo shook the industry, especially Nintendo fanboys about a new installment to 
 the predecessor in the Mario Kart franchise. This was then known as one of the most highly anticipated 
 Nintendo Wii games in the gaming universe, and Mario won't disappoint.
  
  The game doesn't come along as it comes with a new peripheral specifically designed for any racing, 
 the Wii Wheel. In two words, it's a plastic home. But it does a nice job of holding the Wii remote 
 and making gameplay more fun. Although it's simple to use, it does take it's share of getting used 
 to.
  
  One quick noteable new thing to the game is the addition of motorcycles in the game.
  
  The 
 best time you'll find when playing is in multiplayer, but being lonely doesn't disappoint one. 
 The variety of options helps make single player just as if you were playing with other people. 
 There are a few modes, the most used one probably being the Grand Prix. It still pits you against 
 11 other players and you still want to win. But you are more focused not on winning, but on making 
 sure the other players rank as low as possible as the winners are determined by point totals. If 
 you manage to be successful in a 150 cc race, you will unlock a specific cup, which unlocks another 
 4 tracks. There are a total of 32 in the game, 16 of which have to be unlocked via Grand Prix.
 
  
  There is also the battle mode in single player along with Time Trials and quite some more.
  
 
  There is still of course the multiplayer mode. You aren't competing in cups, but in specific tracks. 
 You can have 2-4 players locally, but there are still 12 racers total. Every player of course chooses 
 their character then their kart and then, a player will determine a cup to race in, and then a 
 track. There is also still the battle mode, which contains a balloon battle where you want to pop 
 the most balloons via items and the coin battle where you want to collect as much points as possible. 
 But unfortunately, now it is exclusively, in teams on both modes of 6.
  
  You don't need a room full of people to have fun against other human players as Nintendo has added 
 online play to the mix. You can choose to race against people worldwide, people in your region, 
 or just against friends. You can only choose from either a kart or a motorcycle, but that doesn't 
 ruin all the fun. There is a VS mode (a normal race) or the battle mode. A track is determined 
 by a vote, and then the computer takes all the votes and chooses one.
  
  During online play, there is a point system which is very simple but fun. If you win, you get more 
 points, but if you lose, you're deducted points. Every person starts out with 5,000 points. It 
 was annoying sometimes the fact that you can lose points when you won or someone else can win points 
 even after losing, but they don't effect any gameplay at all (unless someone maybe makes fun of 
 you from halfway across the world!)
  
  There is also a Mario Kart Wii channel, where you can view stats from ghost data and all sorts 
 of stuff. You can also add this to the Wii menu and use it while the game disc isn't even in. It 
 is easily accessable while you are playing the game still, so there is no trouble finding it.
 
  
  There are still the items. There are all the classics plus some additions, but not all the additions 
 work with older tracks. What seems disappointing is that unless you are in battle mode, the items 
 are extremely unbalanced. You might even be afraid to be in 1st place being that in less than 10 
 seconds, you can drop from 1st to 10th place all because you are continiously hit by items. It 
 has become more unbalance than ever, which can turn Mario Kart Wii into a Mario Kart Brawl.
  
  The graphics are overall the same as the previous installment in the series. Although they 
 are great when you have the whole screen to yourself, you will easily notice the graphics have 
 turned into the N64 version as everything seems all fuzzy and stuff.
  
  There are new characters. All of them are unlocked in some way, usally by winning a race. But from 
 Super Mario Galaxy, Rosalina can be unlocked if you have a save file from Super Mario Galaxy on 
 the Wii after a few races. Some characters seem lame and disappointing like Dry Bones, but now 
 you can be your own character as the game now lets you put yourself in the game with Mii support.
 
  
  When you wonder if you really need another Mario Kart game like this, the anwser is probably going 
 to be "Yes, I always need more." There are many differences from previous installments and this 
 one, many of which are positive. The controls are very simple but may take some getting used to 
 along with some patience, but in the long run will definetly define the Wii Wheel's real power.
 
  
  When you take Mario Kart and a Brawl, you get madness but take exciting multiplayer without taking 
 up so much space and more people to play as along with Mii support and many more tracks and a free 
 Wii Wheel that's worth $10 for just the same price of $49.99, you will definitely add Mario Kart 
 Wii to your game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beepyou34
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Let's just get this out of the way: I LOVE Mario Kart Wii. It is easily the best kart racing game 
 of all time. The game has a lot of characters to unlock, and like Super Smash Bros. Brawl (which 
 for some reason I haven't reviewed yet) , it has a very strong multiplayer offering. But I do not 
 get why they still don't have a career mode. The graphics are not the best on the system, but they're 
 close. The track designs are stellar, and the framerate never skips a beat. The music is, and has 
 always been, superb. But the Grand Prix modes are a little too frustrating this time around, as 
 it is sometimes overwhelming with the amount of power-ups that your 11 opponents are constantly 
 using against you. But the biggest addition this time around are the bikes. They control even better 
 than the karts, as they handle much better and seem a little faster. Overall, Mario Kart Wii is 
 a fantastic entry into the long-running franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrupted19
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Three different aspects that should be mentioned in a review is the single player, the graphics, 
 the multiplayer - WiFi Connection, Characters and the Level Designs.
  
  Single Player - Everybody knows how frustrating the computer may get in the 150 cc races in every 
 Mario Kart. This remains the same, but it is fun. A lot of people have been "bombing" on Mario 
 Kart because of the Blue Shells. We hate them, its true. But how happy are you when you are in 
 second and you see the first peron get nailed with one. That is the way that you got to look at 
 it.
  
  9.5 out of 10
  
  Graphics - Over the last couple of months, the Wii has been show a lot of potential for graphics, 
 and this continues on with Mario Kart Wii. Very nice and Colorful graphics were put into this game, 
 and even a sun glare while coming around some corners was a nice touch. Some character models look 
 blocky, but that not really what you look at when it comes down to it. Textures and level design 
 are really nice and really show Nintendo's power.
  
  9 out of 10
  
  WiFi Connection - This just makes the game so much better. By far the best Wifi game for the Wii, 
 and sets a new bar for more games. The Versus mode start you off with 5000 points and a white Wii 
 wheel [If you use the wheel] . As you start placing higher in higher you get more points and a different 
 ranking such as a gold wheel. In battle mode you can have up to 12 players also, and playing on 
 some of the coolest courses and some retro ones too. Snaking is gone now which is a plus and makes 
 it a more fun experience for everyone else. You may have heard that it evens it out for the beginners 
 to catch up. This is not true because the better racers, snaking or not, are going to win.
  
  10 out of 10
  
  Characters - Not really much to say here. There is up to twentyfive characters 
 including a spot for your Miis. You start off with a decent 12 and work your way up to unlock new 
 characters and karts. A lot of fun even though some may seem a little random.
  
  10 out of 10
  
  Level Design - Last but not least is level desing because what is racing without 
 a good course? Some of the courses are just brilliant and a lot of fun to play. The jumps are a 
 nice touch and really can save you @$$ when you get out of control. Another thing is the retro 
 courses. They still have the old-school feel to them but they have a new touch which is really 
 nice. These courses such as Bowsers Castle, DK Summit, and Maple Treeway, are the best thought 
 out tracks I have ever seen.
  
  10 out of 10
  
  Overall this game is stellar, a must have for anyone with a wii the controls, graphics, courses 
 and everything about it is great. See you on the tracks. Anyone wanting to add me for Wifi is more 
 than welcome my code is in my blog and tell me if you are going to add me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you will notice when you buy this game is it comes in a small box. There isnt just 
 a big instruction booklet in there, its a wii wheel! The wii wheel adds a great new control sceme 
 to the game by steering to turn left and right, pressing 2 to go, 1 to brake, pulling up on the 
 wii wheel for a wheelie on motorcycles, and more. Wait a minute... did I just say motorcycles? Yeah 
 thats right! Not only can you ride in motorcycles like wario's and waluigi's but now every character 
 has a motorcyle. This adds a lot of gameplay to the game and in my oppinion are a lit funner to 
 drive than the karts. Now you are probably wondering about the wifi, is it any good and such. Well.... yes! 
 This is the best wifi game for any system on the market. It literally takes about 2 minutes to 
 get 12 people to play. Yea thats right I said 12 and theres no lag!
  
  let me lay down the basics:
  
  controls:10 out of 10. These blew me away! They are super sensitive 
 and your character never gets jerked in the wrong direction! You dont have to use the wii wheel 
 however, you can use the gamecube controller, wii remote and nunchuck, wii remote on the side (steering) , 
 and classic controller. Still I recomend the wii wheel.
  
  gameplay:9 out of 10. The game is realy fun with a lot of modes, but its not quit like super smash 
 bros brawl. The matches feel realy cheap when someone wins with a lighting bolt or star, expecialy 
 in grand prix (tournament mode) . However the game is still really fun!
  
  graphics:7.5 out of 10. This is where the game falls short. Graphics dont mean everything in the 
 world but you cant help but snicker at some points in the game. The characters look blocky and 
 blurry and some of the tracks have very little detail. If your looking for the wii's graphical 
 potential I suggest brawl or zelda twilite princes.
  
  overall:8.5 out of 10
  
  Its mabey not as good a game as brawl but I guarantee you will love the game if you like mario. 
 With decent graphics, amazing controls, and good gameplay mario kart wii recieves a 8.5 out of 
 10. A solid B 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jzayas40
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I've only played this game since yesterday, but is amazing. An extraodinary game, really. A kart 
 racing game.
  
  About- It's a car racing game.
  
  Controls- Controls are a little hard. Trying to use a steeringwheel is not easy. You use a steering 
 wheel if you rented the game. If you didn't rent it I don't know, maybe you'll use the wii remote 
 sideways.
  
  Graphics-It's a mix of Mario Kart ds, and Mario Galaxy.
  
  Characters- A new variety of characters are available in this game. From Rosalina, to Bowser Bones.
 
  
  Special- It has some special characters that hardly come out in games, like Rosalina, Bowser Bones, 
 Baby Daisy, Baby Peach, Funky Kong, Baby Luigi, Baby Mario, Petey Phirahna, King Boo. And some 
 more are included.
  
  Rating- I don't know about you guys, but I give this game a 10/10.
  
  Stages- More stages than ever, new ones, and the old ones, both amazing.
  
  Other- A great 
 sequel to Mario Kart games, and it's for the wii.
  
  Wi-fi- The wi-fi isn't as slow as brawl's. It's fast. Up to twelve players can play. 
  
  Favorites- 
 My favorite stage and character are, Mario and Coconut Mall.
  
  ???- Mii's are also included, but you have to unlock them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettjcav
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Mario Kart yet. Battlemode sucks, but the rest is all good. Take the time to get 
 used to the wheel. It might be easier to use a control stick, but it's a lot more fun to use the 
 wheel on tracks like mushroom gorge or the snowboarding level. The wheel is crazy responsive, about 
 99% of the time. Once in awhile though it will send you veering off the track.
  Also, no snaking is not a big deal. The multiple ways to get boosts in this edition are better, 
 more varied, and more exciting ways to get boosts than constantly banging back and forth on an 
 analog stick. 
  Be prepared for frustration in 150 though. You will be in first within arms reach of the finish 
 line, get hit by three consecutive projectiles, and finish 6th. Resist the temptation to launch 
 the Wii Wheel through your plasma. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahahaG
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I have been one of the people extremely hyped up for this game and I can say the wait was well 
 worth it. Mario Kart is finally on the wii and funner than ever! This new Mario Kart has new tracks 
 and some returning from previous versions. It has its grand prix mode, time trials, vs modes, battle, 
 and online. Grand Prix is the single player mode where you race to get cups. You can play 50cc, 
 100cc, or 150cc. Every time you win a cup, it goes on your license which is pretty cool after you've 
 gotten a good number on there. There's no co-op grand prix unfortunately but switching off and 
 on with a partner never hurt and is quite fun in its own right. In battle modes, you can do coin 
 run, or balloon battle. In each you are on either the red or blue team, and have 3 minutes to collect 
 the most coins, or pop the most balloons. Many reviewers haven't been happy about this, but I honestly 
 don't mind, and think it's just as fun as the others. The main thing that makes Mario Kart Wii 
 the best in series though, is its online. The online is awesome, and it's finally what I myself 
 have been wanting from Nintendo. You can play regional, worldwide, or with friends who you've registered 
 friend codes with. Any of the three are fun ways to play, and guess what, NO LAG! I was very happy 
 about this, even in worldwide mode there is none. In online you pick a stage you'd like to play, 
 and it randomly selects 1 of your stages. You race with up to 12 people, and it's quite addicting. 
 So with a fun Grand Prix mode, fun local multi player, a decent battle mode, and Nintendo's greatest 
 online to date, Mario Kart Wii is a must pick up, and a great game to all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmasterrof
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Now the Mario Kart has always been an entertaining game series...
  
  This time it is a whole 'nother experience. Using the wii mote is absoloutly fun, 'specially in 
 some of the more tricky courses in which in you have to turn alot. You basicly look like an idiot 
 :P 
  
  I myself have only played this game with the Wii mote and steering wheel, and the GameCube controller, 
 and both works fine, i would say i enjoy playing it better with the steering wheel, but hell, aint 
 that the whole idea!
  
  There is a ton of characters, and not to mention all the karts, cars, and motorcycles. It has alot 
 of different things to offer, there is a ton courses (both new and old ones, remade from all the 
 pre games, which is both good and bad, but i'll get into that later)
  
  The game graphics is kinda dissapointing, but on the other side, you cant expect much from a Mario 
 Kart game, and when i say dissapointing, i just ment, it has not changed at all, and in different 
 ways i think thats sad, but it's not without it's charm.
  
  As mentioned previously - there at alot, and i mean ALOT of courses, this is great but, when i 
 heard that old NES courses would be remade i was all like "Wauw, how cool" but it is really nothing... 
 They are actully very boring, and is more of "practice" courses than actual courses if you ask 
 me, and would not be enjoyed On-line, as there would be no challenge in the course, only from your 
 challengers.
  
  The only part works great, even though i think Wii and DS still sucks when it comes to "FC's" but 
 else it's okay, and alot of fun when you get started.
  
  Mario Kart Wii has alot to offer, and there is not much bad to say about it, but not alot have 
 changed since the previous games, we got new characters, and old characters, new courses, and really 
 old ones :P But all in all the game is alot of fun, and can be enjoyed by kids, aswell as adults.
 
  
  Written by Oliver Adam
  
  Ps: Wario FTW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trumpettruck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game to come out for a long time.
  My girlfriend has been more excited about it than even I have been.
  
  Upon leaving Gamespot 
 and rushing home... I could not wait to get my Wii loaded up. I only intended to play a race or 
 two... and then it was six hours later and i was falling asleep at the wheel... literally!
  
  to date... MK Wii has been my best experience on the Wii... and that's saying a lot. I own 
 over 20 high quality wii games... loved every one... but this game brings a whole new level of 
 fun to the Wii.
  
  
  THE WII WHEEL
  So far... I love the wii wheel... and i don't see that changing anytime soon. from the first race, 
 i knew that nintendo had done their homework. i admit i was worried that the drifting wouldn't 
 work well... but after playing this game for many hours i can assure you that drifting feels more 
 realistic and more natural than ever.
  
  THE RACES
  With the addition of tricks, drafting boosts, etc. i find that the races seem more frantic, more 
 exciting! the new courses are very innovative, while keeping some elements from previous races.
 
  
  ONLINE
  I have played several races online and am very happy that Nintendo got it right this time. I admit 
 SSBB online is a bit of a mess (managed by SSBB chat rooms to set up friend matches) but i was 
 happy to see that MK Wii online took less time and zero effort to get into a race and GO! as soon 
 as the globe loaded up I immediately joined a race with 11 other people and was racing in less 
 than 30 seconds!
  
  i have two gripes with this game... the only reason for the game not getting a perfect 10.
  
 
  1 - They took out Co-op / multiplayer split screen grand prix! I was very disappointed when I 
 realized this
  
  2 - ITEMS - if you're in 1st place for any significant amount of time (especially towards the end 
 of a race) be prepared to be hit by several blue shells, red shells, and whatever else until you 
 are stuck in last place with no hope for recovery... it's very annoying... there are too many items 
 that cannot be defended against
  
  GET THIS GAME NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This is without question, the ultimate Mario Kart game, this is every Mario Kart fan's dream come 
 true. Anything I could have asked for, has been implemented into this game.
  
  Anyone comes to a Mario Kart game looking for the best graphics around is making a mistake, the 
 series is about game-play, so don't expect any mind blowing visuals. However, I'm not saying Mario 
 Kart is not a good looking game for the Wii. At first glance you won't really notice any difference 
 between this and Double Dash, and any even say they didn't change it at all. Well, trust me when 
 I say that when in motion this game looks way better than Double Dash. This is the result of several 
 small things I noticed that add up to a big difference in my opinion. Firstly, this iteration carries 
 the series tradition of no pop-in and a silky smooth frame rate. The character and vehicle models 
 are much more detailed. Even the weapons are more detailed, you can see genuine grooves in the 
 shells rather than just drawn on lines, the wings on the dreaded blue shell flap now, and more. 
 The textures have been upgraded a little bit, and the lighting is vastly upgraded. Now when you 
 drive by lava, there will be a red glow on you, or multiple colors of glow on Rainbow Road. You 
 can see much farther now, which is a good thing because the backgrounds are much more detailed 
 now, even on the retro tracks. There's a bunch of particle effects now, it may be leaves falling 
 from trees, or snow, either way it looks good and adds to the atmosphere. So, separately these 
 things don't sound like much, but combined it truly makes a difference. 
  
  Soundtrack hasn't ever really been a strong point in the Mario Kart series. Its not that they have 
 bad music, but its not amazing either, mostly because this sort of game doesn't call for an epic 
 soundtrack. Having said that, I think some of the music on the new tracks is better than usual, 
 although having your character yell with joy every time they go off a jump can be irritating.
 
  
  Now we come to the best part, game play. Mario Kart has always been about game play, and MK Wii 
 is no different. We can start off with characters. There's several more characters than there were 
 in Double Dash, some of them are really cool like Dry Bowser, while other like Baby Daisy make 
 you question if listening to her is really worth it to play this game. They all have their own 
 list of karts and bikes of course, which are much more diverse than before in terms of speed, acceleration, 
 toughness, and handling. This brings me to bikes. I thought the newly added bikes would be stupid, 
 but I was wrong, they actually work quite well and are a welcome addition to the series in my opinion. 
 The new tracks are very cool and are the most intricate and imaginative I've seen in the series, 
 while the retro tracks are welcome, they all have received a bit of a face lift, but still look 
 like their original versions. There's also online play, which everyone has been waiting for since 
 the Gamecube came out, unfortunately for you I can't comment on it because I don't play games online, 
 partly its because I'm too lazy to hook it up, and partly because there's a lot of irritating people 
 online. I have play local split screen though and its very fun, as it always is with this series. 
 As for the Wii wheel, well it works pretty well actually. I was very surprised they got the motion 
 controls down. However, I still prefer the Gamecube controller, it is a little bit more accurate, 
 but its probably mostly just because I'm more used to the analog stick than motion control. The 
 wheel works extremely well for those who are new to gaming, even my mother, who is extremely funny 
 to watch try to play games, got the hang of it very quickly and actually won a race in 50cc mode.
 
  
  I really don't see many faults in this game. It could maybe look a little better, and it could've 
 added more retro tracks I guess. The only thing I could really ask for in a sequel is a track editor. 
 Overall this is an amazing game if you just want to have fun, or want some sweet multi-player. 
 If you own a Wii I'd highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 28, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  I'm pretty shocked at the lack of objectivity in these "reviews," seemingly reading endless homer-isms 
 from people who are simply big fans of the franchise.
  
  I'm a big fan of the franchise too, but I think you need to put away the glee of having a "next-gen" 
 Mario Kart game and try to be a bit subjective in the analysis of the game; and I think people 
 would see a multitude of annoying problems like these:
  
  1. Recycled tracks. Everyone ogles at the THIRTY-TWO tracks available, yet no one seems to find 
 a problem that HALF are recycled from old games, and are rather tedious and boring compared to 
 the new tracks. How hard is it to put forth a little effort and make all new tracks? Heck, how 
 about even just 8 more new tracks, and cut in half the recycled software?
  
  2. Only 4 licenses. I have a hunch that reviewers with families that play are the vast minority, 
 and most reviewers are probably teens. I have a family of 6 that all love to play. Two get hosed 
 and don't get to keep track of their stats. Sorry kids, Nintendo can't find the effort to make 
 more than 4 available licenses. For touting their system as the "family system," why do they hose 
 those who are family gamers?
  
  Not only that, but in multiplayer mode, only 1 license is "registered." So, if you're playing with 
 another family member, they can't keep track of anything they did while playing as "Player 2."
 
  
  3. $10 for the wheel (required) , which is an inferior controller. Not a big deal to a teenage kid 
 whose Mommy and Daddy pay for the game. Really annoying when it comes out of your pocketbook. The 
 gamecube controller simply affords better maneuverability, period. BUT! If you think it's going 
 to be just like Double Dash, think again. They've switched the location of some buttons, for I-don't-know-what-reason, 
 and you've got to get rid of that muscle-memory you've ingrained over the last few years.
  
  4. Overpowered items, horrific AI settings (play 150cc for a while) . It's apparently far too 
 difficult to program adaptive AI that can race with some semblance of intelligence. Instead, if 
 you "happen" to be in first place, you get to endure endless barrages of blue shells, bullets, 
 POW blocks, green shells, red shells, blah blah... blah... 
  
  Are the graphics better? Umm.. somewhat. The NGC tracks don't seem particularly better. Items seem 
 puffy and a bit more cartoony. Manual drifting is confined to merely hitting a button -- which does 
 eliminate "snaking" to a degree, but also dumbs down the game. Is that a good or bad thing? I have 
 a hunch that the "newness" factor of this game will go away quickly, and the rating for it will 
 then start to plummet soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabin55
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Die hard fans of the series will find themselves missing the 2 player granp prix. I have already 
 seen sime gripe about this feature which is lacking in the Wii version. There is of course a VS. 
 but having other racers on the track besides the human players playing with you was a fun option 
 that does not seems to take a lot to add. 
  
  Battle mode has changed and it seems for the worse. There is no more pop three balloons and you 
 are out. It is now timed and there is no way to change it. Pop three balloons and you get three 
 more. I for one miss it being last man standing, and enjoyed if I was the first one out in the 
 game, driving around as a bomb. Again a simple add that nintendo did not do.
  
  For all the negatives the positive is the best one. On-line. Being able to play on-line is key 
 for this game. The only negatives to the online is you can only bring one other player online with 
 you for a total of two. Battle switches between coin collect and balloon pop. I wish there was 
 an option for just balloon pop. The rankings for the chart channel are nice,, But so far no battle 
 rankings are listed, just ghost times.
  
  Graphics seem soft but then again if you bought a wii you knew about the graphic when you bought 
 the system.
  
  Overall a fun game you will find yourself putting many hours of play time into. With four player 
 local playing, this will be the game of choice for friends.
  
  Many people will find the constant use of items not only annoying but frustrating. Too many spiney 
 shells, POW's, lighting bolts, ect. You find yousef in frist to be hit by 203482 items and dropping 
 to last place. When this happens on the last lap you want to throw the remote. It does however 
 make it more challenging than previous mario kart games. Just be preparted for the anger that comes 
 with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bandit7319
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  I've picked up all the big Wii games, but none of them have really been able to keep me interested 
 for too long. Maybe it's just my short attention span, but I love Mario Kart Wii because there's 
 tons of stuff to do in it, but it's not the kind of thing that requires a heavy time investment 
 to play. I'll break it down instead of writing paragraphs.
  
  Graphics: I'll put my bias aside since I own a PS3 and a 360, and say that the graphics are great 
 relatively speaking. There are vibrant colors with a fast, steady frame rate and everything is 
 very well animated. The courses are all very well done and uniquely designed as well.
  
  Sound: The vehicles sound great and the sound of the weapons are well done too, but I do have a 
 bit of gripe with some of the voice acting, specifically with Donkey Kong and Wario. At this point 
 I've only played as Mario, Wario, DK, Koopa, Toad, and Bowser, so the others might not have been 
 as bad. 
  
  Fun: It's a blast. Mario Kart games have always been fun, and I wasn't expecting anything less 
 with this one. 
  
  Controls: Fantastic. The wheel peripheral that comes with the game is great. I like everything 
 about it. It's sturdy, responsive, and the design fits comfortably. The remote fits in it sideways, 
 with 2 being the gas, and depending on your drift setting, B (a raised button on the back of the 
 wheel itself instead of the Wiimote's B button) either being jump/drift or for item use. Using 
 the manual drift setting, the control pad becomes the item use button. The only problem with it 
 is it might take a few round of practicing to coordinate your fingers to press and hold the right 
 buttons for item use and drifting.
  
  I would definitely consider this a must buy for any Wii owner. I haven't gotten a chance to try 
 out the online and multiplayer modes yet, so I can't pass a rating on that. Everything else about 
 it is A+ though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkymonkey4710
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  This game is very well put together, in the racing and the online department. But the reason this 
 game didn't get a super high score is it's bad use of the battle system. Not only is it only team 
 and time based, but when you play online with it, you have to switch between coin battle and balloon 
 battle and can't keep playing one of the two. I know this is a short review, but this game would 
 have been 10x better had it included a choice to turn off the options for Balloon battle and to 
 choose what you want to play over the internet. Also the game has a healthy choice of characters 
 and places to race in and I believe this is one of the there good points in the series. That and 
 the inclusion of bikes which really gives another POV to Mario Kart. All in all this game was really 
 good and can't wait to keep playing it at a party, since that what is was obviously made for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeavenNathious
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  So, yeah, that's basically what it is. The Wii version is pretty much everything you'd expect it 
 to be. There's the tracks, all colorful and puffy, and there's actually quite a few of them. And 
 of course you'll race through them on your kart and bike or whatever and throw shells at the person 
 in front of you. Just how it should be. 
  
  The graphics have improved a little since the gamecube version, but that's not much of a big deal. 
 The Wii does greatly to improve this game, by adding online play, which works seemlessly well. 
 And of course, the wheel is fun and easy to use, giving you a real experience of Mario Kart.
  
  Also, the multiplayer is as fun as ever. I wish they had added some more characters that weren't 
 in the previous games, but since there's not a lot of options to choose from, the character selection 
 is about right. 
  
  But, the tracks are pretty much the same, or at least similar to the old tracks in the old 64, 
 DS, and Double Dash versions. They could have made something that already hadn't been recycled 
 throughout the era. And the choice of weapons that you can chuck at people hasn't really changed, 
 for better or worse. The computers you'll play against won't probably be a great challenge starting 
 out. 
  
  Overall though, this game still retains its classic feel and delivers a new powerful experience 
 that's fun to play. It's super fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simeon_Crane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun. The steering wheel controller scheme is very intuitive, and honestly 
 I think that it makes the vehicles easier to control than the old key pad. It takes a race or two 
 to get the hang of, but once you do, steering becomes much more precise and easy to control.
  
  The graphics are pretty awesome, in some cases almost too good and sharp. In some cases it 
 makes the tracks seem somewhat uninspired. The racing is fun though, don't get me wrong, and the 
 multiplayer makes it even better. I do think that 50cc could be elminated from the game all together. 
 It is just way too easy with the new steering wheel. So easy that it is boring. 
  Pulling off tricks is really fun and when you successfully pull one off it gives you a turbo boost. 
 Manual drifting is tough with the wheel. I haven't gotten the hang of it and I was a master with 
 the old system.
  
  I say if you have a Wii you have to have this game. It is really great. I haven't even played 150cc 
 yet so I will be probably updating this after I put in a few more hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssbbman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  omg its a cool game its epic its the best racing game ever on nintendo no its the best racing game 
 of all!!!!!!! from mii playible characters to bikes and new stages and retro stages like mario 
 kart ds i say in my opinion its better than mario kart ds but i dont know why gamespot gave the 
 game 8.5 and mario kart ds 9.1 its alot better than mario kart ds i like the tricks and mini turbos 
 and Wi Fi is cool race all the  
 i like funky kong he is cool but why did they put rosalaina in mario kart wii and they didnt put 
 any character or stage from any nintendo game in brawl any way good job nintendo i will always 
 be a fan and if u like to race me just send me a personal messege sending me your FC or writing 
 a comment on any of my mario kart blog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDCalibur
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  
  I'm sure most of you have played Mario Kart back in the SNES days. If not then I'm sure you've 
 heard of Double Dash for the Gamecube. But to the point it's time for another Mario racing game 
 for the next-gen system. This game pretty much improves on the old games and gives us what we've 
 been waiting for. 
  
  To start of you can use every controller the Wii has to offer. And for most you got the Wii Wheel 
 with Mario Kart Wii. For me I stuck with using the old-school Gamecube controller. Just use to 
 it is all. I don't see any benefits of any controller. The game has pretty much all the same moves 
 as its predecessors; Drifting , Rocket start , etc. But it's also add the new "Trickand "Wheelie" (for 
 the motorcycle) . The "trick" is used when you make a jump if you time button right , depending 
 on the controller your character will do a mid-air stunt and when you land you get a nice speed 
 boost.
  
  With the addition of the Karts you also get to use the new motorcycle which adds a little flair 
 to the game. Most of the items you remember from the older games are back with addition to some 
 new ones. The new "Pow block" which basically shakes you up then makes you spin-out losing any 
 item you might be holding. "Bullet Bill" which basically guides you through the some of the track 
 and anyone in your way is knocked over. And the "Lightning Cloud" which is basically like hot-potato 
 you can pass the cloud to other racers when you bump into them , and the sucker that gets it is 
 shrunk. So yeah new Karts , motorcycles and new items. 
  
  Now comes the levels it has loads of old levels from: Double Dash , Mario Kart 64 , Mario Kart 
 , etc. Then it also has new ones. It has a nice array of levels so you shouldn't find yourself 
 bored with the levels. As the old games this one has a Timer mode , where you have to finish a 
 level in the fastest time and also the Battle mode that you know. Basically drive around levels 
 trying to knock off peoples balloons. On top of that you're able to play this Online. Theres lots 
 of unlock-ables from other characters , karts , motorcycles , etc. Given everything you can do 
 in the game you'll have plenty to do for hours and hours. 
  
  The real strength of this game lies in it's multiplayer off/online. I would of liked some more 
 levels and maybe some more characters rather than just "Baby" forms of the same character. But 
 overall the game is great to play. Look's great on the Wii as well. Not the best looking when the 
 game is playing with for four people but still looks great none the less. 
  
  Easily a must-buy for any Mario Kart fan and/or racing. So go out and buy this! You'll spend hours 
 upon hours racing your friends and people online.
  
  8.5./10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thimitry
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  Though i do not own any other mario kart games myself i have played them at friends' or cousins' 
 houses. These include Double Dash and Mario Kart 64. Mario kart Wii was a 'great' game but not 
 good as good as i thought it would be. 
  
  The graphics were very good but i think that Super Mario Galaxy was a little bit better which is 
 a bit disappointing for a newer wii game. Also the amount of time I spent on this game was okay 
 but the online game play fills in for this (i'll just remind you that i haven't unlocked all the 
 characters yet so I've still got work to do) . Lastly the race tracks were good but I can't comment 
 too well on this because i don't really own any other Mario kart games.
  
  If you buy this game the main feature is the grand prix. There are three different modes, 50cc, 
 100cc, and 150cc a. k. a easy, medium and hard. 50cc was great to start with but became easy once 
 i became faster and raced better. 100cc was good but i always seemed to win the tournaments on 
 the first go. Then came 150cc which was a big challenge. The AI for 150cc was very incomplete "your 
 coming first, then you get hit by a bomb and everybody, yes all 11 racers pass you". But this doesn't 
 ruin the game. Also here's a tip for when you are gonna try 150cc, drop the wii-wheel and use the 
 nunchuck, it's much better!
  
  That reminds me, i haven't said much about the wii-wheel, the wii-wheel is good for a better driving 
 experience but you don't really need it so i wouldn't worry about wasting 20 dollars on buying 
 another one for your friends when they come over.
  
  All together Mario kart was a great game, a must have for wii-owners. It's not a waste of money 
 and it even lets you have fun playing it. So if you're reading this and you don't have the game 
 buy it, it will keep you occupied for some time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmr684
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  So it being quite some time since I have played a Mario Kart title, I was able to look at this 
 from 2 very different but equally important points of view. From the point of view as a new too 
 the series gamer, and also with familiar eyes. 
  
  I will start with the control system. It is nice to have options... The Wii Wheel works impressively 
 well. I must admit, I was a little skeptical when I saw the concept. I wondered to myself if this 
 innovation would be fun and effective or clumsy and frustrating. I was pleasantly surprised. The 
 button layout along with the very sensors inside the remote bring a very fresh new twist on the 
 game while still maintaining the necessary amount of control to win. Of course the Wii remote with 
 the nun chuck brings the very familiar feel of the old school GameCube controller "which is also 
 compatible".
  
  The game itself is both fresh and familiar. New to the game is the ability to use bikes along side 
 of karts. These bring a fresh new approach to racing. The bikes have their own +'s and -'s. These 
 will take a little getting used to seeing they handle very differently. They don't have the ability 
 for the full turbo draft boost but can pop a wheely at any time giving them a slight speed boost. 
 With a large quantity of tracks "both old and new" there is plenty to explore. 
  
  Finally being online is a huge plus. Joining an online a multi-player games is quick and simple. 
 There are enough game modes included to keep you busy for hours and hours. 
  
  There are only a few areas where I think the game came up a little short... 
  First and foremost, 
 this is a next gen game on a next gen console. Yet side by side there are only some subtle differences 
 between this version and Double Dash for the GameCube. While the game still looks nice, it just 
 cant compete with the other next gen consoles. 
  
  Second, the game now leans very heavily on items. The items that you get can either make or brake 
 you. Not only this, but in some races "especially the 150cc series" the A. I. almost seems to cheat 
 to catch up. It is very frustrating to have a great race ruined by a cheap item at the finish line 
 to throw you from 1st to close to last. 
  
  Mario Kart Wii even with a few shortcomings still stacks up to be a great title that everyone would 
 be glad to have in their library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingwarrior95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  When I first time I heard a lot of information about Mario Kart Wii I wasn't as excited as I could 
 have been. It didn't look like it was moving the series forward and more of the same (which is 
 not a bad thing) . I liked the double Karts in Mario Kart Double Dash and thought by not including 
 them in this one would somehow make the game feel it was missing something. When I heard there 
 would be online in the game I thought it to be a great addition but nothing new since it was in 
 Mario Kart DS.
  
  After playing the game myself I have to say I am extremely impressed. This is defiantly Mario Kart 
 and any fan of the series should pleased by it. First of, the Wii wheel that comes packed with 
 it works better than I expected. There didn't seem to be any delay in the motions when I was moving 
 it. The trick system they have added into the game is actually really fun to use during races. 
 When in the air shack the Wii wheal in different ways to pull of different tricks. Or you could 
 use the D-Pad of the Game Cube controller.
  The bikes they have added into the game feel just right. They definitely have a different feel 
 to them then the Karts. They feel a little faster and lighter.
  
  There are a total of 32 tracks in the game. 16 brand new, and 16 from previous Mario Kart games. 
 I love all the new tracks they have added into the game. I have seen them all and there is not 
 one that I do not like. They are really creative. Having 16 tracks from previous Mario Kart games 
 also feels right as well. For long time Mario Kart fans they can relive many of the classic tracks 
 they love.
  
  The biggest draw for the entire game however is its multiplayer. Up to 12 people can be racing 
 and doing battle mode online. I was very impressed on how addictive and fun it was to play online 
 with other people. While the single player is fun, once you start playing online you won't want 
 to stop. Unlike Super Smash Bros. Brawl online in which it was incredibly laggy, Mario Kart Wii 
 is as clear as crystal.
  
  Overall Mario Kart Wii has impressed me in many ways. Especially it's online. This game is better 
 than Double Dash because even if you complete the single player modes you will have endless fun 
 racing and battling people online for month's even years to come. The game has it's flaws but it 
 is a good solid racing game. If you are a fan of the Mario games you will be pleased. If you are 
 not, than this is a great place to start. Especially since Nintendo is aiming this title at the 
 causal gamer. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiseWarrior101
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  The Mario Kart series has been going on for quite a while. Since the SNES, there's been a new Mario 
 Kart for each new console, and even a few for the handheld system. Over the years Mario Kart has 
 changed a bit, but one thing always remains the same: It's always a blast to play.
  
  Mario Kart Wii has a lot of new things that previous version didn't. The main thing is the new 
 edition of bikes. Bikes are unlike karts, in the way that they can only drift blue, and they can 
 do wheelies to boost speed. Bikes are pretty much better than karts in every way, making them a 
 lot of fun to use. 
  Another new feature is tricks. Tricks are made a lot of fun, as all you do is shake the Wiimote 
 (Or press a button if you're using a controller) and you'll do a trick. It's satisfying, and easy 
 to do. But when you're zipping through the course, sometimes it'll be hard to do, so you won't 
 always feel like it's simply a repetitive feature. Also, now up to 12 people can play, whether 
 online of off. This make the action much more fun and frantic.
  
  For off-line play, Mario Kart is a lot of fun. You can do vs. races with your friends, play Time 
 Trials to hone your skills, or do the classic Grand Prix mode. There are 16 new tracks, and 16 
 old ones, and almost every one is very fun. There are new items, shortcuts, and goodies to be found, 
 so that you'll be coming back for quite a while. There are 24 characters, some of which were quite 
 unexpected. There are also lots of unique looking karts and bikes, so that you never feel that 
 you're driving the same vehicle, just with different stats. The pure amount of unlockables is very 
 fulfilling, and is very motivating.
  
  However, Mario Kart is all about playing with people, and if you don't have a lot of friends in 
 real life, then that doesn't mean you can't have fun. Online has a variety of options, and it all 
 runs smoothly and with no lag. There's even a Mario Kart Channel, which lets you race ghosts of 
 other people, and look at worldwide rankings. The only bad thing is that you can only register 
 30 friends. Since you can now register random people, your roster will fill up pretty quickly. 
 There really isn't any reason for this, since the previous Mario Kart for the DS had many more.
 
  
  Pros:
  +Lots of fun
  +Lots of things to do and many unlockables add to it's replay value
  +Great, lag less online, 
 with many options
  +Music is catchy, and courses are quite detailed
  +Always a blast to play with friends
  Cons:
  -You can only have 30 friends online
  -Character 
 graphics stink
  -Relies a lot on luck rather than skill
  
  Score:
  Game play: 9.0
  -Online: 9.5
  -Off-line: 8.5
  Music: 8.5
  -Sound: 9.0
  -Music: 8.5
  Graphics: 8.0
  
 -Courses: 9.0
  -Characters: 7.5
  Replay Value: 9.5
  -Unlockables: 9.5
  -Multiplayer: 9.5
  -Modes: 9.0
  
  Overall: 9.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dahctorworm
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  A great game but I still believe Double Dash is better. I have three complaints with this game.
 
  
  The Bad:
  1) The Wii Wheel. The wheel feels great in my hands but it's responsiveness to turning it seems 
 rather laggy. I also feel that i must turn the wheel almost completely upside down in order to 
 make the cart drift properly. Which leads us to complaint number 2...
  
  2) The drifting mechanics are not bad but not great either. With Double Dash, they perfected the 
 drifting technique, only to pretty much ruin it this time around... especially with the Wii Wheel. 
 You have to hold the power slide for way too long to make the jump to blue (mini-turbo) and even 
 longer for the jump to orange (super-turbo) .
  
  3) My final complaint is the cart selection. Like the DS version of Mario Kart, they gave up on 
 giving every character a unique kart, instead giving each weight class a set of similar karts to 
 choose from. While, I like the option of choosing between 3 different karts, I do not like the 
 fact that you are taking away from the individualism of the characters and their karts.
  
  The Good:
  Aside from these three minor complaints, the game is superb. There are tons of tracks, 
 a lot of characters, loads of carts to choose from for each of the character classes, on-line play 
 and is highly addictive. When it comes down to it, this game is just a blast to play. The new courses 
 are fantastic and the classics are still a lot of fun to play too.
  
  Overall:
  Despite the few flaws, this game is nothing short of greatness. Any Wii owner would be a fool to 
 not have this game in their collection, for it is one of the best games the console has to offer. 
 With the addition of on-line play, I see this game being very popular for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgarcia3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I have been an avid Mario kart fan since the 64 version. Now don't get me wrong this is a very 
 excellent game so let me get into the positives of it
  
  1. The character Roster is pretty good and likable
  2. Some courses are really creative and challenging
 
  3. Some of the more retro courses bring back Nostalgia like you've never felt before
  4. Items are good
  5. Voices are also good
  6. Wifi connection here totally OVERPOWERS super smash 
 bros. brawl.
  7. Wifi connection races are entertaining (though it doesn't stop you from spoiling yourself to hidden 
 characters)
  
  and now the negatives
  1. Some of the courses are a swing and miss. Really boring and difficult
  2. Some retro stages 
 just bore you.
  3. Online matches feel too much like CPU matches since taunts aren't allowed
  
  
  well thats 
 it all in all its still worth the money and should please any Mario Kart fan, new or old 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABCD-DEMON
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  pick it up today and loved it first of the steering wheel is great and gets time to get use to 
 it but it will grow on to like that
  
  4 player is fun and great for everyone
  
  if u cant find SSBB then pick this up cause its just as much fun and u get to USE A FREAKING STEER 
 WHEEL!!!!!!!!! havent tried WIFI so i hope its not lagging 8 cups all together 6 unlockable people 
 i got 1 and that is king boo
  
  16 new tracks and 16 old tracks new bikes and karts now so if u like to ride bikes be my guess
 
  
  jhljhlxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxnn nnn nnnnnnnnn nnnnn nnnnnnnn
  ffffffff ffffffff ffffffff ffffhhhhh hhhhhh hhhhhhh hhhh hee ee eeee
  eeeee eeeebb bbb bbbb bbbbt 
 tttttt tt tttttttt tttt 76b
  bbbb bbb 
  lkllllllllll lllllllllllm llllllllllllll llllllllllll llllllllllll llllllllllm ljnlknljnkl 
  
 lknoh oknhlkhipn kjoljkn mnoihgygn jhvgjhg igiouyhkv gkv
  kvigyolhblk ijbigu ogohiyfoh jkbviycviuygvh v jbg 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterEgo
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Overview-
  Mario Kart is an amazingly addictive game that I have been pleased to play through countless times 
 again. So many different titles on so many different systems.... I've yet to play a Mario Kart that 
 actually disappointed me. This game however is a tad different from it's predecessors in a couple 
 of ways though. These differences may or may not disappointed you, but in a general overlook they 
 should be very pleasing.
  
  Story-
  Umm.... not too sure. It's a Mario Kart game so do we really need any dedicated plot?
  
  Gameplay-
 
  The first new feature that many players will notice right off the bat is the inclusion of bikes. 
 Yes that's right it's not just Mario Kart anymore..... nope it still is. But anyhow bikes can achieve 
 any thing Karts can do except for reaching an orange power slide. Once you hold down the R- Button 
 and turn sparks on your vehicle turn blue, then orange. Well on bikes it never reaches the orange 
 state. They can however do wheelies, which are just short little bursts of speed that you can use 
 when you're going straight for a while. Besides that most of them do the same things as karts do. 
 Beyond that, I'm sure you've heard many different things from GameSpot.... and Gametrailers. com.... and 
 IGN. Well many of these reviews are NOT CORRECT. In the Gametrailers. com review they said that 
 the new power sliding technique downgrades the game and makes poor players more able to adapt and 
 be just as good as the pros. They also exaggerate that this will eliminate a border between the 
 seasoned pro and the "noobish" amateur. This is no further from the truth... I've played online 
 enough to be able to tell the difference between poor players and talented players. There is a 
 fine line so no one should be disappointed about that. In GameSpot's review the say that the retro 
 tracks are catered to the karts and the new tracks to the bikes because on the new tracks there 
 are some sections that if you press a button (or shake the Wii-mote/wheel) you'll do a fancy trick 
 that gives you a certain boost. Okay gamespot has obviously not had much of a good sit down with 
 the game because KARTS AND BIKES BOTH HAVE THE ABILITY TO DO TRICKS. Yes that's right both of them 
 can do tricks. And it doesn't have to be on a half-pipe for you to perform them on either. It can 
 be ANY jump on said track, even if the jump is very minuscule. So don't be fooled, you heard it 
 right here. GameTrailers. com and GameSpot are obviously not very in tuned to Mario Kart at all.... I 
 disagree with there scores too and even I'm pretty strict with ratings. The only thing I agree 
 with these guys is the extreme surplus of items. They're absolutely EVERYWHERE! It takes some skill 
 to doge the incoming onslaught of green shells and bananas, but ones that will really annoy you 
 are the lightning bolts... and those darn blue shells. Nintendo might of went a teeny bit overboard 
 with the items that seem to come at you only at the most inconvenient of times. (When you're in 
 first and still not too far ahead of the backed you will get absolutely BEASTED by items) . That's 
 why the reviews think that 150cc is so challenging is because of items. The AI is pretty decent 
 too so yes you will get bored of doing The Grand Prixes over and OVER again when you find out your 
 were just 1 point away from the gold. Oh well, not everything can turn out perfect, but this is 
 for the most part the only flaws in the game. Most everything else is executed perfectly so don't 
 just let the single player get to you. Remember that's not the thing Mario Kart is known for.
 
  
  Online-
  Absolutely incredible. A complete relief for anyone that has had the misfortune to tackle Super 
 Smash Bros. Brawl online capabilities. Compared to any Wii game on the market this is hands down 
 the most carefully crafted online mode that you will be able to experience on any game that has 
 made its way to the wii. You can even hop on there with a buddy (which I just did today and it's 
 a no less than an amazingly addicting experience) . Beyond playing with others you also have all 
 your stats periodically updated after every race for your viewing pleasure. So on top of actually 
 being able to see other peoples name, stats, and where everyone is from, you can even download 
 ghost data from others and view world records of time trials. I've even played a Nintendo developer 
 online so look out for those goons as well.
  
  Control-
  Wii wheel experience? Better than I expected. I think Nintendo knew that people wouldn't appreciate 
 the wii wheel that well so if you've been using it and winning a bit, you get a golden wheel icon 
 by your name (whoa,,,) . It supports basically every controller type available for the wii AND the 
 gamecube's controller (which is the instinctive choice for most) . The Wii wheel is very responsive 
 so I would try it out before turning to your precious Wave Bird.
  
  Conclusion-
  This is by far my most favorite party/multi-player/online title I've played for the Wii. I would 
 defiantly recommend this for anyone that likes to play there Wii games for others. With so many 
 unlockables... and so many unique and fun to play courses (The 16 new courses are very cool, some 
 of them blew my mind with all their creative jazz that the Nintendo goons put in) , this for many 
 will be an instant classic when they start to play. Go out and pick up a copy, if you enjoy Mario 
 Kart, you will absolutely love this much appreciated edition.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngmansfield
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  This is actually the first time I've played any Mario Kart. I played once or twice in college, 
 but very briefly. My wife and I bought the game to play together and were pleasantly surprised 
 at the online play. In addition, it made me wonder what I'd been missing all these years not playing 
 it. Multiplayer offers a lot of options and allow users to play in the same team. In my opinion, 
 there are too few games that allow this these days. The various boards are lots of fun, and vary 
 in skill levels.
  
  I never used to be that into any of the mario games, but this one and the others I've played on 
 Wii have been very enjoyable. Wii games just keep getting better and better. 
  
  I don't really know what else to write, but it tells me I have 116 characters more to go before 
 my review will be accepted. This game is fun, you will play it a zillion times, and is worth every 
 penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trippola77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so you've been hearing that mario kart wii is dumb and to action filled.
  Well, the action part is right, but it's certainly not dumb. Today, when i was cleaning the kitchen 
 and i thought to myself "I have 80 dollars and grand theft auto is comin' out in two days should 
 I wait or call my mom and tell her to see if she saw any." Then, I decided to call her. I wasn't 
 sure about this over GTA, I was hoping they wouldn't have any. They did. So, I call her and ask 
 if Walmart has any and she said they did and she bought it.
  When she got home i poped in the game and started to play. I was very surprised at the wii wheel. 
 It was loads of fun and easy to control.
  So, i gave it to my 9 year old brother and he came in first, so I don't know why everyone is saying 
 the controls suck. ( Did you like my long story?)
  Then online play is AMAZING. FLAWLESS. SUPER ADDICTING. CAPITAL LEETTERS. It is so addicting just 
 to sit in your room and play with 12 people in Europe. The online really is FLAWLESS, the way it 
 is ecacuted and controls is very surprising. (cough cough D. S. cough cough no offense) .
  Then the bike thing. I saw everyone online playing with bikes, so if you are worrying about that 
 they are an awesome little thingy. The characters are well balanced, but then comes the Grand Prix 
 mode. This is choas. (Not literly) . If you're in first, you're not going to be there long. Every 
 five seconds you are getting pelted with turtle shells, thunder clouds, POW boxes. Anyways, its 
 not that bad it makes the game harder than others, but still easy. This by far beats any other 
 MK games just because of online. (Sorry64) . Don't listen to other people listen to me, it's worth 
 buying.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: invaderzim17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart returns! And that's the biggest problem with Mario Kart Wii. It is nearly the same as 
 all other Mario Kart games. However, since those were so good, it still manages to be fun.
  The Wii wheel is, of course, the only major addition to the game this time around. It does take 
 some getting used to, but not as much as I thought it would. For anyone who doesn't want to take 
 the chance, it still supports other controllers, too, so controls are not a big issue. But I do 
 have some issues with the new "improved" drifting system. If you choose automatic, you can't get 
 mini turbo boosts like you always could before. BUT, if you choose manual, and do the drifts yourself, 
 it will take a long time for you to figure the system out. 
  I had a hard time remembering to steer and drift at the same time since I never had to move a wheel 
 while drifting in previous games. It works alright once you get used to it but it does take some 
 time.
  The new tracks all look pretty good, and most of them are very fun to play. I can't say the same 
 about the classics though. This edition introduces a trick system, when you go over a jump and 
 move the remote, you do a trick and get a boost when you land. But the old tracks don't have many 
 jumps, so they are very boring compared to the new ones. Also, it just feels like every race is 
 shorter in this game than in previous games.
  The addition of motorcycles is a good idea, but they control the same as karts and really don't 
 add much to the game at all.
  I haven't played the multiplayer or online modes yet, but multiplayer MK is always good so I'm 
 sure there aren't any major issues there.
  While this is a good game with some interesting new tracks and the cool trick system, it doesn't 
 tie everything together like it should. The wheel is okay, but when you get to 150cc it barely 
 turns the kart and I found it easier to use the classic controller. The bikes fail to catch my 
 attention. And the old tracks just don't fit anymore. But the core of the game is good enough to 
 overcome many of these faults and make a pretty good game overall, it just could have been better.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOMIE_G64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  When Mario Kart first came out, it was one of the must have games out there for the SNES. It was 
 also a lone star in the world of random-spinoffs that actually worked (ironically, they are mostly 
 populated by Nintendo. Mario Golf anyone?) . When Double Dash came out, people appreciated the solid 
 gameplay (and logged many hours on it like me) , but hardcore fans disliked how it went away from 
 the original Mario Kart. If you are a hardcore fan, it might please you to know that Mario Kart 
 for the Wii is pretty darn close to the original while adding quite a lot.
  
  One major change is the lack of the "Double Dash" feature and special "super" items that only certain 
 characters can pick-up. The removal of the second character isn't that significant (I mean, what 
 did the second guy do? Carry an extra item and hit other racers? Note that the removal of the second 
 driver also removes the excuse for two-player Grand Prix mode. Sorry people with friends!) , and 
 the removal of the specific character-only doesn't really matter. However, the items are much too 
 overpowered and cheap now. Blue shell? Meh. Red shell? Whatever. New Bullet Bill? What are you 
 thinking Nintendo? The Bullet Bill effectively acts exactly like Baby Mario/Baby Luigi's Chain 
 Chomp... except now it seems like every second item you get in last place is the Bullet Bill. The 
 Bullet Bill effectively gets you into fifth-sixth place everytime you use it... and you don't even 
 steer. That means, being last doesn't even matter as much because you are just going to get a Bullet 
 Bill and run up to sixth place. At least make it more infrequent like the Chain Chomp!! Another 
 bad addition to your repetoire of items is the POW Block, which effectively makes everyone in front 
 of you stumble. This not only makes the game more reliant on luck in items than skill in driving, 
 but it will cause many frustrating moments when you are first, only to be taken down by some computer 
 with a POW Block.
  
  Another extremely noticable change is the Wii Wheel. This is effectively the best mold I have ever 
 seen and used. You put your Wii-mote (without the nunchuck) into the mold sideways and the strap 
 through a hole in the back (so you can use it even with the mold) . It features a B-Button that 
 is bigger and farther left so you can hit it easier with your index finger. This is surprisingly 
 almost at (if not at) the level of control you get with the joystick. The mold effectively stabilizes 
 the controller (so you don't shake around the controller like you do when you use it without the 
 mold) . Like Brawl, it features the ability to use GCN controllers, Classic Controller, and the 
 Wii-Nunchuck combo. But honestly, there really is no reason to not use it (and more incentive to 
 actually use it because it is qool) .
  
  A more advertised change is the use of Wi-fi for multiplayer games. Unlike Brawl, they did not 
 strap in a clearly neglected multiplayer mode (two minute games with strangers? No leaderboards? 
 No downloading stranger's maps?) and gave an excuse saying "Oh, people wouldn't enjoy it." It comes 
 with leaderboards, a score that shows how good you are, and the ability to race the ghosts of others 
 and (of course) actually racing others. This is definately the direction how Nintendo should be 
 taking online play, and definately an incentive to get Mario Kart.
  
  Of course, Nintendo wouldn't be Nintendo if they didn't add some whack content. This time, it comes 
 in the form of motorcycles and mid-air tricks. Motorcycles handle exactly like normal cars except 
 they have different stats and can do a wheelie when you tilt the 'mote up (or hit up on the control 
 pad for GCN controllers) . The wheelie is extremely cool and actually requires you to use skill 
 (since you get a speed boost, but can't turn as hard) . More change like this in the items and you 
 would actually get an amazing game. The tricks are even cooler than the motorcycle and wheelies, 
 but doesn't require as much skill. You get a speed boost when you hit the ground if you tilt the 
 controller in any direction (or the the control pad for GCN controllers) right after you get off 
 a ramp. You hear a sound come out of your controller and you do a siq move. Unlike more conventional 
 racers, you cannot fumble a trick and not land it (which is a love-hate kind of thing) .
  
  Overall, Mario Kart for the Wii is a great game that is worth adding to your collection. It definately 
 could've been better, but it is a worthy contender against GTAIV (at least, for Nintendo) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrenthsSlayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  When you think of Mario, several things come to mind. Soccer, tennis, baseball, adventure, and 
 racing. Naturally Mario Kart is racing, and at this it does an amazing job. Allow me to describe 
 it in one word: ownage.
  
  1. Multiplayer
  
  The multiplayer Mario Kart Wii provides is the same as your stereotypical Mario game - fun and 
 addictive. Multiple control forms have made it so anyone can have a good time with this game. Though 
 I haven't played online, I can expect that online play is just as good if not better than local 
 play.
  
  2. Campaign (Grand Prix)
  
  The Campaign is just about as good as coming home from a hard day to eat apple pie to as hard as 
 crashing on the Moon's surface at 1,000,000 MPH. First I did 50cc. No problem I could take the 
 CPUs. Then 100cc. A little bit of trouble but I could dig it. By the time I reached 150cc it seems 
 on my walk to Dry Bowser a meteor suddenly popped out on top of me and crushed my bones and my 
 spirits. I was depressed on how much I lost but after a few multiplayer matches you could ask me 
 about it and I wouldn't even care.
  
  
  3. Characters
  
  The characters are all great and I appreciate how King Boo was so much easier to unlock than in 
 Double Dash. The Rosalina Bonus, as I call it, was pretty cool though I'd never use her. While 
 not many new ones were added, they all are still great ( However I question why they keep Donkey 
 Kong and Diddy Kong - it was pushing it letting them in Brawl) .
  
  4. Conclusion
  
  Mario Kart Wii is a great mix of two of my favorite gaming genres - Mario and racing games. While 
 its not as good in some things as Halo, or any other adventure Mario game you should get it because 
 it will be awhile 'till Nintendo releases another one ( which seems to be when a new console exists) . 
 But here's one line to Nintendo - make different games! Halo was amazing and even it was just a 
 trilogy! I would be absolutely DELIGHTED to see a new original series that earns better than a 
 9.0 here at Gamespot. But don't trust unofficial reviews, this is way better than double dash, 
 so get it if you have a Wii.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingtwiggy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  I'm fairly new to the Mario Kart community, as I had only played Mario Kart 64 for about an hour 
 or so about 10 years ago. I really had no intention of buying this game originally as most Wii 
 games I've played have been quite disappointing, but we had company on launch night so we pooled 
 some money & took the plunge... I'm SO glad we did. 
  
  The controls are tricky to get used to, but once you figure them out it's like second nature. I 
 haven't tried using anything but the wheel/remote control, and not sure when or if I will... if 
 for no other reason than the wheel is just so much fun.
  
  The graphics aren't incredible by any stretch, but this is the Wii so that is forgivable for me. 
 Don't get me wrong, it does look good but it's nothing compared to my usual 360 games.
  
  My one real "complaint" is the lack of Grand Prix mode in multiplayer. As it is, we decided to 
 play Grand Prix single player and trade off the controller so we could try to unlock more levels. 
 I would have much preffered to play multiplayer in this mode, but oh well.
  
  Overall, I'm extremely glad we were drinking and decided to buy this at the last minute. (the only 
 drinking and driving done was in game... we had a DD take us to pick up the game)
  
  A must have for any Wii owner. Gotta run & play some more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turkey39470
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  For the first time in the history of me playing Nintendo, I am really disappointed. I've been playing 
 Nintendo since 1986, and have played every Mario Cart released to the console. The most enjoyable 
 part of the game is multiplayer, and the fact that every preview and information on the game said 
 it was intact, is very misleading. I can't believe Nintendo would abandon its loyal gamers like 
 this. By taking out multiplayer Gran Prix they have taken all the fun out of the game. Single player 
 may be fine, but the sole selling factor for me is multiplayer racing with my family and friends. 
 In my opinion they should have added three and four player to the Gran Prix mode and they would 
 have had a perfect ten.
  I happen to live out in the country and DSL is unavailable to me so my play is solely on platform. 
 Nintendo has taken all my joy from the game. The sad part is now I'm out fifty dollars because 
 no one said they made it one player, and now can't take it back for refund. I think going online 
 would be great, but companies should consider the fact that DSL is not available everywhere so 
 should take in mind every one deserves to enjoy the same level of fun. The tracks look great. I 
 like the added features, like flipping in the air and such. For me this game is a 2.5 for lack 
 of multiplayer racing, but for the single player it might be fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roleplayer2004
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for one of the best multiplayer games going around you can't go past Mario Kart 
 for the Wii. With tons of new characters, twice as many tracks as you'd come to expect from the 
 previous Mario Kart games and new features that reward you for owning previous Nintendo made Wii 
 games makes Mario Kart for the Wii a compulsary game to buy. Not only that you get most of the 
 classic tracks from previous Mario Kart games which will delight the older gamers. Which gives 
 Mario Kart an edge over just about any racing game out in the Market.
  
  You will find the gameplay to be as addictive as ever with the new steering wheel, which gives 
 the game a different yet realistic dynamic in yet a fun and animated world. The add on features 
 such as the Motorbikes and moving obstacles such as the cows gives Mario Kart a more interactive 
 feel than ever before in a Mario Kart game.
  
  The game also looks as sharp as ever and leaves a big difference visually to its predacessor on 
 the Gamecube which many gamers would've been worried about, which is a huge plus from the graphic 
 designers. Multiplayer wise not much has changed here which is a slight dissapointment because 
 there could of easily been atleast one or two more game modes which would've gave the game an extra 
 dimenson.
  
  Other than that, Mario Kart for the Wii is a must have for any gamer who owns a Nintendo Wii or 
 if you need a reason to buy one, here it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  mario kart wii is a racing game that takes all your favourite mario characters and puts them into 
 a hectic race. the game is the best mario kart wii game out. (even better then mario kart ds) . 
 the graphics, sounds and controls are fantastic. the graphics are good but not as good as mario 
 galaxy or brawl. but still pretty good. the sounds are perfect and just make the game shine. the 
 controls are a bit mixed for me. the wheel that is in mario kart wii. well it didnt really do anything 
 for me i just used the gamecube controller as i found that the best way out of the many ways in 
 which you can play. it is one of the best multiplayer games on wii letting up to 4 people play 
 and 2 on wifi. the wifi is really the best thing about this game if it didnt have the wifi it would 
 have been just as good as double dash or n64 mario kart. the wifi is fantastic and easily the best 
 wifi game on wii. it doesnt lag and you can bring a friend with you. mario kart wii is very much 
 the same set out as mario kart ds with 16 new tracks and 16 classics from older versions. the new 
 tracks are very good although they still havnt been able to beat the rainbow road track on n64 
 yet (best track ever made for mario kart) . but the tracks are pretty good. i like it how they have 
 taken the classics and redone them with soo much better graphics. that really is just the best 
 thing they could for tracks seeing how the n64 tracks are the best without question.
  
  overall this game is a must have for wii owners and is deffinately worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barky13
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 2:06 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart unsuprisingly has made its way to the Nintendo Wii and is bigger than ever. A lot of 
 changes have been made some for the better and some for the worse. There are twenty four characters 
 which is more than ever. While more characters is great the choices aren't the best. The main problem 
 is four baby characters when we should have got two maybe three at the most. I mean Baby Daisy? 
 A few of your favourite characters from double dash are missing but in this game you will get a 
 few unexpected new characters.
  
  Another new addition is bikes. I don't really have much to say about them since they don't change 
 the gameplay much other than the ability to wheelie. While you are in a wheelie your bike will 
 get a boost which is quite useful for gaining an edge on your opponent.
  
  Another way of getting a boost is to do a trick which is done in midair. When you hit the ground 
 after a trick you will get a boost. Some characters have realy nice tricks that are fun to watch 
 which is a little bonus. I don't realy have much to say about tricks so I'll just leave it at that.
 
  
  Powersiding is back (but done differently) which means snaking is back too. It's not as effective 
 as in other games but will still give you an advantage.
  
  One of my favourite things about this game are the tracks. For the most part the tracks are extremely 
 creative and in my opinion the game has the best Bowser's Castle yet.
  
  There are three new items one of which is the lightning cloud which is possibly the first Mario 
 Kart item that doesnt give you an advantage. You have a cloud over your head and if you don't bash 
 into another character you will shrink like when the lightning item is used. If you successfully 
 bash somebody then they will get the lightning cloud over their head. Items will knock you back 
 further that ever which some people seem to not like but I think it stops the game from getting 
 to easy.
  
  The game isn't all good though. One problem is how they changed battle mode. Now it's point based. 
 You still get three balloons but when you lose all three you can continue fighting. The balloons 
 are pretty much there for no reason. Another small problem is that for online (which works much 
 better than certain Nintendo games. I'm looking at you Brawl) , VS and Time trial you can't change 
 the CC and 100 is automatically selected.
  
  All in all Mario Kart Wii is a great game and a good buy for any Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZEPH1ZEN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  Well... of course when you hear the words "Mario kart" you know what to expect. Brilliant crazy 
 Multi-player action racing from Nintendo. This one does not only not fail to dissappoint, but it 
 exceeds expectations.
  
  To be honest, when i think of a game, one thing that affects my opinion is the frustration i had 
 while playing it. Which is why i avoid puzzle games like the plague. Mario Kart offered frustration 
 - but it was just the perfect frustration. That split second frustration of being hit by a blue 
 shell while in 1st place, followed by that determination to take revenge on the b*&^%d that got 
 you. It has kept me entertained for many hours, and will continue to.
  
  The good - TIME TRIALS ARE ACTUALLY COMPETITIVE NOW, WITH NINTENDO WI-FI! (Still aiming for world 
 champ =\) Grand prix lasts for around 6 hours minimum, Lots of unlockables, comes free with a wii 
 wheel (which is brilliant) , Automatic for those players who cant handle snaking gives everyone 
 a chance, 
  
  The bad - The inability to use the D-pad to boost slide without using an item... a complete killer 
 for T T... you have to turn the wheel back and forth, losing some control on corners, no plans 
 for downloadable content = [
  
  A brilliant game, multiplayer is as good as it gets on wii - it rivals wii sports to a Tii =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jono088
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I got Mario Kart Wii on the release day for Australia, on the 24th of April.
  
  I was looking forward to this game, and I did expect a lot, even though many people had said that 
 the new racer was "un-polished" and going to be a "let-down"...
  
  ... luckily, I was the one who was right. This game didn't let me down one bit.
  
  It has a 
 total of 32 tracks. 16 of these are new tracks, with great visuals and some pretty frustrating 
 turns/traps, and the other 16 are old classics that you fell in love with from the SNES version, 
 all the way up to the gamecube version of Mario Kart. The courses are basically the same, although 
 some have been slightly twigged to make room for some of the new features in Mario Kart Wii, and 
 of course, the visuals have been up-graded also.
  
  Just like the old versions, Mario Kart Wii offers 50cc, 100cc and 150cc race modes, but unlike 
 the old Mario Karts, Nintendo has put a twist to it. In 50cc you must race in the Karts we're all 
 so familliar to, but when you get to 100cc then you have to loose some wheels and bikes are in. 
 Then once you're up to 150cc you get to choose a kart or a bike. Its up to you.
  
  The new Wii version is packed with some great new ideas. 
  My favourite has to be the "tricks" 
 you can peform while doing a jump. When your character does a jump off a ramp or bump in the road, 
 you jerk the wiimote/wii-wheel upwards and a trick is performed. The bonus of doing a trick is 
 not only that it looks cool, but when you land you get a boost. And another thing I've noticed, 
 you can never stack after doing a trick and landing to fast... you character just "adjusts" and 
 lands it anyway!
  Another cool new addition is "slipstreaming". Most real racing fans will know all about slipstreaming, 
 but for those of you who don't, I'll fill you in!
  When you are racing behind someone, in real life and Mario Kart, the wind resistance is put only 
 on the person in front, and you are blocked from the wind by their car/kart/bike. So you get a 
 slight edge and go abit faster. Mario Kart Wii has decided to make use of this and add abit of 
 their signature boosting to the table. When you race behind someone in Mario Kart, little blue 
 lines start to appear around you, and if you stay behind them long enough, then the little lines 
 become big lines and you get a temporary boost, easily enabling you to pass them. Its a great function, 
 and I like the way it involves some risk of them dropping a bannanna or something onto you.
  
  Theres a ton of new items in Mario Kart Wii. You see the old ones like the star and the mushrooms, 
 red shells and green shells, but theres also afew newies. Theres a fat looking mushroom that makes 
 you go big, and when you hit people you run over them and make them flat. Theres also a ghost which 
 you can use and it appeares on everyones screens and splatters them with mud, making it hard to 
 see, and very hard to avoid un-wanted objects. You can also use an item called "POW" which causes 
 everyone to spin out, gaining you some much needed ground! And there's tons of other items that 
 you can use.
  
  One thing I like is the ramp boosting. Instead of having to turn a tight corner, you can drive 
 up the wall where there are boosters conveniently placed for you... and peform a trick, landing 
 in the perfect position to continue racing. Its fun and makes it alot easier to make tight corners, 
 but I think making the corner is slighly faster, this way ensures you won't fall off.
  
  And how could Mario Kart be Mario Kart if they didnt have battles? Well you battle-go-ers won't 
 miss out becuase they've included that aswell! I'm fairly certain you unlock more battle modes, 
 because you only start off with Balloon Battles and Coin Collecting battles, but I wouldn't know 
 because I don't usually play battles.
  
  From what I have experienced, the new arenas are awesome. They have great visuals and traps and 
 are just plain fun to battle on.
  
  Mario Kart Wii offers a great online play with up to 12 players racing against each other. You 
 can choose to race Worldwide, Continental (in your country) or Friends. Its really cool how everyone's 
 Mii pop's up where they're situated in their country. Then if you have to wait for the race to 
 end and start the next one, you can watch them race while your waiting. Its pretty boring, but 
 it sure beats a loading screen!!
  
  You can also battle online, which I don't personally do, but I'm sure wouldn't be too bad.
  
 
  So winding it up here, I have to say, Mario Kart Wii didn't dissapoint me. I like the new tracks, 
 and love online racing. I think they added motion sensing in smartly, so you dont have to use it 
 alot, but its fun to use. I didn't like the wii-wheel, so I use the wiimote+nunchuck combo, but 
 I still get some motion-ness out of that! I enjoy the tricks, I like mono'ing on the bikes, and 
 I like seeing old and new tracks in the same game.
  
  I dont really like the bikes handling, but I'm sure I'll get used to that. The ghost that splatters 
 your screen with mud is cool at first, but it happens so often its just annoying, and I don't like 
 that theres only two battle modes, even though you probrabally unlock more.
  
  But even with those dislikes, this game is still great and I'd reccomend it to any Mario Kart fan. 
 From the most casual, to the hard-core players, this game will not dissapoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrenalinDragon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is a new Mario Kart game exclusively to Wii, which offers the same as past Mario 
 Kart games, but takes the advantage of the Wii's motion controls, as well as being able to offer 
 new Wifi online play for Wii users. I found Mario Kart Wii a good game. Its not the best one in 
 the series in my opinion, but as you play it more you grow to like it, especially if you spend 
 more time online than the offline mode. That's not to say offline is bad.
  
  Mario Kart Wii offers a racing experience for all types of players such as casual, hardcore, or 
 children to play with. Most people, including myself, found that Mario Kart is best at racing without 
 a doubt, although Battle mode is just as enjoyable, but unfortuantly in this version its changed 
 in a way where it just doesn't feel right anymore. For starters, you have to be in teams now and 
 if you run out of balloons you just get them back again. It's kind of destroyed what made Battle 
 mode great in the first place. Oh well, at least some of the tracks are pretty decent, as well 
 as some old ones as well.
  
  The racing part of Mario Kart Wii is the usual 4 cups, which you have to unlock by winning cups 
 and races. There's also an additional 4 cups which offer players a chance to play on old tracks. 
 To be honest, I think the lineup of the old tracks could have been better. For example, when are 
 we going to see Wario Stadium in a new Mario Kart? That was one of my all-time favourite tracks! 
 The game is still determined by both luck and skill since you could be miles ahead of the opponents 
 and then on the last lap just before the finish line BOOM! Blue shell smashes down onto you! Annoying 
 but at least it gives everyone a chance to win.
  Oh yeah, the multiplayer also supports the classic and GameCube controllers on the game. This is 
 useful since I only had one Wii controller so I could still play Mario Kart Wii with 4 players 
 on GameCube controllers. Pretty unique and makes the game like backwards compatible. Some may argue 
 that the Wii Wheel sucks. To be honest, this was what I was feeling the first few hours but after 
 a few days of playing I loved it!
  
  The Online mode, which may be tied the best part of Mario Kart Wii, is excellent and lag free. 
 The races are seemingly like as if you racing computer opponents! All tracks can be used to race 
 on, but players get to pick on what they race, or if they want to choose by random. The ranking 
 system online is the simple "How well you do" system so if you came first you go up alot of points 
 and if you lose you go down. This system is cleverly countered by the number of wins as well so 
 if you win alot and suddenly start losing then the network knocks your points down, as well as 
 match your points with someone within your range.
  The online mode offers playing with friends, as well as nationally and internationally. Mini boosts 
 do exist so some skilled players may constantly do this, but unlike Mario Kart DS they can't get 
 too far ahead from a non-skilled player as before. The item system is kind of unbalanced since 
 you can get the best items in the game from just like 3rd or 4th place! Overall online is very 
 fun and with a maximum of 12 players carnage and mayhem is sure to exist!
  
  Unlockables and Replay value is probably the best part of Mario Kart Wii, having to unlock new 
 karts, characters, and tracks by racing and getting good positions in the game. To be honest, I 
 don't really agree with the star ranking system, since its all down to luck on what items you and 
 the computer get in order to get a good time and points rank. If you constantly get pummled by 
 items then chances are you're not going to unlock something on that run. The motorbikes are my 
 favourite vehicles because they handle perfectly, as well as having a special Wheelie boosts which 
 is better than the karts. I kind of feel bad for saying this though since the game is called Mario 
 Kart Wii so it should just be karts!
  
  The graphics and sound in Mario Kart Wii is left to be desired. To be honest, I wasn't expecting 
 the best graphics ever of course, but they look just a little under par with Double Dash to be 
 honest. If you go on 4 player multiplayer you notice the jaggies which is kind of distracting. 
 Other than that the game is colourful and kid friendlyish so its ok for what it is. Kiddy voices 
 are still around and are a bit annoying but hey what can you do?
  
  So overall, Mario Kart Wii is a good game, and is not a bad purchase for anyone. If you are looking 
 for a fun racing title, go for this and have fun blasting each other online with a mixture of Double 
 Dash and DS items! I don't think this is the best Mario Kart, that goes to Mario Kart 64, but I 
 was not upset with getting this, though I may dare say, or tie this with Double Dash as the weakest 
 Mario Kart game in the series. I'm not bashing the game! Just my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k0r3aN_pR1d3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  It's fun, that is for sure. But at the same time, it just seems cheesy to me. Nothing much has 
 changed, and the characters are still the same.
  
  I was hoping for a greater pool of characters like in Brawl (imagine Snake in a Go Kart) , but I 
 suppose that would be pushing things a bit too far.
  
  While somewhat intuitive, it isn't enough to keep me entertained amongst the plethora of other 
 Racing Games that are out/soon to come.
  
  It's good, but it's still not enough to shoot itself out of the ballpark, especially with much 
 more competitive games to be released such as Grand Theft Auto IV. (Grand Theft Auto Racing sounds 
 more appealing now)
  
  
  Pushing that aside, the ability to have different control schemes is quite excellent (I am not 
 really fond of holding a stationary steering wheel while sitting down) .
  
  Multiplayer is also remarkable, as Nintendo did it again.
  
  And finally, fixing snaking is 
 a so-so issue for me. It cuts away a tool people use, but at the same time, sorta makes things 
 harder to get that little extra to push forward.
  
  Either way, this game is fun, and would be a good purchase, but it isn't a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killeryoda85
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Im not a big fan of rambling reviews so i shall make this short and sweet:
  
  Gameplay - Top notch! the courses are varied in both length and complexity with enough short cuts 
 and hidden extras to keep you going long after you beat the game first time round.
  
  Visuals - This is the Wii were talking about so we cant expect too much. That being said they are 
 among the best on the console to date. More importantly, there is no lag... even in online multuplayer.
 
  
  Online - The crowning achievement in this package. it is simple to set up and simple to use. There 
 is zero lag which lends itself to an exhillerating race.
  
  The Wheel - I was among the sceptics when this was announced. i thought that it would be unresponsive 
 and thoroughly pointless, expecting to relegate it to the loft along with all the other console 
 racing wheels! This one however is perfect. it is as responsive as could be, with even the slightest 
 move of the wheel reflected by your character.
  
  To summise it is without a doubt the bext Mario Kart to date. If i have one gripe its that they 
 have rehashed old courses from previous Mario Kart games. Whilst a nostalgic trip down memory lane 
 is fun for a few hours, it soon becomes, 'been there, done that' and you find yourself restricted 
 to the new courses.
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Kitchano
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  Firstly, Mario Karts is a great multi player game, brilliant single player game and great online 
 player game.
  
  The multi player is a great way to get everyone playing in the house and also it's a great party 
 game as everyone loves the simple yet immersing genre of kart racing. 
  
  The single player is the masterpiece wii owners were hoping for as it makes you want more and more. 
 Firstly, the combonation of old tracks and new tracks, unlockable characters and even mirror tracks 
 gives depth that will entertain you for hours and hours because you want to go back and try and 
 get all A ratings, then all star ratings, then all double star ratings. Also, the battle mode allows 
 a interesting alternative to racing around the innovative tracks.
  
  The online play is almost perfect, so close, but the thing that stops this game being a 10/10 is 
 the fact that you can't choose the server you race on. Yes, it never lags but when you get over 
 7500 point rating, racing with 4 others is a waste of time as if you win you only get at most 30 
 points. I may be being too picky, but with a game this good it is all you can find wrong with it.
 
  
  So, Mario Karts is the game all wii owners deserved and it has certainly lived up to the hype. 
 9.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi892
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 26, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  Since the launch of the Wii in late 2006 Nintendo have released many of their key frnachises from 
 past generations on its new system. Mario Kart Wii is the latest in this 'trend' of games. Whilst 
 maintaining the core gameplay element which has made all Mario Kart games fun it also adds new 
 ideas into the mix including bikes, new items, 12 player Wi-Fi and online battle mode. So how does 
 this console Mario Kart hold up? Can it match the sheer awesomeness of Mario Kart DS or will it 
 flounder much like it's console predessecor, Double Dash!!
  
  As far as online is concerned, Nintendo have outdone themselves (although that wasn't especially 
 hard to do considering Nintendo's generally weak line up of Online Enabled games) . 12 player matches 
 are always great fun to play and altough there are some shortcoming (battle mode courses are way 
 to small) it is Nintendo's best effort at online gaming yet. Saying that, if you are going into 
 this expecting Halo 3 multiplayer quality you will be dissapointed. It's time Nintendo scraped 
 the friend code system and incorporated voice chat into their games.
  
  Much has been made of the Wii Wheel which comes packaged with the game. It is at the end of the 
 day a platic shell but I do personally feel that it enhances the gameplay experience. I would favour 
 this control option over the other 3 (yes 3) controller options. For reference these are the 4 
 control options consist of, Wii Wheel, Wii Remote and Nunckuk, Classical Contoller or Gamecube 
 Controller. Having tried all 4 I can confiedentely state that the Wii Wheel works the best out 
 of the 4.
  
  Like in previous installments in the series Mario Kart Wii has many things to do. You have your 
 grand prix (50CC, 100CC and 150CC) to complete, you have time trials and ghost, battles modes and 
 vs. races. There is an impressive lineup of characters to chose from including some new and welcoming 
 editions to the series. It is here though in grand prix racing (particularly 150CC) where lies 
 the games greatest fault. 
  
  The AI in this game is incredibaly unfair and many a time you will loose a race not based on skill 
 but purely on luck. For example I was once winning a race and I was hit on the last corner (no 
 joke) 3 times in succession. First was a blue shell (yes there still here) then a POW block and 
 then a player in 7th place (as everyone else had overtaken me) hit me whilst invincible. No suprise 
 I was last, and it was purely down to my luck. You may argue that luck has always been nescecary 
 in Mario Kart but this is just over the top. It also makes the game tedious as you will be continously 
 retrying grand prix's in order to unlock everything.
  
  Grahically the game insn't up to much and does not look much better than it's Gamecube predesecor. 
 Sound is also generic and boring and all the usual sound effects are here (Charle's Martinet and 
 co. doing all the usual Mario cries) . By this point you are probably wondering what is actually 
 good about this game. The answer is infact very simple...
  
  This game is pure fun. Thats what stops this game from flopping. With plentiful online options, 
 loads to unlock and fun local multiplayer you will be playing this game for months to come. Ghost 
 races are still here and you can now download the world champions ghost (always up for a challenge 
 eh!) and put your skills to the test. 
  
  I will conclude by saying this. Buy Mario Kart Wii. You can't really go wrong with it as it is 
 acessible by all age groups and by all control preferences. See you on the race track!
  
  Summary 
  + Fun!
  + Excellent online options
  + Excellent production values
  - Painstakingly 
 difficult
  - Generic music and uninspired graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inamon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  Just how many features could be added into Mario Kart Wii? As the title says, it's on the Wii, 
 meaning some great control system, Wi-Fi, and more. Imagine the new tracks, bikes, some new characters 
 and more. There has been plenty of good additions to Mario Kart Wii, but let's start with something 
 more simple. First, the game looks sharp. It may not be as fluent as, say, Super Smash Bros Brawl, 
 but it's good - the frame rate is excellent, and it looks pretty all-round amazing, if nothing 
 too new. Possibly the best looking Mario Kart to date.
  
  Multiplayer has always been a vital addition to the Mario Kart series. Without it, it's like Tetris 
 without the addictiveness. You can play single mode if you want, but you know you just can't play 
 a Mario Kart game without ever once playing the multiplayer mode. It's incredible, and the options 
 are great - you can still set the CPU's actions and the amount of races, but you can also set which 
 vehicles can be used and there's also a setting to switch off weapons, or choose the more basic 
 / powerful weapons when collected. However, battle mode is useless. It's changed and, unless you 
 get the hang of the new mode, it's not really fun - it can be only teamed, it's timed, confusing, 
 and overall dissapointing. If you're a fan of the battle modes in Mario Kart Wii, it's time to 
 start on the pure racing now.
  
  Wi-Fi is brilliant. The options are superb, there are very few lags and it runs smoothly with loads 
 of options just what you would get in a normal multiplayer game. But the control schemes is the 
 main highlight in Mario Kart Wii - you can either fit the Wiimote in the Wii Wheel (in which the 
 game is bundled with) , play without it but in a similar style, play with a Nunchuck and Wiimote, 
 or ditch the motion controls and play with a Classic Controller or GameCube Controller. It's brilliant.
 
  
  The flaws, however, are clearly visible. Battle mode, as explained earlier, is limited and dissapointing. 
 The difficultly can go different directions most of the time - classic tracks are mixed with hard, 
 current tracks, Rainbow Road is just frustrating (but yet it has always been) , tunnels and other 
 effects are confusing to master and it doesn't seem to be overall consistant. As well as that, 
 the Wii Wheel is quite awkard - the strap gets a bit in the way, and sometimes it doesn't turn 
 properly (this is coming from a guy who hasn't owned a driving license, mind) . Otherwise, the game 
 is excellent, but other Mario Kart games such as DS are better. But still, for multiplayer and 
 the great additions, it's recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vatii
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is a great game for the family, and with its many levels and difficulties, it'll 
 keep you playing for a long time. Like all the other Mario Kart games, I own this game, and I acquired 
 it the day it was released, and im already hooked :D. The Wii version of Mario Kart is far by the 
 best one of all the others, with its interaction and many things to do, such as the unlockables 
 like all the vehicles, characters and levels, which could take around 10 hours to achieve, and 
 with its Wi-Fi gameplay, it deserves to be the best Wii game. The Wii Wheel that comes as a bonus 
 when you buy the game, is fun and easy to use, while at some times, a bit hard. The Wi-Fi capabilities 
 are great, especially with no lag, it makes you feel like your playing with some guy in America, 
 as if hes right next door, and the rankings make it even better, so you can challenge your friends 
 to be the best, or some absolute stranger. Also another great Wi-Fi feature that the DS version 
 lacked, was the online battles, and with no lag, makes it very intense. So, as ive said through 
 this whole review, Mario Kart Wii is the greatest Wii game that me and you, have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  Let me first state the fact that Mario Kart Wii is a GREAT game, I love it, it's by far a must 
 buy for all Wii owners. That being said, something that up until now I didn't mind has negatively 
 affected the series, and that's Nintendo's approach to the Wii and their mentality about it's users. 
 So I'm going to get the bad out of the way to begin with.
  
  Nintendo definitely casualized the game. All their other hardcore games like Zelda, Metroid, Mario, 
 and Super Smash Bros they made more approachable for the likes of the new casual audience they've 
 obtained with the wii, but all their core gameplay elements remained mostly unchanged. With Mario 
 Kart Wii, they've totally made it a casualized affair. Mario Kart used to be able to be played 
 easily by those who picked it up and played but there was a sense of depth where hardcore players 
 could excel in the game. Now with changes such as easy powersliding made it so skill is not even 
 a major factor in each game. The thing you will be relying most on (especially on 150cc) is luck. 
 With 12 characters in each race, theres that many more weapons and you'll be subjected to a cluster 
 of god knows what hitting you at every turn. One more negative is the Wii wheel. It really isn't 
 that bad, but if you're a vet player, you'll be finding yourself using the likes of a gamecube 
 controller or other alternate method more than the Wii wheel.
  
  Bad aside, this game has some great things going for it. First off is the sheer amount of courses 
 and characters. There are 32 courses in the game and 24 or 25 characters. Of the 32 courses, 16 
 of them are remakes from previous Kart games. Some of them are welcomed classics, some are "eh" 
 much like some of the "eh" new characters like Funky Kong... really? Funky Kong? Who cares? Also 
 new to the series are motorcycles. The motorcycles don't really handle that differently than the 
 karts, but there is definitely fun to be had with them. 
  
  Another big addition to this game is online, which is highly functional for a Wii game. You'll 
 be able to go up against 11 other combatants in races or battles. 12 player multiplayer is definitely 
 a huge bump up from the fun four player races that you're used to, which are still there and there's 
 nothing like player Mario Kart with 3 of your friends all on the same TV. Also intergrated with 
 the online portion of the game is the Mario Kart Channel which you can download to the Wii menu. 
 This channel allows you to view stats, download ghosts, post ghosts, manage friends, ect. It's 
 a really cool feature which I hope is implemented more in future games.
  
  Over all, Mario Kart is a great game. If you've played Mario Kart before you'll be at home despite 
 the casual approach to the game, and if you're new to the series, it's a great time to start. But 
 like I said, the casual approach to the game definitely takes away from it and is surprisingly 
 one of the few times Nintendo has shot themselves in the foot with their decisions this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyauau
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:51 am PT
Review:  I don't know any other kart racers except for the likes of Crash Bandicoot, Sonic and Pac Man in 
 a remix but that is not the point. Mario Kart starting from SNES to N64 to GC with a mix of GBA 
 and DS for good measure. The end result is that the Wii stands out as a well polished game for 
 everyone to play.
  
  I like to start that although Mortal Kombat Armageddon is the first game that uses all control 
 schemes, next in Australia is Mario Kart Wii with the Super Smash Bros Brawl coming out in winter. 
 It should be easy to control. I don't want to fill up the page with buttons but I will say the 
 difference is two things. Unlike double-dash, you drive alone and they added bikes to the mix. 
 To make it more easier is that if you have never played a game like this, you should start with 
 an automatic powersilide but if you are a veteran then you choose manual. Thankfully, the powersliding 
 is never difficult to do. The AI should be more dynamic. Unlike 64, you can expect them to catch 
 up more quickly like double-dash, and can be hectic but every game has its challenges.
  
  The graphics is really excellent in regards to previous games. Probably the best aspects is really 
 how dynamic and lively the game is. Since it's lifted from double-dash, you can expect a lot of 
 colourful characters including Baby Peach for the first time. Add interlace/progressive and widescreen 
 and you won't be disappointed.
  
  The music is also excellent. All the tunes you live to remember is all here with more catchy tunes 
 which will always be memorable. Although the chatters can be hectic, still there is hardly any 
 downside to it. Add Dolby Pro Logic 2 support and you'll enjoy the most relaxing and exciting sounds 
 you'll ever hear.
  
  The value is obviously the best that you'll ever get. From and offline standpoint, thankfully unlike 
 previous kart games with the exception of Diddy Kong Racing, you get to race and battle other karts 
 if you're now playing the Vs mode. Online you'll get the chance to race people around the world 
 using both race and battle. Lastly both has teams so you get to enjoy having that competition. 
 Although you'll get 16 Wii tracks, 16 of the other tracks is really a special update from previous 
 games. Same with battle but you'll get at least 4 Wii tracks and 4 retro tracks.
  
  I'll safely summarise that this game, lives up to its name, putting up new kart standards, with 
 bikes and add another layer of retro tracks. The graphics and sound is in it's high standards you'll 
 get to race online. Offline the multiplayer is more than enough to keep you playing and the gameplay 
 is well suited for rookies and veterans having the right level of balance and it keeps you from 
 getting bored. If there was a fault, the only minor faults is two really. I would like a co-op 
 race in regards to 64 and double-dash and I would like to have a total of 16 racers to make it 
 really lively. I also would prefer to have more freedom in battle mode instead of a 3 minute time 
 limit. Consider this the best kart racing game that no other games can match in terms of style 
 and edge. From a quote on Seinfeld, Elaine Benes in The Dealership: High-five. On the flip side. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechashock
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  mario kart has been an excellent series throughout nintendos history but this one in particular 
 has stood out . with tricks online and so many chracters and vehicles also bikes being introduced 
 . it also has online ranking so competition and scores to beat can never stop with people all round 
 the world beating scores all the time. Wifi on mario kart wii is simple brilliance the best wii 
 online game yet with absaloutely no lag whatsoever and theres allways somebody on to challenge. 
 it is a must have for all gaming fans. With the wheel most would think the controls would be poor 
 but actually the controls are great and you can have 3 diffrent controller modes wheel, wii and 
 numchuk, and good old retro virtual controller. The new tracks on the game are well made an have 
 authentic and inspiring ideas .also a good selection on retro tracks were chosen and fit well with 
 the other tracks. Most mario karters who own wifi on mario kart ds will be glad to hear there is 
 no possible snaking as drifts take longer to charge.
  
  Is a must have masterpiece of a game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoddyman
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  just good unlock all trakes in 2 day but very very good play on it 3 hours a day. but I don't know 
 retro-cup is. where do you get wifi from. what kind of mario kart coming out next. The venerable 
 kart racer heads to the Wii and adds online competition to the mix. Nintendo gives us a test drive 
 of its upcoming Wii-powered entry in the Mario Kart series. Nintendo pulls the veil off of its 
 newest installment of the Mario Kart franchise. Mario Kart Wii features an online multiplayer mode 
 boasting races, battles, and leaderboards. We tossed a few shells onto the Net to find out how 
 well it held up. We take one final look at the latest installment in Nintendo's legendary racing 
 franchise before it hits stores. Although Mario Kart Wii offers a great deal in the single-player 
 mode, it really comes alive when you're playing with others. Like previous Mario Karts, there's 
 support for four-player split-screen, but thanks to the beauty of the Internet, your friends don't 
 have to be in the same room as you anymore. Mario Kart Wii offers online multiplayer for up to 
 12 people, with two players able to play split-screen on the same console during the same online 
 match. We got hold of a finished version of the UK game, and headed online to see how the multiplayer 
 experience is looking. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LCM6281
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii Review
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  The Gameplay is fantastic. I cannot keep my fingers off my Wii due to this game. I've completed 
 the 50cc mode and now I've moved on to the 100cc mode.
  
  Sound 10/10
  Sound is brill.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Good. The graphics quality of the old tracks from other Mario Kart games 
 have been upgraded to the quality of the game graphics. I'm really pleased with the pictures of 
 the tracks.
  
  Controls 8/10
  The controls are good. I cannot get to grips with the bundled wheel but I came to discover I can 
 use my Gamecube controller to play so I use that all the time when playing the game.
  
  Replayability 10/10
  Replayability is good. I cannot leave the game out of my Wii for more than 
 a day. Every other day I'm playing on it.
  
  Conclusion
  Mario Kart Wii gets 10 out of 10. Its fantastic. I cant keep my fingers off it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokefortyaday
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  From the minute I put this disc in my Wii, i was taken back to a time when i really enjoyed gaming.
 
  
  In a period where all games are becoming ultra realstic, or a grind to play online, Forza, COD4 
 etc I was probably playing them for the social aspect rather than the enjoyment.
  
  Mario Kart however has rejuvenated my enjoyment of games, and also gave me the kick up the backside 
 i needed to go and buy Super Mario Galaxy.
  
  The wheel control feels great especially when drifting etc, its hard to believe that the wireless 
 controllers most simple add on could actually provide a feel of handling.
  
  My only crticism for this game are the tracks, I would have liked Nintendo to push the boundaries 
 a bit, and not limit their invention to using DS and GBA tracks, which feel bulky and look ugly, 
 and drive terribly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyernix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  Mario Karts has been one of those games that pretty much anyone can pick up and play, and at the 
 heart of it, can also become a competitive score settler for friends and enemies alike, no doubt 
 if your reading this, you'll know all about Mario Karts and its new features but how do they live 
 up exactly? Let's find out...
  
  First of all the core mechanics of Mario Kart have been taken apart and ripped wide open, this 
 is no longer a basic game of item throwing, power sliding Mario Kart. The game has really evolved 
 into the Wii game it should have been. Forget Mario Kart SNES, N64, DS and so on, this is one that 
 is taking the throne. 12 player racing, online modes, and the new addition of bikes means Mario 
 Kart is taking an extra lap in the series and over taking its older brothers. 
  
  The core gameplay centres around picking your character, entering a race or grand prix and using 
 weapons and driving techniques like power sliding to be the best on a number of different and wacky 
 circuits. All the main Nintendo mascots are here as well as a few new ones, many might complain 
 over the roster and the case of some missing characters, but needless to say there's ton's of variety 
 and favourites, With a total of 25 characters including your own uploaded Mii, there's no reason 
 to complain.
  
  The main single player mode has been untouched; you can do all the main modes ranging from Grand 
 Prix to Time Trials and even the battle mode against 11 AI players. Although some may be slightly 
 let down by the battle mode as with both offline and online the racers are divided up into teams 
 of two, although your supposed to work as a team, there's still the motivation to get the best 
 lead for your team and rack the most points.
  
  As for the new control system, some older schooled game players may find the Wheel a bit impractical, 
 and may be better suited to a more reserved style of gameplay such as the classic controller in 
 my case. The wheel isn't a total flaw however, while to some its a novelty, it an increase the 
 challenge and even its very existence demands respect to Nintendo, at least their trying new things...
 
  
  Karts and Bikes are divided up to weight class and not character this time, meaning all the characters 
 are basically the same and the impact they have simply boils down to what weight category they 
 are. Lightweights are quick off the mark and offer better steering, although may struggle to reach 
 higher speeds, Heavyweights are given a better advantage this time around, by seriously bumping 
 and knocking around smaller karts as well as being a lot faster, even though they hold back on 
 speed and handling. Medium weights are simply a balanced character setting. Whatever your preference, 
 be prepared to hold a different strategy for your driving technique. Choosing your vehicle is essentially 
 more important than your character this time around, bikes and karts are all completely different 
 in look and feel. Bikes offer a slightly more nimble feel and work better on straights, whereas 
 Karters can gain a better power slide boost. Each track ranging from the wide straightaways of 
 Luigi Circuit to the twisty chicanes on Rainbow Road will offer strengths and weaknesses for your 
 chosen vehicle.
  
  The AI in the game can get to light and easy to cheap and nasty on the later cups and your ability 
 to handle weapons will hold an important factor in what position your in, the further behind you 
 are the better the weapons you can receive, one minute you can be strolling in first to being decimated 
 8 places back thanks to a pesky blue shell or a well timed lighting strike in mid air. 
  
  What's probably on your mind mostly is how the online system fairs, Rather than having point based 
 leader boards, your given a ranking of 5000 points, Win, you gain more points depending on how 
 many people are in with you, lose and your hard earned points are deducted. Joining a game is relatively 
 quick and surprising lag free. A few delays in-between hitting someone with a green shell for example 
 and watching them spin out can be a little off, but its generally nothing that deters from the 
 gameplay. After getting online, you vote for your track of choice and the computer randomly selects 
 one, even if there's a majority vote, don't be discouraged, because even the smallest vote can 
 still be picked. Unlike the DS version, all the tracks and arena's are up for choosing. Arguably 
 the best feature of Mario Karts Wii is the online Time Trial rankings, which are sure to influence 
 you to give a go. As well as seeing how you fare against friends and the rest of the world you 
 can watch the worldwide leaders replays to see how they do it. None the less, if you never bothered 
 with TT before, I can guarantee you'll give it more thought after seeing this, even if it's for 
 practice.
  
  Online does work well even for a Nintendo game, they may be an absence of voice chat but the addictiveness 
 will hit you and after you gain more points after a race, You'll dare yourself to climb higher 
 and higher in order to show off your skills or get revenge after a loss. 
  
  In closure, its hard to tell what people will initially think of MKW, some might argue it's a step 
 down in order to ease the learning curve for newcomers, some may even says its more of a satisfying 
 challenge, but never the less, Mario Karts has certainly evolved from its early days into a high 
 quality next generation racer
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stjimmy222
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  From the green light to the finish line this game is nothing but fun. There are a good selection 
 of racers to choose from, everyone's favourites are all there. A good selection of tracks, brought 
 back from the previous installments of the Mario Kart series make for a thrill of a race throughout 
 all the laps.
  
  The mutliplayer and online options are where the game realy shines though. When the single player 
 seems to feel a bit lonely, having a few of your friends round to battle it out picks up the loose 
 ends. Even if they're not there... jump online and battle it out against the world
  
  Not even an issue is the frustration of losing right at the finish line. All part of the great 
 experience. Nothing like getting into the spirit of the game than throwing your controller... preferably 
 at your bed... in pure rage to show how immersive the game really is.
  
  Finally... the Wii Wheel or WiiL is a great touch and make you feel less stupid about the times 
 you used to turn the controller all those years ago as if it would make a difference.
  
  Brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  First of all before i start this review i bought this on the launch day at 12am on April 11th 2008 
 i was that excited about it i should of pre-ordered it first but never mind.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is an overall exciting game which does play best online which i only recommend you 
 buy it for cause playing single player is boring. Mario Kart Wii features old and new racing tracks 
 from SNES, N64, Gamecube, Game Boy Advance, DS as well as new tracks just for the Wii.
  Racers well there is even more including new racers such as Rosalina, Baby Peach, Baby Daisy, Funky 
 Kong and there is more even your Mii as well as those classic racers like Donkey Kong, Wario, Yoshi, 
 Toad and many more.
  
  The game even adds more great stuff to the game by adding bikes which are a great feature to the 
 game as well as great looking karts. Weapons theres even more such as Pow blocks, thunder cloud 
 where you can hit your opponent and send it to them to shrink them as well as other various weapons 
 which should bring you to victory.
  
  Online features 2 ways to play Worldwide or against your Region like around Europe, Japan, etc. 
 There is the race which you can do or even battle mode which battle mode features 2 games that 
 has balloon race you have 3 balloons if you lose 1 then the other team gain a point same as if 
 you knock one of theres. The next mode to feature in battle mode is Coin race this is my favorite 
 part in the game you collect coins and try to steal them off the other team. The racers sometimes 
 i have notice to cheat as if you have been 1st it sometimes puts you as 2nd why that happens i 
 don't know.
  
  Mario Kart Channel is something else that appears on the game this has ghost data which you can 
 download and you can enter competitions to get access you have to have the Wii online of course.
 
  
  This Mario Kart is fun and addictive and i have had no lag online i have been disconnected a few 
 times though not sure what the problem is there though never mind that. The graphics are the best 
 that Mario Kart has ever had the tracks look beautiful and look better then ever.
  
  The Wii Wheel is a great feature to the game which i do always use to play the game as i feel comfortable 
 use that more then any other way which adds more of a real effect to the game. If you own a Wii 
 you must be stupid not to even buy this game and also if you are going to buy it make sure you 
 play it online best thing about this game i am truly addicted to it. Trust me if you buy this you 
 will definitely get your moneys worth.
  
  Good Points
  - Great Graphics tracks are very detailed
  - No lag online
  - Battle mode is a great to the 
 game adds more fun so you do not have to race all the time.
  - The Wii Wheel works well
  - Awesome soundtrack
  
  Bad Points 
  - Online can disconnect quite a bit
  - Weapons can 
 be a pain specially when your in 1st place
  
  Closing Comments: Mario Kart has to be the best racing game the Wii has to offer this is fun and 
 very addictive and worth the money. The online mode you will play most. Having the best tracks 
 from the previous Mario Kart games is fantastic. This game is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mozza215
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely the best on the Wii to date!!!!! I just can't put it down. The online play 
 is amazing and the single player is simple and in-depth enough to keep you going for hours without 
 getting bored. The only complaint is how boring the Battle option on the Nintendo WFC is, two game 
 types! Come on Nintendo! I got bored after playing them both once! And the coin collecting is so 
 crap!! The coins are never around and is based on luck and where you are when the coins respawn! 
 SO FRUSTRATING! The range of characters is great and the choice of vehicles is just as good! The 
 controls are incredibly easy and the learning curve is about 10 seconds! Deserves its 10/10! A 
 truly amazing game and extremely addictive!!!
  
  Review is by me and i reviewed this game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngebreadman
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  I found MKDS to be boring, easy and the AI were completely dumb. That was a dissapointment, so 
 when my dad picked this up I wasn't too excited to be honest. However I loaded it and actually 
 found it quite good!
  
  Gameplay:9/10
  This game comes with a Wheel that can be used to play the game, by putting a wii remote inside. 
 This isn't the most original idea ever, as steering wheels have been used for games since PS1, 
 but it does work. It also makes it more of a challenge. It is a lot more realistic and turning 
 it side to side turns the car. The fire weapons button and accelerate are all easily accessible. 
 There are 3 modes. Time trial, Grand Prix and Battle. Time trial speaks for itself. Grand prix 
 is fantastic. You pick a tornament and then race four tracks. For each class, 50cc, 100cc, and 
 150cc, there are 8 grand prix's. 4 feature new circuits, and four feature recycled ones. The driving 
 is fun, and the weapons and tools are a lot better. it also makes it so that the person at the 
 front gets worse pick-ups than the ones in the back, making it a challenge to stay in first place 
 for a whole race. The battles are also good, and there are two different ones. Collect coins or 
 balloon attack. In collect coins you must drive into coins in order to pick them up, but if you 
 get shot you lose some. Balloon attack involves using weapons to hit other players in order to 
 pop their balloons and get points. Both of these are done in teams. There is one small quibble 
 I have with the wheel that stops me giving gameplay a ten. When you turn if you accidentaly move 
 the wheel forwards or backwards then the kart will go in the oppsite direction that you wanted 
 it to go, which has lost me races before. 
  The Wi-fi is the best I have ever played, then again its the first wii game I have played online. 
 You can pit yourself against upto 11 other players, in races and battles. There is hardly any lag 
 and it makes i exciting. There is also a points system. You start with 5000. winning or doing well 
 nets you points, but doing badly or losing can lose you points. It is addictive and better than 
 single player mode.
  
  Graphics:9/10
  They arent perfect but they are still good, and the karts and characters look great in 3D and it 
 is a lot sharper than in MKDS, but then it is a more powerful system. The tracks are also very 
 good looking, from the colourful rainbow road to the dusty warios goldmine. It looks good in 3D 
 and all of the weapons and items can be fired off quicly and they have no lag. And when a blue 
 shell hits the player in first the resulting explosion is great.
  
  Sound/music: 8/10
  The music in the game is good and all of the songs have a happy carefree feel, without going too 
 over the top with this as was done with MKDS. The annoying thing is the voices of some of the characters 
 such as Waluigi who seems to be speaking out of his nose in a sneering accent that leaves me cringing. 
 But apart from that it is good.
  
  Lifespan: 30 hours+ There is a lot to do and online play will entertain you for hours.
  
  Overall: 
 9/10. A great bounce back from the disappointment that was MKDS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joeheadycus
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  In an extremely rare turn of events, this game has actually come out in the UK before the US. This 
 leaves me in the unusual position of actually being able to be of some use as a reviewer. If you 
 think this is unfair then consider that we don't even have a release date yet for the higher rated 
 Smash Bros Brawl (and don't get me started on the Rock Band fiasco.)
  
  Let me start by saying that ANY change to the Mario Kart series is always met with suspicion and 
 mistrust. Everyone has a preconceived idea of exactly what Mario Kart should be, what it should 
 represent and how it should be approached. The main complaints I've read about this game are in 
 direct regards to this. Everyone is weary of "their" game being messed with. Let me assure you 
 then, this is still the Mario Kart you know and love. The changes that are here largely benefit 
 the gameplay. 
  
  The power ups / weapons are more or less the game as ever. The few new ones here don't really add 
 much to the gameplay and aren't all that necessary. Fear not though, all the old classics are still 
 here. The game has a similar feel to Double Dash, if you mastered that game you should have no 
 problem picking up Mario Kart Wii, it will feel immediately familiar. The game has a bright, colourful, 
 cartoony look, animation is great and everything feels very polished as with Galaxy. 
  
  Multiplayer can FINALLY be played with AI Karts, no matter how many players you have. I always 
 hated playing previous Mario Kart games with 3 players and cruising around an empty course for 
 five minutes before you finally all crossed the finish line in the same positions you started in. 
 Having 12 players on the track at once is fantastic fun. The game becomes slightly more chaotic 
 but it's all very much in the spirit of Mario Kart. You always feel like you have a position to 
 battle for due to (at least at the lower difficulties) the carts being spread out across the course. 
 
  
  One of the side effects of more players on the course is having bigger courses. This doesn't instantly 
 make the game easier, however. There are a few things put in to compensate. The most obvious being 
 when you hit an "offroad" area of the track your cart slows down to an absolute CRAWL. This is 
 MUCH less forgiving than any previous Mario Kart game. One unfortunate side effect of bigger courses 
 is that green shells (one of the very few skill based weapons) become much less useful. It would 
 have made sense to make them bigger but the game designers seem to have ignored this issue altogether. 
 With more players on the course, you will inevitably get more players lagging behind and therefore 
 more blue shells, more lightning bolts and other unavoidable weapons. This has been compensated 
 for by making these weapons slightly less effective. Lightning bolts, for instance, no longer stop 
 you dead in your tracks. You skid along while spinning for a second or two and then pick up again 
 at your reduced speed. In this way, it's still possible to skid across the finish line after hitting 
 that unexpected banana skin / shell. Blue shells are still as annoying as ever, offering no change 
 to avoid. Mercifully they have been made rarer in response to more players. The result is they 
 crop up about the same amount as before. 
  
  One thing that the game designers seem to want to discourage this time around is hoarding power 
 ups / weapons. It's never a good idea to hold on to something "just in case" because before you 
 know it, there's yet another lightning strike and it's gone. I actually quite like this change, 
 it encourages players to take opportunities and play aggressively. eg, if you're in 2nd place with 
 a green shell and you have a clear shot on the guy in 1st. Instead of thinking "I'd better save 
 the shell in case someone fires a red shell at me" you're much more likely to fire at him, knowing 
 that you wont have it forever. 
  
  The trick system is a good idea on paper but feels a bit half-arsed in it's implementation. The 
 initial problem is you are given no instruction on how to do tricks other than "shake the Wii remote". 
 Hmmm... Before I learnt the knack to it I'd been literally windmilling my arm around while violently 
 shaking my hand (there's a nice mental picture for you) and STILL NOTHING happened. What they don't 
 tell you is the trick system ONLY works if you shake the WiiMote UP AND DOWN from it's horizontal 
 position at the exact right moment. Once you get the hang of it, it's fine, albeit, not overly 
 useful. By the time you've driven up that half pipe, done the trick and landed it without boosting 
 straight off the edge of the course, you've most likely lost a position given that your more modest 
 rivals simply did a power slide around the corner, not only getting a red boost but also not wasting 
 time on the half pipe. The reward simply isn't worth the risk. In fact the "reward" is less than 
 the price of admission most of the time. It's a shame that this was so poorly implemented as it 
 clearly has potential to add a new layer of gameplay. Maybe in the next Mario Kart.... 
  
  Another change worth a mention (at least to the best of my memory of previous games) is that the 
 difficulty ramps up an enormous amount going from 50cc to 150cc. I went from yawning my way to 
 first place in every race in 50cc to getting a few 12th places in 100cc. The annoying thing about 
 this is that the more the difficult the game becomes, the more luck plays an important role. Many 
 of my 100cc GPs are a mix of 12th and 1st place. This becomes even more of a problem in 150cc where 
 all the carts suddenly group together. On a 150cc race you can be in first place the whole race 
 and then, coming into the last corner, that !&%*ing blue shell hits and you watch the 11 other 
 carts cruise on past the finish line while you drive slowly off the "offroad" area you've been 
 thrown on to. This has happened more times than I can count. Conversely, on a bad race, you can 
 be struggling to stay in 10th the whole race and then with one well timed golden mushroom on the 
 last section of the last lap you can plough your way into 1st. The end result is the overwhelming 
 feeling that you never EARN your victories and achievements. You just got the right power ups / 
 weapons at the right time. Getting that gold cup on that 150cc GP that's been giving you so much 
 trouble never makes you feel like you're a better player or that after practising you've finally 
 mastered the courses, you just think "well, that was lucky." This coupled with the fact that you 
 can no longer restart races makes for some frustrating experiences. 
  
  Not to harp on about this but the whole "punished for doing well / rewarded for doing badly" formula 
 stays true only it's been exaggerated slightly in this game. At the beginning of a race it's often 
 smarter to slow down and get a better power up / weapon while everyone is still squashed together. 
 You can still get into maddeningly frustrating situations when you are doing well in the name of 
 "balance". I remember one time when I was in 1st being hit by a blue shell, then as I was recovering 
 being hit by a green shell and then as I was recovering from that being hit by a red shell, causing 
 me to fall off the course and finally, as I'd just been lowered back onto the track, being hit 
 by a lightning bolt. This kind of situations are ridiculous and unnecessary. What is DESPERATELY 
 needed is some kind of 2 or 3 second invulnerability after being hit, this would at least make 
 it less likely for these kind of situations to occur. It's annoying to have NO WAY of defending 
 yourself, at least when you are moving you have a chance of outrunning that shell, avoiding that 
 banana skin etc. 
  
  The tracks themselves are mostly great. Inventive, imaginative and fun. I don't want to spoil them, 
 but it's safe to say they are definitely up to par. The extra 16 retro tracks are a fantastic addition 
 too and will no doubt add to the already impressive longevity of the game. Playing through the 
 original SNES tracks (complete with original music) ... well, if they don't bring a ridiculous **** 
 eating grin to your face the first time you play them you must be dead inside. 
  
  One thing that I have to agree with from other reviewers complaints is that the balloon battle 
 has been made totally redundant. All the skill is gone. You play in teams and the scoring model 
 is more like a team death match than last man standing. It's complete chaos. There is absolutely 
 no room for developing strategies. This is a real shame as balloon battle has been a great part 
 of Mario Kart since the SNES days. 
  
  On to online.... Online is mostly good, bear in mind that this is no Xbox Live, but it does the 
 job. There is very little noticeable lag and matchmaking is quick and easy. I only have a few minor 
 grievances with it. Firstly, in the lobby screen everyone gets a chance to "vote" for a course. 
 However, there is no option to opt out of voting, instead you can choose "random". What this means 
 is, if 3 people want Rainbow Road and the rest choose "random" the course chosen should be Ranbow 
 Road, right? Guess again. In fact all "voting" does is tip the odds in favour of your course, the 
 actual course is chosen by randomly selecting one of the 12 players INCLUDING the ones who selected 
 the apathetic "random" option. So, 3 people choose Rainbow Road, the remaining 9 choose "random", 
 while there is a slim chance that Rainbow Road will be selected, you are far more likely to get 
 a completely random course that NO ONE wants instead of the course than most people voted for. 
 The enormity of this oversite beggars belief considering that it could be fixed so simply. Other 
 than this boneheaded mistake, online is generally a lot of fun. You have no way of communicating 
 with the people from matchmaking but this is both a blessing and a curse (I, for one, do not lament 
 having to hear a bunch of screeching teenagers) . Unfortunately, communication with your friends 
 is almost as limited. The pre-set phrases you have to choose from are as useless as they are hilarious. 
 24 pages of messages and not a single "Yes" or "No". There is one final minor annoyance about the 
 online multiplayer, the game is so keen to identify who you are racing against that the names occasionally 
 get in the way of your view of the track. This mainly happens when everyone is grouped close together, 
 usually at the beginning of a race. It far from ruins the experience, but it's worth mentioning.
 
  
  One last thing worth mentioning. The Wii Wheel. When I first saw this thing online I laughed. And 
 yes, it does technically do absolutely nothing. It's only when you hold it in your hand that you 
 start to understand. It is a LOT more solid and weighed than it looks. There is a slight learning 
 curve (about half an hour or so) , but after getting used to it, I love it. It's just nice to hold 
 in your hand and feels much better than holding the WiiMote on it's side. 
  
  This game is a great addition to the Mario Kart series. It does make quite a few changes but, mostly, 
 it's a step in the right direction. The new tracks are fantastic. The core Mario Kart experience 
 you know and love is still there. I have no doubt that any Mario Kart fan will still be playing 
 this game for years to come, right up until the next one comes out. Buy it, you won't be disappointed. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dj-Dark-1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Colours and blinking moments so fast that your eye can barely see the depicted high detailed insignificant 
 parts of the game. Even the smallest detail like a brick has been well improved in yet another 
 sequel of the Mario kart franchise.
  There are many new dazzling features that come packed right into this new game, one main one as 
 the new peripheral that wii users may have used before but not in any way like this. The wii wheel, 
 the wheel actually creates the atmosphere that you would get if you were driving the car. The motion 
 sensors work in the wii remote create the slightest movements as a turn.
  The game claimed that before the release we would see some of Mario karts classic characters and 
 maybe some new people, it was said that the game would have a whopping 25 characters in total including 
 the feature that we can play as our own mii. Well it has lived up to its expectation and its fitted 
 perfectly, with a range of characters and the newly added bikes and classic karts you wont go wrong.
 
  "Bikes", are you serious. The players always knew we would reach this level but not this quick, 
 bikes are a new feature added to the game and they seem to be the peoples choice. With a variety 
 of different bikes and colours and MKs classic light, medium and heavy capacities you have a lot 
 of options.
  
  The multiplayer is this game has well improved since the days of the snes and has brought us the 
 classic balloon battle and the new collect the coin battles, we can choose to play in teams the 
 collect the most points in a series of circuits as the same with the plain races also. Its all 
 great fun if you have a friend but it doesn't get going until Nintendo's wifi kicks in. 
  With the choice to play either 1 or 2 people online at the same time, you or you and a partner 
 can play upto an amount of 12 people online on a collection of all your favourites races from the 
 game that will keep you amused for hours.
  The one thing this game lacks is that Grand Prix is only single player and seems to be slightly 
 harder compared to all the other mario kart games.
  
  Dont want to give anymore spoilers to the game or information until you have played this, its definitely 
 worth it. I give it a massive 9.5/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Britcher_Adam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  I love Mario Kart, I love Mario Kart Wii too... The steering wheel is awesome fun, although I still 
 like to play it with my Gamecube controller more. Playing online against your friends is wicked 
 fun too! The mix of new tracks, which to me are the most imaginitive yet combined with some true 
 classics makes for some great racing. The weapons as always guarentee absolute quality mayhem. 
 And the addition of tricks and bikes which I feared would be gimmiky work extremely well. 
  
  However, and I'm gutted there is a however; I just feel like they could have achieved this 
 very same game (minus online and steering wheel) comfortably on the Gamecube... Its looks and feels 
 like double dash did with different tracks, while this is by no means a bad thing, and I know the 
 Wii is no Graphical powerhouse I just wish they could have moved it forward as much as they did 
 with Mario Sunshine to Galaxy Which is why I give it 8.5 not 9.0plus
  
  Still I highly recommend adding it to your Wii Library for the sheer fun Mario Kart games always 
 bring and much much more than that too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b36soldier
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  When i first heard that the nintendo were creating the Wii the first thing i thought was i wonder 
 what Mario Kart would be like to play, using the controls etc....
  Most of the games on the Wii so far have been quite a let down, but after buying this game, and 
 playing it i feel like the Wii has come back to life.
  
  The use of multiplayer is great, it adds a wonderful twist to the game, where you can actually 
 play against people to see who the best on Mario Karter on the planet really is.
  
  The controls at first were a bit tricky, but i soon managed to get to grips with it perfectly, 
 the game gets a nice big 10 from me, i hope nintendo release more great games like this in the 
 future, as it really does utilise the Wii controls.
  
  Great game, Buy it, put ur friend code in the forums, add whoever you can find then play and enjoy 
 yourself!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Missile129
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart delivers what Mario Kart is meant to deliver. Entertaining gameplay (sometimes frustrating) 
 that will always give you a great laugh. It's a game anyone can play, regardless of skill - all 
 you need is a little luck to pick up those deadly items and completely ruin everyone else's day 
 seconds before the finish line. 
  
  Mario Kart has never been better!
  
  With 32 courses (16 new, 16 from old MK's) and a wide range of characters from classic Mario (Well, 
 it is his game) to the wild and weird like Funky Kong and Dry Bwser, to choose from, Mario Kart 
 really has something for everyone. 
  
  As if that wasn't enough, there are now 12 people per race! (or battle) In addition to 3 new powerful 
 items: the Thundercloud, POW Block and Mega Mushroom.
  
  Cars available to use are not character specific but rather weight specific (Light, medium or heavy 
 characters) allowing you to ultimately choose your favourite character rather than the one that 
 fits your style of play. 
  
  The Wii wheel is an innovative new way to play, granted it may just be the Wiimote held sideways, 
 but it is still great fun and easy to get the hang of. Anyone can pick up the wheel and start playing 
 or even winning. If you'd rather play with the Wiimote, or Wiimote and nunchuck or even the Gamecube 
 or Classic Controllers, you can. There's no messing around in the settings either, just start up 
 the game and it will automatically recognise what you're using. 
  
  Grand Prix, Time Trials, VS mode and Battle mode all make a welcome return. Battle mode however 
 has been slightly tweaked. Due to the 12 people participating, teams are compulsory. You would 
 think with 12 people battles would be hectic, instead, because the stages are so big, it can be 
 hard to even find someone never mind that person being on the opposing team. 
  
  In Balloon Battle, you are no longer eliminated when you lose your 3 balloons, instead you lose 
 a point and are revived with your 3 balloons. Unfortunately, there is no way to have a classic 
 battle with elimination when you lose your 3 balloons - it comes to personal preference if you 
 prefer this method or not. 
  
  A second battle mode has been introduced, similar to Shine Runners from previous MK's, Coin Battle. 
 Here you collect coins to add to your teams total and lose around half your coins when hit by an 
 item. The lost coins scatter around you allowing for anyone to pick them up including yourself. 
 
  
  VS mode has a team option if you desire it but you can go solo too. While in Battle Mode or Team 
 VS Mode, your allies' items have a forcefeild around them that stops you, or any other ally, being 
 hit by that item. This does also include the effects of track wide weapons such as the infamous 
 Lightning.
  
  You also recieve the Mario Kart Channel. Here you can view the wordwide, continental or friends 
 times on all the courses in Time Trials. You can download the champion's, a friend's, or a rival's 
 (someone who is slightly faster than you) ghost and try to beat them. Reaching the top 10 can be 
 very difficult and often needs absolutely perfect laps. In addtion, sometimes the champion will 
 have an impossible time. This is because they are exploiting a glitch that allows the clock to 
 reset and thus give them a time of, for example, just the first lap. Nintendo are manually deleting 
 these Ghost datas but currently, there is no other solution. Naturally, Nintendo won't forever 
 be manually deleting them as times move on and different games receive their attention. 
  
  This game will keep you occopied for ages in single player and multiplayer. Whether it be unlocking 
 and beating Expert Staff Ghosts, generally improving your Time Trial Times and maybe even reaching 
 the top 10 scores, battling it out with AI or trying to acheive those infamous 3 star ratings for 
 all the cups - you will be playing this for a long time to come. 
  
  So why can't i give it a 10? Online. If your not going online with this game, take my score as 
 a 10, if you are...
  
  To reduce lag, Mario Kart Wii uses a Desynchronisation feature. The game works by sending "packets" 
 of information to the other racers/battlers Wii's. Naturally, some packets are lost. This means 
 on your screen you could fire a red shell at an opponent that suddenly dissappears. In actual fact, 
 they blocked the shell with a banana. In rarer cases, you may see the shell hit them and tumble 
 on your screen, but they don't even receive the packet with the red shell in it. When their packet 
 of "i have lost no speed, i am turning this corner" is sent back to you, you will see them suddenly 
 jump to wherever they are. What a waste of a red shell. 
  
  Also, your game "guesses" what is going to happen next. If it guesses wrong, you can also experience 
 some sudden jumps of other racers. Apparantly, the game only receives every 3 frames and fills 
 in the blanks with what it thinks is going to happen. Though 2 frames is so short you will very 
 rarely notice it. 
  
  I'm not really the techno kind of guy, so that could be slightly inaccurate on how it actually 
 works. The fact remains however, that sometimes what happens on one person's screen, does not happen 
 on another's. 
  
  Granted, online has very little, mostly none what soever, lag. However, a perfect 10 can only go 
 to a perfect game. A perfect game is exactly that: perfect - nothing at all to give a negative 
 comment to. Mario Kart Wii is a fantastic multiplayer and single player alike. Anyone can play. 
 Anyone can win. Anyone can lose. There is nothing more fun than the most unskilled player beating 
 the "eliteist" at Mario Kart Wii! This game is a must for anyone who has played a previous MK, 
 because this one is by far the best!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebladedx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  While I will admit Mario Kart Wii is an excellent game both offline and online, I cant help but 
 feel cheated out of more than a few races.
  
  The Good
  
  Rich colour maps, even the old maps look crisper than I ever thought possible. The addition of 
 Miis into various stages was also a very pleasant supprise.
  The jumps in the air add another spin in gameplay and add to the challenge of a good race.
  The 
 overall graphics are brilliant (excluding the Miis which look pixelled?!) , the karts all have a 
 very unique feel about them and can add to the challenge of the gameplay.... whichs brings me the 
 bad.
  
  The Bad
  
  The karts and bikes are extremely unbalanced, using the bullet bike on automatic will just bomb 
 past almost anyone and take any hairpin corner with ease, it does not even need to drift boost 
 to take the lead.
  
  Being in first place used to be fun, trying to ward off red and green turtle shells and making 
 sure nobody overtook you on the inside lane, but now you cant drive 40m without a blue turtle shell 
 flying at you, lightning, been sent flying by a bullet, being POW'ed or getting that stupid thunder 
 cloud thingy. In addition to this the computer cheats!!! i've counted 9 times that the person in 
 second place has used star power to send me flying on the final lap to go from 1st place to something 
 like 8th meaning I have to restart the entire tournament, whilst I have NEVER had star power in 
 second place.
  
  While the tracks themselves are very enjoyable, I feel they added maybe too many retro tracks and 
 not enough original tracks, what I saw was nice, but they should release more!
  Im not sure what Nintendo's stance is on downloadable content, but if they pay any attention to 
 Microsoft they will realise that adding downloadable tracks in the future will go down a STORM.
 
  
  In summary a generally enjoyable game with a lot going for it, but the gameplay BALANCE really 
 lets it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkgamingdude
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  ..::The Good::..
   Responsive Controls.
   Huge variety of tracks, old classics and new, imaginative, well designed courses.
   The best 
 Online Play seen on the Wii yet with almost no lag what-so-ever.
   The same frantic and addictive fun from past Mario Kart titles. 
   Snaking has been removed.
 
   The new stunt system is great.
  
  ..::The Bad::..
   Some Character Models are blocky.
   Some characters voices are terrible
   Friend Codes.
 
   No Voice Chat Online.
  
  When Mario Kart DS hit shelves, I think it is safe enough to get away with saying it was the best 
 Mario Kart yet. It delivered the fun found in previous titles, topped it and added online play. 
 Then Mario Kart Wii was announced, gamers got excited. Nintendo then revealed the Wii Wheel and 
 playable Bikes. Gamers began to worry. 
  
  Well for all those that worried, shame on you. Mario Kart Wii still has the magic found in the 
 previous titles; the familiar, addictive gameplay is there, only now it's even better. 
  
  Lets get the basics out of the way first. There are 12 playable characters for you to choose from 
 at the start, with a whole host to unlock. A couple of these hidden characters will surprise you, 
 especially the one's that haven't appeared in a Mario Kart game yet. Each character is divided 
 into their usual weight class once again; light, medium and heavy. At first each weight class has 
 a choice of three different karts and bikes, but there are a lot more to unlock as you progress.
 
  
  Like in Mario Kart DS, there are some new tracks and those that are old. The total amount of courses 
 are 32 with 16 of them being new, well designed courses and the other 16 being carefully hand-picked 
 classics. Although, some of the new tracks are curiously similar to ones in older Mario Kart titles 
 (Luigi Circuit and Moo Moo Meadows have more than a slight ring of Double Dash!! and Mario Kart 
 64 to them) . That said, the majority are fantastic and offer experiences never seen before with 
 little quirks never in them. 
  
  For example, Koopa Cape has a downhill stream going through the middle of the track, so it is worth 
 trying to time your powerslides so you go through the stream and get an extra speed boost. 
  
  The retro tracks have been given a polish, so even the SNES tracks look nice and 3D. Every 
 game in the series has a representative (except the Arcade titles) with four N64, DS nad GameCube 
 tracks and two tracks a piece from the SNES and GBA titles. So whatever your favourite Mario Kart 
 game may be, there should be something here to keep you happy. 
  
  Of course, the proof is in the gameplay, the one area where all Mario Kart games are truly scrutinised. 
 Thankfully, it's great. Don't be under the impression of all that, "the Wii is a fancy GameCube" 
 rubbish, and that "this is just an updated version of Double Dash!!" If anything, it's an updated 
 version of Mario Kart DS (obviously much better looking) . And that is not a bad thing. 
  
  Mario Kart Wii has four big gameplay differences. The first of these is the obvious inclusion of 
 the Wii Wheel. Believe it or not, the wheel actually works. Sure it is just a plastic shell and 
 shouldn't really make a huge difference, but it really does add more atmosphere. What's more, the 
 steering has a larger "dead-zone" than Excite Truck did, meaning there is a reasonable degree of 
 leeway in how much you can turn the wheel before your kart starts turning. Thus giving you more 
 control. 
  
  If the Wii Wheel isn't your think, you can try out one of the other control methods Mario Kart 
 Wii has up for selection. The Wiimote and Nunchuck, Gamecube Controller or Classic Controller. 
 In all honesty, I prefer the Wii Wheel over going old-school with the GameCube or Classic Controllers, 
 I thought the opposite was going to happen. 
  
  The second big difference is the removal of snaking. Ever since the N64 game, Mario Kart had included 
 the ability to get a speed boost by waggling the controls left and right as you powerslide. This 
 has finally been scrapped, and now your speed boost is determined by how long you can hold your 
 slide. This really does make the online feel more fun instead of having the usual snake-fest.
 
  
  Thirdly there are now "tricks" that can be performed by flicking the control upwards after going 
 off a jump, giving you a nice speed boost once landing. There is no danger of failing the trick 
 or having to learn tricky button combinations. It totally changes the way you think about races 
 and is a great substitute for snaking. 
  
  Finally, the bikes. They were a controversial inclusion, but the truth is the work very well. Sure 
 they are a little harder to control than karts as they turn more and quicker bbut the only main 
 difference is that instead of getting orange sparks when performing a powerslide, bikes can only 
 get blue boosts. This may seem unfair, but in return bikes can perform wheelies by flicking the 
 controller up at any time. 
  
  As if all this wasn't enough, the online options are the best ever seen on a Nintendo console. 
 You can take part in enormous 12-player races, create your own private race room and download challenges 
 and ghost records sent by Nintendo which are ranked worldwide. You can even use your friends list 
 to compare your Time Trail records of your pals anf, if they're slower, send them your ghost data 
 for that lap and challenge them to beat it.
  And to top that off, the online play features pretty much no lag at all. I myself haven't featured 
 any and I hope it will stay that way. 
  
  Despite initial fears, Mario Kart Wii is actually one of the most enjoyable racing games and Wii 
 game that I have ever played. This is fantastic fun and whether you are a casual gamer or Mario 
 kart die-hard, this is truly an essential game; one that you will be playing for months to come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SergantCross
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  The good: It is compatable on every single controller, online play seems shocking and devestated 
 on the globe mainwide, bikes can be useful in retro tracks as they newly added for a bit more taste 
 to kart, more characters from the past to unlock is bringing memories back home, club full of Karts 
 and bikes are more selectable as they can be your weapon and your ride.
  
  The bad: Rosalina can be a trouble for those who dont own SMG on the wii, some AI is a little pushover 
 to take glory on higher difficulties, reaching *** is a frustration to obtain in every GP cup, 
 some tracks arent a little too nessercary to the game, wiimote and nunchuck is no use if you have 
 insane skills on it.
  
  Gameplay: this game is all bout go karts, and now bikes, yes, bikes are the new addition to the 
 thing even when it comes to online, it's more amusing, as for the computers, they overtake your 
 speed as long as you are tailing them, your glory will be stolen, so be wise by looking backwards 
 you dont want anything to claim your prize, also time trails for practice and battle is naley added 
 with coin runner the most amazing thing i ever saw.
  
  Design: Even seeing nothing out of the next generation, this is the next generation and dont get 
 me wrong, it is a superb job from JP to make spectacular games like this, the trace designs are 
 outstanding to keep up the pace, and karts are starting to be pimping.
  
  Presentation: It is a perfect presentation as mario kart has nothing wrong in it's prespective 
 type as you have Funky kong dancing your way on funky stadium, Baby luigi to rock the spooks and 
 also skeletal bowser has returned from super mario bros it is the most spectacular thing i ever 
 seen but only 1 problem is, if therewas a huge club, all tracks could've been present to be launched 
 to 2010 for more awesome activity, But this game deleivers as it is the best racing games of all 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brawlinireland
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, The game's great. The name of this game should be 'Extremely fun multiplayer'. The single 
 player in this game is more or less a way to unlock characters and karts (and Bikes) . The bikes 
 are pretty much the same as the karts, except that they have a wheelie functionality, and only 
 have one level of drift. It's pretty basic, but luckily it's not what anybody bought this game 
 for. The multiplayer is gloriously fun, with addition of a great online mode. and the fact that 
 this game has always been about that. 9.5 is what it deserves, for not having a great singleplayer 
 as well. Great value for money
  
  So a quick recap:
  
  Added bikes and tricks 
  Snaking removed
  great online
  Super fun local multiplayer 
  basic singleplayer
  Ability 
 to share ghost data with other wiis
  Mario Kart channel in the wii menu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanollie
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  this game is absolutley fantastic what else can i say its the best online game out i cant stop 
 playing it my social life has gone out the window its sooo addictive. If you have already loved 
 Mario Kart in years gone by, then you will certainly not be dissapointed! With 16 modified tracks 
 of old, plus a further 16 tracks the fun factor will hit the ROOF! Additionally there are an extra 
 4 drivers, (12 compared to 8 of old!) so prepare to be shell shocked.... literally!
  
  With the addition of a Jazzy "Wii Wheel" which fluffs any other "Wii Sports Pack" wheel to shreds, 
 and the addition of Motorbikes and skooters in the mix, you have an all round fantastic game.... wether 
 it be individually, with your mates or with your family!
  
  You can also unlock the ability to play as your "Mii" characters so you can kick Koopers Spikey 
 backside yourself!
  
  v xx
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave123rty
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Plain and simple Mario Kart Wii is a must have for wii owners. At first I thought that the wii wheel 
 would be fun but it would be better with a controller... how wrong was I! The wii wheel is amazing. The 
 single player is fairly fun but the multi player is way better. I've played Super Mario Galaxy, 
 Zelda and Metroid, They were all great games but they just are not as good as Mario Kart. This is 
 possibly the best game on the wii (Maybe Brawl but I haven't played that yet because I'm in Ireland) . The 
 only thing is in a lot of races you could be first the whole time but lose on the last corner because 
 of a blue shell or something else. That can be quite annoying : ( The online is excellent. You get 
 connected to a game very fast and there is almost no lag at all. Another thing you can do is you 
 can play ghost races against other times around the world. The battle mode is online as well, it 
 is pretty good but I prefer the racing myself. There are many unlockables and the online will keep 
 you playing so if you have a wii you simply must get this game, its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5nake3yes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  12 ish years ago I was at University. I was popular. I had an N64, 4 controllers, a big TV and 
 Mario Kart 64. So many hours that could of been spent studying were blown on that game its untrue, 
 so with that in mind I was eager to see Mario Kart Wii and had it on pre-order long before it arrived.
 
  
  The first impression of this game is "polished" it looks great, the menus are easy to navigate, 
 theres lots of little nice touches as you make your way to whatever game type takes your fancy. 
 The steering wheel is well made, robust and has a good feel in your hands.
  
  So what about the game? Well its got all the courses you could ever want including all your old 
 favourites from the DS, N64 and GC plus a few more added in for the Wii itself. Theres a tonne 
 of characters and a nice touch this time round is rather than making the characters handle differently 
 they've added a range of different vehcles that each give you different benefits. This means you 
 can always be your favourite toon but pick the car or bike that suits your play style. The AI seems 
 fairly balanced and also quite intelligent, no end of times ive been nuked as I approached the 
 finish line!
  
  Online play is by far and away the key to this version of Mario Kart. Its an absolute breeze to 
 get online, you always find people to play and the ensuing mayhem is a joy to experince (unless 
 you come 12th!) You can play friends, people on your continent or worldwide and theres a nice little 
 menu screen where your opponents Mii's wave at you from around the globe.
  
  There are a range of control types available to you. Personally i find the wheel the most fun but 
 I prefer the nunchuck/wiimote combo if im racing online as it gives me at least a greater feeling 
 of control. 
  
  Overall I can't imagine they can improve on this franchise much more than it is now. A must have 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomJarvis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  OK Mario Kart games have always been good right from when they started. They have since tried to 
 evolve in many different ways and not one has backfired. The same can be said about this incarnation 
 of the franchise.
  
  New features:
  
  Firstly the obvious useage of the new Wii-Wheel. This control scheme is very responsive to all 
 movements and very simple once you get used to it.
  
  Secondly the addition of bikes. I was sceptical to begin with that bikes would be a mistake but 
 after playing with them for a while they are very welcome in the Mario Kart franchise.
  
  Thirdly the trick system. Tricks can now be performed with a simple flick of the Wii-Wheel giving 
 the player yet more ways to earn boosts. These I were also sceptical about but they make the player 
 think about how to drive better.
  
  Another addtion is online. Online Mario Kart OMG! its brilliant so give it a go.
  
  Finally 
 the new items. Some items have been ported over from the DS version like the Blooper and Bullit 
 Bill but some are completely new to the franchise.
  Thundercloud: Shrinks one person only and can be avoided by ramming other drivers while holding 
 it above your head.
  POW Block: Very hard to dodge but get one and everyone spins out and drops all thier items (unless 
 in mid air) .
  Mega Mushroom: Taken straight from New Super Mario Bros this will make your character immensly 
 big and able to rundown anyone.
  
  Nintendo once again tried to add extra fun to Mario Kart and have done so once more.
  
  The 
 game itself is highly standard in a predictable Mario Kart style. Everything everybody loved about 
 previous Mario Kart games is in here which makes it good enough reason to purchase it. Buy this 
 game it is endless fun single payer or multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spinach_Puffs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart is one of Nintendo's most famous franchises. The series has evolved over the years and 
 changed with every step (although Double Dash!! may have been a step in the wrong direction...)
 
  
  Now with MK Wii, there's more new stuff than ever before. The most obvious change is the controls, 
 from which there are four methods to choose: the Remote on its side (with or without the Wii Wheel) , 
 Remote and Nunchuk, Gamecube and Classic controllers. The Wheel, which is packaged in the game, 
 provides the most enjoyable experience of the four, and it really helps with the steering. MK veterans, 
 however, may prefer the comfort of an analog stick, which is also well-catered for.
  
  The other big inclusion is online play. Although MKDS did contain Wifi multiplayer matches (and 
 produced one of the best online experiences on the DS) , the Wifi options for MK Wii are astounding, 
 with all 32 tracks now available to play with opponents across the globe. There is also zero lag 
 during races, which must be a first for Nintendo Wifi Connection.
  Battle Mode is now also available on Wifi, with all 12 arenas to choose from.
  
  Of course, 
 4-player multiplayer has also become something of a trademark for MK games, and Wii is no different. 
 Although there is a distinct drop in visual quality during 3 or 4 player matches (its 30 fps rather 
 than 60) , the gameplay remains unaltered and can result in many lost hours of your time.
  
  Speaking of visuals, this game has some of the best (if not, THE best) graphics on the Wii. Even 
 in two-player matches, the graphics remain at 60 fps and never miss a beat. The tracks themselves 
 ooze graphical detail, and even the recycled retro tracks hold their own with new visual updates.
 
  
  There are also some options that are only possible thanks to the Wii. On top of terrific motion-sensing 
 driving, there is also Mii support (your Mii becomes a playable driver after you unlock him/her) 
 and the Mario Kart Channel, which (among other things) allows you to see if your friends are online 
 without even putting the disc in!
  
  It probably seems like I'm being a little overdramatic here, but this really is the finest game 
 on the Wii. I was expecting my mind to say "once Brawl arrives in the UK, I'll think MK is pretty 
 average", but having played both I'm beginning to wonder if MK might actually come out on top...
 
  
  So why the lost 0.5? Mainly due to small niggles really...
  + Battle Mode can only be played in teams now, and it would have been nice to see an every-man-for-himself 
 option, similar to the battles of MKDS.
  + As I said before, the graphics are reduced for 3- and 4-player matches, which, I suppose, is 
 necessary, but does look a little poor at times. 
  + One or two track choices/designs are also a little poor. I loathed Yoshi Falls on the DS, and 
 it makes me sick to see it return here. And Rainbow Road - that other hallmark of the MK franchise 
 - is mind-numbingly difficult this time round, resulting in some rather sour online races which 
 may have you throwing your Wheel against the wall...
  + A few characters seem rather random, and one character - who is a very welcome addition - has 
 had her image ruined by terrible voice acting (I won't spoil it for you, though you can probably 
 guess...)
  
  
  But overall, this thrashes (and laps several times) any other Wii game on offer. Basically, if 
 you own a Wii you need this game! It's quite easily the best online Nintendo game and one of the 
 finest Nintendo games ever made. The gameplay is flawless, the graphics are astounding and the 
 choice is endless. If only every racing game was this good... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -r4z0rbl4d3-
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this short: Mario Kart Wii is a great game IF the following apply; you aren't alone! 
 Either you got a friend or family member that can join in and have a blast with you, otherwise 
 it's kinda "done" after you've unlocked everything or raced all the courses in single-player.
 
  
  In fact, you aren't alone. If you got a Internet-connection for your Wii, the MP-element is awesome 
 and long over due for the series (done reasonably good for DS but not perfect) . You finally got 
 to go on-line and compete with anyone all over the world, or invite your friends to race against 
 or battle. Also, the ghosts you get when you play time trials transfer to your on-line presence 
 and you can try and beat the best times done in the world and see how good your friends are doing.
 
  
  Only grudge I got is the Friend Code system but they let you invite friends you already got in 
 you contact list on your Wii so that isn't that big a problem.
  
  All in all, Mario Kart Wii is a great game with loads of hours of pure fun with your friends and 
 other players around the globe. If you got a Wii, you got to have this game. If you don't, then 
 this game, along with Mario Galaxy and soon-to-be-released Super Smash Bros. is reason enough to 
 get into the game.
  
  // r4z0r 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilLemon45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  Eighth in the series, Mario Kart Wii has become the top game in my collection, and will stay there 
 for some time. The previous games like Mario Kart DS and Mario Kart Double Dash all had flaws, 
 but I think that Nintendo has pretty much nailed it this time, with more characters, more cars, 
 more tracks, and even the inclusion of bikes!
  
  Also, drifting has become much better. Now, you don't need to wiggle left and right to burn your 
 tyres off for a boost, now you're rewarded for the length of your power slide with a boost. Bike's 
 drift boosts aren't as powerful but bikes can do wheelies at any time for a slight boost lasting 
 about three seconds. But beware, when in a wheelie, it makes it as hard to turn as a car with no 
 steering wheel.
  
  There are some great characters too like Baby Peach, Koopa Troopa, Rosalina, and King Boo, each 
 divided into 3 groups of weight, light, medium, and heavy-each with their own attributes. E. g. 
 Heavy characters like Bowser and DK have bad acceleration but a good top speed; whereas light characters 
 like Toad and Baby Mario have good acceleration but not a particularly good top speed. This adds 
 an element of strategy to the game and to win every race, you'll need skill, and the know-how to 
 pull of an impressive victory.
  
  There are also new weapons like the giant mushroom, which when used, allows you to simply run into 
 your enemies to squash them. But, of course, there are also some old regulars like the mushroom 
 and lightning to give you the upper hand. Also, the blooper, which smeared the opponent's screens 
 with ink is much more effective than in Mario Kart DS purely because, in the DS version, it didn't 
 ink the map on the bottom screen which showed weapons, holes, grass and enemies. In MK DS, if you 
 were inked, you just used the bottom screen until the ink was gone. A much needed change if you 
 ask me.
  
  This game has 4 levels of difficulty on 8 Grand Pries with 32 tracks for incredible matches with 
 up to 4 local players racing or battling at once! Wi-Fi also makes a welcome return with up to 
 12-player online races, and 6-player online battle!
  
  So overall, a visually stunning game with incredible game play, more of everything and get ready, 
 up to 4 player local play, 12 player online races, and 6 player online battle, this is certainly 
 a must-have for your Wii collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBauer1005
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2008 2:07 am PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is one of the most wanted games since the Nintendo Wii was faced released. Most 
 fans who have played Mario Kart DS are wondering if Mario Kart Wii is good. 
  
  Why Mario Kart Wii is a lot better then Mario Kart DS was. Where to start with, when you buy Mario 
 Kart Wii you will get the Wii Wheel with the game which controls pretty well but will take some 
 time to get use to and your hand may cover the sensor every now and then which can get you to lose 
 the lead.
  
  The gameplay is the same as always but has three new items and new has bikes to use during the 
 Grand Prix which adds to the experience as you will have to learn how to use the bike as there 
 control a little different to the karts. As always you will win cups to unlock new character, and 
 bikes now to use doing the game.
  
  The best new feature on Mario Kart Wii is that it has Wi-Fi like Mario Kart DS has which allows 
 you to race up to 11 other racers using bikes and karts you will also be able to use your Miis 
 in the race once you have unlocked the option.
  
  There are 36 race tracks 16 are new and the other 16 are old maps form the SNES to the DS Mario 
 Kart games. As soon as you put the disc in you will have to update your Wii to get access to the 
 Mario Kart Wii Channel which will monitor your rankings, friends and competitions which is great 
 the only problem is voice chat, you don't have it which is ok but it would be nice. You will have 
 to use friend codes to be able to play your friends.
  
  This is a must get for all racing funs as its great fun and has a long replay time as you will 
 be playing WFC all the time with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arronsimpson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Ignore the mixed reviews, this game is awesome. Without the best version since the SNES, and I 
 think in many ways better.
  
  Nintendo have gotten rid of the snaking that ruined Mario Kart DS, and to me, this version feels 
 just right in terms of the control of the karts. They're not as twitchy as Mario Kart 64, and I 
 prefer the return to single karts as opposed to what Nintendo did with Double Dash.
  
  Online play is great. This game is a hell of a lot of fun. The tracks are pretty wide at times, 
 but this is obviously to allow for 12 players to get around the tracks. To me, this is not a big 
 deal - as you still have to choose the right racing lines to get good lap times.
  
  I've also found the single player game to be enjoyable enough - but admittedly, it has the usual 
 Mario Kart issue - which has been present in every single version - the AI cheats. I wish they 
 would fix this. I know the aim is to provide the player with closer, more exciting races. But the 
 mechanism is so transparent, that it just feels way too predictable.
  
  But regardless, overall this is a fantastic game, I would buy it without hesitation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getsetgo
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I have mixed feelings towards this game. Single player is very dull. The 50cc races are to easy. 
 The 100cc are not bad and the 150cc are a pain. Where you finish in the race has more to do with 
 chance than skill. If you are in 1st place close to the finish line, you get under attack from 
 all sides and there is nothing you can do about it. Suddenly your 1st place becomes 8th place or 
 worse. On the other hand, sometimes you are last and for some unknown reason you finish first or 
 second. For me this is not fun. Is just very annoying. I want to win or lose a race because i am 
 either good or bad at playing the game. Also the music is irritating. I wish they had given us 
 the option to turn it off. I find myself playing the game with no sound and that is not fun as 
 well. Now the good things about this game. The new tracks have very good graphics and the old ones 
 have a nice new look to them. Multiplayer is good and the online racing is very reliable and fast. 
 The Wii remote works well and the wheel is a good addition that makes racing more fun For me this 
 is a difficult game to score. Since i think the single player is very bad and frustrating, however, 
 the multiplayer is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flowdee79
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  Whether you enjoy this game or not will depend very much on your own preconceptions.
  
  Ultimately this is another dissentious sequel that will annoy old school Nintendo fans but likely 
 delight their newer converts.
  
  Although there are few that will disparage the original Mario Kart on the SNES, there's almost 
 no agreement on the quality of its sequels.
  
  Despite the cute exterior and limited technology, the original required considerable skill to master, 
 with a responsive control system that made time trials as much fun as races.
  
  In that sense at least this latest follow-up has almost nothing in common.
  
  This clearly 
 takes its lead more from Mario Kart DS than the GameCube's Double Dash!!, with everyone back to 
 driving alone in their karts.
  
  Except they're not necessarily karts any more at all, with a wide range of bizarre-looking coupes, 
 turbo-powered prams and... motorcycles.
  
  The bikes are a first for the series and work extremely well with a unique wheelie move that aids 
 acceleration.
  
  Although the controversial "snaking" technique has been removed from the game, the number of ways 
 to get a quick speed boost has actually increased.
  
  A new, highly simplified, trick system, where you waggle the remote at the apex of a jump, is added 
 to the usual slipstream and powerslide techniques.
  
  All the various controller options work fine, with the Wii Wheel proving surprisingly fun  
 if less precise.
  
  Although the communication restrictions will still infuriate Xbox Live users, this is by far Nintendo's 
 most accomplished online game yet.
  
  Indeed it's the only wholly satisfying way to play the game, since splitscreen multiplayer ends 
 up with you either being outnumbered by AI or removing them to endure half-empty tracks.
  
  Having 12 players in a race is great, but not if only three of them are real.
  
  With the bizarrely 
 compromised Battle mode, where you now can only play in teams, this is still far from the definitive 
 version of the game.
  
  But, unless you count the original, such a prospect seems impossible  even undesirable for 
 Nintendo's world order.
  
  Indeed, perhaps the most impressive thing about the game is how it manages its many compromises 
 while still remaining fun for almost everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  There had to be a Mario Kart game on the wii, and here it comes. You have twelve characters and 
 can unlock 14 more (among them, your mii) . Most of the characters will be pretty much the same, 
 but if you are a fan of Mario, you will of course wish to see your favourite characters in the 
 game. You can unlock a lot of new karts and bikes and use them as well. They feel differently because 
 of different stats. There is 32 courses, 16 old and 16 new, making this the largest Mario Kart 
 game there is.
  
  MK Wii look quite similar to Double Dash in design and the old courses are given a make-over to 
 match that design. I don't really like that design, but it doesn't drag the game down. Neither 
 do the music. It is not good soundtracks that you would listen to when you are not playing, but 
 it fits the courses and the gameplay in Mario Kart Wii, so it is good, at least mostly.
  
  And wi-fi is also part of the game. You can race against your friends or just random online gamers. 
 You will also have a score that shows your exp, which will be boosted if you get good results and 
 go down if you get worse results. You can also check how good your times on time trial are compared 
 to the time of your friends, other gamers from the continent, or other gamers worldwide. This adds 
 a lot to the play-back value.
  
  The courses are not bad, but few of them really reach the standard I had expected for a wii game. 
 However a few of them really hit it of. Koopa Cape went straight to the top of my list of favourite 
 courses. It is a little bugging that the courses they bring back is none of my favourites from 
 MK64 and Double Dash. All over, the courses are fair enough, but a little disappointing.
  
  Basically, the gameplay has got some new complications. You do tricks on a jump to get a boost 
 when you land. If you stay behind another driver, you can gain a boost from that as well. Besides 
 that (and the fact that bikes are inclueded) , it is the same old gameplay. However there is much 
 more diference between the karts (and bikes) than in the other games. Some do brilliant power slide 
 when others have more speed or weight, or better acceleration. I find the speed in the game a little 
 to slow, which is one of the biggest cons for the game. However with all the swinging, you will 
 not notice the lack of speed so often.
  
  The Bikes that are added are cool. They are not so different from the karts, however you can do 
 a wheelie to keep your speed up for a second. The karts are also somewhat different when it comes 
 to stats. They are generally less heavy than karts and they have better handling.
  
  Items are always important in Mario Kart games, and they have done it well this time. In Mario 
 Kart 64 it was too easy to get back to 1st place after you screwed up and in Double Dash it was 
 too hard. This one is somewhere in the middle (a little closer to MK64) . Luckily, the items aren't 
 floating around as much as in Double Dash, but still there are a lot of them on some courses. There 
 are some few new items. Some is really bugging, like the POW block, and they don't really change 
 much. It bugs me that the blue Koopa Shell returned, because it is so effective and undodgeable, 
 so it can ruin a race for you if you're in the lead.
  
  The battle mode contains ballon battle and coin battle, both with teams of six players. It is really 
 good. Of the 5 courses and the 5 returning ones, I love two of them, like for and dislike four, 
 however the team battle is great. Only that on some stages it gets to crowded and it all seems 
 to be a big mess. However I liked the coin batlle in particular. You hit your enemies with items 
 to steal their coins. It is really great.
  
  Wi-fi adds a lot to the experience. It can be fun to play randomly against other gamers online. 
 There is an experience meter that you will want to increase by winning matches. However if you 
 are a Mario Kart veteran, you might not get enough challenge, so you might to play against friends 
 instead. Also, I find that the other gamers often have bad taste when it comes to courses
  
  Let's talk about the five different control schemes. Only two of them are really entertaining, 
 the wheel and the GC controller. I would advice you to try the wheel, because it adds a lot of 
 intensity to the game and is really fun. The GC controller has more stability, but after playing 
 the wheel, it could seem a little boring.
  
  The difficulty in the game is not as it should be. You need to go through all the gran prix' to 
 unlock all there is, so it is boring how unchallenging 50cc and 100cc is. Some of the 150cc courses 
 are easy, the rest of them aren't challenging, just downright bugging. It doesn't help to drive 
 brilliantly if you are hit by a blue Koopa Shell 20m before goal. Items are alpha-omega, and the 
 outcome is too random. The worst part is that if you have screwed up (or been unlucky) in one race, 
 your chances of getting back in it will be abysmal and you will lose the cup. Luckily, most courses 
 are easy, not bugging.
  
  Some times it seems it depends on if you have a good day or not. What is really frustrating is 
 when you are hit by an item and the snowball starts rolling. Like once when I was playing Peach 
 Beach, I was in the lead (solid lead actually) and had 30m left. I even had two green shells in 
 case someone would fire red shells at me. But then I was hit by a POW block and lost the items. 
 Then I was hit by a red shell, but I still had a chance. Just as I accelerated, I was hit by one 
 more red shell and three players got past me. I kept driving and was hit by a guy with star, so 
 I ended in 9th place.
  
  However it is a good game and it is also a game that everyone can love even though they don't usually 
 play games. Actually the ones who don't usually play games seems to enjoy it more than the rest 
 of us. I was up all Saturday night playing it with my sister and her friend, who really loved it.
 
  
  All in all, Mario Kart Wii keeps the best gameplay from the previous games, add new karts and characters, 
 adds wi-fi and it is a fun game to play, but some of the courses drags it down and the game could 
 be faster, plus the difficulty is set to either easy or frustrating.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaMunkey01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  this game suprised me. I though it was a kiddy game but it really is fun. I got this game in the 
 bundle with a steering wheel and then got an extra one for multiplayer, and it is very good.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Now obviously being a wii game this does not have amazing graphics, but all this 
 is made up for in the art style. The cartoony look really gives this game a feel that no other 
 racer has. It does look noticably better than the other versions though. Plus the old retro thracks 
 have had a makeover. But to be honest graphics dont matter much in this game, they are good enough, 
 its the gameplay that you are looking for.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  this game is very fun, extremely fun! The steering wheel for it is very well made, light enough 
 to use for a long time, but not too light if you know what I mean. It takes some getting used to 
 but it definately add to the whole experience. the single player races are fun but the split screen 
 is more fun. 
  
  there are more vehicles than ever before with small karts like toads, to the monster vehicles like 
 bowsers and donkey kongs. there are also bikes which makes the game a little more interesting.
 
  
  the battle mode is still great. it has some of the great N64 tracks on there plus many new ones. 
 It is fast paced and suprisingly difficultfor newcomers, and the new weapons certianly make tthe 
 game feel a little fresher.
  
  DIFFICULTY:
  This game is easy to start with, you will find yourself winning almost every time but this does 
 not make it any less fun. but unlike many racers if you do end up getting hit multiple times in 
 a row ending up last you can still make it up to first place. though this will change s you go 
 further into the game.
  
  driving can be a little difficult though, it is difficult using the wheel (though it is fun) and 
 to start with you will find yourself going in a direction you did not mean to once in a while. 
 
  
  the steering wheel is very good thoug, i bought a steering wheel for the PS2/3 for 40 but I actaully 
 like this better! Plus its easy to set up, no wires, no complications, just slot the controller 
 in and you are set.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  if you are a fan of the series you will love this. In fact most people will lke this, its a very 
 fun game and I would say its near perfect. if hyou are thinking of getting this do it, the miultiplayer 
 is so fun you wont want to stop! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smitejab
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome Mario Kart addition and also a great game for the Wii, for the first half the 
 game it might pretty frustrating because well for me I got hit a lot and it was easy to lose first 
 place but when you get the hang of it this game will always leave your heart racing along with 
 your kart (or bike) .
  
  The learning curve is just about 1 hour depending on what type of control you're using but it's 
 really not too hard.
  
  The Wii wheel can be hard to get used to in the early stages because sometimes it can be over-sensitive 
 or under-sensitive, but it all really comes down to your familiarity with the Wiimote.
  
  Graphics are Super Mario Galaxy graphics so it's pretty smooth and slender.
  
  Finding the 
 right kart or bike can be very frustrating because alot of the vehicle stats vary alot so it might 
 some times. Saying that I think that there isn't a larger variety of karts to test it out which 
 I think it's the fun of Mario Kart. Characters are goot too. 
  
  Just great game go out there and get it or I'll slap you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRealUku
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  i waited for this like alot of people , totally lived up to my expectations , the wheel that the 
 remote slots into is a stunning idea , make sure you get the nintendo original one as its worth 
 the extra cash , multiplayer is awesome , i bought 4 wheels so when a few m8's come round with 
 beers this rocks , a big tv is a must for 4 player split screen , online is great , so simple to 
 join games and feels very solid , point system to rate you online is very similar to the wii sports 
 setup , lovely to see alot of the old tracks revamped graphically , and some good new ones to boot 
 , once you master the steering and use manual mode on skids it handles very well , a credit to 
 the wii system , some of the new weapons are great , the games intuitive ai seems to give better 
 weapons to those lagging behind to make sure the races are close , this games probably the best 
 wii title to date for the whole family , in short.
  easy to pick up , sensibly hard to master , great graphics suiting the mario title , awesome multiplayer 
 especially online.
  the only small flaw which isnt a biggy , when in two player online the second player only appears 
 as a guest , i would of loved to get points system on both but hey ho cant have it all. 
  if you have a wii , buy this , if you think it sucks then you must be playing something else! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neevle
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Released on the 11th April 2008, Mario Kart makes its debut on the Wii console. Fans have been 
 waiting for news of this legendary game on the new console for quite some time and finally their 
 wish has come true. Using Wifi allowing 12 users to connect together at one time, this game trumps 
 the previous version by miles! Over 30 courses are included and several new charcters have been 
 introduced. Multiplayer is awesome and single player is challenging with the new Wii Wheel.
  
  positives:
  * Two player Wifi
  * 12 players in each race
  * Several new characters
 
  * Great graphics
  * Motion sensor technology used to the full
  * Worldwide ranking availability
  
  Negatives:
  * The wii wheel could be a bit more responsive
 
  
  I pre-ordered this game two weeks before release dat and it arrived on the 10th of April, the day 
 before release. It is my best Wii game to date and Its reallly good being able to join in games 
 halfway through, play your mates via wifi, fill in the gaps with single player and challenge your 
 friends on multiplayer at home! I give this game 10/10!!!! =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeghead83
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  Well here we are with yet again another Mario Kart game.
  
  Now while some may find any racing game boring, i challenge anyone to not play this game with a 
 huge grin on their face. Its fast, fun and full of so much craziness you just cant stop playing 
 it.
  
  Mario Kart Wii is probely the first Wii game with a proper online service, from the ability to 
 challenge friends and strangers alike to 12 person race you can also complete in competitions, 
 time trails and battles. All of which grant you a continental and worldwide score and rank so you 
 can see just how good you really are. Also updated are the games graphics, new and improved from 
 Mario Kart Double Dash (NGC) the game really shows off what the WIi can do, while not HD quality 
 its still amazing to watch the crazy and strange stages as you drive through them.
  
  Now this game as up to five different controllers scheme, yes you heard me five, these are the 
 Wii Wheel, controller, controller and nunchuck, classic controller and a NGC controller... but how 
 would i rate them... well:
  
  Wii Wheel = Its fun and simple to use, takes a bit to get used to but makes the game that much 
 more fun.
  
  Controller = Same as the Wii Wheel, but harder to use as you cant really determine how to move 
 it.
  
  Controller + Nunchuck = simple and easy to use controller, nukchuck to streer and controller for 
 tricks, speed and brake.
  
  Classic controller = simple controller, button based.
  
  NGC controller = The same controllers as from Mario Kart Double Dash on the NGC.
  
  Now as 
 for the game itself, well everything you expect from a Mario Kart game is here, 2-4 player multi 
 player single and battle races, 1-2 player online mode and the Mario Kart Channel (allows you to 
 easily manage your Mario Kart Wii stats) , Now while this game does have a Grand Prix mode, it lets 
 its self down by being only single player... meaning that you can no longer do 1-4 player GP races 
 anymore, which takes away a bit of the fun from the game. Another added feature which was first 
 seen in the DS Mario Kart is old stages from past Mario Kart games, in this game expect to see 
 various courses from the SNES, DS, GBA, N64 and NGC versions of Mario Kart for you to play on, 
 all with the same graphic style and music from the original with of course an update.
  From Mario to Bowser all your old fav characters are back for more mayhem and madness with a few 
 new faces such as Funky Kong (Donkey Kong Country series) and Rosalina (SMG) , but this time the 
 action just doesn't take place on four wheels, oh no. Mario Kart Wii comes with not only four wheeled 
 rides but also two, yes thats right bikes and plenty of them, from stander dirt bikes to themed 
 Bowser and Bullet Bill bikes are is a huge range of rides to chose from.
  
  All in all this is a brilliant addiction to the Mario Kart series and will be a classic for years 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallsy9
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  Like everyone else interested in Mario Kart, I was lapping up the previews, screenshots and gameplay 
 vids with enthusiasm. Before launch, I have to admit that I was worried; the new additions (bikes 
 and motion controlls) , the suspected change of pace, the less-than-SMG-spectacular graphics and 
 the fact that this was a "bridge" title had me concerned.
  
  But once I popped the disc in, all of those concerns flew away. The motion controlls were pretty 
 solid and the wheel, while a touch gimmicky, added to the experience. I did not like the GameCube 
 controller, though, so ultimately, picked the Wiimote and Nunchuk combo. I guess this is a matter 
 of preference, though, and the very fact that Mario Kart Wii supports all these different options 
 is a good thing; there's something for everyone here.
  
  I wanted this game to be fast. Perhaps not Excite Truck fast, but at least at least a bit quicker 
 than the painfully slow Double Dash. And, for the life of me, I cannot understand why people are 
 calling this game slow; the wider tracks accommodate more players, its true, but the tracks are 
 sometimes shorter than the GameCube ones, and there is a helluva lot going on. Extra players means 
 extra items to dodge, more competition to be worried about, and the scenery changes at a fantastic 
 rate. 
  
  Graphicly, this game is excellent. Perhaps it doesnt have that Super Mario Galaxy or Metroid Prime 
 3 sheen to it, but if sacrificing a bit of paint makes for a permanently steady framerate, then 
 Im all for it; not once did I notice any slowdown (in offline play) . The graphics and animations 
 are definitely a step up from the old Cube, too; lots of movement on screen and some gorgeous lighting 
 effects. However, they do take a hit in split-screen play, with jaggies becomming much more prominant, 
 even on my tiny television.
  
  Soud wise, you can expect the usual effects and tracks. Whilst I feel the music during racing is 
 a vast improvement over Double Dash, it still isnt anything to write home about. I would have loved 
 for Mario Kart to include some of the more memorable music from the Mario franchises, but we get 
 the usual forgettable tunes. 
  
  This time round, Mario Kart has taken a page out of Brawl's book, and includes a massive amount 
 of unlockables. The tracks are relatively easy to unlock through the 50cc mode, but the characters 
 that make an appearance are a little trickier, and the massive range of bikes and karts is very 
 welcome. The bikes make an excellent addition to the gameplay, and the balance is very finely tuned. 
 Boosting is now easier to pull off, but the strategy involved is just as integral as before. There 
 is one thing, however, that Mario Kart doesnt share with Brawl:
  
  Mario Kart has excellent, lag free online play. Whilst I adore split screen play, and hate it when 
 it remains out of a game, I can handle it if online play isnt included. It has never really bothered 
 me. Saying that, the online portion of Mario Kart adds so much more to the usual gameplay experience; 
 I can go head to head against a bunch of strangers from all over the world (taking a friend with 
 me if I want) , winning and loosing points (which gives great bragging rights) . I can also race 
 against friends (yes, those dreaded Friend Codes make an appearance, but its not the greatest pain 
 in the world some people like to make out) . Speaking of which, I actually enjoy using those pre-game 
 text bubbles. Communication becomes less confused, and you dont get trash talking.
  
  And when Im bored of that, I can play battle mode, I can upload and download ghost data to play 
 against, I can go through the wonderful Mario Kart channel and check out the world's best players 
 and use their replays to hone my skills, and I can play against Nintendo staff. Mario Kart Wii's 
 online service is a full and complete package, and is the online experience Wii owners have been 
 looking for.
  
  Nintendo have even taken a stab at some form of DLC with Mario Kart Wii. It may not be extra tracks, 
 but there is a competition mode that gives you certain challenged to complete, and then upload 
 to see how you fit in with the rest of the world. The tracks are heavily altered forms of exsiting 
 ones, so it still keeps the gameplay fresh and exciting.
  
  But, do you remember how I said I adore split screen mode? I feel nothing is more important in 
 a multiplayer game than a decent local mode, and there is one omission in the game that I feel 
 hurts it; I cant take a friend with me through the Grand Prix mode. Also, For a multiplayer game 
 that I find fun playing with people, I despise Mario Kart's cpus. The computer karts are predictable, 
 yet they can go at stupid speeds to catch up. The items are inbalanced enough that when playing 
 against the computer, all it takes is a blue shell on the final lap to lose a lead you have maintained 
 for the first two. Its frustrating, but only really a slight niggle, not a deal breaker.
  
  Ultimately, Mario Kart Wii is an excellent package, crammed full of features that make it enjoyable 
 again and again and again. Whilst the inbalanced items and horrible cpus come back in this iteration 
 of the franchise, the title is as fun as ever in multiplayer, the amount of options the game gives 
 you is staggerring and the online mode is simply perfect. If you have been waiting for a good online 
 experience on the Wii, then you owe it to yourself to pick this one up. In fact, whether you are 
 interested in online or not, pick it up anyway. You wont regret it.
  
  PROS
  -Excellent online mode with tonnes of options and features.
  -Lots of controll options means 
 everyone can play comfortably.
  -Tonnes of unlockables that keep you playing.
  -Good graphics and a steady framerate.
  -Fast paced
  -Perfectly tweaked gameplay mechanics 
 (bikes and boosting) .
  
  CONS
  -Graphics in split screen multiplayer take a hit.
  -Frustrating playing against the computer.
  -Items inbalanced as always.
  -Unnecessary changes 
 to the battle mode.
  -Music not on par with other Nintendo big hitters.
  
  OVERALL - 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 13, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  Yes, Mario Kart is Fun. Yes Mario Kart is by default a good game but since the N64, and i hope 
 we all agree the age range this game caters for has just gone lower and lower.
  
  This series never got better after the advance version and heres mainly why.
  
  There is no 
 reward for leading the race. You are leading and you are subject to far more attacks. I suppose 
 you could argue that this should be the case, but when the penalty for being able to play games 
 is far greater for you than the cpu . . . things need to be changed. 
  
  In Mario kart, since the N64 there has been this auto catch up thing. I can't explain it, but you 
 are in a best stated car in the game and you have the likes of Peach just blasting past you in 
 the default one. It makes no sense, not only are you subject to red shells, the 1st place homing 
 shell, POWS and green shells, you are against all odds as the cpu is just faster NO MATTER WHAT 
 car you are in compared to theirs. 
  
  Yes Mario kart is fun but you get the sense that it was made for 10 yr olds. if this is the case 
 then all i am spouting here is hot air.
  
  The game suddenly becomes frustrating for all us hardcore gamers and the odds are stacked up against 
 you right from the start.
  
  Online is ok, but you soon get a bit fed up when you are leading the race and quite comfortably 
 and then you place 8th . . . right before the last bend. Where is the reward for spending some 
 time with the game, learning the tracks, and knowing when to get your boosts. Can someone tell 
 me where the fun starts when this happens 70% of the time?
  
  Yes i consider myself a hardcore gamer, and in the advance version there was some real skills needed 
 to get the fastest time AND get the triple star on the 150 cc special cups, im sure we all felt 
 it. The difference was it was all up to you. You may never get hit at all for the 5 laps (maybe 
 with the lightning but you accept it as the person who used it is at the back and very low skilled 
 anyway normally) the game was a REAL challenge. The time trials were just the same, hit a wall 
 and it was START  RESTART. In Mario Kart Wii, you have to contend with the auto catch up and this 
 heavy stacked odds with the penalty powerups. I suppose red shells can be discounted as we all 
 know how to stop them but still that bleeding blue shell is a ridiculous thing. I cannot count 
 how many times that has had me in first from corner 1, boosting EVERY corner, every jump taking 
 really efficient lines . . only to place 8th-12th on the last corners. It makes no sense, its not 
 fair and ultimately sucks all the fun out of the game. I like to practice and learn the tracks 
 . .there is no point and ur sad if you think it will help you in this game.
  
  Like i said at the start Mario kart is a good game by default. . and it is, im playing it now, 
 but i dont half feel like the good gamers amongst us are getting no rewards for our dedication 
 into getting every pennies worth out of the game.
  
  Saying this the battle mode is where we can deploy our skills but most of us will all agree its 
 about the racing.
  
  One thing that could have sorted all this out is No pickups. Just racing mode. Of course word will 
 get around on what is the fastest car, but that is ok at least we are all racing and its nly urself 
 to blame if you lose. Not the fact that 8 people behind you have got 3 rds shells, the red shell, 
 the star the pow the blue homing shell and the lightning . .which over the years i accept.
  
  All i can say is, Mario Kart Advance is where the real skills are, anything after is just for 
 the kids and it is a shame as this game would never go to be seen as a fair tournament.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leonchamp
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  I waited for this game for ages ( even longer as HMV sent it to me a day late) and then when it 
 arrived I fought off my kids to have first go, and the first thing I noticed is that the Wii wheel 
 is very well made, but during my first go I was either under or over steering, and even after half 
 an hour I wasn't much better, even though I am very good at the other Mario Kart games. So I changed 
 to Wii remote and Nunchuck and straight away I felt more comfortable and was winning games, so 
 I ventured online and raced 12 people from around Europe and did OK, afterwards I went onto the 
 Mario Kart channel and the amount to do is amazing ( I love the way you can race other peoples 
 ghosts to egg you on) . This game is amazing, the new levels vary from inspired to, some that feel 
 somewhat familiar, but with all the options and online play this IS a Must have game for the Wii, 
 Well until Super smash bros comes out at least!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_elements600
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the early 1990s on the SNES, Mario kart has made an appearance on just about every Nintendo 
 console to date. Using the (then) innovative Mode 7 graphics, Mario Kart was one of the first 3d 
 racing games. After success on the SNES, Mario Kart 64 was available at launch on the N64, then 
 on to the GameBoy Advance with Super Circuit, the Gamecube with Double Dash, the DS with the aptly 
 named Mario Kart DS and the latest addition to the series, Mario Kart Wii.
  
  In classic Mario Kart fasion, you start with two cups which you must race and as you complete cups, 
 you unlock the remaining two. But unlike the other series, there is now another set of four cups, 
 which include racetracks from the Mario Kart games of old, adding a sense of nostalgia to this 
 game. Motorcycles have also been added to Mario Kart Wii, giving you a wider choice of vehicles 
 than ever before. The "two up" concept displayed in Double Dash though, has gone.
  
  Now, you can use the old Gamecube controller if you don't feel like waving your arms around with 
 a steering wheel, but a big part of Mario Kart Wii is the motion sensitive steering. This works 
 surprisingly well. Not too sensitive, but not too sloppy either. Drifting is optional now too, 
 but you have much more control if you opt to do it manually. Racing is just as mad and fun filled 
 as it ever was, with the wild array of weapons available to you to attack others and defend youself 
 in your battle for pole position.
  
  Perhaps the biggest new feature to this game of the Mario Kart series however, is online play. 
 You now have the ability to play against 11 other people from around the world over the internet, 
 and this, for the Wii at least, is one of the first games to do so. The matchmaking process is 
 quite simple. You either join racers who are already competing, in which case you will be able 
 to watch a live feed of the current race and will begin racing once the race has finished, or you 
 will start a new server and race straight away with the people you are matched with. The tracks 
 are chosen by the players and the console does a roulette to decide whose track will be chosen 
 to race. There is also no lag whatsoever when you are racing... none of the glitchy stuff you sometimes 
 see on a game of Halo 3. A word of warning though, it seems the human players are much more violent 
 and unforgiving than their electronical counterparts... don't expect any clean, well behaved racing! 
 Whilst this is Nintendo's first real attempt at online gaming, it's very good considering the service 
 is free, but the user friendly-ness isn't quite up to Xbox Live standards and there's no voice 
 communication. Proper gamertags beat the credit card like friend codes any day too.
  
  On to the graphics. To be honest, sadly, they're somewhere between Mario Kart 64 and the Gamecube's 
 Double Dash. They are by no means the most groundbreaking graphics even the Wii has ever seen but 
 then this is Mario Kart and graphics have never been a huge part in the series. Perhaps though, 
 this is why it runs so smoothly both online and just on your own against the computer. Nintendo 
 have sacrificed mouth-wateringly good (for the Wii anyway) graphics for the best possible gameplay 
 and that is fine by me.
  
  To conclude then, Mario Kart Wii aims to do one thing - to give the player the most amount of enjoyment 
 possible and it does this very well. Mario Kart is a series that simply never gets old and I can 
 be sure I will be playing this in ten years time. Yes the graphics make the game look a little 
 old but this does reflect the classic-ness of the series in a sense. However the new features of 
 this game greatly outweigh the little niggles and the madness and crazy gameplay that always was 
 classic Mario Kart mayhem is still very much alive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyboy1350
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii Is A Simple, Fun And Exciting Racing Game, Much Like The Other Mario Kart Games 
 In The Series. The Game Doesn't Really Bring Anything Big New, But It Feels As Fresh And Fun As 
 Ever.
  
  Gameplay- Not Much Has Changed In Terms Of Gameplay, But As Soon As You Start Driving Around With 
 The Steering Wheel You Get Instantly Sucked In.
  
  Graphics- Quite Good, Not The Best In Terms Of Games, But For The Wii It's Pretty Good.
  
  
 Online Play- The Game's Online Play Is Fast, Easy And Lag-Free. It's Actually The Main Thing I 
 Do On MKW.
  
  Overall- I Would Say, IMO, This Is The Best Games For The Wii, Probably Even In My Top 10 Games 
 Of Any Console, Along With Mario Kart Ds Of Course ;) .
  
  I Would Recommend This Game To Anyone Who Likes The Mario Kart Series and To Anyone Who Is New 
 To It. If You Didn't Like MKDD, You Might Not Like This, But You Never Know ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kongfufighting
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart Wii is a fine game and definitely worth the wait. Just as it says on the box, Fun for 
 everyone and an exhilarating experience.
  
  Arguably the best in the Series, Mario Kart Wii has exploded on the Wii to reveal a gob smacking 
 experience. Innovative tracks, fun music, a wide selection of cars and characters, new feel and 
 lots of added extras. One of the biggest part is the Online feature. You (and your friend) can play 
 against 11 other people in a new real time game! The other is the control schemes. Players can 
 use the Wii mote, Wii mote & Nunchuck, Classic Controller, Gamecube Controller and lets not forget 
 the Wii Wheel that comes packed with the game, bringing a new feel to racing.
  
  The tracks are truly stunning in the game, fun and entertaining. Player can now perform tricks 
 while in mid air and use four new items: Mega Mushroom, POW block, Lightning cloud and the Winged 
 shell! Whats really surprising is the ability to drive a Kart and a BIKE! Players can select which 
 types of Kart/Bike they want (each with their own stats and design) .
  
  A slight downfall is that their is a bit to much hype felt when players start playing the game. 
 The tracks have a cartoony feel and a lot more could have been done with Mii's.
  
  Aside from this as I said before, Mario Kart Wii is well worth the wait and just a joy to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Feather1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I got this game today after reading loads of good reviews thinking it be worth buying but when 
 i [played it i was in for a shock. IT was amazing, fantastic, brilliant and every other complimenting 
 words.
  
  All previous Mario Kart games i have personally found way too easy but this was just right. I won 
 most races but i did actually have to try unlike mario kart ds for example with the AI miles behind 
 me even on hard difficulty level.
  
  The courses are fantastic in the new cups but in the retro cups I think it would have been slightly 
 better if the toned up the graphics slightly. For example on Walugi stadium the pipes and piranha 
 plants were cubes and I have never seen a cube pipe or piranha plant in any Mario game.
  
  There is also one other noticeable flaw... battle mode has too be played in teams which i never 
 liked doing on ds, playing every man for him self was way more fun.
  
  But every where else its perfect and i love using my mii so if your a fan of the series this is 
 the best yet or if your new to gaming I'd advise this as your next buy!!! (I would have put 9.9/10 
 if it was possible) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oioioi54
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Whoever plays Mario Kart Wii, single or multy player, is sure going to have a lot of fun with it. 
 It has lots of improvements since Mario Kart 64 (I never played Mario Kart for Gamecube, so i can't 
 say anything comparing Mario Kart wii with it (-: ) Here is a list of stuff they improved in:
 
  
  64 - 8 characters participating in each race.
  Wii - 12 characters participating in each race
  
  64 - Only "Real" players can be in battle 
 mode, making the maximum ammount of players 4.
  Wii - Computer players can also be played with, making it 12 players in battle mode.
  
  64 
 - 8 different characters
  Wii - 25 different characters
  
  64 - Each character has only one type of kart.
  Wii - Each character has more than 4 types of 
 kart.
  
  64 - 16 racing levels.
  Wii - 32 racing levels.
  
  On top of that, you can also choose playing the game with the Remote and Nunchuk, with only the 
 Remote holden horizontally, or wih the Wii Wheel that creates a much more realistic feeling of 
 driving. Anyone who has a Wii should get it immediately.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  It may seem a bit strange because when this game was announced at E3 last year, I thought "Oh my 
 God! Mario Kart is coming to Wii Wow!" The karts look just a bit similar to the ones in the Arcade 
 version (Mario Kart Arcade GP) . 
  
  Overall this is one of the best racing games on the Wii right now and I'm loving every bit of it. 
 I was very suprised with the announcement that the game was coming out in the UK one day after 
 the Japanese release and thats great.
  
  The Wii Wheel works perfectly and the graphics are excellent, the online gameplay is just one of 
 the best so far because it has online racing and online battle. You can stay there as long as you 
 want. The game can be played by 4 different control methods
  
  They are :
  
  Wii Wheel - with the Wii Remote in it
  Wii Remote- without the Wii Wheel
  Wii Remote and Nunchuck
 
  Wii Classic Controller
  Gamecube Controller
  
  Mario Kart Wii is one of the best racing games I ever played and it's a lot better than Mario Kart 
 Double Dash! 
  
  There is one racetrack I must admit it looks so magical and it's the Rainbow Road. Compared to 
 the previous ones, this one takes you into space and if you fall off the track you will fall into 
 earth into its atmosphere.
  
  The new items are cool especially the POW and the Mega Mushroom because there a lot powerful compared 
 to the usual ones.
  
  The framerate is nice and smooth for single player and 2 players which is 60fps and when you play 
 up to 4 players, the framerate drops to 30fps which is a little slower.
  
  The battle modes are great despite the balloon battle becase if you lose all your balloons, you 
 still play because you need to collect points an that depends on which team you are on.
  
  The motorbikes make a fine addition so the series so far and they are superb!
  
  You will be 
 playing this game for months and you will be hooked on it straight away.
  
  You should get a copy this game right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mixindave
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  From what Ive played this game is so much fun online or local. i can only really compare this t 
 the ds version as Ive only played these two versions. its very similar in many ways but with a 
 lot of extra content, including 12 player racing which includes 12 players online as well. new tracks 
 which are really fun to play, added race items which include giant mushroom from new super Mario 
 bros. you can also do tricks on ramps which give your kart or bike a boost when you land. game 
 also includes some new characters but i wont spoil that part. there's also a Mario kart channel 
 that you can ad to your wii menu , check scores and rankings. more stuff i can say but im bored 
 and cant write anymore.
  
  could be the best wii game yet. in my opinion more fun than smash bros brawl
  you will have somereal 
 fun with this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  Picked up and played, your first impressions of Mario Kart Wii will be, wow, and you'll be sitting 
 there all day playing Single Player or going straight to Online Mode. 
  
  The only minor downsides about is game is 2 or 3 Retro tracks aren't that fun to race on again, 
 and you might find yourself getting hit by items somewhat frequently, but on the plus side this 
 is AI improvement. We are gifted with great characters and beautifully designed tracks. The music 
 is also quite something to hear, but I've heard better OSTs from other games, but that doesn't 
 make this crap, this game will satisfy you on every lap of each track.
  
  If Mario Kart Wii didn't have online, we'd probably be confused with this game and not pick it 
 up. So thanks for this.
  
  When I picked up this game on Release Date, I was playing from 4.15PM all the way to 2.45am, it 
 was that addictive for me, and I highly recommend this to anyone who owns a Wii. 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 - With the Wii Wheel, Wii Remote Horizontal, Wii Remote + Nunchuk, Gamecube Controller 
 and Classic Controller, you shouldn't have a hard time finding which scheme fits you the most, 
 so you can master this game without having to stick to 1 control scheme. The buttons needed to 
 press are very few, and you do so much, so this is a big 10/10 since the learning curve is probably 
 5 to 10 minutes. Literally.
  
  Graphics: 10/10 - For the Wii, it's got great textures and graphics, everything looks so awesome, 
 I'm playing Mario Kart Wii on a 60 Hertz (HZ) TV, and I think the graphics are wonderful! It's 
 quite something to look at. And I won't forget it.
  
  Sound: - 10/10 - Everything is clear and high quality. 10/10. Even our music from the past feels 
 like the past, but with better quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndrewB777
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I expected it to live up to the standard expected of any Mario game. I 
 was not to be disappointed. This is an excellent game and I really do think that it lives up to 
 expectations. The combination of having a wireless controller and playing a racing game that has 
 always lived up to its reputation is simply phenomenal. The fast pace and randomness of the game 
 mixed with the ability to control your racing machine with more than just fingers gives you a better 
 span of control and I really do think that this is a game you should get. The many levels given 
 in the game and the variety of races and vehicles that one can use is also a plus point in this 
 game. The range equals to less boredom and more of a chance to explore, race and have fun. I hope 
 you can take something from this review and it will help in a possible decision to purchase this 
 game :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fleshandblood10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  After just 1 hour of playing i felt i HAD to review this...
  
  This game is flawless. At first i was quite worried because I didn't think anything could beat 
 double dash. It is back to just one character per cart, however that doesn't matter cus thats all 
 you need.
  
  The control system was also something I wasn't sure about, however its perfect. I haven't noticed 
 a problem with it. The wii motion is really well integrated however with 4 different controllers 
 to plug in, including the Gamecube controls option, you can do anything with this game. 
  
  Game-play is very good. The classic races are all lovely to see again, and have just enough tweeks 
 to make them fun again without ruining what you used to love.
  
  The new tracks are awesome, and very varied. Some tracks have wipeout elements or g-type elements, 
 which is also amazing.
  
  The battle modes are good, there is the traditional balloon mode and also a new coin collecting 
 mode, both fun and both very addictive.
  
  The AI is very clever, not too challenging but it does seem to get more so the better you do, so 
 it works with you in the game which means its a good game to play one player also.
  
  The graphics are smooth and very good, not pushing any Wii limits but there is very good movement 
 and backgrounds and the characters also look well polished. 
  
  The online access is easy to find and use, and it doesn't take long to get into games with anyone 
 worldwide. The rankings and score boards are a nice feature also. Up to 12 players online, 4 on 
 the wii, so everything you choose brings something to the game. You can also go online with 2 people 
 at the same time using the Wii, which provides a chance for some serious racing.
  
  All in all both one player and multilayer this game is a must have, I don't think you will find 
 much else that competes. Warrioware is possibly the other best party game at the moment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bazmazter
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  Amazing fun for the family and the online play is perfect. WARNING: Not for people who are grumpy 
 and say things like"Its not as good as Forza or PGR4"lol.
  
  I have lost respect for EDGE magazine as it gave this game a low score, I would love to know of 
 a game of this type which is better, lol.
  
  Amazing fun for the family and the online play is perfect. WARNING: Not for people who are grumpy 
 and say things like"Its not as good as Forza or PGR4"lol.
  
  I have lost respect for EDGE magazine as it gave this game a low score, I would love to know of 
 a game of this type which is better, lol.
  
  Amazing fun for the family and the online play is perfect. WARNING: Not for people who are grumpy 
 and say things like"Its not as good as Forza or PGR4"lol.
  
  I have lost respect for EDGE magazine as it gave this game a low score, I would love to know of 
 a game of this type which is better, lol.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORD_Jaxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Forget mario striker charged football, this is the best online game. with a good selection of characters 
 loads of huge tracks and great graphics, mario kart is a definite must have for all wii owners, 
 If your a casual or hardcore gamer theres something here for you, I got the game when it came and 
 ive been playing it since. On the contrary to what everyone thought the wii wheel works perfectly 
 in my opinion and it adds that extra bit of fun that pulls you into the game, the main thing that 
 is different from the previous games is the option to use bikes instead of the normal kart of car. 
 like i said before the online mode is excellent 12 players on the track at once makes the game 
 much more competitive and the rating system is a nice touch. one of the best features is that you 
 can send your friend your ghost data so that they can challenge it or you can challenge the best 
 racers in the worlds ghost data, all from the new mario kart channel.
  
  An excellent game that is not one to miss.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swixer-Swaxer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  this game is great, it brings back the great features of its precessors and puts a few of its own 
 on the table! with new characters and vehicles this game will have you hooked! THe Wii wheel wiill, 
 however, be pretty annoying for your first few races but on your 5th it will be comfortable, pratical 
 and easy to use, the gamecube controller is actually what i would recommend to people who want 
 to take it easy at first, and for people who want a challenge the wii wheel will test you! My brother 
 is still on it! So heres the fact of the matter: Any racers, fanboys, kids, adults, new-comers, 
 wi-fi lovers, multiplayer peeps and rapping grannies should go out now and buy this game while 
 you can! I guarentee you will love it and play it for hours! (I know I will!)
  
  But, I need tto be even, The Wi-Fi is sometimes laggy, which is the one few bad things of this 
 game, and the controls are a little tricky at times but apart from that, there is NO reason WHATSOEVER 
 that you should not buy this game, and a wii wheel to boot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick-N4ck
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  Picked up the game on release day in UK and can't stop playing it, it's video game crack and I'm 
 a hopeless addict.
  
  Graphics: Very colourful, nicely designed cars and bikes nice smooth frame rate, the graphics are 
 bright and perfect for a Mario Kart game. The courses all look very chearful as do the menus. New 
 tracks are great, old tracks have had a lick of paint and fit in pretty well with the newer tracks. 
 It's a step up from Double Dash, but not a giant leap by any means, but it is a better looking 
 game 
  
  Sound: Typical Mario Kart, fun tunes and sound effects, nothing stands out but it does the job 
 and is suitably wacky just like the rest of the game.
  
  Gameplay: ADDICITVE!!! , I have other games I've bought but they are not going to get any play 
 time for ages because I can't stop playing Mario Kart Wii. After being disappointed with Double 
 dash I was worried if Nintendo could improve the series on consoles. Fear not it blows DD away 
 and is the best Mario Kart to date, this is 100% pure Mario Kart, and a great return to form for 
 the series. Only played with the Wii wheel so far and it's responsive, and fun to use (nice and 
 chunky too) some may call it a gimmick but I am more than happy to stick to using the wheel, very 
 nice addition to the game. Takes about half hour to get to grips with but then it feels very natural. 
 Single player is the usual with GP , Time trials. Plenty of cars and characters to unlock as you 
 earn trophy's in single player. But this game was made for multiplayer, it's simply awesome online.
 
  
  Nintendo have really tried with this game to make it as fun as possible when you play with other 
 people, 12 player races, very easy to join games. You can play world wide, with friends, or with 
 people in your continent. ZERO LAG!!! I can't stress that enough, I have played over 100 matches 
 online and not one single problem, it's one of the best games I have ever played online it's as 
 simple as that, every race is mayhem, and a lot of fun.
  
  There is alot to talk about in this game such as the 30+ tracks, unlockables, fun new weapons, 
 bikes. But I'm not going to bother. If you've ever enjoyed a Mario Kart game or just want one of 
 the most fun games on the market today go and buy this. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  The Mario Kart Franchise as been going for quite a few years now, and its easily one of Nintendo's 
 best and most loved series of games. The idea is simple yet can be surprisingly in depth at times. 
 You race around mad wacked out tracks with some of the many Mario Iconic Characters from Wario 
 to Princess Peach. It as works well for many years now, and although areas are starting to show 
 there age, the actual gameplay is just downrright fun and easily some of the best gaming you'll 
 get on the Wii bar Super Smash Bros. 
  
  One of the biggest changes in MK Wii comes in the shape of Bikes, much like PGR4 did, yet it as 
 to be said there isn't a whole lot of difference between the two forms of transport. Bikes are 
 fun tho, and offer more ways to master tracks, such as the ability to wheely and go faster in the 
 process. The other big aspect of MK Wii is the Wii Steering Wheel, its nothing special really and 
 all you do is insert your Wiimote into the steering wheel and play! its not perfect, for instance 
 the acceleration is poorly configurated but it is fun and despite some issues with movement can 
 be a blast in the right hands. Its a nice addition but Nintendo have also offered gamers the ability 
 to use the normal Wiimote and Numbchuck, GameCube controller and classic controller. But if I'm 
 honest I'm happy with the steerring wheel myself. 
  
  Thats the first issue I have with MK Wii, its all been done before and the series is really started 
 to show its age. But as long as the game is fun, doesn't matter a great deal. You have the usual 
 modes that we have had in MK for sometime and there pretty good as usual. But its easy to say that 
 the best aspect of MK Wii comes with its superb online play which is just downight fun in every 
 aspect. Theres also a type of scoring system which starts at 5000 for both the normal racing and 
 the battle mode and will increase or decrease depending on where you finish in a race. It actually 
 is kind of a nice aspect to Multiplayer. The Multiplayer also as its own base channel which can 
 be saved onto your Wii console. Multiplayer is easily where most people will have their fun, don't 
 get me wrong. The single player is imported for getting tracks and secret characters but it all 
 boils down to the Multiplayer experience. 
  
  Finally worth mentioning is the tracks, theres apparently 30 all together. Some are classics, some 
 are from GC Double Dash Game and some are from the DS game. But the new tracks in MK Wii are sinply 
 superb. Theres one of the highlights of the game and are a absolute blast to race around. You defiantly 
 get the feeling that Nintendo wanted to not just offer the classic tracks but also offer a great 
 mix of future classic tracks... in which there are many already I can pick out of. There are some 
 small improvments, for instance you can perform tricks which adds something to the game overall 
 and sliding as also changed from past games, at the moment I'm still not sure how much I like the 
 new system, although its defiantly not a bad change. 
  
  PROS:
  -Superb Multiplayer experience which runs well.
  -New Tracks are so much fun.
  -Steering Wheel 
 is more fun then expected.
  
  CONS:
  -Bikes, tho fun feel more of a graphical change then a gameplay change,
  -Single Player starting 
 to feel a little old.
  -Steering Wheel can be hit and miss for user. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
