-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/mariosonicattheolympicgames/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Features Mario and Sonic together for the first time.
 Wide variety of events.
 Crisp and colorful graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Most of the motion controls are uninteresting.
 Many of the events are too similar.
 Game can be infuriating when it doesn't recognize your commands.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  8, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.7, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 2,438 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Genre: Olympic Sports
Date: Nov 6, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mario and Sonics' debut as a duo fails to earn them a spot on the medal stand. 

  If back in 1990 you had told either a Nintendo or Sega fanboy that both Mario and Sonic would be 
 appearing together in a game in 2007, they would have told you that you were completely insane. 
 Well, the unthinkable  has  happened, and the once-fierce rivals are now together for the first 
 time in Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games. It's too bad that this isn't the great platforming 
 game an entire generation has been dreaming of since the Super Nintendo Entertainment System and 
 Sega Genesis days. Instead it's a collection of minigames, some of which are good, and many of 
 which are not.  

           Say what you will about the gameplay, but that's a pretty solid list of characters to 
 pick from.      

  One of the game's big draws is that it lets you use characters from the Mario and Sonic universes. 
 From the Mario side you can select Mario, Luigi, Wario, Waluigi, Bowser, Daisy, Yoshi, or Peach. 
 From the Sonic side you can play as Sonic, Tails, Knuckles, Amy, Blaze, Vector, Dr. Eggman, or 
 Shadow. You can even use your Mii if you so choose. Each character is rated in a number of categories, 
 but these ratings don't seem to matter much, if at all. Though there's no online play, the game 
 tracks records for all events, and you can even upload your best scores and times online to see 
 how you stack up with the rest of the world.  

  Mario &amp; Sonic lets you play 20 real Olympic events, as well as a few of the fantasy variety. 
 You can play single events; a circuit, where you compete in four events and try to finish first 
 so that you can unlock new sports; and missions, where you compete in multiple events but have 
 specific goals such as finishing in a certain place or throwing the javelin a particular distance. 
 Why you'd ever not want to throw the javelin as far as you can -- and instead try to toss it between 
 40 and 50 meters -- is anyone's guess, but it's something you'll have to do here. All of these contests 
 use motion-based controls, and some of them require both the Nunchuk and the remote. Others require 
 only the remote. Athletic events include: 100 meter dash, 4x100 meters, 4x100m relay, 110 meter 
 hurdles, 400 meter hurdles, long jump, triple jump, high jump, pole vault, hammer throw, and the 
 javelin throw. These events are really basic and require little more of you than to hold B and 
 move the Wii Remote down to start, after which you alternate moving the Nunchuk and the Wii Remote 
 up and down to run, and then wave the remote up to jump or press the B button and wave the remote 
 down to pass the baton.  

  There's more to the game than track-and-field events. Rowing places you in a single scull where 
 you must press a button shown onscreen and then pull the remote toward you. You can take a dip 
 in the pool for 100 meter or 4x100 meter freestyle races, which are performed much like the foot 
 races except you have to hit the B button at specific times to keep your stamina going. If you're 
 into gymnastics, you can hop on a trampoline, where you have to wave the remote to jump and then 
 press buttons you see onscreen to perform moves. You can even do the vault, where you run up to 
 a springboard and then jump across the horse while doing tricks in midair. Another event is skeet 
 shooting, which is really tough because of the lame, timed minigame that takes place beforehand. 
 You're shown a heart, and you have to press B when the heartbeat is right in the center. If you 
 time it properly, your aiming reticle gets bigger; if you miss, it gets smaller and makes the event 
 near impossible. On the other hand, archery is one of the better games. Here you press A and B, 
 pull the Wii Remote toward you, and then line up two pairs of sights, one with the remote and the 
 other with the Nunchuk. This isn't too tough on its own, but when you start having to take wind 
 speed into account, it gets pretty tricky.  

           You know you're slow when tubby Dr. Eggman wins the race.      

  One sport that should 
 have been good, but isn't, is fencing. You basically move your character back to dodge an opponent's 
 attack, and then move forward to stab when he or she misses. You can parry shots, but you'd have 
 to have lightning-quick reflexes to do so, and there's no point in doing so aside from when you 
 have to parry to pass a mission. Another event that fails to be much fun is table tennis. The big 
 problem here is that you have no control over your character's movement, so even if your timing 
 is spot-on, you might be two feet away from the ball when you swing... and miss. Some of the more 
 interesting events are the fantasy stages, where you do things such as run around a track while 
 shooting weapons at your opponents like in Mario Kart. Another pretty fun diversion is 10,000 meter 
 diving.  

  The big problem with Mario &amp; Sonic is that the mechanics for most events just aren't much fun. 
 The game requires some precise timing and movement to pull off certain maneuvers (you get penalized 
 if you wave too hard when you jump) , and the instructions are poor, which means that you'll spend 
 a lot of time yelling at the TV because you just can't do the triple jump properly. Even if you 
 aren't having trouble with an event, you probably won't have much fun -- unless you enjoy waving 
 your arms to pretend that you're running. There's also very little depth to any of the events. 
 Other than a few sports where the controls really get in the way, it's not difficult to win gold 
 on your first attempt. In fact, you'll probably set world records on your first go at a sport on 
 more than one occasion. Consequently, though you might have fun for an hour or two, you'd be hard 
 pressed to squeeze much more entertainment out of the game, even when playing with up to three 
 other friends.  

           Playing for too long will have you looking like Yoshi here. Perhaps that's why the game 
 tells you to take a break every 15 minutes or so.      

  The visuals are probably the best thing Mario &amp; Sonic has to offer. You can't go wrong with 
 the character designs, and they're nicely animated, right down to individualized celebrations. 
 The game supports widescreen and progressive scan, so everything looks crisp and clear on a high-definition 
 display, particularly the colors, which really stand out in HD. The frame rate is solid, even when 
 eight characters are displayed onscreen at once -- it's a very technically solid visual presentation. 
 The audio isn't bad either. If you use the same character over and over, you'll likely grow weary 
 of the repetitious exclamations, but there are plenty of characters available should you tire of 
 one. The music isn't anything exciting, though you can unlock classic Mario and Sonic tunes by 
 playing some of the trivia games, which oddly enough have you do things such as count goombas or 
 match cards instead of actually answering trivia.  

  Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games probably isn't the game you envisioned when you imagined 
 the once-fierce rivals finally getting together, but that's not its biggest problem. Instead, the 
 trouble lies in the often uninteresting and occasionally frustrating motion controls combined with 
 some events that are too similar to one another, as well as shallow gameplay that brings the game 
 down.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (185 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RasutoSSAikou
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 9:57 am PT
Review:  Sonic and Mario have always been rivals. Anyone who's been a gamer since the days of the NES and 
 Genesis know this. Heck, even newer gamers know of this rivalry, that's just how legendary it is.
 
  
  So, it would only make sense that Mario and Sonic would move to the level of Olympic games, right? 
 That's what this game is all about. Sonic vs. Mario, in the Olympic games.
  
  No matter the event or circuit you pick, you always have to pick a character, either from the Mario 
 or Sonic universe. Each character is grouped into 4 categories: General, Speed, Technique, and 
 Power. As you can probably guess, these categories tell what a character specializes in. 
  -General (like Mario) are neither good nor bad in any event.
  -Speed (like Sonic) have an advantage 
 in running events. 
  -Technique (like Tails) have an advantage in events like diving and fencing. 
  -Power (like Bowser) 
 have an advantage in events like Javelin throwing. 
  
  If you just can't choose, you could also upload your Mii right into the action.
  
  The game 
 extensively uses the Wii-mote and Nunchuck. Running events have you pumping your arms, archery 
 has you act like you're actually pulling back an arrow, so on and so forth. What this game doesn't 
 tell you is that it WILL make you sore. Remember how sore you got after playing Baseball on Wii 
 Sports? Sonic and Mario is twice as hard. For example, in the 100 M dash, you must constantly pump 
 your arms to get ahead; the computer is not going to give you any slack. The fact most sports require 
 you to move so much and so fast may be a turn off for the lazy. Personally, I see it as fun. What 
 better way to work out than having my favorite character blazing past the finish line?
  
  Some events are a little bit iffy. Fencing, for example, is basically a game of rock-paper-scissors, 
 and while you can figure your opponent out, the winner is usually determined by who counters first. 
 Swimming is another sport that is difficult. Every character has a different swimming style, and 
 you have to learn it before the race begins. This wouldn't normally be a problem, but some styles 
 are hard for the Wiimote to pick up, causing you to lose the race.
  
  All in all, Sonic & Mario is another game that's meant to get you in shape (sort of) . It's physically 
 grueling races and spotty controls are a little bit of a turn off, but it's still a very enjoyable 
 game. I mean, who would you rather see win 8 gold medals in swimming - Michael Phelps or Dr. Robotnik?
 
  
  Exactly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Demii
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Ah, well. Come to think of it, the quote in the review deck kinda makes it look like I hate this 
 game. Au contrair (or at least something like that) , this game is awesome. It is simply awesome. 
 It is so awesome, that I kept ignoring the "Time to take a break!" notice every time, just because 
 I wanted to keep playing. 
  
  I've just stopped playing through the Advanced Class, just because my sister and stephmom wanted 
 to watch The Unborn, and once again I feel the pain in my arms, and satisfaction at the same time. 
 I think the character roster is pretty nice, because Shadow is in there, which is whom I played 
 through the circuits with so far. And also who's got a gold medal in nearly every event. The graphics 
 are good enough for a game as abstract as Mario or Sonic. They all look smooth and are animated 
 nicely. I'm also fond of the way that the Olympic Games were ported to a Wii game. One thing that 
 gets butchered by the critics is that the motions you have to make are very similar. But that's 
 just something that I really like. It makes me feel familiar with any new event I encounter, even 
 though I haven't played it yet. Running is the same in every sport that involves any, which is 
 great. You'll memorize the motions a lot better, and you won't have to go through the controls 
 at each game. 
  
  I also like the addition of the so called Dream Events. These are just some supernatural versions 
 of sports, which basically just means there's special attacks or weapons to be used. For instance, 
 in the Dream Run you can find the Mario Kart-like boxes which will give you weapons which you can 
 use while running through the track. 
  
  And of course this game is really entertaining as a multiplayer. My sister kept filming my stephmom 
 and I as we were playing the game, which delivered some hilarious results, plus of course the fact 
 that we kept laughing about how tired we were getting, and how we were both gonna be wrecks tomorrow.
 
  
  One thing that could've been improved in my opinion is that you can set as many Olympic or even 
 World Records, and earn as much medals as you want in multiplayer, but the game will not save it. 
 That's a real bummer, because I threw 98m with a javelin using Knuckles, the game did not save 
 it, and I never got that again, allthough I did set a new World Records. So it would've been nice 
 if that was saved, and not simply forgotten.
  
  All in all, I am really fond of this game, and in my opinion Mario and Sonic's collaboration DOES 
 earn them a spot on the medal stand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 05mjones
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 8:58 am PT
Review:  The combination of both mario and sonic characters within the game means there is someone for everyone 
 to play as. From mario and sonic themselves to a great range of supporting characters such as luigi, 
 peach, yoshi, wario and waluigi from the mario world to eggman, amy, tails, knuckles ad shadow 
 from the world of sonic there is plenty of different characters. These characters are split into 
 all round, speed , power and skill depending on their strengths. There are also a variety of different 
 events. These are split into track, field, swimming and special amongst a range of others. My personal 
 favourite event is the javelin. There are also circuits to do which unlock new events to keep you 
 occupied. You can also pick your own circuit to do with upto four friends for the great multiplayer 
 action in the game. Finally there are even some unnecessary minigames after that to do. Overall, 
 this is a superb multiplayer game which i would advise anyone reading this to buy if they haven't 
 already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jman9d
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I love this game its full of excitment and suprises but its a strategy game. most strategy games 
 are boring but this one is GREAT! im suprised at the critics because they gave it such a low score. 
 its a really good game once u get in to it but thats how life is. this game can get pretty hard 
 at times so if you have a short temper then i wouldnt recomend this game for you, but the point 
 is its a really goooooooooooooooooood game! I personally love it and all of segas work but this 
 is by far the best of their work. i recomened this game for people with nothing but time on their 
 hands because it takes a long time to beat. I also like the wifi connectin games im an average 
 player myself but these people online are masters! its hard to beleive that people can do so well 
 on one games its crazyyyyyyyy! especially all the events they have unlocked . I especially like 
 the the fact that you can play with people you dont even know its craaaaazy! so buy this game today!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stalpno
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2009 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Now this game i was raving about before it came out due to the fact i like mario and sonic and 
 it was great fun to start off with, but after you unlock every event complete gallery and win every 
 circuit it just feels plain finished.
  
  the first thing you do is learn the controls which wouldn't suggest giving it to anyone with wrist 
 arthritis. The basic controls are shaking wii remote and nunchuck up and down at different times 
 to run eg. remote up nunchuck down then remote down nunchuck up. THe you are swinging, filking 
 and jabbing your remote to do what ever the game wants. Now these are great controls for serious 
 gamers but it can be very hard for your mate who has never played a video game in 5 years.
  
  On the plus side the game has all your fav characters. ther are four stats strength, speed, 
 skill and stamina. Each character is split into four groups. Power group for characters who are 
 strong, slow, not very skilled and have good stamina eg Bowser and Knuckles. Speed who are just 
 good at speed and bad at everything else which can be good due to almost every event involves running 
 eg Sonic and Yoshi. All round who are OK at everything eg Mario and Amy Rose. Last but not least 
 techniquewho are all about skill eg Tails and Peach.
  
  There are four gameplay modes and one extras mode, the four modes are single match mode, circuit 
 mode, challenge mode and gallery. The single match mode is about playing events you have unlocked 
 with your self or with friends and atempt to break the world records. The circuit mode is where 
 you do a few events in a row and where you try to unlock new events the places you gat earns you 
 points which add upp after all the events first gets 10 then 8 then 6 then 5,4,3,2,1 but then each 
 character has a bonus coin which they can use once on any event. How it works is if in the next 
 event you get top three then you double your points but if it is lower than top 3 you get 0 points. 
 the next mode i challenge mode where each character has set challenges some easy some hard and 
 once complete all of the for one character you get a final challenge which if you complete it you 
 get an emblem (emblems are the games rewards for completing certain challenges and other things 
 eg rocket start for getting a faulse start) . The last is the gallery where you do minigames to 
 get trivia facts and mario and sonic music eg green hill zone or mario underground theme.
  
  extras is where you can check your records, online records and your emblems and crowns (crowns 
 are where you get a gold medal in every event with one character)
  
  This game is good for a while but after you have completed most events it get old and i advise 
 you get another game to back this game up after you are finished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanz774
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is about 2 game legends Mario and sonic with some of the rivals and allies from their 
 games as Mario would have luigi and other people from his game sonic would have knuckles and other 
 people from his game. All these players are now coming to the Olympic games to compete for The 
 gold silver and bronze medals test your stamina strength speed and skill in over 20= events and 
 16 characters who are from the sonic game series and the Mario game series. Fin d what game you 
 like running skeet rowing gymnastics and even rare special dream events that are normal sports 
 with special moves and different tracks. Be careful choose the character that is well suited for 
 the right event a strength type may be powerful but he/she might be very slow. There are many sections 
 as single player/multiplayer to playing all the sports you've unlocked a circuit mode section where 
 u play a series of random events the only way to win this is to try your best in each event the 
 winner is determined by who did the best in all those events. A mission mode where you must complete 
 5 daring and difficult missions for each character such as doing 7 difficult moves in a row with 
 trampoline or even come 3rd in a 4x100 meters relay in swimming this section is for advanced players. 
 A gallery section where you can enjoy fun trivia and mini games about the Olympics and finally 
 a records section view your world records in each event that you have gotten a world record. This 
 game is for the people who like to exercise and have fun and love a challenge. Bring the Olympic 
 Games straight into your house and good luck at the Olympics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buzzcrow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I got this game after Christmas when all the prices were reduced (lucky me!) and I started to play 
 it when I got back from the town. I played a few of the games and at first I thought it was difficult. 
 I kept on trying and I got the hang of it eventually.
  
  It has lots of different, unique characters all organised into four groups: Power Type, All-Round 
 Type, Speed Type and Skill Type. I would recommend All-Round for beginners. You can also use your 
 Mii in the events, although it doesn't show what Type the Mii is at all. All of the characters 
 are pretty cool, however, you may have your favourite character in the wrong Type but that doesn't 
 really matter.
  
  There are ten different categories (one of which is divided into two) and all are based on the 
 real Olympics! In these categories are the events that you play. For example, it is not just running, 
 you can choose from many different events like hurdles and long jump etc. The only downside for 
 all of the events is that it is too easy to get a world record, emphasis on WORLD record.
  
  Overall, The game is awesomely amazing. I would recommend it to Sonic fans, Mario fans, and 
 people who need a bit of exercise!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  Had you told a gamer in the early 1990s that Mario and Sonic would team up and star in a videogame 
 together you'd probably get a sharp slap in the jaw. Yet here they are, competing against each 
 other in an Olympic setting. But is the game worthy enough to commemorate this historic meeting 
 of the mascots? The answer is yes. Mario & Sonic At The Olympic Games, against many fan's expectations, 
 is worthy of a gold.
  
  Mario & Sonic offers some of the most enjoyable multiplayer action you'll find on the Wii with 
 24 unique events designed to test all your gaming abilities, from hand speed to accuracy. The amazing 
 this is how the game uses the Wii controllers so well, creating a series of unique events that 
 never get boring. 
  
  
  It would have been easy for Sega to slap Mario and Sonic in a button bashing track and field game 
 but the amount of thought that has gone into each of the 24 events is commendable and even though 
 the events are different it all feels so natural because the controls fit each discipline. It all 
 works as you'd expect so for the 100m you'll be moving the controllers up and down as fast as possible, 
 the skeet shooting has you pointing your Remote at the targets, while players pull back on the 
 controllers as if they were oars in the rowing event. 
  
  There are some surprises though. In trampolining you have to flick the Remote up as you land and 
 then tap buttons while your character is in the air to pull off tricks. Then there are the Dream 
 events which take Olympic events and throw in the sort of things we've come to expect from videogames 
 such as power-ups, special moves and obstacles. 
  
  Many retro-heads might reminisce about the glory days of Track & Field yet it has become an increasingly 
 tired genre as the archaic controls have completely overshadowed any visual improvements. It's 
 taken the Wii and two of the biggest stars in gaming to shake things up a bit. 
  
  The line-up of athletes may feature portly plumber, a hedgehog and a fox but although Mario & Sonic 
 At The Olympic Games appears a bit silly it deserves to be taken seriously because it is one of 
 the best athletics games ever. Not only is it ideal as a family game (there are handicap options 
 in case your nan wants a go) but it's great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kilgorin666
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 22, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Sonic and Mario at the Olympic Games is the first ever game to link the most famous Sega and Nintendo 
 characters, Sonic and Mario. (Hence the title...) . The whole objective of the game... well... It's 
 hard to really say one. I guess all you can say is shake the wiimote, done. The real objective 
 of the game is to win the olympics. Yeah, the objective of the game is as shallow as the game itself.
 
  
  The graphics are the smoothest to date of seeing Sonic and Mario, they are faultless in what they 
 are ment to be. If your looking for something thats so close to real life you may as well be looking 
 out of your window, look away. It has the classic Nintendo feel. Because let's face it, Nintendo 
 have never been into the whole "Real-Life Graphics" thing. Which whether you count as good or bad 
 is entirely up to you. So for what it's ment to be, it's faultless. You won't find any Halo 3 graphics 
 here, but i think it's better this way (What would sonic look like in real life?) .
  
  Of course, Sonic and Mario have brought their pals along too:
  
  Mario's team:
  Mario, Luigi, 
 Peach, Daisy, Wario, Yoshi, Waluigi, Bowser.
  
  Sonic's team:
  Sonic, Tails, Knuckles, Amy, Dr. Eggman, Shadow, Blaze, Vector (???)
  
  You might be wondering 
 why theres a (???) next to Vector. I say that because he's only been in one sonic game. Ever. Ever 
 ever. So was this a good choice?
  
  All players have different stats. So your favourite characters could easilly be the one character 
 you hate. Annoyingly the case with Shadow. All he has is speed. And sonic for that matter.
  
  The whole object of the game is to win different tournaments, which there are not a lot of. 
 After completing the game, Nintendo thought about this and put in these challenges which you get 
 "rewards" for. Which there are no real rewards. After thats done, whats left to do?
  
  Well you could do the 100 Metre Hurdles for the next 5 hours.
  
  The controls are great for 
 this game. But to be honest, i only really think that because something like this hasn't really 
 been done before. Since when this came out the whole movement controls thing was new to us, we 
 thought "Wow this is so much fun 10/10!!! A+!!!", but after a while, non-surprisingly, it gets 
 old. All people care about is getting number one on a leader board, and the fun drops.
  
  Theres not much else to say for this game. As i said, it's a shallow game with not a lot to say 
 for. To be honest, only really buy this game if you want to try something new and you love both 
 Mario and Sonic. But i'll warn you, a lot of whats in here is stuff you can already do on Wii Sports. 
 And that comes free with your Wii.
  
  I'll give it a score of a 6. But if you were playing on your own, it drops down to a 4. For the 
 game to come out of it's shell, you need other people around you. When a lot of the time you just 
 want to stay in lazilly and play a game. This isn't a game for that.
  
  I think i'm being generous for a game you would only want to play if you have other people around 
 you. It's good damn fun when your playing multiplayer, and i think thats the whole purpose of the 
 game.
  
  Overall, this has been done before in Wii Sports. It's a little bit better than that, but i'd only 
 consider if you have friends to play it with, sicne the multiplayer is the only recommendable part 
 of this game.
  
  As i said, shallow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qyleong
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  
  This game is good !!! (Mario and Sonic at the Olympic games.)
  we can exercise through this game !!!
  my body is now strong !!!
  i like the most in this game 
 are dream race, dream platform, table tennis and 100m race. so excited!!! 
  i always play the table tennis because it is easier than other.
  the most difficult game is swimming 
 ,it need more more and more energy to play, i don't have the energy , so excited and i cannot win 
 in the swimming event . 
  MY name is yang, who has the Wii ? please tell and share with me .
  And ,i want to ask who know 
 to play Zelda. i don't know how to fishing, please teach me!!
  AND TELL me how to play the next ,it is difficult to play !!!
  But it is excited !!!
  my friend 
 had told me the game is playful. but only he play the Zelda 
  by computer!!!
  i repeat ,my name is yang.... please teach ,share and tell me ,thank you!!
  thank for all!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinge3
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  This game just is too boring to justify the fifty dollar price tag. Honestly, why? Why has sega 
 forsaken us an given us a mediocre title? To starts off, the Grand Prix seems very disposable... 
 I UNLOCKED THINGS WITHOUT DOING IT! yes, I unlocked the events just by playing random events, and 
 appearently the unlckables are randomly placed. Hell, I did a Grand Prix mode and didn't unlock 
 crud. I swear that the javelin throw event is broken! I can't find out how to play it!!! Ive tried 
 so many things! As a party game? Good luck teaching others how to play! If you want a party game, 
 get Super Smash Brothers Brawl or Guitar Hero World Tour. Do your best to avoid this game at every 
 single cost, and if you DO happen to get this game, sell it to a soccer mom for 70 dollars, shell 
 buy it, trust me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi-Tails
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  This is my all time FAVOURITE game that I have ever played. I have a lot of fun and play it for 
 multiple hours each day. All you have to know is how to make it more challenging, therefore more 
 fun. For example, if you start about 0.500-0.800 seconds late in the 100m, it is more challenging 
 and you won't win by hundreds of lengths. If you false start in the swimming or the 400m or 400m 
 hurdles, it is also more fun because you may not actually win and you will be inside the pack. 
 Try not passing the baton correctly in the relay. There are many ways to make each event more challenging 
 and fun. Also, look at the graphics, especially in the swimming events. The water looks FANTASTIC 
 and very realistic. Breaking world records and topping the charts is hard too, so why not try that 
 for a challenge. This is why I enjoy this game so much and I hope you will too :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightofdragon
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  GS gave this game a score of 6.0 which is very low for me because this game's not that bad. This 
 game is fun to play with other people and can make you get a sweat on I also must admit. You CAN 
 get addicted to this game but for a little bit. It's interesting to see Mario and Sonic together 
 but it doesn't affect the game play in any bad way. In fact it might increase the game's score 
 cause there's plenty of people to choose from and they're from different games. You can earn events 
 by completing courses and also gain emblems. Mario and Sonic also give's you a pleasent feeling 
 when you've broken a world record. The retail value maybe isn't through the roof but other people 
 have VERY different opinions of this game cause I have seen people have different reactions to 
 it in real life. Mario and Sonic maybe isn't a must-get but it's a good break in the adventure 
 from other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wormbut
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 7, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I liked the game at first but now it is giting old. I dont like it because it doesn't have some 
 good events. I would rather play a game with all the events. Some events are nearly impossible. 
 You will think it is going to be great but it gets boring. The way it gets harder you will think 
 your great at it but get stuck and never play again. What I dont like about the caricatures is 
 that they will be great at one event so you pick them. After you play that event they stink and 
 they will be good at an event but the next time in the same event they do horrible. I do like the 
 mission things but they get a little hard. I also like that you can look at your rankings if you 
 have internet. I dont like that if you play a event on story mode that it dosent count in the rakings. 
 I think that if you are trying to deside what to buy dont buy this game unless you really really 
 want to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grorusso
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is MEGA FUN! but MEGA HARD! dang! so hard! i wish the real olympic's were like this!
 
  
  Character's:
  
  1-Mario
  
  2-Peach
  
  3-Yoshi
  
  4-Luigi
  
  5-Daisy
  
  6-Wario
  
  7-Waluigi
  
  8-Bowser
  
  9-Sonic
  
  10-Shadow
  
  11-Tail's
 
  
  12-Blaze
  
  13-Knucless
  
  14-Vector
  
  15-Dr. eggman
  
  16-Mii
  
  i think i'm forgetting one!
  
  Gameplay: Hard but fun heck fun!
  
  Control's: responsive
 
  
  Sound: Good
  
  Pros: Good Roster of character's, Challenging
  
  Con's: Hard i cant beat the game, the Mii's are weak i can only beat table tennis and fencing with 
 them!
  
  
  
  
  conclusion:
  
  this game 
 i reccomend for everyone! it's very hard so if you want a challenge get this game now!
  
  P. S.: Daisy Rocks!
  
  also this game has mini-games very good ones too!
  
  Personal Comment: dang 
 when can i ever beat this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 30, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  In the annals of video game history there have always been rivalries between the Big Game companies, 
 be it Sony vs Microsoft or Nintendo vs Sony, but there is one rivalry that has yet to be equaled: 
 Nintendo vs. Sega. For as long as there have been Nintendo and Sega consoles, the rivalry between 
 Mario and Sonic will continue, but up until this generation the Blue Blur and the Plumber have 
 yet to face each other one on one in a video game, however Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games 
 brings every classic gamer's dream to life.
  
  The plot of the game is fairly straight forward, Team Nintnedo and Team Sega are facing each other 
 down for the first time in history, at the 2008 Olympic Games. Among the game's best features is 
 the wide variety of Sega and Nintendo characters the player can pick from including such fan favorites 
 as Sonic, Tales, Mario, Wario, Luigi, Dr. Eggman, Knuckles and Bowser, or if you want you are allowed 
 to use your Miis. 
  
  The over all game play is essentally a carbon copy of Wii Sports, except with Olympic games such 
 as Ping Pong, Fencing, Skeet Shooting, and Swimming. In the long run these games are fairly generic, 
 and can quickly become boaring after a certain amount of play, however the additional games and 
 wide variety of characters is a vast improvement over the rather bland Wii Sports. 
  
  However, the one part of this game that ultimatly holds it back are the controls. Each game requires 
 a different method of using the Wii-Mote, with some requireing the Nunchuck and others requiring 
 simply the Wii-Mote. The controls are completly broken, and the vaious moves that the player has 
 to do with the Wii-Mote makes preforming even basic moves, such as blocking in Fencing and Shooting 
 in Skeet Shooting harder then it should be. Mario and Sonic is one of those games that would be 
 better off using a normal controller then the Wii Mote.
  
  Over all Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games is a classic gamer's dream come true, finally you 
 will be able to settle the age old question of who is better: Mario or Sonic. However the crippled 
 controls effectivly destroy much of the fun that could be had with this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofan404
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game centers on the Olympics held this year in Beijing. You play as the characters from 
 the Mario world as well as the Sonic universe. You compete with different people to take home the 
 Gold, Silver, Bronze medal. The game takes great use of the Wii's control's. Many of the events can 
 take time and practice to master, as well as a little patience. Each character has his/her own special 
 events. There are also many unlockable's as well as emblems, and of course medals. The game is pretty 
 straight forward so there's not much I can say. All and all you should have this game because One 
 its a great game and all around fun to play, and Two its a great momentum for the 2008 Olympics. Overall 
 this game can turn out to be quite entertaining however it will tire you out if your not careful 
 so be sure to take a little break once and a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryrjjj
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  hi and welcome to my review on mario and sonic at the olmpic games. this game is just plain fun 
 and has got to be a contender for game of the year. i broght this game yesterday august the 15th 
 monday and i have been playing it all day the events are spectacular my faviroute will have to 
 be the hurdles. their is loads of bright and coulerful charicters to play as. their is over 20 
 events to choose from and they are all great fun to play. this game is also fun to play with other 
 players like freinds and family. so overall mario and sonic at the olimpic games is brilliant for 
 all ages and great fun. dont lisern to the bad reviews this game is a ledge. so thanks for reading 
 my review on mario and sonic at the olmpic games. so bye and go get this game on nintendo ds or 
 nintendo wii. price about 32.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cecil_Highwind
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 18, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  In addition to what I said above, some of the games have bad motion controls. The bow and arrow 
 is hard to line up and half of my shots just end up going under or over the target. The running 
 is very challenging in terms of how long you have to do it. Pumping your arms up and down that 
 whole time gets to be tiring after a while. Most of the events though have good motion controls 
 and are very fun while they last. Each event will only keep you occupied for about 30 to 40 seconds. 
 A big problem is that you cannot just choose normal events and play them. You have to put together 
 a set of 4 or a set of 8 to play freeplay miltiplayer. If you are looking for a good singleplayer 
 experience, you will not find that here.
  Another big problem is that there are no classic Mario of Sonic tunes. All of the music I have 
 heard so far has been new. Though it goes to say that the music fits thee tone of the game.
  
  Overall, this game provides a good multiplayer experience, but there are better games if you 
 are looking for a game with Mario and Sonic in it, or you are looking for a good single player 
 mode. (SUPER SMASH BROS. BRAWL!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bucketmaster
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately - i usually listen to my friends when they talk about games, so i mistakenly went 
 out and bought this nonsense. I completely wasted a whole weekend off my work to try and work out 
 the controls for this pish , and....... still couldnt work them out. Okay the running was pretty 
 easy - but trying to pull off a long jump , PFFFT. i think my neighbours must have thought i was 
 having sex with a teddy bear when i tried the swimming. At first i thot my wii sensor was knackered 
 - but then i realised that i had just been conned "oh look a game with sonic AND mario on it - 
 must be good".
  Yes it has some Sega and nintendo characters in it, big wow - it doesnt make a difference what 
 character you go - you aint gonna like this game. Infact pulling the legs off a spider is much 
 more fun than this pile of horse manure!
  Dont even rent the game coz by the time youve learned how to throw the Javelin it'l be time to 
 head back round to blockbuster to hand the game back.
  
  Bring back the good ol button bashing games like summer olympics on the Mega drive (genesis to 
 you foreigners) , and what ever you do - dont buy a game with both sonic and mario side by side 
 - its just not right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  When you think of one of the worst Wii games, then I can pretty much garuntee that it one of them 
 is bound to be Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games. Now, it does have a solid amount of characters, but 
 not even a million more characters can't save this game from being terrible! Ok, I'll give this game 
 a chance. Now, years ago, Nintendo made a system called the NES (stands for Nintendo Entertainment 
 System) . To compete with the NES, Sega made a system called the Sega Genesis. And, for many people, Mario 
 and Sonic to be in the same game together, would be like worlds colliding. But, eventually worlds 
 did collide. Let's talk about the swimming event. Ok, this event is bad, and hard to work. Especially 
 because the Wii sometimes doesn't know that I just did something! What about  
 trampoline event isn't so bad because it's just about hitting all the buttons in the correct order 
 to execute tricks before landing. Just whatever hapened to picking up a controller and playing? Well, I 
 did find myself watching the Olympics while writing this review, and thought, Wow! These people are 
 really good, and how can the Olympics even endorse such a crappy game? Well, if you're looking for 
 a good Mario VS. Sonic game, then you should buy Super Smash Bros. Brawl, which is a million times 
 better than this load of bull crap!
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordFalcon07
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 2, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  and we finally get it... in a Wii Sports-inspired competition based on the Beijing Olympics?!
  
  Gameplay
  Mario & Sonic brings together the title characters and 14 more from both franchises 
 to participate in environments based on the official venues of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. 
 These environments are designed to fit the art styles of the Mario and Sonic video games. Besides 
 the characters from the Mario and Sonic games, Miis can also be used in the Wii version. There 
 are also a few randomly selected non-playable characters acting as referees for certain events. 
 Each playable character has their own statistics which can serve as an advantage or disadvantage 
 depending on the event. They are divided into four categories: all-around, speed, power, and skill.
 
  
  The gameplay involves utilizing either or a combination of the Wii Remote and Nunchuk on the Wii 
 or stylus and button controls on the DS in various ways to complete each event. The events can 
 require a combination of speed, timing, and some strategy. Each competition offers a slight degree 
 of difference. In the running events, for example, getting a starting boost in the 100 m dash will 
 either make or break the player's place, while in a relay race, which can last for well over a 
 minute, this may not determine place as effectively. The game also has leaderboards that make use 
 of the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection to show the best times and scores.
  
  Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games on the Wii is known for being an entertaining multiplayer 
 experience, having colorful graphics and physically demanding gameplay, but criticised for shallow 
 gameplay and having complex rules and instructions for numerous events 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fernandomarques
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  We've seen plenty of mini-game conglomerates on the Wii ranging from creative titles like WarioWare: 
 Smooth Moves to the more gimmicky releases like Wii Play. Instead of focusing on depth, these games 
 all advertise a pick-up-and-play value that should be appealing to gamers of all skill levels. 
 While Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games hoped to set the standard for what a mini-game title 
 should be like, once you get past the gratuitous arm-flailing events there isn't a whole lot to 
 get excited about.
  
  
  
  A new take on Beijing 2008
  
  The name of the game, along with a little history on the subject, implies that there would be some 
 sort of rivalry between Mario and Sonic, but sadly there isn't too much of this to be found. While 
 you have 8 characters related to Mario and 8 related to Sonic, aside from this initial distinction 
 there's no real sense of fighting for king and country at all. Instead of competing for the sake 
 of your country, here these selfish game characters are in it for their own personal glory.
  
  The characters are divided up into four areas of expertise; power, all-around, speed and skill. 
 If for some reason you bought this game and have no affection towards any of these characters, 
 you also have the option to bring any of your Miis into play, and deformed antics would be sure 
 to follow. While a speed character like Sonic has a definite edge in running races, it's not clear 
 as to what effects being powerful versus being skilled will have on your game. In any event these 
 skill differences are essentially negligible, which is overall a good feature because it doesn't 
 commit to you only selecting the powerhouse characters. 
  
  Right from the start, you're probably thinking that all of the running events involve nothing more 
 than swinging your arms around as fast as humanly possible, and for the most part you'd be correct. 
 To start off the running events, including relays and hurdles, you hold B and move the Wii Remote 
 down, and then after a perfectly timed start you simply swing the Nunchuk and Wii Remote until 
 you cross the finish line. In the relay events you have to simulate passing the baton which is 
 something the developers could have easily left out. Still, this can tiring pretty fast, and if 
 you're playing by yourself you'll end up feeling ridiculous. Events like the triple jump and long 
 jump require you to swing the remote up at just the right time, but this motion is so sensitive 
 that if you are even a little bit off you will most likely botch your run. The timing doesn't seem 
 to be synced up properly, and the fact that it takes so long to understand how to do properly do 
 a simple task like jumping doesn't help in terms of ease of use.
  
  Fencing is a game that could have had potential, but the formula SEGA used isn't exactly spot on. 
 All you have to do is move your character back, which will cause your opponent to miss when striking 
 you. Then you can use this window of opportunity to strike back and claim the gold. The ability 
 to parry is useless because it's more trouble than it's worth, so an otherwise engaging sword fight 
 falls terribly short. If a Red Steel-esque first person view was available then the action would 
 be much more engaging, but instead you're left feeling disconnected from the motions.
  
  
  
  Archery is one of the better designed games that makes great use of the motion controls. 
 To shoot, you hold down A and B on the remote and then line up two sights with the Wii Remote and 
 Nunchuk. Naturally, if you think about how you would aim a bow in real life the in-game setup is 
 extremely similar, so it actually feels like you're controlling your character. This game does 
 get tricky when you have to factor in wind direction and speed, and shooting at the exact moment 
 your on-screen heart-rate is relaxed is just one more thing to worry about. As a whole though, 
 the archery game is one of the more memorable games you'll come across. 
  
  Most of the other events involve following on-screen cues with some sense of rhythm. The trampoline 
 event, for instance, has you wave around the remote to jump, and then while in midair a dialogue 
 will pop-up instructing you on what buttons to hit. Although an entirely different event, rowing 
 is pretty similar to gymnastics in terms of mechanics. You have the same task of pressing buttons 
 as directed; only instead of waving your remote to jump you have to rhythmically simulate rowing 
 by guiding the remote in a circular motion. 
  
  In addition to the fairly true to life Olympic events, there are also four dream events that extend 
 the competition beyond the normal limitations of the Olympics. It would've been great if the entire 
 game could consist of dream events, but instead we're teased with four great events. Track and 
 field is juiced up to be more like Mario Kart with the incorporation of weapons and obstacles, 
 while fencing now sports a health bar and special moves to build upon the otherwise amateurish 
 gameplay. The high dive event now takes place thousands of meters in the air. Even table tennis, 
 which isn't all that fun because you don't have total control of the way your character moves, 
 has been spruced up with special return techniques and rally scoring. 
  
  Overall this games biggest problem is that it doesn't reach to one specific audience. Casual gamers 
 will have a hard time mastering the finer points that the control scheme demands, while the more 
 experienced gamers will get bored at the amount of repetition. Waving your arms around and pressing 
 buttons as the screen demands doesn't carry the same thrill as competing in the Olympic Games would, 
 and even the circuit and mission modes don't make up for this game's lack of thrills.
  
  
  
  A Rivalry for the Ages?
  
  For an Olympic themed one would expect competition to be 
 high, but it's hard not to feel a little shortchanged considering how games like Mario Strikers 
 Charged are incorporating online play. It shouldn't be too difficult to let players from all over 
 the world run or swim against each other because lag wouldn't even cause problems. Potentially 
 there could be problems in fencing or table tennis, but for the most part you would think that 
 online competition should almost be standard. Unfortunately, the only means of competition is via 
 an online scoreboard that keeps track of world records, and while it is nice to have something 
 to strive for, it's just too hard to get pumped up playing against numbers. 
  
  In terms of presentation, you can always expect SEGA and Nintendo to deliver a quality product, 
 but there's nothing here that goes beyond what we've come to expect. Sure the characters have their 
 own charisma, but hearing them utter the same catchphrases over and over again tires fast. As is 
 this problem with most other games, the announcer suffers from a lack of variety and can grow tiring 
 very fast. This is especially a problem in the rowing event because a voice will comment on every 
 single stroke you take.
  
  For visuals, everything looks crisp when you're playing in 16:9 with 480p, and the smooth frame 
 rates and animations make for an enjoyable experience. While the developers didn't really capitalize 
 on the Olympic feel, which could've easily been done with some slow motion replays and cheesy motivational 
 music, the level designs make you feel like you're a part of something big.
  
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  In the big picture, Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games is a much more substantial 
 game than Wii Sports, Wii Play, and the like, but it still leaves a lot to be desired. The success 
 of future mini-game collections on the Wii relies on creativity, just like this game has with its 
 dream events. Inventive and intuitive mini-games coupled with better modes for competition could 
 lead to a great game, and even with its flaws this release isn't horrible. However, if you've had 
 enough of games that seem more like tech demos on steroids, then Mario and Sonic at the Olympic 
 Games will only make a good paperweight once the initial value wears off. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironraven24
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  You would think a large assortment of Olympic Games would be sorta fun wouldn't you? Well You are 
 somewhat right. some of the mini-games are very shallow having you repeat a various task over and 
 over again about three times in one game, which can get very annoying. Though it has its annoyance 
 it is still a fairly decent game. The modes that Stand out in this are mostly the archery, the 
 trampoline which never seem to get boring.
  
  The character roster is pretty decent sorting out skill, power, and speed. Power is good for mini-games 
 that use use strength such as the javelin throw. Skill is used for Things such as Table tennis, 
 Archery and Skeet, Speed is used for 100m dash, 400m hurdles etc. There is a twist to the characters 
 though, you can use your Mii though they don't have stats, you can't adjust there stats or anything 
 so its basically point less.
  
  
  +'s and the -'s
  
  + has great variety.
  + great for family's or a group of friends
  
  - Very shallow
  - Poor controls
  - Could 
 have been Less Tedious.
  
  The single player in the game is very boring as well you compete in X number of mini-games for 
 the highest score, which isn't all that bad when your playing with a group of friends. But you 
 cannot unlock anything when your in multi-player. This game would have been a lot better if you 
 could unlock new games with multiple people.
  
  Game-play - 13.7/20.0 
  Graphics - 9.9/20.0
  Sound - 15.0/20.0
  
  Definitely a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKratos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  This game is built so you can play video games and exercise, but on some of the game you move your 
 arms so fast, and swift your arms feel like they broke off. This game has a meadly of sonic and mario 
 character. Mario: Luigi, Bowser, Peach, Daisy, Wario, and  Dr. Eggman. This 
 is a gamer and athlete fantasy. The gamers part is mario and the sonic part, and the athletic part 
 is that you work out with you arms. This game is much better on wii than it is on dual screen. The 
 dual screen doesn't let you get a work out. This game is a eight point five in wii and for dual 
 screen it is six point zero. This is nothing like the other olimpic game for wii, because it has 
 the fantasy and sport compared to Summer Sports for Wii. Mario and Sonic and the Olimpic Games is 
 just a game for the whole family to play.: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  A very good game, not perfect, but it's SO underappreciated and it's a very fun, and sporty game 
 to play. The best part of this game is that you can be both Mario AND Sonic characters for the 
 first time in one game and do many fun, olympic events!!!!
  
  here's the summing up:
  
  graphics: Not perfect, but very good for the wii! 9/10
  
  sound: Like the graphics, not perfect 
 but some very realistic sounds! 8/10
  
  music: yet again, not a complete masterpiece but some of the songs are catchy and very good! 8/10
 
  
  gameplay: By far the best thing in this game. Get to choose from both mario and sonic characters 
 and choose a olyimpic sporting event, from running to fencing! and use VERY interactive controls 
 using both the wii remote and nunchuck and even get ashausted! very fun to play! 10/10
  
  
  overall: if you have a wii, like Mario and/or Sonic games and like olyimpic or any kind of 
 sports, then... GET THIS GAME!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  People have been waiting for Mario and Sonic to team up for a very long time. Now they have... 
 kind of. Rather than the awesome adventure we hoped for, we got this: a minigame collection focused 
 around the Olympic Games. Not a horrible premise, but I don't know how people can stand to play 
 this game. In about 1/3 to 1/2 of the games, you're frantically waving your arms to make your character 
 run or swim, and for the record Sonic isn't even fast in this game. By the time you've been doing 
 this for ten seconds and repeated even just one more time, you'll crash onto the nearest couch 
 or bed, feeling defeated by the game rather than by the computers. These disasters mainly occur 
 within the Athletics and Aquatics areas, but the other games don't have much to offer either. You'll 
 realize you're having a heck of a lot more fun than you did at the Athletics department, but you'll 
 also realize you're not having much fun to begin with. There are a lot of precise motions required 
 in some games, and if you swing the remote too hard you pretty much fail, and this is extremely 
 irritating and nearly impossible to figure out. Sure there are tons of circuits, medals, minigames, 
 and all that, but this just didn't turn out well. If you can have fun with this game, then you've 
 defeated the game. Congrats. I wasn't so lucky: the game beat me in less than 24 hours, and here 
 I am telling you all how it went. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kh61
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  this is a fun game to play with freinds and by yourself they could of made the online alot better 
 i mean who wants to check their records with other people they want to play other people not look 
 at how they did this game has good use of the wii remote its fun whille it last i dont play this 
 game as much i used to but i still recommod buying this game. i think they should make a sequel 
 to this game with better online. i cant think of anything e; se to say i just need to have more 
 words... adndgdjsjgsjgj sjgjsjgsjgj gnsgnksg; n sgns; lgkskd sjdfdfgdjgb dbjgdjgjdg dsj; gbdgbd djjdbgdk 
 dsjfbslfkasfjs sjfbsfbsbkf sfskfsnfskl; skfnsfnskflskfn snkfskfsknfklsfnksknfsnk abdjffjdfldjgd 
 gdgljkdbgldkg dklgndlgkdngnkd gkndk; gdnkg; dgnkd; dkgndl; sgnldsnl abdjsajfksf sjfbsjlfjslaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa ccccccccc cccccccccccccccccc ccccccccccccccccccccc 
 cccccc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bopie64
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  When I got this game, I was hoping that Mario and Sonic would be involved in games that had a lot 
 of depth, and were worth playing many times. Unfortunately, on some mini games, the controls are 
 quite broken, especially jumping three times, because on some jumps it takes your jump a little 
 too strong, and then makes it atrociously bad instead of a very good jump that should have resulted 
 by your jump. Also, the ping pong is not very exciting because it doesnt have much depth, and 
 the computers cheat a lot on this game. Some mini games are fun to play a few times, others you 
 may never want to play again. This game may be fun for casual gamers and people who like a lot 
 of olympic mini games, but not for many others. I recommend instead going out and actually trying 
 these events, if possible. If not, find another way to satisfy your olympic needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeman1503
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  This game is a great game to rent. I would suggest to all Mario, sonic, or Olympic fans to rent 
 this game. The game is made up of 3 basics modes: Single Event, Circuit, and Mission. Single event 
 is a great way to start and tone up on your skills in different events. After you have done that 
 you can make your way over to either the circuit or mission mode, both are one player. Circuit 
 mode is also fun as it combines 3, 4, or 5 events together in one competition. As you play through 
 and win these events more will unlock. Even though only one player can play at a time I recommend 
 that you have another person nearby that specializes in other events to help you succeed. It is 
 hard to specialize in all of the events and it seems like that almost every time I play by myself 
 in circuit, I always either come in 1st in a specific event or 8th, which is last, and every point 
 matters. Mission mode is just Ok. It doesn't have the level of fun like circuit or playing with 
 your friends. I suggest renting this game because the stuff that makes up the game is fun but the 
 fun only last for about a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShraZ_Zy
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 15, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  The game has good graphics, good overall layout of the menu, and you can play mario and sonic! 
 There are many events to play, but they tend to be repetitive with additional control movements 
 you have to do. The use of the Nunchuck and Remote is required and fun to do. The controls for 
 the most part are great except for some events like archery. Some other events include running, 
 swimming, fencing, and table tennis. The game also has special dream events as well. Some games 
 are harder than others, until you start learning how to do it. There are a lot of characters to 
 choose from with different types of skills. My favorite is Mario as he is very well rounded.
  
  I was disappointed with not being able to set the computer difficulty. It is also too easy 
 to break the world record and some of the games are too long (i. e. the shooting of the disc) . The 
 game also lacks of different events and gameplay possiblities.
  
  Overall it's a fun game to play with your friends and family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nikki-No-Credit
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  What a collaboration! two gods in the gaming world joining together in this fun, sweet little game.
 
  
  I got this game with my birthday money (the remainder of the money went on super mario galaxy which 
 i'm sorry for slating in a previous review :S)
  so it was fun trying to teach my friends how to play it, well it actually took me a while to get 
 the hang of it, some of the events i still can't do and i got this game in january!!
  
  the difficulty i placed as 'just right' because the difficulty of the events cancel each other 
 out, they're either really easy (trampoline, swimming) or really hard to get the controls right 
 (long jump, triple jump) .
  
  The missions in the game are a nice touch to the completion, successfully completing all the mission 
 objectives for one character unlocks the emblem for that character although beware, some missions 
 are harder to complete than others such as finishing in a certain place such as 2nd or 3rd.
  
  The graphics are very colourful, which i suppose could be expected due to the fact that one 
 of the main characters is bright blue.
  
  The controls completely utilise the wii remote to create a very original control system but be 
 prepared to be shattered by the end of a run and prepare to look like a right idiot when doing 
 the swimming events (seriously, you'll know what i mean when you play it)
  
  In this game, there is a chance to unlock trivia about the Beijing olympics by completing mini 
 games which are a really nice touch, especially the memory game which gets seriously complicated 
 in the later levels.
  
  This game has some downfalls though, the long jump and triple jumps' controls are very sensitive 
 and it's very difficult to find the happy medium which results in a good jump (yeah i always come 
 last in this event)
  
  It can sometimes feels a bit repetitive when you've done the same event about 10 times (such as 
 the high jump)
  
  The online function in this game has so much potential for a game which in essence is a multiplayer 
 game, but the only online capability is comparing scores and times on games which just isn't exciting 
 at all, whoopee i'm ranked 3000th in the 100m *yawns*
  
  overall this game is essential for mario and sonic fans and wii owners purely for it's brilliant 
 control system and character collaboration but it's better with two people playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: catsgomoo123
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  with 30 events from 100m to hammer throw, javelin to pole vault, and even 4 x 100m relay to sigle 
 sculls (rowing) . the only basic events missing are: 200m, 800m, 1500m, discus throw and shot put.
 
  
  with different ways to play, including single match, circuit, mission, and even gallery games.
 
  
  and if you can, even go on to nintendo wi-fi connection, and even compare your best of scores with 
 at least 10000-20000 other people from all around the planet!!!
  
  the problem is, don't play this all at one time, as it will be the end of the game too quickly 
 and all that will be left to do is to try and collect emblems for different weird accomplishments 
 that you succeed in.
  
  Other extras include: unlockable events, 1 to 4 players allowd to play at one time, 16 characters 
 to choose from, this is CLEARLY fun for all the family.
  
  ENJOY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StillFreeTagger
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  The age old rivalry of Nintendo's koopa stomping plumber and Sega's super fast, super cool, blue 
 hedgehog is finally making a last stand. A "kill two birds with one stone" attempt to pair these 
 two while sponsoring the 2008 Beijing Olympics, behold Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games.
  
  There is no story other than Mario and some of his friends are going up against Sonic and his 
 peeps. The game allows players to compete in Olympic events with Mario, Sonic and a majority of 
 the supporting cast from their games. Events include timeless classics like the polevault and the 
 swim triathelon. There are also Dream Events which are events with a somewhat fictional twist.
 
  
  Each character is categorized by their skills...
  
  Speed (characters who are fast and best suited for racing)
  All-Around (characters who have average 
 stats on all fronts)
  Power (powerhouse characters suited for events like table tennis)
  Skill (similar to All-Around, only better at such events like archery)
  
  The ability to use 
 Mii characters is also available.
  
  Nintendo and Sega didn't seem to use the full power of the Wii when it came to graphics. Honestly, 
 they're smooth but they look like a Gamecube game. The overall characters and environments lack 
 that polish and gloss that the Wii is known to bring.
  
  The controls are responsive, that's for sure. Perhaps they are a bit too responsive? I found myself 
 barely moving my remote during ping pong and Knuckles still be swinging! Some of the events have 
 an impossible set of controls, finding it frusturating to compete.
  
  Not much to the sound. You have Charles Martinet voicing the Mario and Wario Bros. and the 4Kids 
 cast voicing Sonic and pals. The in-game music sounds similar to Wii Sports. That's really all 
 there is.
  
  Something that bugged me in this game was Sonic's lack of speed in races. I know the developers 
 tweaked it to be fair, but he's Sonic! I expected to win almost every time. Just a fan peave. However, 
 I did get a kick out of Sonic wearing a life vest in the swimming events! XD
  
  Sources say that more characters were to appear in the game. So what happened? Did they run out 
 of time, or did they get lazy? Some extra characters from both franchises appear, but as NPCs.
 
  
  I'm tilting this game only because I've waited for these two titans to clash. Mario vs Sonic is 
 an ok game, but I know that Nintendo and Sega can better! Hopefully in the near future we can get 
 a platforming adventure starring the two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MissA-Mary
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  well sonic and mario at the olympic games is a high quality game full of fun
  it entertains you wil'st keeping you fit the actives give you a range of choice
  the actives 
 are easy to understand and play there is also lots of different character to choose from . I would 
 defiantly recommend it is one of my favorite games and i allways try to fit it into my busy life 
 style. Some of the actives are harder than others but you allways feel proud when you win that 
 gold medal. Its automatically saves which means you dont have to huss with going to save and waiting 
 for it to save. It also alows mulit player so get the family involed and have so fun pick activtes 
 such as swimming running javelin and many more so pick up your wii remote or ds console and start 
 playing. Once you start playing you wont ever want to stop its a amazing game full of suprises 
 who knows you might become the next oylmpic gold medalist so good luck and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toon_Link87
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games is a really fun game where you compete in different Olympic 
 sports. In this game you can play as characters from the Mario or Sonic universes making this the 
 first official game to have both Mario and Sonic in it.
  
  The Olympic sports are all depicted as mini-games where you compete against the computer or up 
 to 4 other players. Each sport makes great use of the Wii remote. The controls for the most part 
 are great except for some events like archery. Some other events include running, swimming, fencing, 
 and table tennis. The game also has special dream events as well. This game is great at giving 
 you a workout as well, especially if you play the running events. 
  
  More events can be unlocked as you progress through the circuits. You can also unlock trophies 
 and emblems which can keep you busy for a long time if you want to collect them all.
  
  The best part about this game is the multi-player mode. Its just a lot of fun to play against some 
 of your friends and family. This is a game that everyone can enjoy. If you don't have enough nuchucks, 
 don't worry, most events can be played with just the wii remote, and if the nuchuck is required, 
 the players take turns using it.
  
  The graphics are above average and the sound is nice. Every character looks detailed and is animated 
 nicely.
  
  The only thing that I dislike about this game is how fast it gets old, especially if you are playing 
 it by yourself. This is a game that I can not play for hours at a time, its better to play it for 
 a short amount of time every once in awhile.
  
  Overall, I think that if you are looking for a fun party game you can play with other people you 
 should consider this game. The controls are great, the graphics are good, and the game is fun.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjgamefreak
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 11:36 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most fun and tiring games I've ever played for the Wii yet. This game brings 
 Mario and Sonic into the same game for a huge challenge and allot of excersise. This is a very 
 addicting game that deserves to be played. There is a wide veriety of characters, sports, and objectives 
 and missions. But it is a really difficult game, at first you would have no idea how to control 
 the game, but it is very easy to learn. Other then all of that, it takes quite a bit to unlock 
 new sports and objectives. Another thing this game has are mini games and a records section. This 
 game is very interactive too, and if you play it too long you are very sore the next day. If you 
 like Sonic or Mario, like exsersise, and like challenges, thn this game is up you alley.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Overall rating, 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OldFirm
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  
  In general most of the events in Mario & Sonic are fun to play, but there are also some misses 
 too. In the case of track events, there are a good five or six that feel nearly identical, using 
 only a couple minor changes to mix up the feel between 100m, 400m, 4X100m Relay, and the 110m and 
 400m hurdles. Obviously these events are similar in real life as well, but it's still a ton of 
 drumming, and not a whole lot of diversity. On the opposite side of the fence, however, were things 
 like archery, which is a nearly-perfect event in our opinion, blending IR control with a pull-back 
 motion and nunchuk tilt for the bow's angle to make what ends up being an impressively deep target 
 challenge. SEGA also changes things up with the Dream Events, which are basically repeats of four 
 of the core Olympic events in the game such as table tennis or fencing, and these end up stealing 
 the show, as it turns the generally straightforward feel of the events into true Mario Sports experiences, 
 including super attacks, Mario Kart item blocks and speed boosts for foot races, and interesting 
 spins on the general rules of the events.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiggyman_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I spent 4 hours yesterday with my first play through of Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games and 
 honestly, it's not a bad game at all. Some of the events could have been better such as the swimming, 
 which confused the living hell out of me with what I was supposed to do some of the time. All the 
 other sports were enjoyable for the most part and easy to do, with the exception of the trampoline, 
 but that may have been due to my slower reflexes yesterday. The dream events were a great deal 
 of fun and the track and field events had to personally be my favorite.
  
  If I had to say something bad about the game, it would have to be that some of the events were 
 too complicated and demanding of the audience they are trying to wrangle in. The swimming asks 
 a bit much arm shaking and changing up and timing. The trampoline asks you to do all these split 
 second sequences of buttons in combinations up to 7 or 8. 
  
  Overall, the presentation was very good, the controls were tight for the most part, the events 
 were good with a few exceptions and the pickupability of the game is fairly good. This one is a 
 buy if you insist of having a Wii, if no for nothing else than to justify your purchase of the 
 little brother of the purple lunch box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 25, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Of all the ideas to pit Mario & Sonic together in one game Olympics was the least expected idea 
 I could think of. But how bad can it be?
  
  Mario & Sonic has quite a few game modes to play through. Single Match just lets you pick any events 
 you've unlocked and play them with friends or on your own. Mission mode lets you play missions 
 for each character but the missions can be completely random, there is no reason why you should 
 have to finish a race in 2nd place and no higher or lower. But the real meat of the game is the 
 Circuit Mode which is essentialy Mario & Sonic's Grand Prix. A circuit consists of 3-5 events with 
 you competeting for first. The more circuits you beat the more circuits and events you'll unlock.
 
  
  The selection of events is mixed here. Most of the running and swimming games control fine. But 
 some like archery are completely random to win and events like the long jump are flat out broken. 
 The long jump and triple jump and any throwing event (minus hammer throw) penalize you for thrusting 
 the Wii-mote to hard, this makes finding out the right amount of force is a never ending excercise 
 in frustration. Sometime it'll work and you'l score really well then you'll repeat and do the exact 
 thing and it'll say you threw it too hard.
  
  Other than that the circuit is pretty easy right up until the last class. There's something to 
 be said for when it makes your opponents tougher but when it slows YOU down and lets all computer 
 AI fly past you that's just plain cheating. Example I go in Single Match mode and get a time of 
 9.56 on the 100m then when I play in Advanced circuit mode I finish with a time of 11.86. Completely 
 stupid.
  
  But the real fun comes with playing friends in Single Match mode because you can completely ignore 
 all of the events that don't work and focus on the ones that are fun to play. The online features 
 are rather pants though, you can exchange records to see where you rank but there's no online multiplayer 
 whatsoever which is a let down seeing as this game is absolutely begging for it.
  
  Mario & Sonic is a fairly average crossover with poor single player mode. The amount you get out 
 of it depends on how many friends you have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_rock_74
Rating: 6
Date: May 14, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Sonic and Mario together in one package, great excitement, right? Well, at least at for awhile. 
 The game starts off giving a good feeling of excitement and anticipation. Having a disappointing 
 lack of a continuous game play mode that one would have expected is, well, a let-down. The only 
 mode that compares to this are circuits, and while those can be the grand prix you're looking for, 
 you still have to deal with the several games you wouldn't want to play, due to frustrating controls 
 that seem to not do what you want. Several of the events have controls that are very unresponsive 
 and agonizing. After playing the game for too long you may find yourself not only frustrated, but 
 kinda sore after having to deal with games that require two minutes of constant arm flailing. 
 
  
  The games that one would enjoy are somewhat few and far between. The few games that don't have 
 frustrating or tiring controls are enjoyable and the overall ambiance of the games does a decent 
 job of keeping you together through it all and gives the game that happy-go-lucky Mario feel that 
 lets you enjoy what you're seeing. Comparing scores on WiFi is fun, and if you try hard enough 
 you can get in the top 300, which makes you feel like you're contributing to the world. The game 
 makes you want to play more which, in time, you'll probably regret. 
  
  Overall, the mood the game sets doesn't help to make up for the frustrating control schemes most 
 of the events have, and the lack of good ones that don't leave you kinda hurting. So, enjoy the 
 time you can from playing the game until it gets frustrating and make sure to take the suggested 
 breaks, cause playing to much can leave your muscles regretting they listened to you, and they'll 
 get their revenge on you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the1Jugg
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 7, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  I just wanted to write a few quick thoughts on Mario and Sonic at the Olympics. When I got this 
 game, I thought we would finally be getting an Olympic themed game that would rival the old Commodore 
 64 classic, Summer Games. I was hoping my friends and I could play through an "Olympic Games", 
 pick countries, and beat each others records. However, you can only play up to 5 events at a time, 
 you only pick countries when you create a save slot, and you can only set record times in single 
 player mode. Friends can try to beat your records, but can only save the results if they were playing 
 single-player in their own save slot. Most of the events I have tired are quite fun, but the overall 
 presentattion makes me wish I hadnt bothered.
  
  I feel that this game really missed the mark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 29, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  This game has a great concept, fun yet short lived games and an online capability that really stunk.
 
  When i heard about this game i was ecstatic, it seemed like fun and was the first time mario and 
 sonic would be on the same stage, though the fun was shorter than i had expected, constantly shaking 
 your arms is a real fun at first but when you get frustrated and anything you can at the tv you 
 realise the fun at the beginning is vanished and an obsession of beating the world record set by 
 someone who must play it non stop become your only goals.
  Though for the most part games are well thought of and developed, i believe many would rather rent 
 it that buy it and than return it for little value the month after it came out. 
  I think that in the future the duo will make better accomplishments and a more long-lived game 
 that would like spawn a great and inspiring series.
  
  I think this game leaves room for much improvement, so i have mixed reactions, this series has 
 3 ways to go, Down, Way Down or up.
  Fire_Emblem_RD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcleism01
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 26, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  This game, although very simple, is a game in which all of the family can have fun. With over fifteen 
 events you can't complain about the lack of choice. And with the nintendo wi fi conection you can't 
 just see how highly you are ranked in your own house you can see how good you are against the rest 
 of the world. Aswell as having over fifteen events you can't complain about the lack of characters 
 either. Their are sixteen of your favourite characters form past Mario games and past Sonic games, 
 aswell as Mario and Sonic themselves some of the others include Shadow, Luigil, and Dr Eggman. 
 You can also bring your mii into action. Each of the different characters hve differet qualties 
 power, all round, speed and skill.
  In summary I would reccomend this game to anyone especially people with families and people who 
 can play multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMeR4Life93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic olympics includes my favorite collection of mini games that came out on the Wii 
 so far. It includes alot of games that would be excellent for parties and parties only. When looking 
 at the previews I thought this game was going to have a good story behind it but I thought wrong. 
 Although this game is fun at occasions I can honestly say that this game is the type of game that 
 you would get for free in a bundle like Wii Sports or Wii Play. But let me stop with the bad talk 
 and start with the good. I really like the character selection in this game. Sometimes I wish that 
 they can switch with SSBB lol. OVERALL= Don't buy this game if you don't have anyone to play 
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coin13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I say this review should help make the purchase of this game. thanx. This game is great for WII players 
 of the younger type. the only problem with this game is that the event are easy to go through in 
 less than an hour. (for me it took about 45 min.) The great things are the variety of characters, Now 
 that was great. (most of my favorite sonic characters were on it^_^) . you won't be dissapointed on 
 this game, but like I say ''rent it first''. So for WII players out there (or DS players) this game 
 should be secondary for your systems. But if you like to try new games there is no problem for it 
 being a primary game. Some may like it more than others, or some don't like these kind of games. My 
 point is that this game will get boring after a while.
  
  So I hoped this review has helpful for buying the game.
  Please check my profile^_^ 
  Thanx,
 
  
  
  
  I say it is suitible for 6 and up Thanx (again) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cat12347
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  The only reason everybody hates it is because it is too hard and too exhausting for all those babies. 
 If you are not a baby and you want a good challenge then this is the game for you! This is an AWSOME 
  Everyone, please, go buy this game  
 Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! 
 Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! 
 Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! 
 Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! 
 Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! 
 Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! 
 Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! Go Mario and Sonic Go!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warped_Creation
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  I've played this game for several hours. I would have played more but my wrists starting burning. 
 Worst controls evr. Broken controls, no difference in the events, unfun multiplayer and characters 
 that are no different to each other ruin what could have been an average game. If you want to see 
 mario and sonic compete buy brawl. Do not buy this game. They are better ways to waste your money.
 
  
  If you want a sports game play Wii sports. If you want a party game buy brawl. Everything this 
 game tries to be it fails miserably in. If you buy games for the wii make sure you buy first party 
 nintendo. They can make games on the Wii. Words fail to describe how terrible this game is. Buggy 
 broken with npcs just cheating and beating you. Minigames that are longer and more entertaining 
 than the full games. Avoid this game like the plague. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentgamma
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games should have been the best game ever seeing past rivals in 
 the same game. 
  Unfortunately Mario and Sonic just fell slapped on to a poor game to increase sales!
  
  First 
 reason why: 
  The controls are awful! Lets take Fencing for an example - I expected to swing the remote like 
 i would in fencing! But you just push the remote forward!
  Second reason why:
  This game is so boring! All you do in this game is pick your character, select your event, do it 
 3 times and check your score!
  Its quite boring!
  Third reason why:
  Its $70 (in Australia!)
  Super Mario Galaxy - $70
  Mario Sonic at the Olympic Games is a rip-off!!!
 
  In Mario Galaxy you have 120 stars to collect, the controls and graphics are amazing and it is 
 so fun!
  
  Also this game was meant to be Sonic at the Olympic Games!
  Then the IOC decided that Sega needed to target the game at a wider audience.
  So Sega asked 
 if they could include Mario!
  I think this game is overrated because Mario and Sonic are in this one game!
  
  This game is 
 not worth buying for your Wii collection.
  If you want to play a Mario Sonic crossover game buy Smash Bros Brawl instead.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggo21
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 10, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games doesn't live up to its name.
  The hype of having two strong franchises together in a game is awesome especially Mario & Sonic. 
 But I was disappointed this is just a other mini game for the Wii. I expected a bunch of games 
 that you can season on not mini games. For example the real Olympics has tons of events hosting 
 but in this game is nothing exciting. I wanting Baseball, Soccer, Hockey, Volleyball, Tennis, etc.
 
  The Graphics are the usually Nintendo type.
  The controls in game sucks I expect Wii Sports standards but the opposite. Not even kids couldn't 
 play this game is not as responding as Other Wii games.
  I rented the game at Blockbuster. Thanks for rental I would've purchase this crappy game for $50 
 bucks. I strongly recommend no one to get this game not even if came in a kids meal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsons2102
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, Mario and Sonic at the olympic games for the wii is very fun. The multiplayer 
 is very fun but the only problem is you can win the trophy if you beat it on multiplayer. The single 
 player is ok but its not that much fun. Heres the game from my point of view.
  
  Gameplay: Very fun playing over a dozen of olympic games. But it is only fun if you have a friend 
 to play it with (8.5) )
  
  Graphics: Not the best but are pretty good for the wii. (8.0)
  
  Music: Good most is old songs from mario and sonic games (9.0)
  
  Controls: The best thing 
 about this game, very detailed (9.5)
  
  Price: About $40. I suggest to either buy it used or to wait for prices to drop (8.0)
  
  Final 
 Score: An 8.0. This game is really fun but seems to be to repetitive and not much fun unless your 
 with a friend. If you are going to buy this game i suggest you wait for prices to go down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SailorAide
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 6, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games was one of those "fun" titles for the Wii that I just had 
 to try. Anything that brings a smile to my face and makes my children laugh while watching us adults 
 play is worth at least a rental. I had high hopes for this game, despite the mediocre reviews I'd 
 read.
  
  Unfortunately, most reviews of Marion & Sonic were dead on. The game selection is broad, yes, but 
 the actions performed in different games is so similar that it gets boring very quickly. The running 
 and swimming motions (which you'll be doing A LOT) are also very, very tiring. Playing this game 
 for a long period of time in one sitting just isn't likely. The controls are also not always as 
 responsive as they should be causing lots of frustration.
  
  The graphics are great. Character line-up is solid and all are drawn and animated very well. One 
 major gripe is that you have the option to use your Mii, but there is no leveling or attribute 
 system in place to make them get better. This would have been an outstanding addition to the games 
 had they let your Mii get better through training in the events and winning competitions... but 
 alas, they didn't.
  
  Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games is a fun title, don't get me wrong. The first couple of times 
 through the different events while trying out various characters is a real blast. But after that, 
 it gets repetitive, tiring and pretty bland. Rent it and enjoy it, but don't waste your hard-earned 
 cash paying full price for a game that could have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Lots of Nintendo fanboys were probably waiting for this to come out and thought that it looked 
 sweet, but when many bought it, they were mostly proven wrong. Mario & Sonic do bring some fun 
 back, so you might have a party, but probably not.
  
  The things that make this game most disapointing are probably the amount. There is not much packed 
 in this game. You could fit it in a 1/3 layer disc probably. The lack of characters makes this 
 considered as crap. Where is Donkey Kong? That's just one of the players missing. Also missing 
 is lots of games. There aren't many games packed in the game. It's organized extremley well, but 
 that's probably because not much orginization is required.
  
  Despite a lack in games, there is a pretty good variety so you don't have to only like track. They 
 did take into consideration that most everyone games and there are a wide variety of gamers, they 
 just couldn't get it through their heads this time that most gamers want a lot.
  
  At least you don't have to have a party to play with others. Using the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection, 
 you can go up against people worldwide. The question is who since there aren't many intrests you'll 
 find here.
  
  Mario & Sonic can bring lots of action into this world, but this time, it doesn't happen. We would 
 expect a lot more from Nintendo having that they've made games longer than most companies, but 
 apparently we are wrong this time. The only thing brought home was Wi-Fi, but how will you use 
 it if nobody cares? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omega-Pyre
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  It's cool seeing Sonic and Mario alongside each other for once in the same game, but unfortunately 
 it could have made a much bigger impact. Generally, this is an enjoyable game anyone can learn 
 to enjoy with numerous Olympic events such as 100m dash, long jump, fencing, etc, with a good selection 
 of characters both from the Mario and Sonic series. The game makes fun use of the Wii Remote and 
 nunchuk by making you aim, shake, twist, and move them around in other ways to win. This makes 
 the game very entertaining for a while.
  
  You may realize that when you're done with every event, there's nothing more you can really do 
 than try to get a higher score and upload it to Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. Another thing is on 
 Wi-Fi you can't play against other people but only upload your high scores from each event, which 
 is a big letdown. Constantly after playing the game for a few events the game prompts you to take 
 a break and tries to teach you again and again how to pause the game.
  
  Mario & Sonic at the Olympic games offers a unique experience with it's creative controls to fun, 
 enjoyable game-play, but once you finish it all alone, you're gonna want to try something else 
 for a while or find a friend to play with. Nonetheless it's worth at least a rent to those looking 
 for a quick game to play or maybe even a buy to the big Sonic and Mario fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Otzi17ixE
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  This game had huge expectations from me because of the dual Mario and Sonic family's. Once i threw 
 in the game I was having a blast. That events were fun and exciting and some even gave me small 
 work out. After the excitement kinda wore off there really nothing more you could do to make this 
 game fun.
  
  All the events became very repetitive and the missions were no fun becuase you were always trying 
 to come in third, or throw half of what you normally do. They game had no real unlock ables which 
 was the biggest disapointment for me! Yeah, there were some events that you could unlock and the 
 prizes were fun to get but in the end i felt like i was playing the same things over and over again. 
 On top of all that, they don't have a good multiplayer mode either!
  
  I would suggest just renting this game because its not worth the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xela8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  A very good game for kids I now rented it and I'm trying to buy it. if you want to get this game, 
 please rent it first for practice before buying it. The controls are kind of bad but you'll get 
 the hang of it like its kind of hard to flick the remote up or down you'll need to do this just 
 the right time to get the characters to jump or take a boost. My favorite game is the trampoline 
 and others but some of the games kind of suck and a bit snappyfor younger children. I'm having 
 a hard time with the high jump and the 400m race (and hurdle version) games kind of suck also when 
 you need to play it in a gentle way. I hate the 400m and hurdles race cause' the stupid CPU players 
 running too fast and cheating the heart meator also on the 100m freestlye. I prefure for this game 
 to have a bit fixed remote actions but the camera angles are fine just when I started in the actions 
 way and trying to focus the instructions wii remote actions and stuff. and the only way to get 
 lots of rewards is to keep beating lots of mini games and finish in first place for a trophy you 
 can also get a reward at 2end place to if you try to do your best and keep up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V-Dunstan
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  Basically this game is an all-around passable multiplayer game that should be rented and never 
 purchased unless it is a near giveaway . It has a very short and simplistic campaign which really 
 cuts into lasting appeal. There is a high imbalance if difficulty of events, I for one found the 
 long Jump to be quite tough, but also found the hammer throw to be dead simple. Has reasonable 
 character graphics, but has appalling 2-d cutout background crowds. Very frequently the player 
 will find that many minigames are extremely similar (many events have running elements) and in 
 this way it is not intuitive and is very repetitive. However it does offer a broad amount of minigames 
 and has vast a cast of characters. It is a failed attempt, and hopefully if there is a sequel, 
 will be deeply reflect upon.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adorinar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Now is the time for all plumbers and hedgehogs to come to the aid of their count-wii. Eggo, now 
 is the time for Mario and Sonic together at the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games. Excellent idea bringing 
 the two biggest console heroes aboard. Graphics are engaging. A first for my Wii console! Game 
 play is interesting all throughout as you go unlocking major events and circuits but control unfortunately, 
 is not that responsive. In other words, game play is not so smooth after all that GUI goodness. 
 I bought it initially for the Table Tennis event. Too bad it's not really the Main Event. Archery 
 seems more appealing if not downright frustrating. Rowing is actually manageable. Trampoline is 
 fun. Javelin is amusing. 100m relay is so-so. Jumpstarts are the trick of the trade for races. 
 Finally, where are the horses? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  Two of gaming's most popular and iconic characters: Nintendo's Mario and Sega's Sonic The Hedgehog, 
 finally team up and take a competing leaque against each other in the Olympic Games. Sega and Nintendo 
 have finally teamed up to see both of their highly famous heroes in action, and to see who is the 
 winner.
  
  Momentarily, Mario & Sonic: At the Olympic Games does feel like a second-rate clone of Wii Sports, 
 with Sega and Nintendo's franchises slapped together on it to try and create something new, this 
 fails, but this doesn't stop Mario and Sonic being a very fun game, which it most certainly is, 
 even if it doesn't hit every note entirely right.
  
  The game has a wide variety of all sports of olympic sports to play such as Running the 100 metres, 
 and crossbowing. Each game has a little tab that tells you what the controls are, and what is the 
 basic thing you have to do. In that respect, Mario and Sonic is a very fair game, because it tells 
 the player in a way that isn't confusing or over-the-top to become hard to understand. 
  
  Just like Wii Sports, Mario & Sonic is prone to sure physical injury if you play it long enough. 
 Like the running 100 metres activity it requires you to shake both the Wii Remote and Nunchuck 
 up do the running. Not that this is a problem, it just may be a little jar if players are not familar 
 physically bent motion controls from the Wii.
  
  The characters in the game look incredibly sharp, and animate highly well when you are playing 
 as them. They behave the way you expect them too, and say mostly cute or funny stuff when they 
 win. This shows Nintendo and Sega have both sucsessfully contained two brands- that would seem 
 far apart- fold into one seamless expert.
  
  Here are the downfalls the game has though. The controlling and multitude multiplayer options are 
 very similar to Wii Sports, and by the look of the game's opening cinematic and trailers, treat 
 the game as an epic event in gaming, the game after that, has no memorable big themes or cinematics, 
 which make it a very bland gaming experience afterwards.
  
  Overall, Sega (who developed the concept in the game) have definetly take the right direction forward 
 for their games in the future. Where you think Sega have lost potential for good games, Mario and 
 Sonic rebuilds it quick. Sega CAN make fun games, and Nintendo and Sega ARE a perfect team.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moniique-xx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  this game is great! i loved playing it ever since i got it and still very much do. anyway, about 
 the game. obviously it has games from the olimpics, swimming, hurdles the like. you get to choose 
 from the popular mario and sonic characters. the characters have different abilities like sonic 
 being speed mario being all-rounder bowser being strength and tails being skill. you play the games 
 in a circuit. they start off easy and get harder as you go. as the levels go on they start to a 
 mario flavour to it like the dream events which is just like a fantasy version af the games you 
 have played e. g dream table tennis and fencing. when you come first in a circuit in single player 
 you get a cup which unlocks more events and circuits. you can also emblems for breaking records 
 like getting a 10.00 in trampoline and so on. anyway when thats all done you can also go to the 
 library and play fun minigames which tell you little facts about the olimpics when you win. or 
 you can play in single event and win medals when you get all the gold medals with the one character. 
 then you get the charcters crown. when done with all the mario characters for example you get the 
 mario family emblem. same with the sonic family. and to finish with the minigames, you can go on 
 into mission mode. in this you have to get either a specific plasing or time. when you have won 
 all you get the characters emblem. i must say this game is really fun to play if you a mario and 
 sonic fan like me. if your looking for a fun game to play with your friends or if u just want to 
 mash a million buttons this game is for you! mind you you get really tierd from all that movement 
 (good for loosing weight i suppose..) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stoo6747
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I think it is ridiculous that gamespot gave this game a 6.0. If you liked Wii sports, and who didnt, 
 this game is for you. My friends and I have gotten hours of enjoyment out of this game and now 
 we are trying to go for the online world records. The only thing that would make this game better 
 is online head to head action, especially in ping pong, and the ability to customize or build your 
 Mii's abilities. If Paper Mario was a 9.0 (that is what games spot gave it) this game is at least 
 a 14. Give this one a try, it is fun. Party on!!
  
  Lame why do I have to write 800 character. OK here's more. The ping pong is 1 million times better 
 than the Wii plays. The missions are challenging and fun. If have friends who arnt huge gamers 
 they will want to play too. Games like this are the ones that are changing the industry and are 
 why the Wii is the great console of all time. FYI, I am 30 and have been a huge game all my life. 
 Wii rocks! Eat it Microsoft!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  If back in 1990 you had told either a Nintendo or Sega fanboy that both Mario and Sonic would be 
 appearing together in a game in 2007, they would have told you that you were completely insane. 
 Well, the unthinkable has happened, and the once-fierce rivals are now together for the first time 
 in Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games. It's too bad that this isn't the great platforming game 
 an entire generation has been dreaming of since the Super Nintendo Entertainment System and Sega 
 Genesis days. Instead it's a collection of minigames, some of which are good, and many of which 
 are not.
  
  One of the game's big draws is that it lets you use characters from the Mario and Sonic universes. 
 From the Mario side you can select Mario, Luigi, Wario, Waluigi, Bowser, Daisy, Yoshi, or Peach. 
 From the Sonic side you can play as Sonic, Tails, Knuckles, Amy, Blaze, Vector, Dr. Eggman, or 
 Shadow. You can even use your Mii if you so choose. Each character is rated in a number of categories, 
 but these ratings don't seem to matter much, if at all. Though there's no online play, the game 
 tracks records for all events, and you can even upload your best scores and times online to see 
 how you stack up with the rest of the world.
  
  Mario & Sonic lets you play 20 real Olympic events, as well as a few of the fantasy variety. You 
 can play single events; a circuit, where you compete in four events and try to finish first so 
 that you can unlock new sports; and missions, where you compete in multiple events but have specific 
 goals such as finishing in a certain place or throwing the javelin a particular distance. Why you'd 
 ever not want to throw the javelin as far as you can -- and instead try to toss it between 40 and 
 50 meters -- is anyone's guess, but it's something you'll have to do here. All of these contests 
 use motion-based controls, and some of them require both the Nunchuk and the remote. Others require 
 only the remote. Athletic events include: 100 meter dash, 4x100 meters, 4x100m relay, 110 meter 
 hurdles, 400 meter hurdles, long jump, triple jump, high jump, pole vault, hammer throw, and the 
 javelin throw. These events are really basic and require little more of you than to hold B and 
 move the Wii Remote down to start, after which you alternate moving the Nunchuk and the Wii Remote 
 up and down to run, and then wave the remote up to jump or press the B button and wave the remote 
 down to pass the baton.
  
  There's more to the game than track-and-field events. Rowing places you in a single scull where 
 you must press a button shown onscreen and then pull the remote toward you. You can take a dip 
 in the pool for 100 meter or 4x100 meter freestyle races, which are performed much like the foot 
 races except you have to hit the B button at specific times to keep your stamina going. If you're 
 into gymnastics, you can hop on a trampoline, where you have to wave the remote to jump and then 
 press buttons you see onscreen to perform moves. You can even do the vault, where you run up to 
 a springboard and then jump across the horse while doing tricks in midair. Another event is skeet 
 shooting, which is really tough because of the lame, timed minigame that takes place beforehand. 
 You're shown a heart, and you have to press B when the heartbeat is right in the center. If you 
 time it properly, your aiming reticle gets bigger; if you miss, it gets smaller and makes the event 
 near impossible. On the other hand, archery is one of the better games. Here you press A and B, 
 pull the Wii Remote toward you, and then line up two pairs of sights, one with the remote and the 
 other with the Nunchuk. This isn't too tough on its own, but when you start having to take wind 
 speed into account, it gets pretty tricky. 
  
  One sport that should have been good, but isn't, is fencing. You basically move your character 
 back to dodge an opponent's attack, and then move forward to stab when he or she misses. You can 
 parry shots, but you'd have to have lightning-quick reflexes to do so, and there's no point in 
 doing so aside from when you have to parry to pass a mission. Another event that fails to be much 
 fun is table tennis. The big problem here is that you have no control over your character's movement, 
 so even if your timing is spot-on, you might be two feet away from the ball when you swing... and 
 miss. Some of the more interesting events are the fantasy stages, where you do things such as run 
 around a track while shooting weapons at your opponents like in Mario Kart. Another pretty fun 
 diversion is 10,000 meter diving.
  
  The big problem with Mario & Sonic is that the mechanics for most events just aren't much fun. 
 The game requires some precise timing and movement to pull off certain maneuvers (you get penalized 
 if you wave too hard when you jump) , and the instructions are poor, which means that you'll spend 
 a lot of time yelling at the TV because you just can't do the triple jump properly. Even if you 
 aren't having trouble with an event, you probably won't have much fun -- unless you enjoy waving 
 your arms to pretend that you're running. There's also very little depth to any of the events. 
 Other than a few sports where the controls really get in the way, it's not difficult to win gold 
 on your first attempt. In fact, you'll probably set world records on your first go at a sport on 
 more than one occasion. Consequently, though you might have fun for an hour or two, you'd be hard 
 pressed to squeeze much more entertainment out of the game, even when playing with up to three 
 other friends. 
  
  The visuals are probably the best thing Mario & Sonic has to offer. You can't go wrong with the 
 character designs, and they're nicely animated, right down to individualized celebrations. The 
 game supports widescreen and progressive scan, so everything looks crisp and clear on a high-definition 
 display, particularly the colors, which really stand out in HD. The frame rate is solid, even when 
 eight characters are displayed onscreen at once -- it's a very technically solid visual presentation. 
 The audio isn't bad either. If you use the same character over and over, you'll likely grow weary 
 of the repetitious exclamations, but there are plenty of characters available should you tire of 
 one. The music isn't anything exciting, though you can unlock classic Mario and Sonic tunes by 
 playing some of the trivia games, which oddly enough have you do things such as count goombas or 
 match cards instead of actually answering trivia.
  
  Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games probably isn't the game you envisioned when you imagined the 
 once-fierce rivals finally getting together, but that's not its biggest problem. Instead, the trouble 
 lies in the often uninteresting and occasionally frustrating motion controls combined with some 
 events that are too similar to one another, as well as shallow gameplay that brings the game down. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerBoy53
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Like Mario, like Sonic, buy this game. Otherwise, don't come too close to it. The game does have 
 pretty good graphics and it is nice to see Mario and Sonic together but the gameplay is seriously 
 horrible. The only reason you should buy this game is if your making a Mario/Sonic collection and/or 
 have pretty much no choice. If they didn't add in the gallery you would probably only play it for 
 about 3 hours in the entire time you owmed it. If you want a workout that bad then you should probably 
 wait for Wii Fit or if you're reading this in 2009 or beyond, well, buy Wii Fit. "Mario and Sonic" 
 is a definite let down. It doesn't even have any plot or anything. Even Sonic Riders was able to 
 get an OK plot. Sometimes the game is downright frusrtrating. The best part of the game is either 
 the swimming event, the gallery, or the point where you turn it off in disgust. I know I'm going 
 a little too far but still. Don't buy this game. I know that's like my 3rd time saying that but 
 still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loulou43
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  i think that this game is a complete waste of time kids should be doing these activities for real 
 not on a game you may burn a little energy but nothing compared to the real thing plus the game 
 has got quite a few similarilarities to wii sports all your doing is sports and the point of this 
 is none and to add all these world records are constantly beaten by other people and when you see 
 that your 40,000th on the true world record chart it's quite a put down my brother was very upset 
 when he tried his hardest for 5 days but still only progress 100 place up the record board he was 
 devastated now the game hasn't been played on for about 3 months now i think they should make 
 more educational games and leave the fitness up to the parents because i am as skinny as hell thats 
 because i am naturally skinny the rest of my family are fat but i put them through hours of exercise 
 by me refusing to work because i can't put on weight and they have lost alot more weight than this 
 game ever could make them loose 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngmansfield
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games is a weak attempt to exploit the hoopla over the upcoming 
 Olympics. Most of the events use the same control scheme and gestures, and it gets boring quickly. 
 That said, all this makes for the perfect substitute for the Mario Party drinking game.. Drink 
 enough and you might even be able to deal with the fact that this game seams to be aimed at 5 year 
 olds. The shorter games (like track and swimming) are easily adapted to be a comptititve sport 
 where the winners get to sit back, and the losers drink up. Warning! Drink your place is not a good 
 way to start off. The computer players are too good, and the games so short, that it is not uncommon 
 to wind up chugging a beer every 5 minutes or so. Naturally, this only get's worse.
  
  Wait for this game to go on sale for $20 and pick it up for a Friday night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5nake3yes
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  My mate bought this recently and having read the review on here I was a little sceptical about 
 it. Having now played it I can safely say that Mr. Thomas is talking utter rubbish and it seems 
 to me (along with many of the other Wii reviewers) has completely missed the point of what the 
 wii is about.
  
  This game is essentially the old spectrum Track & Field but 10x more fun because you are waving 
 your arms about everywhere instead of hammering A&S. Incidently if you can't understand the instructions 
 for a kids wii game then you really shouldn't be reviewing games should you! Just to help you out 
 a little, for the triple jump Wave the wii mote and nun chuck up and down till you hit max speed, 
 flick the wiimote up at each jump point to do the triple jump. I got it first time and this was 
 my first time playing on a wii.
  
  Both our wives had a play on this and thought it was brilliant fun, especially events like the 
 100m hurdles or the swimming relay. The shooting is effectively an old point and shoot lightgun 
 game, quite how you class shooting the heart to get the bigger target reticule as a "mini game" 
 I really don't know. The hammer is insanely hard to do and very satisfying when you get it right. 
 My wife is rubbish at games but still managed to do reasonably on all the events and even though 
 she lost still really enjoyed it.
  
  As with most wii party games, get a few mates together, get a few drinks down you (if you are old 
 enough that is!) and have a great laugh playing each other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onkz_94
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  The game is good, but isn't excellent. It got the scores that it deserved. The gameplay is fun, 
 sometimes a little sloppy, the graphics are pixelated and dont always look to good. The events 
 though, are brilliant for example swimming is very innovative. You can play the game for hours 
 upon end when you first get it, but the excitement fades away a few days later. The loading times 
 are good, but some explanations for events are very brief and you need to find the controls out 
 for yourself I suggest that you rent it or borrow it off some one first. I'm happy i actually borrowed 
 it off a friend because i was considering buying it because it looked fun. It was kind of a letdown, 
 simply because it had been hyped up for so long and when it was released it was a disaster (somewhat)
 
  Make sure you think about it before you buy it 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JordyCool1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Mario And Sonic At The Olympic Games Is The First Time The two greatest gaming characters have 
 teamed up. With both the Sega and Nintendo companys making great games it had high expectations.
 
  
  The game has bright colourfull graphics plus a short video at the begin showing all the characters 
 and the different evets. Although there is a great variety of events it feels like you are performing 
 the same actions on almost every event.
  
  The list of characters is sixteen wich i personaly think is tomany though im suprised there isnt 
 more as both mario and sonic games normaly have a list of ten or more players to chose from.
  
  Even though the game is repetative i , for some reason , seam to be going back for more everytime 
 ! This could be due to the tournement more where players earn point for the place they finish in 
 similar to mario karts. On tournement mode you can also pick from three levels of hardnes.
  
  Over all the repeated movements on almost every event is a let down but
  Mario and Sonic 
 also has enough good features to make this game worth buying !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFlareKin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  This is an okay game. The mutiplayer is fun and there are different . However, since the controls 
 for each game are similar but not exactly alike, the game iss fairly easy. The competitions make 
 the game feel like a very competitive Olympic style game. Many of the events come straight from 
 sports such as Track and Field, so a lot of people who play competitional sports such as Track 
 and Field might feel a little disappointed that the controls are not running style controls. Also, 
 there could be a couple more minigames that such as kayaking. Also, unlockable characters would 
 have been a little nice to see. For example, Silver or Dr. Mario would be good characters to see 
 in the game. Overall, the game is good and, if it is one of the first games you decide to get for 
 Wii, then it is really good at teaching you a couple of the basics for the wii and the numchuk. 
 It is great for party games if you choose a game with the two-four player option. This game is 
 good to last for about 4 hours before boredome. With numerous competitions such as swimming, hurdles, 
 and throwing the javelin, the game is good for a while, but it will not endure through time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman-2k8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Mario & Sonic brings together the title characters and 14 more from both franchises to participate 
 in environments based on the official venues of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. [7] These environments 
 are stylized to fit the art styles of the Mario and Sonic video games. Besides the characters from 
 the Mario and Sonic games, Miis can also be used. [8] There are also a few randomly selected non-playable 
 characters acting as referees for certain events. Each playable character has their own statistics 
 which can serve as an advantage or disadvantage depending on the event. They are divided into four 
 categories: all-round, speed, power, and skill. [9]
  
  The gameplay for the Wii involves utilizing the Wii Remote and Nunchuk in various ways to complete 
 each event. The events can require a combination of speed, timing, and some strategy. Each competition 
 offers a slight degree of difference. In the running events, for example, getting a starting boost 
 in the 100 m dash will either make or break the player's place, while in a relay race, which can 
 last for well over a minute, this may not determine place as effectively. The game also has leaderboards 
 that make use of the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection to show the best times and scores. [8]
  
  There are twenty Olympic events which are divided into eight different classifications; athletics, 
 gymnastics, shooting, rowing, archery, aquatics, fencing, and table tennis. [8] All of these events 
 are organized in the tournament and circuit modes. [10] Some events such as 4x100 m relay race, 
 allow the player to have a team of four characters. There is also a single-player mission mode. 
 Circuit mode is where players compete for the highest overall score [6] in a pre-determined series 
 of events or design their own circuit. [9] In the mission mode, each of the competitors has six 
 character-specific missions to complete, however each of the characters statistics are not as balanced 
 as in the main game. For example, one of Mario's missions, beating Sonic, is more challenging here. [8]
 
  
  There is an unlockable version of four of the Olympic events in the game. These events are called 
 "Dream Events". They differ from their original counterparts by applying more fictional video game 
 attributes from the Mario and Sonic worlds. As a result, these events also have recognizable locations, 
 abilities, objects, and support characters from both gaming worlds. [6] [11] There are events, such 
 as cycling, boxing, and more dream events, that are only playable on the DS version.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_for_kicks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  When buying this game i had doubts on whether i would be wasting my money or not but i went ahead 
 and got it anyway and was pleasantly suprised. This game is actually fun, and i fail to see how 
 it got low reviews scores.
  
  The game includes 20 playable characters which is more then enough to satisfy different experiences 
 in the different events. A range of modes with different objectives kept me entertained including 
 single match, circuit and mission based events. Being able to collect emblems for different achievements 
 keeps you hooked one this game because you just want to be able to sit there and look at a full 
 page of emblems that you have achieved. The wii controlls are pretty well done in this game, they 
 fit in with the events and you have fun using them.
  
  The multiplayer is quite fun, this game is good to play with a bunch of friends when you have not 
 alot on.
  
  Having said that there are a few minor annoyances in this game that keep it from being a better 
 game. 
  
  - some mission based events at times are almost impossible to complete.
  - one characters tail was poking through the starting blocks in a 100m event and that should not 
 be happening with game graphics today.
  - the wind directions in archery seem to change themselves from time to time e. g. you place a shot 
 in a certain spot so the wind pushes it the centre, then you take the exact same shot and you miss.
 
  - sometimes in table tennis your backhand doesnt register
  
  Overall this game kept me coming back for more and is a great way to get into the oylmpics for 
 those people who purchase the game on that grounds. The mulitplayer with friends makes the game 
 even better it just has a few minor problems that keep it from being a truely great game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThorMaximus
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I recently bought this game, intending on playing it mainly with my friends. This game is everything 
 that a multiplayer game should be; FUN. Granted it doesn't have a lot of depth, the 20 events are 
 a lot of fun to play for a couple hours against friends. The solo play is also pretty fun since 
 you can compare your records against records of people around the world. The game itself is a little 
 harder to play than say Wii Sports. Many of the games incorporate the buttons with timing. It shouldn't 
 be hard for any regular gamer, but children and people who aren't very familiar with the wii should 
 get more familiar using Wii Sports. Its like the next step from WIi SPorts control wise. I recommend 
 this game fully if you are looking for a quick easy game to get into with friends and maybe are 
 getting a little bored with Wii Sports (although thats hard to do!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerking9
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  It's good the first couple of hours, but is the same thing over and over again. Though I will be 
 excited to play as them in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, and this didn't feed my hunger for more Mario 
 games. I say it isn't worth fifty bucks so just rent it. It's way more fun to play with friends 
 and family. Iwery glad it didn't win any Nintendo Power awards, and once again don't buy it, I 
 repeat DON'T BUY IT, but RENT IT. The fact that you can't win circuts with friends playing with 
 you is stupid. If you are on a one game budget get Super Mario Galaxy. They only make it look fun 
 on television, when it only does the same thing over and over again which is why it is stupid, 
 don't play it for long periods of time it gets more boring faster, and if your on a one game budget 
 for Nintendo DS get The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman1995
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Mario & Sonic brings together the title characters and 14 more from both franchises to participate 
 in environments based on the official venues of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. [7] These environments 
 are stylized to fit the art styles of the Mario and Sonic video games. Besides the characters from 
 the Mario and Sonic games, Miis can also be used. [8] There are also a few randomly selected non-playable 
 characters acting as referees for certain events. Each playable character has their own statistics 
 which can serve as an advantage or disadvantage depending on the event. They are divided into four 
 categories: all-around, speed, power, and skill. [9]
  
  The gameplay for the Wii involves utilizing the Wii Remote and Nunchuk in various ways to complete 
 each event. The events can require a combination of speed, timing, and some strategy. Each competition 
 offers a slight degree of difference. In the running events, for example, getting a starting boost 
 in the 100 m dash will either make or break the player's place, while in a relay race, which can 
 last for well over a minute, this may not determine place as effectively. The game also has leaderboards 
 that make use of the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection to show the best times and scores. [8]
  
  There are twenty Olympic events which are divided into eight different classifications; athletics, 
 gymnastics, shooting, rowing, archery, aquatics, fencing, and table tennis. [8] All of these events 
 are organized in the tournament and circuit modes. [10] Some events such as 4x100 m relay race, 
 allow the player to have a team of four characters. There is also a single-player mission mode. 
 Circuit mode is where players compete for the highest overall score [6] in a pre-determined series 
 of events or design their own circuit. [9] In the mission mode, each of the competitors has six 
 character-specific missions to complete, however each of the characters statistics are not as balanced 
 as in the main game. For example, one of Mario's missions, beating Sonic, is more challenging here. [8]
 
  
  There is an unlockable version of four of the Olympic events in the game. These events are called 
 "Dream Events". They differ from their original counterparts by applying more fictional video game 
 attributes from the Mario and Sonic worlds. As a result, these events also have recognizable locations, 
 abilities, objects, and support characters from both gaming worlds. [6] [11] There are events, such 
 as cycling, boxing, and more dream events, that are only playable on the DS version.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Putting Mario an Sonic characters in the same game has been the dream of many for quite some time. 
 Now it is realized, but not in the way people hoped. Though Mario and Sonic at the Olympics can 
 be quite fun for a while with a group, its simplistic a limited gameplay will have you bored before 
 your rental expires. It does have some nice aspects and might find a greater appeal with a younger 
 audience.
  
  The game consists of a number of Olympic themed events in which the games characters compete. There 
 are running events and field events as well as a few swimming and even a skeet shooting event. 
 The problem with the events is that many of them are not that fun and there isn't much variation 
 between them. You can play the events individually, but the more enjoyable way to play is in a 
 circuit of several events put together.
  
  The character selection in the game is acceptable, but not great. There are 16 playable characters 
 broken up into 4 groups of 4. There are power characters, all around, speed, and skill characters. 
 While playing on a circuit is important to know which event your character will be best at, but 
 isn't required. Certain types of Characters get advantages in certain events, but It does not seems 
 very well balanced. The game feels weighted toward skill characters mostly. One great addition 
 is the ability to play as a Mii. Miis have balances stats and I found playing them more enjoyable 
 than either the Mario or Sonic characters.
  
  Multiplayer on this game is alright. The major problem with it is that while playing multiplayer 
 it does not track your World Records and you are not able to unlock and new events or awards. Another 
 problem is that you can not turn of the competing computer players, but since there really isn't 
 much interaction with them it isn't a huge problem. One nice feature they do have the ability to 
 play most of the games with one Wiimote. The game still suffers from all the single player problems, 
 but when playing against someone else it feels more fun.
  
  The most redeeming aspect of the game is the activity level required to play it. If you're looking 
 for a way to keep young children active during the cold winter months this game could help. The 
 motions are repetitive, but are enough to give a decent upper body workout. There still is the 
 problem of it being too focused on the dominant hand, or more specifically the right hand. This 
 game totally discriminates against left handed people and a few of the games, like hammer throw, 
 are near unplayable for a lefty. Anyway, if you have right handed children bursting with energy 
 in the winter this might be a good solution.
  
  The sad thing is that this game could have been great it if would have taken a few lessons from 
 Wii sports. There really feels like no reason to keep playing and sadly the Sonic and Mario Franchises 
 feel tacked on an totally unnecessary. The game can still be some good fun and might appeal to 
 a younger audience a little more. I would recommend only renting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi487
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games is one of the best games on the Nintendo Wii, no matter what 
 all the critics are saying. Since this is an Olympic game you'll be competing in various olympic 
 events from the 400m to the at first confusing Archery, you will surely find several events you 
 like in this game. There are a total of 24 events, while 20 events are real, the other 4 are fantasy-like 
 events. First Dream Race is basically Mario Kart but on foot instead of you racing on karts, Dream 
 Platform has you skydiving while going through rings you would see ina Sonic games to collect points, 
 Dream Fencing is Fencing but with Mario-style super moves, Dream Table Tennis is exactly like dream 
 fencing but table tennis. As you would guess there are motion-sensing controls in this game and 
 how do they work, you ask, they work great, they include shaking the Wii-mote and the Nunchuk Up 
 and Down to run (you will use this method through the whole game) , to jump you will flick the Wii-mote 
 up, while it all can be confusing at first after a couple of tries with all the events they will 
 be like second nature to you. My only complaint is that after you unlock every event and get every 
 badge, there's not that much replayability unless you start a new game (you can have up to 4 saved 
 games which is great) but still this is a great game to add to your Wii collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tydus121212
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why Gamespot gave this game a 6.0. It's actually quite fun, it's better playing 2 
 players or more. Lots of movement is done in this game you can burn a lot of fat. The graphics 
 are quite impressive, the one thing that annoys me is the controls some times they're just not 
 precise at all. The game has lots of re playability and will use your wii manet and nunchuck alot. 
 The gameplay it self is good, the music is standard. This game can keep you busy for quite awhile, 
 it's not that hard ether except those stages with hard control I don't think this game deserves 
 a 6.0. So if you want a game to play with family or friends, and really wanna burn up some fat, 
 than this is the game for you!
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Controls: 7/10
  Value: 8/10
  Sound: 8/10 
  
  Overall: 8.0/10 "GREAT" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Since the days of the Super Nintendo and the Sega Megadrive, Mario and Sonic have competed in a 
 serious battle in the console war. But now the time has come and Mario and Sonic have competed 
 against each other in one of the greatest sporting event in the World, the Olympic Games. This 
 game isn't about who's the best, it's about friendship and thats a good thing. 
  
  There are 2 teams and they are:
  
  From the Mushroom Kingdom:
  
  Mario
  Luigi
  Peach
 
  Daisy
  Wario
  Waluigi
  Yoshi 
  Bowser
  
  From the Emerald Island:
  
  Sonic
  Tails
  Knuckles
  Amy Rose
  Blaze
  Shadow
  Dr Eggman (aka Dr Robotnik which I like to 
 call him)
  
  When you start playingthe game, not all the events are avalible you have to take part in the first 
 4 circuits to unlock them. To unlock the Moonlight circuit, you need to win gold in the first 4 
 circuits.
  
  The events are hard to start with but the more practice and learning, you will get used to it and 
 it will be a lot easier.
  
  Archery was one of the hardest events but difficult to master so you need to keep an eye on the 
 wind direction.
  
  100m freestyle is also hard because all the characters have their own method of how to swim but 
 it can be easy when you master it.
  
  The Trampoline was one of my favourite ones because you use the Wii Remote to bounce your character 
 up and down and you have to follow the key commands on the right of the screen and thats excellent.
 
  
  The Dream events are good but you need to win the circuits to unlock them.
  
  I found table tennis quite good but the timing is a little bit iffy but I like it anyway.
  
 
  You can also update your records of each event you competed in via Nintendo wifi connection but 
 sadly there's no online play.
  
  The game is based on the 2008 Beijing Olympics and the Graphics are brilliant and the Music Score 
 is absolutely beautifully done.
  
  I bought it cheap for 14.99 after trading Mario Strikers Charged Football at Gamestation and its 
 worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwmr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Ah Mario AND Sonic my 2 favorite characters beside link (legend of Zelda) I love it that they are 
 together in one game .
  Mario&Sonic is rather easy to play if you mean by that that the controls are easy but if you meen 
 winning that something else. winning can be hard sometimes but if you finally get the hang of the 
 controls you will win pretty easy. The game itself has been built very nicely you have a lot of 
 sports to chose from going from athletics and gymnastics to swimming you can even play non existing 
 sports like dream fencing and running like mario kart. One of the minor things is that you can't 
 play online the game would have been almost one of the better olympic games if you could do that.
 
  I played it for a couple of hours straight and i have to admit i was pretty tired after it.
  So for al those people who like sporting try this game and for those gamers also it's a good exercise 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anton_111111
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  many people have waited years and years for Mario and Sonic to appear in the same game
  
  Good parts: intersting controls, graphics and charater list
  
  Instersting controls: i like 
 the running motion also the jumps though i can't do the long or triple jump
  
  Graphics: some of the best i've seen on the wii
  
  Character list: It has a massive range with 
 characters and also you can play with miis as well some characters are: Mario, Sonic, Yoshi, Blaze, 
 Luigi and Talis
  
  Bad parts: unintesting controls and missons
  
  Unintersting controls: i don't like the fencing or the archery controls are they are proably the 
 trickest controls in the game
  
  Missons: some of the miisons sometimes have some silly things which you have to do e. g come in 
 2nd
  
  Graphics: 10 this is some of the best grapnics on the wii
  Gameplay: 10 this is the best video game for the olympics
  Sound: 8 mopst of the event music 
 is surberb but the commentator isn't and his voice gets annoying quite quickly
  
  overall: 9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsman92
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Bitter Rivals during the days of the 16-bit era, Mario and Sonic finally come together, were peace 
 is sapost to be a pervading vibe, the 2008 Olympics. Will this old school rival team work, or will 
 it fall down with the 2. Mario and Sonic strength is in its wide verity events. There are tones 
 of events to do. Like swimming, boat riding, track and field, high jumping, and more. There are 
 30 more events in all, and it should keep a group of friends busy. In single player, there are 
 missions that don't make sense, like finishing a race in second place and what not. Mario and Sonic 
 let's you learn some Olympic trivia, but you need to do a pointless Mini-game. The characters that 
 you know and love are all from Mario are here, like WaLuigi and Daisy, and of course, Mario, Luigi, 
 Peach, Yoshi, and Bowser. For Sonic, You have Sonic, Tails, Knuckles, Amy and Shadow, But some 
 may not know Vector or Blaze. Mario and Sonic also lets you use your Mii's to compete with. The 
 states are all form Mario Tennis games, Like All-around characters like Mario and Amy, Speed characters 
 like Sonic and Yoshi, Power Characters like Bowser and Vector, and Special characters like Eggman 
 and WaLuigi. Your Miis have natural states. Graphically, the game doesn't look to bad. The characters 
 don't look to bad and stages are colorful and crisp. But, voice clips are atrosuse. While the Mario 
 clips are the same as other games, they can be used to their worst. While the Sonic clips are just 
 grating, thanks to 4 kids. The gameplay has its moments. Mario and Sonic uses some not so good 
 control. Some don't make sense, like why flip the remote to jump? Timing and execution is the key, 
 and this can get frustrating. The controls can be unresponsive, so you better play rough. The good 
 controls are the one the ones that mimic real events, like table tennis. The track and field events 
 are the best. Your arms will get a good work out. Dream events aren't that interesting. There's 
 skydiving, Dream racing is basically Mario Kart on foot, and other events that just add special 
 moves. Some other events need you to press buttons and use Wii Remote move, and don't make much 
 sense. Mario and Sonic isn't a bad game, just unimpressive. There are just better Mini-game collections 
 on the Wii. While the Events are Nice, the controls are too much of the problem. The only reason 
 that people may buy this is to see Mario and Sonic competing agents each other. People should wait 
 for brawl to do see them together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicdude123
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  One of the game's big draws is that it lets you use characters from the Mario and Sonic universes. 
 From the Mario side you can select Mario, Luigi, Wario, Waluigi, Bowser, Daisy, Yoshi, or Peach. 
 From the Sonic side you can play as Sonic, Tails, Knuckles, Amy, Blaze, Vector, Dr. Eggman, or 
 Shadow. You can even use your Mii if you so choose. Each character is rated in a number of categories, 
 but these ratings don't seem to matter much, if at all. Though there's no online play, the game 
 tracks records for all events, and you can even upload your best scores and times online to see 
 how you stack up with the rest of the world.
  
  Mario & Sonic lets you play 20 real Olympic events, as well as a few of the fantasy variety. You 
 can play single events; a circuit, where you compete in four events and try to finish first so 
 that you can unlock new sports; and missions, where you compete in multiple events but have specific 
 goals such as finishing in a certain place or throwing the javelin a particular distance. Why you'd 
 ever not want to throw the javelin as far as you can -- and instead try to toss it between 40 and 
 50 meters -- is anyone's guess, but it's something you'll have to do here. All of these contests 
 use motion-based controls, and some of them require both the Nunchuk and the remote. Others require 
 only the remote. Athletic events include: 100 meter dash, 4x100 meters, 4x100m relay, 110 meter 
 hurdles, 400 meter hurdles, long jump, triple jump, high jump, pole vault, hammer throw, and the 
 javelin throw. These events are really basic and require little more of you than to hold B and 
 move the Wii Remote down to start, after which you alternate moving the Nunchuk and the Wii Remote 
 up and down to run, and then wave the remote up to jump or press the B button and wave the remote 
 down to pass the baton.
  
  There's more to the game than track-and-field events. Rowing places you in a single scull where 
 you must press a button shown onscreen and then pull the remote toward you. You can take a dip 
 in the pool for 100 meter or 4x100 meter freestyle races, which are performed much like the foot 
 races except you have to hit the B button at specific times to keep your stamina going. If you're 
 into gymnastics, you can hop on a trampoline, where you have to wave the remote to jump and then 
 press buttons you see onscreen to perform moves. You can even do the vault, where you run up to 
 a springboard and then jump across the horse while doing tricks in midair. Another event is skeet 
 shooting, which is really tough because of the lame, timed minigame that takes place beforehand. 
 You're shown a heart, and you have to press B when the heartbeat is right in the center. If you 
 time it properly, your aiming reticle gets bigger; if you miss, it gets smaller and makes the event 
 near impossible. On the other hand, archery is one of the better games. Here you press A and B, 
 pull the Wii Remote toward you, and then line up two pairs of sights, one with the remote and the 
 other with the Nunchuk. This isn't too tough on its own, but when you start having to take wind 
 speed into account, it gets pretty tricky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mq041697
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  this game is so cool. i play everyday!!! the only games that are lame is the epee, long jump, triple 
 jump, and the archery. the games that are fun is the 100m, 110m hurdles, 100m freestyle, trampoline, 
 dream race, high jump, hammer throw, and the single sculls. I RECOMMEND THE PERSON READING THIS 
 GET A WII IF YOU DONT HAVE ONE (FOR THE PEOPLE WHO DO HAVE A WII, ROCK ON) AND GET THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 BUT BUY A PSP FIRST I HAVE ONE AND ITS AWESOME!!!!!!!!! SO REMEMBER WHAT I SAID GET THIS GAME AND 
 YOU WILL NEVER REGRET IT!!!!!!!!!!!!$49.99. On a totally different point this game cost a lot. 
 It cost forty-nine and
  ninety-nine cents! I have no more game money. WA-HA!!!!!!!!!!!!! But my birth-day is comming up 
 and im getting more money ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya 
 ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya yaaaaaaaa!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: full1820house
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  It`s the first Mario and Sonic and it`s great. They put 16 characters  
 etc.) My only problem is how they put Blaze who`s only been in like three game instead of Silver 
 who`s been in a lot more. There`s 16 events (Only two suck suprising with a mini-game collection) . The 
 events are 100m,110 m hurdles 400m,400m hurdles,4x100 meter relay, Long Jump (one game that sucks) , Triple 
 Jump (other game that sucks) High Jump, Javelin Throw, Hammer Throw, Pole Vault, Vault, Trampolines, Skeet 
 Shooting, Single Sculls (Rowing) , Dream Race, Dream Fencing, Dream Table Tennis, Dream  
 remember name of events) , Fencing and Singles Table Tennis. My Favorites are the Aquatics and Fencing. Overall 
 Mario And Sonic At The Olympic Games is a great Sports, Family and Party game you should definetly 
 rent or buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmeads
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  mario &sonic is an amazing game i loved it i cant think of any bad points the difficulty is just 
 right thers a good amount of character divided into skill :
  power all round speed and skill there is a mission mode where you get 6 missions for every character 
 (16) you can unlock two extra characters i wont spoil the suprise if you dont already know. you 
 can also do main bit where you can do competitions divided into 3 difficulties begginer advanced 
 and master class you can also unlock more events as you progress through the game thank you for 
 reading my review josh 
  now im w a s t i n g space so its long enough. pls add me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruth7
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  -Great multiplayer
  -Most of the controls work well.
  -Great workout
  
  Cons
  -Not so great to play alone.
  -Some of the controls are basically the same.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The greatest part of this game is definitely the multiplayer. You and you're firiend (s) would be 
 playing with this for weeks! The game totals up to 24 events and has a wikde variety of characters 
 each with their own ups and downs. Also there are online rankings, so you can try to beat other 
 people's records. If you're playing alone, this most likely won't last too long...
  The controls in this game are pretty good and responsive. Only one game (event) gave me a problem 
 and takes a lot of getting used to. 
  If you're looking for a game that will give you a great work out, then this game is for you! You'll 
 be moving like crazy...
  Lastly, this game can be easily compared to Wii Sports. 
  
  If you have friends get this game. You'll have a lot of fun... Otherwise just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UVERproject
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  The big problem with this game is the controls. Sometimes you don't know how to judge things and 
 it senses way off. Other times there just mindless wiimote swinging and can get tiresome, other 
 times you just dont know what your doing and find some of the games just annoying. You are just 
 left to learn and pretty much practice the movements of the olympic games. The learning curve is 
 very simple though. They have a quick tutorial that you can go to before the game that describes 
 what to do. I was only left wondering what to do a couple of times. Then again their controls make 
 the game fun. The controls are one of the most creative ive seen for the wii and make it really 
 fun. The character selection is pretty good and a plus side you can just use your Mii if you dont 
 like Mario or Sonic. The single player mode difficulty jumps from sadly easy to OMG WTF you can't 
 win. Down right it's just a party game and fun with friends. I was really let down with Archery. 
 It was nothing like archery. It was more like, well I don't know it was undescribable for words. 
 It was just really awkward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thunderstarter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Well, I know what gamespot said. But you know what? Who cares? This game is FUN.
  Nintendo really had an idea when making this game. And it worked. A lot of people might think that 
 it's not worth it or something like that, but TRUST me, I normally stick with reviews, but I took 
 a chance and was proven right. The game has about 25 events to choose from and quite a few of them 
 can competed with for high scores on wi-fi. There are five modes:
  Single Match-pick a match and play
  Circut- play in an already set order of events or pick your 
 own. New events are unlocked here.
  Mission- Each character had indvidual missions asking to complete specific requirements for certain 
 events to pass them.
  Gallery- unlock songs and play fun little minigames to unlock trivia questions.
  Dream events 
 are probably the most fun thing to do in the game. For exampple, in Dream race, you're in a footrace 
 and throw powerups at your challengers to make them slow down, like in Mario Kart. Reguler events 
 can be fun too, but others can be just plan frusturating.
  This game is NOT for everyone. Anyone who does not enjoy basically a cluster of minigames should 
 just pack up and go. Otherwise, on your marks, get set, GO!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyranitar522
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 26, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  Hmm, well lookie here. Mario and Sonic have finally joined together to be in a single game. Pretty 
 cool I'd say from first sight, but second sight, mmmm, not as good as i would think. Nintendo and 
 Sega are great, great, companies, and their games are very amazing, and this idea was good, but 
 this game does lack in something. It does not have a good amount of olympic sports, and only 16 
 characters. The activities are a little cheesy, and Sonic can't even swim without a life vest. 
 What an embarassment! I expected far more from this game. But every bad thing comes with a good. 
 This game has great graphics, great great graphics. Some activities are fun, and show off the characters 
 unique talent and ability. Yet, some wanted characters are not in the game. They do not select 
 a good variety, and I sure do hope that the DS version of this game is far better.
  
  P. S. there is no challenge to this game, its just simple sports that you can learn in like 2 minutes 
 and then get bored once you finish them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xlrb5
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I love this game so much!!! It is so much fun! I can't belive people don't like this game. I mean 
 this game is so much fun. The charater selection is great!!! I just love Shadow the Hedgehog. He 
 is the best Sonic charater I have ever played. I hope Nintendo makes other great games like this 
 one. Super Smash Brothers Brawl looks like a promising game. That's why I reserved a copy of the 
 game when it comes out. But anyway the game has lots of great games to play like 100 Meter, 4x100 
 Meters, Swimming, High Jump, Fencing, Rowing, Dream Race, Dream Fencing, and Javilin Throw!!! The 
 one I love to do the most is High Jump, Javilin, and the 100 Meter run. Also, I enjoy doing the 
 Hammer Throw, Swimming, Fencing, Dream Race, Dream Fencing, Skeer, 4x100 Meter, and the 110 Meter 
 Hurdle!!! I strongly reccomend this game to anyone who loves to play games where you move around 
 alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatman2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  when i first saw the game in the shops i thought that it would be rubbish but to my suprise i really 
 enjoyed playing it since that you get alot of choice in the game on your charecter, events and 
 the diffuculty. i first played it with my friend because he brought round my house, so we gave 
 it ago at first i thought it was a bit corny, but as you progress into the game you get more events 
 and missions to do. there is four types of attributes that the charecters have which are: skill, 
 speed, stamina and power and depending on which event your doing there is a best person for the 
 job for power i usaully choose bowser as he has full power and is the strongest, if i need speed 
 sonic as he has full speed and alot of stamina and if i need skill peach is the best. 
  
  it is a great party game to play as all the events in it are 4 player as you are usually competing 
 agaisnt yours mates who, in my case, are much better than me and beat my world records all the 
 time. my favouite event in it is deffinitely the 4x100 metre freestyle swimming as you always are 
 tired out after the event and i always need a break for a drink. my other events that i think are 
 the best are javelin and hammer throw as i like to watch them on television as well.
  
  the only bad part about mario and sonic at the olympics is that there isn't an option to compete 
 online agaisnt other people in different countries. but you can see your world ranking which is 
 good. all in all it is a great game and deffinitely is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games is the best Olympic game that is out there is pure fun all the 
 way. The game features a whole load of events such as athletics, gymnastics, shooting, rowing, 
 archery, aquatics, fencing, and table tennis also included the dream events. The dream events are 
 nothing really to do with the Olympics and are fun.
  
  You can chose from all your favorite characters from the Mario and Sonic series also add your Mii 
 into the action. I found a problem as my favorite game character Donkey Kong was not added and 
 he is part of Mario. My favorite to play in what the game offers is Sonic, Shadow, Blaze, Wario 
 and Browser. My favorite on the game is the skeet shooting and the aquatics events which have you 
 in the pool. The game wears you out easy but you will want to keep playing because it does get 
 very addictive.
  
  The only problem is that the Wii has some trouble on games such as the table tennis as i found 
 it does not respond well to that game and a few others but it does not really matter as you will 
 be busy enjoying the other games it has to offer.
  
  This features online connection but only to the leader board with records i am trying to really 
 beat. Anyone looking for fun buy this game it is great to play as a single player and multiplayer. 
 This is really worth the money a must have for anyone who owns the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicLuigi87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  This game has great multiplayer great games good unlockabolse I think the games difacoltey was 
 medeum I It had great controling for the games My fav game on it is archarey 2 fav is swiming and 
 3 fav is dream table tennes The Game was absalotle  
 yes MORE things I played the game avreyday 10 to 20 hours a day. I Have avrey thing unlocked It 
 was kide of hard to do so but It was farey FUN! But I did have some trobles so don't try to do this 
 with out A LOT OF PRACTIS. Well it was defintle no ware neer the same as my othere 67 games I am 
 SO glade it was 4 players. I do enjoy playing it still evin know I unlocked avrey thing its still 
  I must be going goodbye!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  The good parts of this game is the minigames, there are many minigames to play, you got everything 
 from hurdles, 100 meter dash, trampoline, and many more minigames. The characters are really nice, 
 you got the main Mario series characters like Mario, Luigi, Peach, Yoshi, Birdo, Wario, Waluigi 
 and many more and the Sonic characters are what you would expect from sonic you have Sonic, Tails, 
 Eggman, Shadow, Blaze and many more in this game, you can even use your Mii as a character that 
 is something you don't see much in wii games anymore. The controls are much better than I expected, 
 the wii-mote probably responds to about 95-100% of all the commands you want it to do same with 
 the nunchuck, the nunchuck works out really well. There are many modes to choose from like a tournament 
 where you compete in 3 events to get the best score out of everybody in the roster and there are 
 modes like quickplay and many more modes. This game will keep you playing for a good while, to 
 100% complete this game, you will need to get all these medals for each character so that you can 
 unlock things and get you closer to 100% completing.
  
  The bad parts of this game is the replay value, after you beat the game 100% there really isnt 
 much to do anymore, all you can do is just go back and play the olympic games with anyone or just 
 go back to playing through the cups. If you dont really have anyone to play this game with regularly, 
 it just won't be as fun, it is just like Mario Party, if you dont have anyone to play this with 
 regularly it is just not as fun.
  
  Overall not too bad of a game, if Sega would have just made a little more repaly value, it would 
 be an awesome game, but that doesnt mean it isnt good, this is a really nice game for the first 
 crossover between Mario and Sonic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games marks the first game to feature both mascots. Yes, the Mario/Sonic 
 showdown in SSBB will be more epic, but that will come soon. For now, you have a game composed 
 of 20 regular Olympic events and 4 cartoony dream events. Getting used to the controls may take 
 a little time for some events, but once you get used to them, you shouldn't have any problems. 
 The graphics are very colorful, vibrant, and they do a good job of combining the worlds of Super 
 Mario and Sonic the Hedgehog. The sound effects are also fine. The music is a mixed bag. The event 
 music is rather forgettable, but the orchestrated music in the opening cutscene and ending credits 
 is very memorable. The game also has a good amount of replayability in the form of gold metals, 
 crowns, and emblems. Getting all those items can take a lot of time. Unfortunately, the Wi-Fi symbol 
 you see at the top corner of the box is a lie. There is no real online play. There is an online 
 leaderboard where you can upload your scores, but all multiplayer in this game is offline. This 
 game isn't as bad as many reviewers make it out to be, though. At least rent it and give it a chance, 
 you may enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrono_Shift
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Mario & Sonic At The Olympic Games was much awaited by everyone, and along with it came extreme 
 raves and joy for one and one reason only. Mario and Sonic. Hence the AND inbetween them.
  People could have cared less about the gameplay when first looking at it, even Gamespot and big 
 corporations were that way (don't deny it, that's the first thing you thought, that they are in 
 the same game) . However when it came out it got low reviews. Why? Because while it is a very good 
 game, it isn't as good as everyone was hyping it up to be.
  The game has INCREDIBLE graphics. I was in awe at my television seeing how much the characters 
 just popped right out.
  The sounds were also very good, very realistic for sure (although peach still sounds like she's 
 speaking to you through a wall) . The only thing is in fencing, the wiimote produces a jabbing noise 
 that kills off the one on the television.
  Now that I've gotten you in a good mood, time to break down to the negatives.
  The game's controls 
 are easily it's biggest flaw. For example, when running it is required that you swing your arms 
 like a nutjob. Another thing is the controls for every event are either so easy that there is no 
 challenge involved whatsoever, or it's too difficult to pull off and there is no way in heck you'll 
 ever succeed at the specific game unless you waste massive amounts of your time at it. (such as 
 3-4 hours attempting the exact same task again and again) . Not to mention true, you are going to 
 look absurd playing most Wii games but absurd you look while playing this game is off the charts (I 
 recorded myself rowing and watched it... I looked like I was "thrusting" toward my television) .
 
  Back to the positives though, the cast of characters is definetly quite impressive, and most of 
 the characters stats are just like their's in the games. However some, re off. Such as Peach easily 
 being way better than Bowser. That can't be right, how else would Bowser capture Peach if she has 
 way better physical fitness than him (and possibly even Mario?!!!!) . The game also makes Chubby 
 boy Eggman very fast. Other than that they hit the characters spot on.
  Overrall, I think I've stated what I needed to. Great game, deserving of much anticipation and 
 wanting but the reason it wasn't getting as good of ratings as it should have gotten was because 
 everyone anticipated it a little too much, when it didn't reveal much of itself. I think it's a 
 definite play, but if you're deciding between this and another game, and you can't decide what 
 to buy: then rent it first and see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenaciousAds
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Best game ever for family and for your self loads to unlock forget gamespots reveiw. This game 
 has a mix of sports and fun. unlock caractor emblems and events secret just come in top three of 
 every circuit. great and realistic except for dream events. This game has a mixture of work and 
 fun. tough game especially mission mode i recommend gettin all events before starting it another 
 tip knuckles is the easiest mission mode and player to use. Its great if you need a family game 
 for someones birthday. it should be number one in wii charts but thats life. 
  
  Great game recommended for people ove at least eight or seven because this games tough if there 
 great gamers ummm no lower than eight. Sonic and Mario fans will love this to bits but so will 
 every one else. Thank you for reading by Tenacious Ads 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmanjim
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  this game is great it shows classics of sonic and mario the graphics are good the controls are 
 great the only thing that ive found boarng about it is table tennis everything else is great and 
 the game is a perfect party/multiplayer game its easy to learn , but still difficult to master 
 this admitedly isnt the perfect setting for mario and sonic as sonic would destroy mario most of 
 the time but dnt look at the game like that look at it as wicked wii game with 2 of the best characters 
 in history dnt listen to gamespots rip off review of 6.0 its a great game and its definately worth 
 buying, its one of the best party games there is and all that lets it down is no online play and 
 although there is loads of olympic games i still wish there was more because this is a great game 
 that you can play loads and loads by yourself or with mates mario and sonics joint debue is great 
 dnt listen to gamespots review of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bongo_boy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  since this is the first time that mario and sonic have been combined in one game it has come out 
 much better than i expected. the only problem is that when the actually olyimpics come along, we 
 are going to expect much more because the game has made the olympics look much better than they 
 actually are. this game is can also be played s a mii, which means if you dont care about who you 
 are, you can be your mii, this makes them look really stupid, but it is fun to watch them make 
 a fool out of them selves. the way the games are played using the combination of the num chuck 
 and the wii remote is very realistic. for example: if you are rowing, you pull the wii remote and 
 the num chuk towards you while pressing a combination of buttons.
  overall this game is going to outshine the olympics, but who really cares apart from China, so 
 i think for the first game that mario and sonic are both playing, i would say a good job well done.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_sky_is_up
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  It's sad that the first time they where in the same game it had to be a sports game and not a good 
 one at that. Sonic and Mario both are about adventure games so anyone that likes them must like 
 adventure games not Olympic sports. Don't get me wrong Olympic sport games aren't that bad, and 
 yes some people may like them as much as they like adventure. But being the first Mario and Sonic 
 ever, I think it should have been an adventure game.
  
  Buy hey, I'll tell you this; if you liked Wii sorts then you'll like this game.
  
  Game play: 
 It's made up of different challenges/games. Some are vary easy and some just can't be done. It 
 says Wi-Fi on the box but it can't be used to play with other players, only to check there scores.
 
  
  Graphics: Good, nice and colorful. But not as good as some of the best game's
  
  Sound: Good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silver096
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  We have here Mario and Sonic at the Olympic games probably one of the best sports/Olympic game 
 ever a Definite Must buy for fans and wii owners no matter who you are.... But i think there could 
 have been a lot more Characters like silver, birdo, Bowser jr. Espio and Charmy should have been 
 playable characters same with cream and Toad....... The Multiplayer is my favorite part of the game 
 its the best if you have four friends over to play it you will never stop playing!!!!!! The game 
 is also realistic except for sonic being slower i dont know what Happened there.... It is still 
 one my favorite wii games so far but could have been better with more characters and Online play 
 not just the leaderboard which i admit is pretty cool!!! YOU MUST BUY THIS GAME IF YOU HAVE A WII!!!! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEANMACHINE15
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games is a very good game where two legends of gaming come together 
 on the wii and have created a good smooth game with fun but tiring combination which at some time 
 can also look a bit dirty this is a 100% all out fun game with missions on the different event 
 including 100 metres all the way to archery and table tennis.
  
  This game doesnt really have any flaws with good gameplay and good graphics this can hopefully 
 bring out somethin similar to this game like the winter olympics but this game is its own seed 
 ready to blossom into a beautiful thing and it has done that very very well.
  
  hopefully there is more to come in the future where theese two meet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmastab
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  For the First time Mario & Sonic are in the same game in Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games. The 
 game has no story just Team Mario & Team Sonic fighting for the Olmpic Medeals. The game is very 
 fun you use the Wii remote and Nunchuck play the games. There's a bunch of games to enjoy. Alot 
 of Unlockables like Character's and games. I even had my friends over and we played it for about 
 three hours and never got tired of it. The Grapics are great. I enjoy this game for the first time 
 Sonic and Mario meet I can't wait til Super Smash Bros. Brawl to see the next time. I Give Mario 
 & Sonic at the Olympic Games a 8.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazzzzza
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  mario and sonic ummm..... no lets face is when ever would mario even be able to run nearly as fast 
 as sonic. but who am i to criticise its fun (2player anyway) i just think there could be more events 
 adn maybe different hand movment as most of the time you will swaying the wiimote and the nunchuck 
 around in the same direction which does get a bit boring. the 100m sprinrt and the table tennis 
 are my faviorite events on the game but the table tennis can be a bit hard to get used to. NO one 
 has the right to say the game is boring and unrealistic as foul starts and mis qued long jumps 
 are all there but over all i would not recommend buying the game unless you have someone to play 
 with.
  p. s i would always relate this game to wii sports as the multiplayer on both the games is highly 
 amusing and commpetitive . in the olympic games 's favour i do say the graphics are perfect although 
 the replays are dragged out a bit . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crushgalaxy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  To start this off, this game is very original and innovative, so I give it a thumbs up.
  Next I must ask those reading this review: Which team do you like better?
  Sonic's team, consisting 
 of Sonic, Shadow, Amy, Blaze, Knuckles, Vector, and Dr. Eggman brings an edge to the game in a 
 good way, because otherwise it would just be another Mario spin-off. Also, although both teams 
 are divided into Speed, Power, Skill, and All-Around, Sonic's team is especially well-balanced. 
 For example, Knuckles although in the Power category, has exceptional speed, almost as much as 
 Daisy. So the best thing about team Sonic is that they have extremely well-rounded characters.
 
  
  Next up is Mario's team: Made up of Bowser, Wario, Mario, Luigi, Daisy, Yoshi, Peach, and Waluigi. 
 One of the greatest things about this team is that they are classic. I never get tired of Mario. 
 But besides that, the members of this team are exceptionally good at whatever category they are 
 in. For example, Bowser (in the Power group, duh) has a full power meter, allowing him to beat 
 almost anyone in any Power-based event. So, to sum it up, Team Mario are great for whatever category 
 they are sorted into. Rather than being okay at everything, they are the best at some things.
 
  
  My choice would for the best team would have to be team Sonic. I never go wrong with Tails. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arzhang
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  I am a 36 year old Dad of two boys, who are 5 and 2. The 5 year old and two of his friends absolutely 
 love this game, so much so that we have had to buy extra controllers so we can all race each other. 
 Most of the time we do the track or swimming races as the others can be a bit difficult for youngsters. 
 Now, you may think this is a game for young kids. Well you would be right, but I realised it was 
 also a game for adults also. You see, at times, we have had friends around for lunch, dinner etc. 
 and after showing them the game, we have all got immersed in it. There are a couple of reasons 
 why: the controls, while they can be frustrating at times, are easy to pick up for the track races, 
 so anyone can pick up and play. Secondly, there is absolutely nothing that compares with competing 
 with people. Sure, you both may be getting the timing wrong, but it is a race and that alone adds 
 so much to the gameplay. The way I see it, whereas before we may have got out a board game or something, 
 now we get out this game and everyone has a go. And if you try it after a couple of glasses of 
 wine, results can be side-splitting. So, if you are a guy that normally plays a lot of games on 
 their own, you may find this a tad tedious. Yes, there are achievements to unlock etc but the real 
 fun is against friends using the controllers like no other console on the market. It is these things 
 that really make the game so much more fun and probably is worth an 8.5 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikotuck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is so great because it finally brings mario and sonic together and has you play real 
 life events and some made up dream ones! 
  Nintendo made great use of the nunchuch and wii mote. You do not just push buttons, The game actually 
 has you pump your arms to run and many different arm motions to do strokes in swimming and many 
 other examples!
  The reason this game never gets old is you want to find out what characters are good at what, and 
 you want to get a olympic records and world records at all the events. There are also things called 
 circuits. Which have you doing 4 or more events in a row as the same character. There are also 
 emblems that you win if you accomplish something like winning 15-0 in a fencing match!
  
  In all, Sega and Nintendo did a great job on this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: striljr
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This game I understand did get very mixed reviews. I on the other hand happened to enjoyed most 
 of the games on this. I know that some of the games aren't very responsive to every command you 
 want, but just try to have a good time with the games that you know you can enjoy without getting 
 frusttrated with. Like I get frustrated with most of the games, but as you keep practicing you 
 get better and better every time. And with other human players you can have even more fun. That's 
 the whole point to these bunch of mini games and the fact that you're actually getting some physical 
 activity out of it, like when you swim you have to dog paddle, and when you run same thing. I sure 
 did. I sweated like a pig after playing the running and swimming. Fencing is fun, and what I think 
 is the most fun is the hurtles, track, and my most favorite Ping Pong. It makes Wii Play look like 
 trash because of how bad the version of Ping Pong was on that game with having to count ralleys 
 instead of actually playing the real game like you do on this. Excellent animated graphics!!! I 
 must mention that! What a work out. What fun! I enjoyed these bunch of games and that's the most 
 important thing. Just have a good, fun time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteel13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Mario a really good 3D Platformer and sonic the same and somtimes they can be RPGS anyway them 
 2 combined can really be a great game and you know what it is a great game.
  
  This Game uses nearly every aspect of the Wii remote, you have to do all kinds of things with it 
 like Archery you have to hold the Wii Remote in front of you and try to aim with the nunchuck as 
 a guide, Swimming you have to you have to bring the Wii remote and Nunchuk forward and back really 
 fast, there is many other ways you can do it too and more Events those are just 2 of them.
  
  The Grahics on this Game is really good you can not say they are bad because they are really 
 colourful and bright. This game is a 3D and a 2D .I would give the graphics a 9/10
  
  This game is only based on olympics, it is held is beijing and is a great multiplayer game too. Wel 
 if you play this game by your self you are surly to get bored very soon that is why multiplayer 
 is better.
  
  This game is for sporty people because i can tell you it tires you out so much and the next morning 
 you will have aches and pains also for a tip you have to have a shower after you play this (Just 
 joking)
  
  I will advise many people to get this game but if you do not like Olympic stuff then this would 
 not be the right game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantom5800
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 31, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  For almost twenty years the rivalry between Mario and Sonic has grown to the point where gamers 
 have been waiting for the two to face off in the arena. The opportunity has finally come for Mario 
 and Sonic to face off, though it is not nearly the way people had thought it would happen.
  
  Mario, Sonic, and friends are for the first time competing for the gold medal in the 2008 Olympic 
 Games located in Beijing. The types of games range from the standard 100m race to the obscure Table 
 Tennis. Controls range dramatically between each game, and some of these games just do not work 
 at all. A few mini games such as Skeet, a clay shooting game, work very well, but others, such 
 as the Javelin Throw, give poor instructions and almost never work properly. The bad severely outweighs 
 the good games in Mario and Sonic, but for those that loved Wii Sports, Mario and Sonic at the 
 Olympic Games might have enough to offer in what good games there are.
  
  There are three main modes in the game; Single Match (a single round of any one competition) , Circuit 
 (a competition with three different events) , and Mission Mode (events with specific goals to accomplish) . 
 New mini games are unlocked by winning in Circuit mode. After gaining enough first place's in Circuit 
 mode you will unlock new mini games to play in Single Matches and Mission mode. A bonus to this 
 is that Single Matches and Circuit mode are both playable with up to four players, which increases 
 your odds that at least one person will win overall.
  
  There are twelve characters (six from the Mario universe and six from the Sonic universe) , so there 
 are plenty of choices to find the perfect character for you. It is also possible to play as a Mii 
 that you have created which would have neutral stats. If you are not using a Mii there are four 
 categories that Mario and Sonic characters fall under; speed, skill, power, and all-around. With 
 plenty of characters and events it is almost absolute that there will be a few games that you would 
 enjoy.
  
  Besides the sometimes sketchy game play, Mario and Sonic looks great. SEGA seems to have taken 
 no exceptions when it comes to the graphics in this game, everything looks great. Screen shots 
 do very little justice when showing off Mario and Sonic as most are of poor quality. The sound 
 is also something not to be looked over, the music is great. But other than the music, the game 
 is still held back by the horrid voice acting. The same voice overs are used constantly which puts 
 a huge damper on the overall quality of the game.
  
  Overall Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games is a quality title that just doesn't make a great 
 attempt at bringing together these two great mascots. If it wasn't for Mario and Sonic this game 
 would not be worth the $50, and even with them it is a close call. With a price drop this game 
 would definitely be something of value, but at this point is overpriced. If you are or know someone 
 that loved Wii Sports, this may be the perfect game for them, otherwise it is not necessarily worth 
 a second glance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Missile129
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic at the Olympic games is an excellent sport game, make no mistake. It offers variety 
 in both sports and characters with dozens of unlocks on top. The problem is, the controls are rather 
 dull. 
  
  Event after event you will find yourself performing the same move over and over with perhaps only 
 the button you press to throw the Javelin/Hammer/jump/jump over hurdle varying. In some events 
 you will be required to press both A and B, in others just B - for a new player it all gets very 
 confusing. After a while however, you will discover the easiest way for you and simply win every 
 event that uses a similar control scheme - that's almost all of them. 
  
  Furthermore, it won't take long before your arms ache like you never thought possible - especially 
 after a few 400m races! Yes, that "It's time to take a break" message may come up often, but i 
 think it needs to if you are to avoid spending the next 3 weeks with your arm in a sling... even 
 more frustrating is that after all your hard work you discover the game has not recognised the 
 movement which happens a lot more than normal Wii games. 
  
  On the other hand, you can't deny this game has huge variety. With 16 characters each with their 
 own abilities reinforced by a mixture of events from athletics (track and field) to gymnastics, 
 swimming, rowing, fencing, table tennis - the list goes on!
  
  Then there's our traditional Mario battle with items to your aid. They call them the "Dream events". 
 In these events you can launch items like the green shells we all know and love with a good helping 
 of lightning on top. Of course, we can't not have a Sonic representative, so the Chaos Emerald 
 is at your command too. These events are a great twist to your regular ones. 
  
  The game also offers several emblems for you to collect such as playing the game so many times, 
 committing a foul (Yes, an award for doing something wrong) and obtaining new records. 
  
  The game has preset Olympic Records and World Records. Although they can't be beaten in multiplayer 
 and the game shouts "New Olympic/World Record!" for some strange reason, they do not update in 
 multiplayer. In fact they only update in single player. As this game has much more multiplayer 
 value than single, it seems a waste of a feature. Basically, you have to discover you can do it, 
 then go do it alone in single player.
  
  However, once you obtain these records you can connect to the internet and download the scores 
 from across the world to see how you score to your fellow players. It's surprising how close those 
 records are! 
  
  As i mentioned previously, this game has excellent multiplayer value. In single player the game 
 become rather dull, rather quickly. The computers will soon be a piece of cake to defeat and it 
 won't take long before your replay consists of you alone crossing the line and fading before anyone 
 else appears. However in multiplayer you can continue to your heart's content (until your arm drops 
 off at least) . Unfortunately, again, unless your opponent consistently gives close battles, this 
 again becomes rather dull. Bring along a heap of players to get the party started!
  
  Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games is a game worth buying. Your arms might be hanging ay your 
 ankles by the time you finally stop playing but look on the bright side, you're 10 times fitter 
 now! It's not the best game in control schemes but it scores high on it's incredible variety and 
 multiplayer value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chowder23
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I love that song: D
  Mario, Sonic and, friends are competing in the olymics in this video game that Mario and, Sonic 
 (Only) appered in. Some events are running, jumping, ping-pong and, hammer throw
  
  Players:
  Team Mario: Mario, Luigi, Peach, Daisy, Browser, Wario, Waluigi, Yoshi
  Team Sonic: 
 Sonic, Tails, Knuckles, Amy, Shadow, Blaze, Vector, Dr. Eggman
  
  You can get metals, tropheys and, more to get in this sports game that may be a classic! To all 
 games useing the olympics (only this one (Maybe? (I don't know!) ) )
  
  
  Score:
  Control- Wii remote will give good control:75%
  Cast- A short amount of talk is like a classic 
 Mario:25%
  Equals:100% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games is an Olympic game starring Mario, Sonic, and a few other 
 characters. It is about time our gaming heroes appeared in an officially licensed video game. I 
 am just very disappointed they had to meet face to face in an Olympic game with repetitive controls, 
 Gamecube looks, and no storyline whatsoever. It is amazing since the two are well known characters 
 and it seems the game did not take long to think up!
  
  The game basically consists of you having to shake your arms up and down through the entire game. 
 That is annoying. Sometimes the game doesn't recognize your movements. That is annoying. The game 
 gets very challenging in the Mission category. Even with friends, this game will get boring because 
 no one is going to want to play this game for very long because it really isn't fun. Some moments 
 are fun, but the entire game just lacks something . . . I can't quite tell what it is. It says 
 Wi-Fi, but it just means you can look at others' score. 
  
  The graphics aren't horrible, they are very bright and colorful, they are not Wii graphics, it 
 is still in the Mario Party range for the Gamecube (same with Mario Party 8) . Sound is annoying. 
 It plays Olympic music, yes, but the soundtrack is nothing to get excited about whatsoever. Sound 
 effects are lacking at times, too. 
  
  All in all, Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games is an unimpressive game with Mario and Sonic in 
 the title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neevle
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  I got this game for christmas and we spent ages playing on it! I had family round so that made 
 it even more enjoyable. However, if you play on it for too long, you wake up with sore muscles 
 the next day so I would advise you to do some stretches before playing!!! I unlocked all the event 
 in one day which was pretty disppointing and the emblems that you collect aren't that satisfying 
 to obtain. This game is for people who enjoy having a laugh with friends and don't mind games that 
 don't have very good single player mode. So if you rather games like Zelda and Super Mario Galaxy, 
 I would advise you not to get this game, you would only be disappointed. However, the character's 
 phrases get annoying after a while and it drags on when you win a race. Furthermore, the shooting 
 game is way too long and gets very boring after a while. Finally I am enjoying playing this game 
 and if you don't like the sound of it just rent it to try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redlightningxvx
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  ok the game is basically the sonic and mario cast competing in olympic events. There are over 20 
 events in 9 catagories and 16 characters in total, 8 mario 8 sonic. 
  
  The graphics a nice, well detailed and bring out a nice enviorment for the game and the character 
 models are good as well. 
  
  The game sounds good music fits in with the game and announcer does his thing when he decides to 
 speak which is almost never, pretty much only when he says ready go.. thats about it.
  
  The single player aspect is rather shallow.. the circuits can be beaten in 1 day which unlocks all 
 the events. there are missions and gallery games but they dont seem to cut it.
  
  The games them selves are fun but not much different apart control wise. about 50% of the games 
 invlove moving the nun chuck and controller up and down as fast as you can however some of the 
 games requires precision and skill as well. Most of the games are quite fun and all have something 
 that makes one unique from the other. examples of some games are 100m dash, 100m freestyle, long 
 jump, ping pong singles, skeet ( some shooting game with a funny name) fencing, and archery. 
  
  This game is pretty much for the most part multiplayer based, once you unlock more events you 
 will realize the game is probably 5 times as fun with even atleast one more person playing with 
 you. It can be pretty competitive and fun for while but i cant gurantee you can play more than 
 an hour an a half straight before someones arms feel like there gonna fall off.
  
  this game is fun, was an interesting way to bring 2 popular franchises together to compete with 
 eachother, and can be pretty damn fun with 2 or more people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldemort8989
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is all it's cracked up to be. Mario and Sonic are finally together, and frankly I was 
 getting sick of only playing Mario games when I turned on my Wii. The events are really fun and 
 pretty easy, which is a good combination. The character selection is awesome too, with Knuckles, 
 Bowser, Vector, Wario, Mario, Amy, Luigi, Blaze, Sonic, Daisy, Shadow, Yoshi, Peach, Tails, Waluigi 
 and Dr. Eggman.
  
  You can play single player for medals, or multiplayer for fun and circuits. Circuit mode is a set 
 of pre-determined events, and with each one completed, more events and circuits are unlocked. You 
 can also play dream events, which are fantasy games with all the classic Mario and Sonic styles 
 that aren't in the game.
  
  In all, Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games is one of the most fun and enjoyable games of the 
 year, and for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6411
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game to star Mario and Sonic togegther. It is the Olypic Games. I actually think 
 it is better than I expected.
  
  Gameplay
  
  You get to select from about 16 characters all have different stats in terms of speed, power, skill 
 and all rounder. The events are all Olympic Events apart from the Dream race which is like a Mario 
 Kart like race but not as good. There are no power ups in these normal Olympic events. There is 
 Running, Hammer Throw, Archery, Triple Jump and Long and more. It can be hard at first but after a 
 few tries you get the hang of it. You can have four players playing but not any more there are 
 8 members you compete againt in total. You get medals which unlocks other events. You even get a 
 controls area which shows you how to do that certain event. There is a leaderboar d where if you 
 get a good time it might appear on the Wi Fi leaderboard.
  
  Sound:
  
  It's alright maybe nothing special the character voices are there from the games.
  
  Graphics
 
  
  They are good lbut not fantastic. The courses look nicely designed.
  
  Lastability
  
  It might last a while or so it depends if you like Mario Party type games like this it is a 
 real shame online play wasn't in this game because it could have been really good.
  
  Overall
  
  It is a solid acheivement nothing spectacular. It does use the Wii mote very nicely 
 but adding online might have been a little better. If you have friends that like Mario Party sort 
 of games then they will like this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaisyMagic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Yea I got this game on Christmas.. and Beat all the circuits within 3 hours. Theres still some more 
 to do but its just pretty easyof a game. This game will be a spetacular game with some friends. 
 I had fun playing it, and I know it will be lots more with others. Yea you can chose form mario 
 side and sonic but it really doesnt matter because it doesnt like say, And Sonic wins the Olympics!" 
 Yea just plain like medal for that event. So at the end the diffulculty is easy and all but its 
 fun. If your looking for a game to play for about a good 3 months then dont pick this game, but 
 for 1 month then this is a game for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theganjafarmer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Ok, so my friend purchased the game and at first i was skeptical. I mean i expected it to be fun, 
 but not NEARLY as fun as it turned out to be. Honestly, and i know this is a bold statement, but 
 this is the best multiplayer game out for the wii right now (Of course when Super Smash Brothers 
 Brawl comes out, that title will be redeemed) . If you buy this game and you have even just ONE 
 friend, this game will keep you occupied for hours on hours. I dont know how the reviewer could 
 say the controls are bad, I think they are excellent. There are different options for almost every 
 game, and there are so many unlockable events. The events themselves are extremely fun, almost 
 every single one of them. There are things called circuits, and they line up three or four different 
 events in a row. You can play with up to four different players, and that is what makes it so fun. 
 They incorporate every single event so that everybody can play and its not confusing. The graphics 
 are amazing, and the character selection is fantastic. I would definitley recommend this game for 
 ANYBODY who has friends and loves to play multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKippins
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Wii owners are no strangers to the mini-game genre. Now only a year after release, Nintendo's new 
 system is being bombarded with simple, "everyone-friendly" titles that deliver en mass, but not 
 always with quality in mind. Even looking at the top-tier titles in its category Wii is already 
 pretty saturated, with things like Mario Party, Wii Play, Namco Museum, Wario Ware, Rayman (and 
 its sequel) , and countless others. Even Nintendo's own pack-in product Wii Sports gives off a similar 
 vibe as well, proving time and time again that Wii is about innovation, but also about a generally 
 simpler style of play all around - with a few exceptions, of course. So when we're met by games 
 like Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games, it's tough to get really pumped for what can often feel 
 like just another waggle experience. At the same time, with enough style, innovative gameplay, 
 and overall charisma even the simplest actions can still be extremely fun and competitive. Case 
 in point, Mario & Sonic's first gaming mash-up.
  
  Aside from maybe a few very specific instances, Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games won't deliver 
 any mind-blowing gameplay for Wii owners. With a similar format as the NES's own Track & Field, 
 M&S divides the world of the Olympics up into a few key challenges, each based on speed, timing, 
 and a little bit of strategy. What it'll boil down to, however, is a whole lot of controller drumming, 
 and bit of semi-needless waggle, and a few more innovative experiences sprinkled in there as well. 
 As the kicker though, we went in knowing exactly what Mario & Sonic was bringing to the table (strong 
 characters, generally repetitive gameplay) and come out weeks later now having a blast with the 
 game. It just goes to show you that the right mix of style and gameplay can change up even the 
 simplest of concepts.
  
  
  Pump up the crowd. Gain momentum. Smoke the competition.
  Mario & Sonic delivers 24 different events focused around 14 or so core mechanics (depending on 
 how you classify things) , and while it isn't a mind-blowing amount of mini-games, these events 
 focus more on situational strategy than just one motion over and over again. You won't, for example, 
 find a single event where you simply drum as fast as you can; there's always another aspect of 
 it to work with. Each of the events split into nine different classifications, including athletics, 
 gymnastics, shooting, rowing, dream events, archery, aquatics, fencing, and table tennis, with 
 specific events fitting into each of those respective sections. In addition you've got 16 characters 
 from both the Mario & Sonic franchises, as well as the ability to use your Mii on the field instead 
 of a key franchise character. Not a bad mix of events, characters, and options.
  
  Where Mario & Sonic becomes a success in our minds, however, is in the nuances of each competition. 
 In running events, for example, you'll need to anticipate the gunshot if you want to get a starting 
 boost; no easy task. While you set up at your footholds you can tap the B button as fast as possible 
 to build up a potential boost, and then begin drumming the instant the shot is made, launching 
 yourself into an easy lead right off the bat. In events like the relay race - where action can 
 go for a minute plus at a time - this lead isn't a huge issue. Line up for the 100m dash, however, 
 and your start will absolutely make or break your place. Other sections of the game do a great 
 job of taking simple motions and running with the concept as well, as long jump will train you 
 to sprint and then take off at the perfect point, using the speed and length of your "jump" flick 
 to determine just how far you'll fly through the air. Motion too soft and you won't get any distance, 
 but motion too hard and you'll also fail; it's all about finesse.
  
  If the entire game was centered only on these 24 events it would have been far too thin, and simple 
 more of the same gameplay you'd find in things like Rayman Raving Rabbids. Thankfully, there's 
 more to the game than it initially suggests. You'll have the same circuit-based gameplay as something 
 like Mario Kart, with new areas opening after you defeat prior competitions, each of which not 
 only opens the next tier of difficulty, but also more events to rip through. While in either single 
 or multiplayer competition, there's also a very welcoming token system that allows each player 
 to bet on one event throughout the competition. Place high enough in the event and you'll double 
 your points in it. Place too low, however, and you get nothing.
  
  Another section we ended up sinking a ton of time into was the mission mode, which gave each of 
 the game's 16 competitors six character-specific missions to complete. These can be as simple as 
 having Bowser throw a specific distance in Hammer Toss, or as incredibly difficult as requiring 
 the player to beat Mario's rival (Sonic, of course) in a 100m dash. In the main game each of the 
 characters are balanced pretty well, though you'll of course have small changes such as Sonic's 
 slight speed boost or Bowser's extra power, but in Mission mode the generally even feel of each 
 character is thrown right out the window, so with Mario's challenge you're literally trying to 
 catch a ridiculously fast Sonic in his best event; no easy task. Mission mode is a simple addition 
 to the package, but it adds a ton to it. After a half hour of trading the controller off between 
 players we still couldn't beat Sonic at his own game. Needless to say, we now have noodle arms, 
 as well as a newfound respect for the fastest character in gaming.
  
  It's also great to see online integration make an appearance, although it's a shame no direct competition 
 could be included; something the DS version makes use of. Online leaderboards will allow new world 
 records (obviously the biggest aspect of the Olympics) to be broken on a daily basis, so while 
 those amazing moments occur in the game where you're swimming to the finish line literally watching 
 yourself go neck-in-neck with a red "World Record" pace bar, now it'll be even more of a challenge 
 to not only beat the game's default records, but also those of competitors around the world. Yes, 
 it's simple, and of course we're disappointed that pure online couldn't be included this time around, 
 but leaderboards certainly make sense for a game like this, and we can only imagine how competitive 
 it'll get. As another simple addition to the game, players can also earn achievements for breaking 
 records or winning specific events under certain circumstances. It's simple, but it's just another 
 way to reward players for going back and breaking records time and time again.
  
  When it comes to mission mode, difficulty is turned up a notch. Good luck catching Sonic with an 
 overweight plumber.
  In general most of the events in Mario & Sonic were fun to play, but there were also some misses 
 too. In the case of track events, there are a good five or six that feel nearly identical, using 
 only a couple minor changes to mix up the feel between 100m, 400m, 4X100m Relay, and the 110m and 
 400m hurdles. Obviously these events are similar in real life as well, but it's still a ton of 
 drumming, and not a whole lot of diversity. On the opposite side of the fence, however, were things 
 like archery, which is a nearly-perfect event in our opinion, blending IR control with a pull-back 
 motion and nunchuk tilt for the bow's angle to make what ends up being an impressively deep target 
 challenge. SEGA also changes things up with the Dream Events, which are basically repeats of four 
 of the core Olympic events in the game such as table tennis or fencing, and these end up stealing 
 the show, as it turns the generally straightforward feel of the events into true Mario Sports experiences, 
 including super attacks, Mario Kart item blocks and speed boosts for foot races, and interesting 
 spins on the general rules of the events. 
  
  Table Tennis ends up getting the best conversion overall, as matches are now scored based on how 
 long a volley goes before being won, and with matches going up to 50 you could essentially be dominated 
 by a better player over and over for short volleys, only to have an amazing comeback in a long-running 
 back-and-forth to come behind for the win in one single point. In fact, should SEGA and Nintendo 
 team up for a sequel we'd definitely want to see far more dream events, as they're easily the best 
 in the package. Team that with online and more character missions and you'd have an extremely rewarding 
 package.
  
  As for the actual pairing of the two franchises, Mario & Sonic does a decent job of bringing the 
 mascots together for the first time. You'll get some familiar remixed Nintendo music (or tunes 
 that are obviously influenced by them) , an intro video akin to Sonic's 3D adventures with extremely 
 high production value, and some generally beautiful animation and modeling all-around. There are 
 still some graphical oddities though, including some low frame-rates that make for some pretty 
 uninspired instant replays, and a general lack of cinematic feel when playing through the events. 
 You'll get camera changes and general shot set-up based on the event, but there's no over-the-top 
 bullet time, larger-than-life visuals, or extreme "Mario Sports" style outside of the dream events. 
 We were always waiting for that intense moment where the audio drops out, the gameplay slows down, 
 and only the sound of the crowd can be heard as we make some dramatic, moment-defining action. 
 Sadly, that type of in-your-face cinematic feeling is never really there, and it did leave us wanting 
 more in the mid-event presentation department.
  
  
  Closing Comments
  For being a game that's made up of simple gestures and "been there, done that" gameplay, Mario 
 & Sonic is a huge surprise in its ability to still pull us in and really deliver pure, classic 
 entertainment. The 24 events have a bit of repetition when dealing with the same general classification 
  all racing events feel similar, for example  but even then there's enough of a difference to 
 set them apart. While some events feel like throwbacks to the NES days of Track & Field, others 
 such as the innovative archery mode and dream events give the experience a huge push in the direction 
 of style and overall freshness. Team that together with playable Miis, online rankings for event-by-event 
 world records, and character-specific missions and you've got an experience that goes well beyond 
 just delivering a few rushed minis to a successful system. The overall style is pretty impressive, 
 the list of characters balance out well, the game becomes increasingly entertaining in multiplayer 
 mode, and it's generally fun to play all-around. Yeah we've seen it all before in things like Rayman 
 or Mario Party 8, but this mascot mash-up is more focused, refined, and classically rooted. There's 
 certainly room to grow, as the game could use a huge focus on more events and missions, more dream 
 events, and full online multiplayer, but as a first pairing between a few of the industry's top 
 mascots Mario & Sonic truly delivers in the fun department.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games was a chance to make a killer game. Not about the Olympics, 
 but about Mario & Sonic being together on the same screen for the first time. Sadly, a sports title 
 is not what Nintendo and Sega should've collaborated on.
  
  It's not that the game is bad, but that having two icons like that meet in a game along with their 
 respective franchise members, is begging for something big to happen. However, the result is an 
 Olympic-centric minigame fest. 
  
  In terms of gameplay, it's everything you'd expect. Motion controls are very responsive and each 
 respective event is handled very well. However, members of my family believed that the descriptions 
 for controls were a little wordy and complex. 
  
  Sound is forgettable. The characters generally have one victory and defeat sound byte to them, 
 and there are a few nostalgic sound effects scattered throughout (the Starman music during the 
 Dream Race for one) but most fo the sounds are typical of a large sporting arena. Nothing ear catching 
 nothing ear piercing either. 
  
  Graphics arn't that bad. While it's easy to blend the artistic styles of the Mario and Sonic characters, 
 Not much creativity is in the game. Technically however, animations are fluid, transitions good, 
 but there can be slowdown in a few spots. 
  
  There's also a bit of replaybility added in with various circuits, and missions to complete. You 
 can also view the best records from around the world in any event via the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. 
 
  
  While Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games is a nice Olympic Game simulator, it doesn't do the other 
 two properties here, Mario & Sonic, justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrupted19
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Fast paced, exciting, exhilerating, fun, tiring. May I go on? Mario and Sonic Olympics may be one 
 of the most fun multiplayer games for the wii so far. If you are hesitating about buying the game, 
 dont!!! With this four player game you can play forever, and im not exaggerating. Also, compare 
 your best score to the world record and to your friends online! Is there enough to do you ask? 
 Through over 20 events you work your way to the top whether its archery, swimming, running, jumping, 
 gymnastics, pole vaulting, vaulting, or throwing. That isnt even all of the events. This game also 
 has a mission mode where you compete for a high score. This mode is extremely fun, but just enough 
 challenging to make you come back for more every time you play!!!!!!!!!!! Theres nothing about 
 this game that a true wii fan wouldnt like. Except the fact that you are sore the next day you 
 play it........................ =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 24, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  This is the first game to star Mario and Sonic togegther. It is the Olypic Games. I actually think 
 it is better than I expected.
  
  Gameplay
  
  You get to select from about 16 characters all have different stats in terms of speed, power, skill 
 and all rounder. The events are all Olympic Events apart from the Dream race which is like a Mario 
 Kart like race but not as good. There are no power ups in these normal Olympic events. There is 
 Running, Hammer Throw, Archery, Triple Jump and Long and more. It can be hard at first but after a 
 few tries you get the hang of it. You can have four players playing but not any more there are 
 8 members you compete againt in total. You get medals which unlocks other events. You even get a 
 controls area which shows you how to do that certain event. There is a leaderboar d where if you 
 get a good time it might appear on the Wi Fi leaderboard.
  
  Sound:
  
  It's alright maybe nothing special the character voices are there from the games.
  
  Graphics
 
  
  They are good lbut not fantastic. The courses look nicely designed.
  
  Lastability
  
  It might last a while or so it depends if you like Mario Party type games like this it is a 
 real shame online play wasn't in this game because it could have been really good.
  
  Overall
  
  It is a solid acheivement nothing spectacular. It does use the Wii mote very nicely 
 but adding online might have been a little better. If you have friends that like Mario Party sort 
 of games then they will like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacuuuuu3
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I have to review this, because these it's a really interesting game, and it will help me get more 
 fans, so let's start:
  Story: I'm referring to the intro, and when I just saw it like a trailer, it was kinda cool, but 
 I don't like intros that much:
  8/10
  Multiplayer: The goal of this game, have fun together, but it fails in some events because it's 
 kind of hard to get used to controlls, anyways:
  8/10
  Sound: Neither good, neither bad, just worth hearing:
  7/10
  Variety: There are a lot of events 
 and modes, so this aspect can't fail:
  9/10
  Replay Value: A lot, thanks to the multiplayer and multiple modes:
  9.8/10
  Total:
  8.3/10
 
  Conclusion: It's a great game, kind of underappreciated, because it's hard to get used to it, 
 but once you and your friends do, it's a lot of fun in the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniksmybro
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  I was skeptic about even renting this game when it came out. I usually base my choice of games 
 based on reviews posted here. I was very disappointed when I saw that this game got a 6.5 from 
 GS, therefore avoiding it. But I just so happened to pick up this game to give it a test and to 
 my surprise was more fun than I expected. This game is more fun when playing with other people. 
 If you spend most of the time playing against the CPU its not going to be quite as entertaining. 
 Its true that the controls are nothing we haven't seen before but playing it for the first time 
 and seeing your friends (or whoever you're playing with) have a hard time with them is fun. Its 
 enjoyable and it has some small parts that become annoying such as an awards ceremony after completing 
 every event. I suggest you pick this up if you plan on having other people over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkatanWarrior
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 19, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  When I heard Sonic was going to be in brawl I nearly did a backflip, finally Mario and Sonic can 
 face off, then my friend told me about Mario and Sonic at the olympic games, and gave me a basic 
 idea of what the game was about, I was absolutely dying to play the game, but I really shouldn't 
 have got my hopes up.
  
  This game is proof that an almost foolproof idea can fail miserably.
  
  Some of the most uninteresting, 
 and awkward controls make this barely worthy of a rental. Swimming, running, and other completely 
 different activities are all controlled by holding down B, and moving the nunchuck and wiimote 
 up and down. Not only are these controls boring, they're hardly explained at all to you before 
 you play the mini-game, meaning that more often than not, you're guaranteed to fail the first time 
 you play an event.
  
  Add this to the fact that the response in the game is absolutely awful, and you get an extremely 
 frustrating game, but not because of it's difficulty.
  
  I can't count the number of times I swung perfect shots in the ping pong game, and had my character 
 take 3 seconds longer than he/she should have to respond, if they did at all. Problems like this 
 can make a fun game filled with mini-games a nightmare. 
  
  Graphically the game is impressive, although not to the extent of mario galaxy. 
  
  Save your 
 money, and don't allow anyone you know to get suckered into buying this game because Mario and 
 Sonic are a part of it.
  
  What was Nintendo thinking...
  
  Infact, this game was so bad, that I had to come back to add to my review.
  
  Having played 
 the game for much longer, I've found many more things that make this game an absolute embarrassment. 
 
  
  Many of the missions in the game, rather than testing your skill, request that you lose, or do 
 below par to pass, this should never happen in a game, least of all a game about the olympics, 
 where the one thing you try to do is win.
  
  Events like Ping Pong, and hurdles have such poor responce to the controls that 9/10 times you 
 fail when you performed perfectly.
  
  The gallery mode is sad, and offers practically no information about the olympic games.
  
  
 Some of the vital controls, and parts to the game aren't even covered in the control explanations!!! 
 for one example, in a mission with peach, you have to yell as you do the hammer throw three times. 
 All you must do to yell is press A as you throw the hammer, however, the game doesn't even mention 
 how to yell, I actually had to look it up to find out how to do it, this should never happen.
 
  
  This game is even worse than I previously thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games
  Wii
  
  Mario & Sonic join together to take part in the Olympic Games, Mario & Sonic finaly get a game 
 together. The game has over 9 different events some real some not, The ones that are real stick 
 with the rules like no mushrooms power ups, no super speed for sonic but the other games use power 
 up this is were it become a like a Mario game.
  
  The game use the Wii remote very well with different action for each event, The one that makes 
 your arms hurt the most is the 100m dash were to have move your arm like leg. 
  
  The gameplay is just doing the cups like on Mario kart. Each charater gets there own skill like 
 Sonic is a speed type, Bowser is a power type and Mario is a skill type. Each one effects how you 
 do in events.
  
  The game has Wi-fi but its not online play, so there no online play it just a leader board for 
 all the Olympic Records or World Records. Like in Sonic games you can collect emblems for doing 
 things like "Play a two player game" or "connect to the Wi-Fi for the leader boards" this makes 
 it like the xbox but with out the ponits.
  
  Overall the game is arm hurting fun, the game would of been better if they had online play. So 
 if you want a Mario & Sonic game get this one but this game does make your arms hurt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raza3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games brings together the title characters and 14 more from both of 
 those franchises to participate in environments based on the official venues of the 2008 Summer 
 Olympic Games in Beijing. [7] These environments are stylized to fit the art styles of the Mario 
 and Sonic video games. Besides the characters from the Mario and Sonic games, Miis can also be 
 used. [8] There are also a few randomly selected non-playable characters acting as referees for 
 certain events. Each playable character has his or her own statistics which can serve as an advantage 
 or disadvantage depending on the event. They are divided into four categories: all-around, speed, 
 power, and skill. [9]
  
  The gameplay for the Wii involves utilizing the its remote and nunchuck in various ways to complete 
 each event. The events can require a combination of speed, timing, and some strategy. Each competition 
 offers a slight degree of difference. In the running events, for example, getting a starting boost 
 in the 100m dash will either make or break the player's place while in a relay race, which can 
 last for well over a minute, this may not determine place as effectively. The game also has leaderboards 
 that make use of the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection to show the best times and scores. [8]
  
  There are 20 authentic Olympic events which are divided into eight different classifications; athletics, 
 gymnastics, shooting, rowing, archery, aquatics, fencing, and table tennis. [8] All of these events 
 are organized in the tournament and circuit modes. [10] Some events such as track and field, allow 
 the player to have a team of four characters. There is also a single-player mission mode as well. 
 Circuit mode is where players compete for the highest overall score [6] in a pre-determined series 
 of events or design their own circuit. [9] In the mission mode, each of the competitors has six 
 character-specific missions to complete, however each of the characters statistics are not as balanced 
 as in the main game. For example, one of Mario's missions, beating Sonic, is more challenging here. [8]
 
  
  There is a unlockable version of four of the authentic Olympic events in the game. These events 
 are called "Dream Events". They differ from their original counterparts by applying more fictional 
 video game attributes from the Mario and Sonic worlds. As a result, these events also have recognizable 
 locations, objects, and support characters from both gaming worlds. [6] [11]
  
  [edit] Development
  Each character has his or her own stats.
  Each character has his or her 
 own stats.
  Various characters from both franchises prepare to race.
  Various characters from both franchises prepare to race.
  
  Rumors of Mario and Sonic appearing 
 in a game together started around 2001 when Sega changed its status as a hardware developer to 
 a third-party developer. This resulted in Sega and Nintendo forming a partnership. [12] As far as 
 2005, Yuji Naka held discussions of a Mario and Sonic video game with Shigeru Miyamoto. [13] Approximately 
 two years later, Sega had obtained the license for the Beijing 2008 and started off as a sole-Sonic 
 game after being told by the International Olympic Committee to expand the game for wider audience. 
 Afterwards, Sega had asked Nintendo for license to include Mario characters in the game and Nintendo 
 agreed. [14] As a result of this and to ensure quality, Nintendo partnered with the developer in-house. [15] 
 The game was first announced by Sega and Nintendo on March 28, 2007. [7]
  
  Sega showed the first screenshots and a movie of both versions of Mario & Sonic at the Olympic 
 Games at E3 2007. [16] [17] Mario creator Shigeru Miyamoto supervised the project [4] and the game 
 or one of its two versions may be co-developed by TOSE, a developer known to not be credited for 
 the games it produces. [18] Sega revealed in early October 2007 that Mario & Sonic at the Olympic 
 Games' schedule release date has been advanced by two weeks and the game has gone gold. [11] Over 
 20 characters were originally planned [19] as well as some sports, such as judo, however these were 
 left out of the final product 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  I'm not a fan of the gamespot review of this game. The game is extremely fun. And guess what thats 
 what its supposed to be. It sounds almost like it was punished for not being the next "Half Life 
 or Zelda". Its an Olympic/Sports game that makes perfect use of the Wiimote and can give you a 
 pretty nice workout (at least for a video game) . Yea its not the most in depth game but it has 
 some great features as well as great "Mini" games.
  
  Some Pluses included: 100 Meter, 100x4 Relay and its counterparts in the pool. Trampoline plays 
 like a souped up version of that game "Bop It" while Archery turns out to be a great two player 
 challenge that uses the WiiMote originally.
  
  Most games are lots of fun and the Dream Race is lots of fun as well (think Mario Cart meets 100 
 m dash)
  
  At its core this is an amazing 2 or more player game. My GF took videos of me playing the 110 m 
 Hurdles and laughed hysterically the whole time. But she didn't just take pictures she also played 
 a bunch as well (And she HATES most video games)
  
  The Bads (and there are a few but what can you expect with that many mini games) include: The High 
 Jump (Insanely Hard) and the Triple Jump.
  
  Yea there are some frustrating moments here and there but its at least a bit of a challenge.
 
  
  A 6 for this game is way way to low. Its a fun game with lots of party flare and a good bit of 
 a workout.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarkangels
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  i started playing this game on my own and it just wasn't fun. I would highly only reccomend this 
 game for people who have bro's sis's stuff like that this is a 'good' game i just wish it had better 
 1 player i really didnt like playing this game on my own. maybe i just prefer 2 player games i 
 dunno but i would say if ur getting this game make sure u got 2 wiimotes and nunchucks lol it is 
 fun game but its missing somthing i played for 2 hours with my dad and we had lots of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pisho1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun in many ways. It has many playable characters so you always have many different 
 characters to play with. It has many interesting games. You have to unlock most of them witch makes 
 it more fun. The games have many ways to be played in. Most games have 2 ways to play them in. 
 Another good thing is you are able to learn about the actual Olympics by beating the mini-games. 
 You could learn many things about the Olympics in it. It has different sections for the facts. 
 So you won't have to beat everything to see what you want to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seniorDK
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  the good: great idea for a game
  
  the bad: not anough mini games. bad controlls
  
  this is a game that they shouldnt of put out there so early because the game is way too short, 
 the thing is the game cant be much shorter the game is like a demo itself! but on the other hand 
 this game has some fun mini games in it, but others not so fun, like the long junp is totally boring, 
 if i had to give a price for this game i would buy it for about 15 bucs, cause this game would 
 probly of been better if they just worked on it a little longer, like put more characters and mini 
 games, i will give this game a.............4.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  A game where Nintendo and Sega characters battle it out in the biggest sports event: the Olympic 
 games. Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games takes place in what will be Bejing 2008. The events are 
 fun to play and it's defintely better than those Konami olympic games of International Track & 
 Field where it's just pure button mashing. You can even play with your own Mii if you don't feel 
 like playing with the Nintendo or Sega characters so that is a cool thing. When you play the harder 
 difficulties, the AI gets harder and more challenging and you have to use your arms a lot and chances 
 are you'll have sore arms and sweating like a pig but it's worth it. There/s no online matches 
 so I guess you're wondering why there's Wi-Fi. Well, that's for the Leaderboards to see where you 
 are globally. Some of the events will have you play little minigames like pressing certain buttons 
 and moving the Wii Remote a certain way. One event you play that kind of minigame is the Trampoline. 
 In that shooting event, you have to aim a little dot at the center of the target so it'll be easier 
 to shoot the discs. The running events... You might think that Sonic would win but he doesn't show 
 his true speed when you see him in last place or whatever or if someone like Mario or Bowser beat 
 him. That should be impossible because Sonic is the world's fastest hedgehog. Other than that, 
 this game was good and I think it would've done great if there were more events like the exercise 
 floor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Tis is an all around pretty good game . but most of the time I dont understand it . Like when they 
 race , how is it possible that Marios hobbets can keep up with Sonics great speed. And some of 
 the motions are over rated. But the graphics are pretty good and is fun to play. but sometimes 
 boring and unsatisfying. Unlike Super Mario galaxy , this game dosnt take as long to beat. So you 
 may be into it for a while , but after a month or 2 it wont be as satisfying as before. So I give 
 this game a 7.5 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  I really liked the idea of putting Mario and Sonic in the olympics, because it would be fun to 
 play as familiar characters (even though I'm not that familiar with the sonic characters) . I find 
 it fun to play as my mii as well, because it looks and feels like it is me that is competing. However 
 the gameplay is "almost, but not quite."
  
  There are 24 diferent events, which you unlock one by one. You unlock them by taking the curcuit 
 challenges. There are five curcuites that is level "easy", with only three events each. On normal, 
 there are five with four events each and on hard there is six with five events each. Whenever you 
 want, you can accept a challenge. This challenge mean you will get twice as many points in the 
 event if you finish in top three and zero if you don't. You can use this once during a curcuit, 
 so it is a little tactics in there. The curcuits are one of the absolute high ligths in the game, 
 because you have some events you are good at and some you are not so good at, but you have to win 
 in the end. The curcuits could have been even better, if it was a little more challenging. Ok, 
 they get a little harder, but still I finished the very last curcuit getting 60p, when number two 
 got 28p.
  
  After you have completed the curcuits, you will move on to the missions. For each character there 
 is six missions. They can be really frustrating. I don't like challenges where you have to finish 
 in secound place or "throw between 50 and 55m) . I prefer when I can give it all I got. Some are 
 buggingly hard. Like winning 110m hurdles with only perfect jumps. A perfect jump does not mean 
 you do not touch the hurdle, so you can jump over it, but still not get a perfect jump, which is 
 unlogic and makes you really frustrated, because you can jump over all hurdles without knocking 
 them over and beat your opponents by half a secound, but still not complete the mission. I used 
 40 minutes on that event before I completed it. The event I liked the best is when you're Mario 
 and you have to beat Sonic on 100m. Sonic is faster than you, so you must have a perfect start, 
 and hold maximum speed all the way to beat him. It is challenging, and you are so up in the sky 
 when you win.
  
  You can also do single matches. You pick a character, out of the 16 and an event out of the 24 
 and try to win (and maybe set a world record) . You can compare your records with other gamers using 
 wireless. I found that I was good when it came to 4x100m freestyle in aquatics. When I checked 
 my score after one day it was the third best time. Another thing you can do is to have a free curcuit, 
 where you choose the events.
  
  Now let us talk about gameplay. It is very simple, but can be frustrating. On the running events 
 and aquatics, you hold down B to build up power, then shake the wii remote to get a perfect start. 
 You run by shaking the wii remote and nunchuk up and down. It is acctually blody easy to get maximum 
 speed, which somehow kills the gameplay. The field events are mostly bad. What I hate is that you 
 can't give your all. If you're too violent with the controll on javelin, long jump or triple jump, 
 you will get "bad" because it is too hard. In high jump and pole vault, it is easy to set a world 
 record in first try, in fact you might jump as high as they set the bars on first try (maximum 
 2.60 on high jump and 6.30 on pole vault) . Aquatics is the best. There are different ways of swiming 
 (dog-swimming, butterfly, crawling etc.) Each character has his/her style, the miis have crawling. 
 Vector swims in a way that is tipical for alligators (or crocodiles or whatever) . But what really 
 makes this great, is that you have to breath at the rigth time. There is a heart on the screen 
 and it keeps getting lower, so you have to press B in the rigth time to get maximum speed.
  
  The dream event are kind of cool. There is a track event, which is kinda like a bad version 
 of Mario Kart, because there is obstacles and boxes that give you certain items (like running shoes, 
 star and bomb) . This event can be very bugging, because if you lead, they might attack you at the 
 same time. You might be hit by a lightney, which cost you all your speed or one or two ghosts at 
 a time. They will slow you down for a loooong time. Both the dream tennis and dream fencing is 
 like the real events, only with special moves. These events are some of the most entertaining to 
 play. There is more tactics than skill in fencing. You have to know your character and base you 
 strategy on who you figth against. The last dream event is when you jump out in midair with four 
 other players. You have to avoid boxes, avoid getting hit by them and hit the rings, which will 
 have you doing tricks to get points. You also get points for doing it fast.
  
  So this game is good at it's best and pretty crap at its worst. Mostly it is pretty easy along 
 the way. There is actually a galery where you play certain mini-games to unlock the answer on questions 
 about the olympics. This adds zero to the gameplay, though. When you have completed the missions 
 and curcuits, there is not much motivation to play it. I believe I will pick it up sometimes, like 
 when my youger cuisines are visiting, but not much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polorapman
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I think it is a good game and it is also so much exercise in the whole game. I also like how you 
 can use unlockable badges and trophies as icons. Also there is unlockable events but I hate that 
 you can't have any new characters, but you can also use Miis. The characters I hoped to be in the 
 game are Dry Bones, Birdo, Donkey Kong, Jet, and Bowser Junior. Also they could have put more mini-games. 
 The major good news is when you have more people, times the people equals lots of fun. The best 
 part of the game is the dream events, with all the major Olympic sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyauau
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:54 am PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic at the Olympics is the kind of hype where everyone's world clashes which should 
 remind you of the other game made for Gamecube: Super Smash Bros Melee. Although the gameplay could 
 use some work, it's still worth playing for.
  
  The gameplay is similar to Mario Party 8 and Warioware Smooth Moves. You get all those minigames 
 with or without the nunchuk. It's good but it would be nice if there's a way to play with more 
 than one person. In other words, it would've been a bonus had they make it Gamecube and Classic 
 controller compatible.
  
  The graphics is very good with all the characters in its crisp quality. The same with sound with 
 everyone with their own voice and it would be funny if they are also bilingual like speaking Japanese. 
 As always it should have Dolby Pro Logic 2 support.
  
  I don't know what to say about value but the only thing which stands out is maybe unlocking more 
 characters, more modes etc.
  
  This is not a bad game by all means. What I can say is if you're looking forward to the Beijing 
 Olympics and need something to keep you busy, then test your skills with this game. A quote from 
 Seinfeld "The Pool Guy": If relationship George walks through this door, he will kill independent 
 George! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magnotron
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 12, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that combines two platforming heroes in one game. Although i am not a fan of sonic 
 i thought this was a decent game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game don't fully utilize the wii's capiblity but are pretty nice. 
 They arent any thing special but it is nice to look at.
  Sound: As for sound..... not much.
  Gameplay: This game uses the baisic mechanincs for a wii game. Shake to run aim to shut swing to 
 swing your sword. The contols aren't revoulutionary and weve seen them before. The game require 
 alot of shaking and your arms will get tired. 
  
  Over all it is a nice little party game to play with friends but it is nothing special. i would 
 have liked to see a fighting game or a platformer that combines mario and sonic but i gusse wee 
 will have to wait untill brawl.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoulBlood21
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for party's!! Every time we have a party or head over to the relatives 
 for the holidays, this is the only game that ever sees play time and every one plays. It gets every 
 one involved, has a lot of character types to choose from, and is hilarious to watch every one 
 jump up and down, flailing the remotes around and celebrating wins!! Every competition uses the 
 Wii remote the way it was designed for. Even single player is fun to unlock extra's and try to 
 beat online records downloaded to the Wii from around the world!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Popz3377
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty fun yet fairly short if your looking for a family game this is proballay the 
 best one you can find. Its graphics are great for Wiis standerds but ok for the standards, of a 
 Mario game! Its has some weird cotrols but when you get use to them they game becomes more fun. 
 If you are looking for a game that you can play with friends and family or just a great sports 
 game then you need this! This game is probablly one of the most unrated games for the Wii and i 
 believe its that low beacause the players havent played it long enough to get used to its new and 
 unusual controls all in all a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guy_bob_man
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to break this review into sections... 
  
  1) Graphics: Great
  Perfect. No complaints here. Sega always emphasizes graphics in their games so I expected this 
 to turn out good.
  
  2) Mechanics: Great
  Each character has 4 varied stats; speed (how fast your top speed is) , stamina (how long you can 
 go without resting/ slowing down) , power (how far you can throw stuff) , and skill (difficulty of 
 gymnastics, aiming in archery) . So... some characters are good at certain events, while others 
 are not. In circuit mode this effectively balances all the characters.
  
  3) Gameplay: Sometimes a little uncreative
  Almost all of the track and field events have you 
 waving the wiimote and nunchuck up and down.... Not really much variety there. Luckily Sega was 
 much more inventive with other events. Examples- Fencing is simple, yet requires quick reflexes 
 and judgement to parry and hit your opponent. To win on the trampoline you must push the buttons 
 shown before you land. The dream events are a cool twist on the normal events, they remind me of 
 mario kart.
  
  4) The stuff that sucks: Obviously, I dislike these aspects of the game
  Mission mode... Why on earth would I NOT WANT TO GET 1ST PLACE???!!
  No wifi? Come on, man... 
 i don't care about leaderboards.
  
  5) Basic summary: Its better than Wii Sports
  I'm lucky enough to have friends to play multiplayer with, otherwise this game wouldn't have gotten 
 this score. If you've got some friends who like multiplayer with intense fast-paced activity, buy 
 this game. No wifi makes me sad. This game would be sooooooo much better then!! But in the end; 
 i like it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meowcow22
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for ages but I finally got it! it's not just the fact that mario & sonic are 
 both in the same game the gameplay is great too!!! It's amazing woohooo!!!! Go Waluigi & Yoshi 
 MULTIPLAYER IS AMAZINGLY FUN ME AND MY FRIEND SPENT 2 HOURS STRAIGHT ON IT! I'm loving the graphics 
 i can't believe it only got a 6 from gamespot! meowcow22 i gave it 8/10 ive been obsessed yay!!!!!! 
 yay yay yay yay yay i know i sound nutts but it's very fun i hope i don't get bored coz i play 
 it too much.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonic91
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Mario and sonic together at last and what better thing to square off in than the olympics.
  
  The gameplay is really fun, now it does get a little repetitive but thats not a bad thing. 
 It allows ur to use that control to your amount of energy, are you a little tired so you only want 
 something like the 100m dash? or are you ready to put your stanima to the test with the 400m hurdles?! 
 And its not just running of course, there's achery, skeet shooting, gymnastics, table tenis, swimming 
 they did well. You actually have the controls for the different types of swiming including dog 
 paddle, butterfly, crawl, and a crocodile swim ( vector only) . Then theres rowing, hammer throw, 
 fencing and dont forget the dream events. There are plenty of events in this game and there execution 
 is even better.
  
  Theres plenty of variety to play these events. We have single match mode, circut mode and even 
 free circut mode meaning you can put 4 or 8 of your favorite events together and compete with your 
 freinds. Mission mode is one of my favorites, each of the 16 characters have different missions 
 to take on that most of the time are quite enjoyable. Theres a few that are rediculous were you 
 have to do something like throw in between a certian distance ( trust me it gets on your nerves 
 a little) but thats only like 2 or 3. The gallery is both up and down. Sure you get to learn about 
 the history and the 2008 olympics but the minigames can be rather dull after the 2nd time. To make 
 it a little better, once u beat level 5 on one of them you unlock some new music. You get instant 
 classic music like mario brothers 1-1 music and sonic's GREEN HILL music allowing you to play the 
 rest of the minigames with at least some enjoyable music and of course unlocking more as you go. 
 Even your records have something unique to them. You get to view all your medals and emblems and 
 crowns and trophies, but what really stands out is you get to see where you are in rankings world 
 wide. With wifi you can see how good your best records are compared to others across the globe.
 
  
  
  What makes this game so great is the look and feel ( Graphics are nice, Weve come to expect that 
 from sega) . It kinda feels like many of the older mario sport games. The circut mode gives you 
 a small mario kart feel with competeting and adding up points then moving on. The collection results 
 like mario tennis, sure you may get an emblem for one character in a particular event but then 
 you can do it again with the others. Just like how mario tennis were you can get the trophy for 
 one cup but then do the cup again with another person. ( o yeah dream table tennis has special shots 
 too) 
  
  All in all this game is fantastic, its alot of fun, with a variety of things to do. It makes sense 
 that they can compete this way so hora at last the 2 mascots come together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  Olympic games is an awsome game with a good multiplayer.
  
  
  Olympic games Mario & Sonic lets you play 20 real Olympic events, as well as a few of the fantasy 
 variety. You can play single events; a circuit, where you compete in four events and try to finish 
 first so that you can unlock new sports; and missions, where you compete in multiple events but 
 have specific goals such as finishing in a certain place or throwing the javelin a particular distance.
 
  
  
  Why you'd ever not want to throw the javelin as far as you can -- and instead try to toss it between 
 40 and 50 meters -- is anyone's guess, but it's something you'll have to do here. All of these contests 
 use motion-based controls, and some of them require both the Nunchuk and the remote. Others require 
 only the remote. Athletic events include: 100 meter dash, 4x100 meters, 4x100m relay, 110 meter 
 hurdles, 400 meter hurdles, long jump, triple jump, high jump, pole vault, hammer throw, and the 
 javelin throw. These events are really basic and require little more of you than to hold B and 
 move the Wii Remote down to start, after which you alternate moving the Nunchuk and the Wii Remote 
 up and down to run, and then wave the remote up to jump or press the B button and wave the remote 
 down to pass the baton. 
  
  
  There ar so much cool things to do , multiplayer and stuff like that is so great.
  
  
  overall 
 its a good lookin game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  Were someone to invent a time machine, take a spin back to the mid-90s and tell a group of hardcore 
 gamers that Mario and Sonic would one day appear in the same game, it's likely they'd probably 
 be torn limb-from-limb by furious fanboys. But while a game that combines the powers of gaming's 
 greatest mascots may sound like a dream come true, Olympic Games fails to capture the dynamic duo's 
 time-honoured charms.
  
  Essentially another Wii mini-game extravaganza, Olympic Games features 24 different events, taking 
 in athletics, gymnastics, shooting, rowing and a host of others. However, what separates the game 
 from the sporting pack is how the motion controls are used; unlike most button-mashing simulations, 
 actions such as running and sprinting see players jerking the Wii remote and nunchuck up and down 
 to mimic the action of a runner's arms, waving the remote to bounce on a trampoline, or swinging 
 it wildly in the air to move an onscreen table tennis paddle.
  
  But while there are hours of fun to be had in Olympic Games, it quickly becomes apparent that many 
 of the events use exactly the same control scheme, meaning that a nagging sense of deja vu soon 
 creeps in as you work your way through the repetitive tournament. The lack of a proper online mode 
 also squanders an opportunity for players to challenge each other across the internet, making Sonic 
 and Mario's first love-in a decent weekend rental but not worth the premium retail price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  http://www. projectcoe. com/nintendo/games/m&s_olypmics_wii. html? var1=sc3
  
  In the early, mid-nineties, two game hardware developers bucked heads as they fought for market 
 share and popularity. On one side, Nintendo had their Super NES, the successor to the 60 million 
 successful NES, and on the other, SEGA boldly decided to challenge the Big N with their Genesis. 
 Well we all know that competition brings out the best in companies, so as a result, the war between 
 two mascots officially began. We have Mario, the pudgy Italian plumber that saves Peach time and 
 time again, and Sonic, the hedgehog that can run at blinding speeds and jump to great heights. 
 For almost 20 years, gamers across the world have wondered what it would be like to see them clash 
 in a videogame, and that time is now here.
  
  Mario & Sonic At The Olympic Games not only pays homage to the eventual 2008 Summer Olympics being 
 held in Beijing, China next year, but it's the first game ever to feature red and blue together 
 in the same package. It's probably a downer to some that the age old question of who's faster, 
 "Mario or Sonic?" won't be answered honestly here, but what the game offers to Ninty/SEGA fans 
 is something to behold. Even if M&S is very noticeably intended for multiplayer gaming, the experience 
 still brings a little something for everyone. Over 20 unique Olympic events, a satisfying roster 
 of Mario and Sonic universe reps (Sonic actually outnumbers Mario) and quite a bit that can be 
 done; what I initially perceived as a blatant cash-in of either infamous name turns out to be a 
 pleasant surprise.
  
  There are four different ways to have at it with Mario & Sonic: Single Event, Circuit, Missions 
 and Gallery. The game does support Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, but it's exceptionally lame since 
 all you can do is compare your records to those of other players of the game. You can't compete 
 against anyone online; so really, no one is going to care. Nevertheless, even that doesn't drag 
 down what is a surprisingly in-depth Nintendo and SEGA collaboration. Single Event is more or less 
 the Exhibition mode in any other sports title in that you just pick one thing to do, finish, and 
 move on. The real meat of this meal lies in the other three options. Missions are your typical 
 scenario fare that are common Mario sports games like Strikers and Golf. Each character has an 
 individual set of activities to be completed for the sheer achievement of it. Gallery is the shallowest 
 of the M&S modes, but even then, it can entertain those who partake of it. It's meant to actually 
 teach you about Olympic history and present, it's simply unfortunate that you can't access that 
 information until you finish rather annoying mini-games like remembering shouts that you hear and 
 whatnot. But hey, a little education never heard anybody.
  
  Circuit is where the fun's at, and not only because of the good deal of content, but the fact that 
 one to four players can participate is just plain cool. There are three classes of varying difficulty, 
 and while snagging that gold trophy isn't entirely troublesome until the absolute last three circuits, 
 that doesn't hide M&S's entertainment value. The number of total circuits increases with each class, 
 and so do the number of events that take place. The variety is great, spanning your familiar track 
 and field competitions to the more Mario Kart-like and game-specific Dream Events. Now if you're 
 approaching Mario & Sonic with the notion that it comes with heavy motion-sensitive Wii waggle, 
 you're correct. Every event has it, and there's no way around it. The positive thing is that a 
 majority of these mini-games have input schemes that make sense and are enjoyable to execute. Granted 
 you would have to accept the fact that your arms will eventually tire due to all the drumming you 
 do with the controllers, but hey, why whine about a nice little workout? On then negative end, 
 a few Olympic events didn't impress me, like the fencing, triple jump and vault, but as I said 
 before, a majority of what SEGA managed to come up with is unexpectedly fun. The track and field 
 games and Dream Events are easily my favorites, and archery is the most challenging because of 
 the realism. In fact, most of the games are simulative, which is actually shocking considering 
 the usual arcade nature of Mario sports franchises. I could go into describing how the activities 
 work, but it'd really be a waste of time because you need to experience them yourself, especially 
 with friends and family. I definitely recommend that too.
  
  Now the game's tie-in nature to the 2008 Summer Olympics might lend you to think that the experience 
 is full of atmosphere. Well, it is to an extent, as the general crowd does have a presence, but 
 it's not as electrifying as you may want. It also doesn't help that all the spectators are lame 
 2D sprites that should be done away with by now given the power of each console. Call that overly 
 critical all you want, but flat fans just don't do the trick in this day and age. Even so, Mario 
 & Sonic wears very clean and polished visuals. At least at field level, the arenas are designed 
 well, and each character brought to life with appropriate athletic animation. Special effects are 
 lacking, but it's not a big deal. Just don't expect to see much outside of the colorful sparkles 
 flowing at a character's feet during some of the events. These same feelings also apply to the 
 audio portion of the game. There are a few themes that do nicely to drive home the fact that you're 
 participating in the Olympics, but everything else is there for filler. The same goes for the random 
 effects and voiced one-liners. Each character has something to say, but only a few things, which 
 obviously results in repetition. Mario & Sonic looks great and quite elegant despite the unimpressive 
 crowd, and the audio is ok, even managing to hype you up in some instances.
  
  What easily justifies the $49.99 price tag is the longevity, which most Wii games can barely manage 
 to stand on one leg in regards to. Again, with the number of events that eventually become available 
 after unlocking them, the mostly balanced array of company mascots and a couple pass-the-time modes 
 to boot, Mario & Sonic At The Olympic Games is clearly nothing to outright dismiss. If you're a 
 single gamer that tends to keep to yourself, this game likely won't appeal to you. But if you see 
 friends pretty regularly or still live with your family and they enjoy these types of simplistic 
 waggle Wii titles, then by all means look into investing here. Sure it's a bit odd to see two major 
 Mario games come out for Wii in the same month, but that's what the holidays are for right? While 
 the headline for the preview of this game that wondered if M&S was merely the training being done 
 for Brawl isn't exactly true, what we have here is true-spirited competition that anyone could 
 really have a pleasant evening with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resist1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  This game came out of left field for me, I purchased it with skeptisism in mind beacuse majority 
 of what the Wii does is simply gimicky becuase of their control scheme. However i was pleasantly 
 surprised how many fun events are available to play, with pretty repsonsive however not perfect 
 controls. My wife and son love the game as do I, its extremely fun to play with everyone, friends 
 and family and do some trash talking while you are at it. If you have people to play with go ahead 
 purchase this is definately a party game thats a keeper! If you have no one to play with, i suggest 
 you stay away from it and spend your 50$ elsewhere there is plenty more fun to be had with other 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anzooo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Divertido creo que es la palabra indicado para describir el juego.
  
  Es muy completo tiene una gran cantidad de juegos cada uno tan bueno como el otro, compitiendo 
 por las medallas y trofeos de oro.
  
  Otra gran cosa del juego es la varianza de los personajes que es realmente increble, Mario, Sonic, 
 Shadow, Yoshi, Bowser, etc....
  El modo Wi-fi te dejara pegado a la pantalla horas y horas, las competencias son practicamente 
 iguales pero la dificultad es ms grande.
  De verdad este juego te mantendr ms cautivado que el mismo Wii Sports.
  
  En conclusin este 
 juego tiene 9.2 bueno en este rating le dejo un 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bransr
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  I think it's one of the best games i have played. It hurts your hand after a while, if you play 
 too much. But I played 5 hours flat with a friend so yea. It's not a bad game at all. There is 
 just one hard part but thats it. But my friends think i stink at video games. But I'm good at this 
 game. I think it's better than every Wii game. The one thing i don't like is the mini games. there 
 too ling and get boring. i showed this game to my friends and they say sweet I'm getting this game. 
 thank you for reading this is a great game try it by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldsoulco
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  The first game i played what the ski shooting. That was plain crap. the skis are so small it makes 
 it almost impossible to get the hang of it very fast, if at all. Jumping on the tramp was fun, 
 Fencing couldn't distinguish blocking motions. it always attacked instead. The characters are weak 
 as well, Mario is the best all round, but if you plan on doing the racing games use sonic. you 
 can beat him if you master the fluky controls.
  
  all in all this is a renter. NEVER buy this game, the game play lasted us 30 min and then we switched 
 back to Rayman, yet another mini-game for wii.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: USS-Voyager
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic at the olympics is not a story driven game by any means of the word, in a way it 
 is kind of like wii sports. It is a type of game that is best played with your friends (or family) . 
 You can do many things in the game, from plain ol' running to fencing and archery this game has 
 a wide variety of games to choose from. You are sure you find one you really enjoy. For the wii 
 the game looks really good the graphics are obviously not better than the 360 or PS3, but it still 
 looks pretty good. The frame rate is always stable the game has never lagged for me and it has 
 been smooth at all times. Many of the games require precise timing or crazy speed, but none of 
 the events are really that hard though. Overall this game is good, not great or spectacular, just 
 good. This game is not worth $50 but you might want to give this game a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I just played this today. Today, at my friends house. He got the game a while ago. I promised him 
 I would review it as soon as I got home. I am right now.
  It's the first game with Mario and sonic in it. It's also the first Sonic game in a while that 
 I've reviewed. 
  
  The game is not too shabby, but it has its downs.
  
  
  The graphics are okay, not good. Okay. The flaws in them are the background graphics. They look 
 Gamecubish. 
  
  The music is one of the best on the Wii! Great enough to be a soundtrack.
  
  Sound is kinda 
 ugly, but somehow you'll get used to it.
  
  The control is VERY clunky, and the camera is flicky. The audio is just plain solid.
  
  The 
 games were lots of ffun, but they can be frustrating. Take, for instance, the swimming diving game. 
 You'll never know when you hit blocks, because your screen is covered by clouds for some time. 
 The items were useless, unless you could lock up them to an enemy, which, in this case, you can't.
 
  
  This game is fun at chance, but not the best of the three mario games I'm tracking down (this game, 
 Mario galaxy, and Super Smash Bros. Brawl) . You'll buy it, but then again, why not rent it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyrule-master
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I think instead of Olympics there should be something like this; Plot: Mario is walking around 
 and sonic is spinning around to. BOOM all the sudden Mario and Sonic ran into each other while 
 they start getting mad at each other, while they are arguing Dr. Eggman is spying on them. Yet 
 also he ran into bowser and bowser says are after Mario too? Eggman says no im after that annoying 
 Hedgehog Sonic Bowser starts thinking and an idea comes to him so he says to Eggman say what if 
 I made a deal with you saying If you help me kill mario I will help you kill Sonic. Eggman agrees. (and 
 apparently deals are easily said but not easily kept same with promises) After that Wario is walking 
 around and then he sees knuckles Then he stares at him and Wario Farts and Knuckles faints due 
 to the bad smell. (ewww) Then Wario sees that knuckles has a shiny jewel called the Chaos Emerald 
 Wario thinks that it could be part of his treasures so he takes the Emerald ( oh by the way WaLuigi 
 is with wario too) and knuckles wakes up and kicks Waluigi and Wario in the back and takes the 
 emerald back. Then he says to Wario amd WaLuigi dont comeback!! after that Luigi meets up with 
 tails (notice Im saying all the rivals kinda) Than they start Fighting about whos more Loyal to 
 their partner. Tails and Luigi are both evenly matched. But while all this commotion is happening, 
 Eggman and Bowser are forming a plan. Whos side will you take?... Players: 4 players adventure and 
 against each other 2 players co-op on wifi and 8 players against each other. Genre: Adventure, 
 action. Goal: Beat the game With both Mario's side and Sonic's side. What you can do: You can either 
 Take Sonic's side first or Mario's side first. also, when you Go on Mario's side You do all of 
 the stages from sonic when you are on sonic's side you do all the stages from mario You can use 
 all the items from sonic and Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woega
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game I eagerly started playing. The intro-movie is a joy to the eye. But a good 
 intro does not make a good game.
  
  The game offers several modes:
  Single Event, you compete in 1 event (duh)
  Circuit, a series of events in which you receive 
 points if you make top 3. Every time you finish a circuit in 3rd place or better, a new circuit 
 is unlocked, most oftenly including a new event.
  Mission mode; every character (16 in total) has 6 missions to clear, varying from 'beating a rival' 
 to 'throw the javelin between 50 and 55 meters.
  
  The typical Nintendo setting will make the game a must have for the Nintendo-fan, and of course 
 the multiplayer aspect in combination with the Wii controls makes this game fun to play.
  
  Many unlockables, medals, emblems which you receive for 'special accomplishments' circuits, will 
 have you reaching for M&S over and over again. And be honest ... who doesn't want to hear the words 
 'WORLD RECORD' 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzydennis
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start by saying that I thought that this game would have been one huge dissapointment. 
 Let me just say that I was proven wrong. This game is fun and a great party game. Try to think 
 of this game as a part game more than Mario & Sonic's first first cross over. 
  
  
  Overview: Basically the overall point of this game is to make a fun party game. There is no story 
 in this game, but what kind of a story would you implement into it? 
  
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game look so different. Some graphics can look fantastic, but other 
 parts of the graphics can look like crap! The character models look fantastic! Mario isn't as detailed 
 as he is in Super Smash Brothers, but he still looks great! Every character looks fantastic and 
 its nice to see the characters look newer and nicer. Now, the fans in the stadium. They look like 
 crappy doodles I drew in 2nd period Math. I guess it doesn't matter that much since you are going 
 to be looking at the competetiors more than the fans.
  
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is average. It has basic sound effects from bleeps to bloops. Although 
 the sounds from past Mario games is cool, Sonic too.
  
  
  Music: What music? Seriously, I have a hard time remembering the music of this game. At times the 
 music is catchy, but nothing is memorible. 
  
  
  Voices: Thank you, SEGA! Few voice overs, but the they have are really good. Sonic ACTUALLY has 
 a good voice in this game. Mario sounds great too. Every character has great voice that don't make 
 you flinch every time you hear them. Although on a few Mario characters, I did notice alittle bit 
 of voice samples from past games. 
  
  Gameplay: Awesome! I can't believe how fun this game actually is! It's a great party game that 
 has depth. Many minigames could actually be games by themselves! Within the many minigames, you 
 have to pull of a certain motion. (Duh!) . With track and field, you have to quickly alternate shaking 
 the Wii Remote and Nunchuk up and down. 
  
  Now certain games deserve to get mentions.
  
  Dream Table Tennis: This game is basically ping pong in a huge stadium with power shots. Awesome 
 gameplay that can really get intense.
  
  Dream Platform: Basically, skydiving into the ocean, you'll be avoiding blocks and enemy attacks 
 while trying to perform awesome tricks. You'll be play this one a lot!
  
  All the track and field events are fun: ranging from 110m hurdles to high jump, they are all pretty 
 fun and share similar design making them also easy to play.
  
  Now for the biggest negative of Mario and Sonic:
  
  You are going to get tired while playing 
 this game! It's demanding. I swear no other video game has made me more tired after playing. The 
 constant motions are going to hurt you too. I recommend that you listen to the game for once and 
 take brakes when they say. You will get wiped! 
  
  This game may not be for everyone. With it's demanding gameplay and it's somewhat difficult single 
 player, it's going to turn some off. Give this game a chance. Oh and it has Miis in the game, so 
 you too can run along Sonic and Mario. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vollmertyme
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  I remember in the early 90's Where Mario and Sonic were bitter enemies. Who would thought that 
 a Decade and a half later we would see MArio and Sonic on the same page. Caused by a turn of events 
 Sega turning into a software only Company . Well when I was a kid I Llived, Breathed, and Loved 
 everything Nintendo, You could say I was a PURE Nintendo Maniac I didn't own a Sega Genesis until 
 2000. Well back to the game there's plenty of stuff to keep you busy even if you're playing alone, 
 First there's Single event where you pick an event any that you have unlocked there's a bunch unlocked 
 at the start. Then you have Circuit Mode where you have 3 or 4 Event's you play and try to get 
 a medal. There's also Gallery (HIstory of the Olympics) and Records don't forget Options. There's 
 also a Bonus, Online World Records But not every event has online records. Overall this game is 
 really fun theres 16 Characters to choose from plus your Mii's.
  
  
  So let the Multi Player Games Begin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJix
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Really who thought this game was going to be a 5star game. No matter what characters you use or 
 etc it is still the olympics. That in alone will reduce its overall score since not everyone really 
 likes to play Olympic games. It is fun but it is still just the olympics with a Nintendo twist. 
 I wouldnt say buy it right away, rent it and see how you like it then see if it is worth shelling 
 out the cash. Keep in mind though there are plenty of other games around this christmas that are 
 far more worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioMellow
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Take 2 huge game icons, plant them in the same game and give a shallow game experience and you 
 have this game. Its not bad but its not what it could be. Worthy of a rent but steer clear of spending 
 50 dollars on this title. It wasn't a totalet letdown but it wasn't much of a suprise. The only 
 big plus I can think of was it is a great addition to the party gaming the Wii offers. Although 
 there are many others that are much better which include Mario Party 8 and Raving Rabbids. The 
 Wi-fi of the game I felt wasn't really even that necassary but oh well, Galaxy comes out soon and 
 that alone makes this mediocore title almost disappear out of my mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursednavi
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic at the Olympic games is definitly a weird title especially considering this is 
 there fist title together. The game though is very fun. If you have 3 freinds over you can play 
 for hours adn not only is multiplayer fun single player has also many differnt things to do. There 
 are also plenty of unlockables to keep you busy for a while. The charecter selection is great though 
 it could have used more charecters. The game is very colorful also which makes it great to look 
 at. Also finally Nintendo has put together a very good leaderboard system and this also keeps you 
 playing over and over again. Though some events get boring and some hurt your arm a little. Though 
 circuits dont get boring since there are so many. Overall its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bishop_Tx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  The problem with reviews is the usual background they are written from; some 20-something year 
 old college student - and that's great for some games, but not this one. The gamespot reviews are 
 usually very good, but they just don't seem to get it when it comes to games like Mario and Sonic 
 at the Olympics - a game designed to be very kid friendly and family fun oriented..
  
  The game is great, especially for a family. My wife, two kids and I all play together and we have 
 more fun playing this game than any other. Everyone can have fun and the variety of events keeps 
 us playing for hours.
  
  The graphics are superb, the controls are tight and yes while they are on the simple side they 
 still manage to be a challenge. If every event were like archery the game would bog down.
  
  It's a kid friendly version of the old Track and Field game we used to button mash for hours 
 in the local arcade. Add in the characters and off the couch physical nature of the game and you 
 have my vote for best family game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefonte
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Remember Track and Field on the original Nintendo!!! Well this is it! Just more tiring. First I 
 must say that I own all three systems and have played just about everything. I only review the 
 good ones and the bad ones nothing in the middle.
  
  THIS IS ONE OF THE GOOD ONES. If you have friends, a wife, whatever and you live and die competition 
 you will love this game!!! Just like the original Track and Field this game will have you fustrated 
 (in a good way) trying to better your time and best your friends while trying to break records. 
 The controls are innovative, and movements you would expect for certain events. One of the faults 
 is that you have to play in single player mode to unlock other events, you can't do it in multiplayer 
 modes. I immedialtey purchased this game after renting it and I had friends come over several times 
 to play it all night till our muscles gave out!!! (We totaly ignored the messages to rest at the 
 end of each circuit) . I am a video game nut and a sports nut (playing not watching) I am 31 years 
 old and I have played a lot of video games and this one is one to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioknight
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 11, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic featured in a game together. It's the first sign of the apocalypse, the first game 
 with both gaming icons in, which gives high expectations for the game by default. And boosting 
 those expectations is Sega boasting that this game will sell over 4 million copies because of the 
 video game history milestone it sets. However a game set in the Olympics doesn't sound too promising 
 to meet such expectations, even though the Olympics are the culmination of athletic competition. 
 Add onto this Sega working on this game alongside the Olympic Committee and there's now a whole 
 stack of obstacles Sega must face head on in order for this game to be a huge success. Sure having 
 the Mario and Sonic characters in the game game will sell games quickly, if it doesn't impress 
 that surge will die down fast. Sadly with all the power behind the game, I see this one dying down 
 just a month or two after the Christmas season ends, with the holiday release being half of the 
 reason it will sell as many units as it will.
  
  With an in intro like that, you might think that there's really not much good to the game, and 
 that's not true. The game looks astounding. The characters are well rendered, the animations are 
 done very well, and the stadiums are modeled after the actual stadiums that will be used in Beijing 
 for the 2008 Olympic Games. A feature I absolutely love is the ability to share your top scores 
 on a worldwide leaderboard. And I can't forget to mention that you can use your Mii instead of 
 th 16 playable characters, which is a nice touch, especially when you can see people's Mii's on 
 the worldwide rankings.
  
  However, there's not much else going for it. No online play makes me sad. Character stats seemingly 
 mean nothing. I don't expect to be the master of a game my first run through by any means, but 
 I also don't expect Luigi to be able to beat Sonic in a footrace. Gameplay is hit miss, both figuratively 
 and literally. Some events have a good control set, others don't. To give an example of each, running 
 can be fun, especially for me because I get my entire body in the motion to help my speed, and 
 it's like I'm back on my Power Pad from nearly two decades ago. Table tennis is downright horrible, 
 and I could go back and forth for each event. Sometimes things don't register right which is a 
 pain. Even more annoying is that events that only use the Wii-mote make you disconnect the nunchuck 
 before play, even though if it were to remain connected it wouldn't affect play. I can only imaging 
 how annoying that will become to me when I get jackets on those Wii-motes.
  
  I can forgive and get used to those things over time I believe. However, what will make that a 
 hard process for me is unlocking events and other features. There's a single event mode where you 
 can choose from a handful of events, circuit mode where you play through a series of events to 
 get a trophy, and mission mode set up with dumb things. Things like jumping a certain distance, 
 finishing a race in a 4 second window, etc., is annoying and difficult to achieve. So I hope to 
 avoid this mode altogether and see what I can go in circuit mode and manage to barely get a gold 
 in the first one, only to not have the next one unlock. So the only way to actually unlock things 
 is through this mission mode, giving a player only a handful of events and circuits to play through 
 until a miracle happens and they can clear out a bunch and play the new unlocks if they aren't 
 frustrated enough to put the game away. Simply put, this puts a big road block for me as I'm punished 
 because I can't throw/race with such accuracy in performance, and will keep me from playing a lot 
 of the game. The lack of a practice mode is also a big turnoff because practice is required a couple 
 times to get used to an event.
  
  Overall, I'm pretty disappointed with this game. The first game with both icons featured should 
 be mind-blowing. Though I guess it is, only in the complete opposite direction you would want a 
 mind blown. At least this game free up room for me to focus on other games (looking your way Super 
 Mario Galaxy) this Christmas season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure many of us remember when the Mario and Sonic games were some of the most popular video 
 games around. Since then, their popular has seemed to have cooled down a little. And now we get 
 Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games, which is not a platformer, but rather an Olympic sports game, 
 as the title suggests.
  
  This game has many mini-games, which includes things like Track, Skeet, swimming, Table Tennis 
 and more. You can choose from a variety of Mario and Sonic characters, rather than just Mario and 
 Sonic themselves. This game is a lot like Wii Sports and Wii Play in some ways, as they are also 
 games filled with mini-games and can even be used for exercising.
  
  One downside about this game is that even though it can be good for exercise, some games, such 
 as Track and swimming, can be too hard to control. On these games, I can either be really good 
 at them or really bad at them, which is weird. And then we have simpler games, such as Table Tennis 
 and Skeet, which are probably my favorite mini-games on this game.
  
  Overall, this game can easily be recommend if you love Olympic games or if you're simply a Mario 
 and Sonic fan and have been wanting to see them in a game together. Personally, this is the only 
 Olympics game I've ever played, but as a fan of both Mario and Sonic, I just had to try this game. 
 I don't agree with the score Gamespot gave it either. I think a 7 or 8 is more suitable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rbk87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  As the olympics come upin he summer mario and sonic i just basicly for people who have watched 
 the olympics and its just all the sonic and mario charactes put in a game. But one of the things 
 tat arent so good about the game is u have to unlock all the other events by playing them a lot 
 more or finishing circuts. But the replay value is okay but once youve unlocked al the other events 
 it can be fun. There was not a lot of talk about online play yes it is mntioned on the box but 
 there is only wi fi rankings so not alot on that. Even there are alot of fun events to play there 
 can be some ups an downs if you love the olympics its a no brainer and if ur aan of mario or sonic 
 its a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraZySeahorSe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 
  Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games has a lot of incredibly fun events. Just like the Olympics, 
 there are tons of events from swimming, pole vault, table tennis, and even dream events... which 
 Nintendo through in there for the kids, however they're still fun. Different events just don't 
 end; there are also mission modes and circuit modes which help you advance through the game. Also, 
 with WiFi, one can post your records on the internet... thereofre it really is an Olympics! You're 
 competing with people all over the world. 
  Graphics
  Very good, surpringsly good. Great character models, fantastic background visuals, and the Mii 
 imports are hilarious... big heads for thier bodies, but a fantastic idea.
  Sound
  Great music, great character voices, a good variety of them too. The crowd plays a surprisingly 
 loud role before the events begin. 
  Value
  Incredible, lasts forever... doesn't get boring at all. One could invite friend after friend over 
 to the house and continue to enjoy it. Different events, different characters (plus Mii) , and posting 
 records do the job.
  
  
  Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games (Wii) - 8.5/10.0 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: msulli25
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD-
  
  This game got terrible reviews, but I am confused as to why. Mario and sonic at the olympic games 
 is a great party game. Its lots of fun to play the circuit mode against a friend too. The problem 
 that most people found was with the similarities in some event controls, however I think there 
 was enough variation that it was still fun. This game does tire you out pretty quickly though. 
 Im not in bad shape and I found myself taking frequent breaks especially during anything that contained 
 the 4x100 freestyle swimming event and the 400 meter track race. I think this game was very under 
 appreciated due to the fact that it is a little too short in single player mode, but I dont think 
 that that is the point of the game once again. This game is meant for more than one player. Visually 
 the game looks pretty good. The graphics are good, but could support a few more polygons I think.
 
  
  THE BAD-
  The mission mode is really corny and makes you do random tasks that are completely irrelevant to 
 winning the particular event. Some events are sort of lame and difficult to get a hang of. Table 
 Tennis sucks, and is nearly impossible at first. The matches are too long, and are really boring. 
 
  
  Overall I really like this game and think it deserved way better reviews than it got. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carnage_Dragoon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and Mario together in one package, great excitement, right? Well, at least at for awhile. 
 The game starts off giving a good feeling of excitement and anticipation. Having a disappointing 
 lack of a continuous game play mode that one would have expected is, well, a let-down. The only 
 mode that compares to this are circuits, and while those can be the grand prix you're looking for, 
 you still have to deal with the several games you wouldn't want to play, due to frustrating controls 
 that seem to not do what you want. Several of the events have controls that are very unresponsive 
 and agonizing. After playing the game for too long you may find yourself not only frustrated, but 
 kinda sore after having to deal with games that require two minutes of constant arm flailing. 
 
  
  The games that one would enjoy are somewhat few and far between. The few games that don't have 
 frustrating or tiring controls are enjoyable and the overall ambiance of the games does a decent 
 job of keeping you together through it all and gives the game that happy-go-lucky Mario feel that 
 lets you enjoy what you're seeing. Comparing scores on WiFi is fun, and if you try hard enough 
 you can get in the top 300, which makes you feel like you're contributing to the world. The game 
 makes you want to play more which, in time, you'll probably regret. 
  
  Overall, the mood the game sets doesn't help to make up for the frustrating control schemes most 
 of the events have, and the lack of good ones that don't leave you kinda hurting. So, enjoy the 
 time you can from playing the game until it gets frustrating and make sure to take the suggested 
 breaks, cause playing to much can leave your muscles regretting they listened to you, and they'll 
 get their revenge on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  Ok, let me say this first. Like most of you I was thrilled when I heard Mario and Sonic were going 
 to be in a game together, but that soon changed to dissapointment when I heard it was going to 
 be an Olympics game. Like most of you who grew up in the early to mid 90s, we spent sixteen years 
 waiting for this day to come and we get this generic sports game?
  
  But you know what? Maybe it's because I'm not a whiny gamer or that I'm able to overlook a lot 
 of things but I've really enjoyed "Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games."
  
  In the title, you know exactly what you are getting out of this. Nothing more. Nothing less. It's 
 Mario. It's Sonic. It's a bunch of olympic sports themed games. Take it or leave it.
  
  There's dozens of events to choose from from track and field to swimming to fencing to ping pong 
 and nice variety of sporting events which is good news for those who worried this would be nothing 
 but track and field events. Even more fun is the fact that there are these "Dream Events" which 
 are basically similar to events in the game with a sort of wacky twist that makes for a fun time.
 
  
  Many have complained about controls but personally I have had no problem getting the hang of things. 
 The thing is, you're not always going to get it right on the first try. It takes practice. I had 
 no problem with response from the wiimote and after one or two tries, I picked it up. Each event 
 (as well as the booklet) has instructions on how each event is played and if you actually take 
 the time to read it over, it's easy to figure out But it will make your arms tired..
  
  There's a slew of characters from the Mario and Sonic universe to choose from. Sadly there appears 
 to be no unlockable characters which is dissapointing to those of you hoping to find DK or Silver 
 in this game. Though in this game, it's hard to stick to one certain character because speed characters 
 like Yoshi or Sonic will be good at races but power characters like Bowser or Knuckles will do 
 better at things like the hammer toss. You may find yourself alternating between characters, though 
 I try to stick to my old standby, Yoshi. (He is my avatar after all) And if you get tired of the 
 Mario and Sonic cast, you can always bring your Mii in to play along.
  
  This is a party game of sorts so as to be expected, it's better when you have friends over, though 
 there's a good attempt to put some single player aspects in it with circut mode where you compete 
 in a series of events for a trophy. And while no characters are unlockable, there are more events 
 that become available as you play. Also while online mulitplayer would've helped this game greatly, 
 competeting for the high score with the online leaderboards has its perks as well and gives some 
 incentive to keep playing again and again.
  
  Mario and Sonic is one of these games where you're either going to love it or hate it. If this 
 wasn't the crossover you expected then don't buy it and wait for Brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shige-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  I've read through most of the reviews made by both members of GS and "normal" users. As I read 
 through, I decided to write a summary of how this game really is like, according to what other 
 people say. 
  
  Controle System:
  If you've read through other review's you've seen that most people say the controle are bad. They 
 do not always follow your commands and you tend to get a lot of disqualifications regarding some 
 olympic games. Is this really the games fault? 
  
  This is definitely not the games fault. This game is actually one of the few wii games were it 
 requires somewhat skill to be able to pull of some of the actions in the game. For example the 
 triple jump, where alot of people complain the controllers being bad. This is not the case, as 
 i've mentioned above it requires some decent skill to be able to do a great or even a good jump 
 without disqualification. This does not only count for the triple jump, also some other olympic 
 games aswell.
  
  Graphics:
  Nothing to complain about here, good smooth graphics.
  
  Summary:
  Now remember, this is a "party" game, meaning it is most fun when you play with others, 
 however it can still bring you loads of enjoyment when playing it alone. Also keep in mind that 
 this is one of the more difficult games to the wii, so give it time. The more you play, the more 
 fun it is.
  
  If you are into sport games, or you have a competitive side. Then this is definitely the right 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeeja_x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  I think any rating below a 7 is being too critical of the game and I wonder what are the ages and 
 backgrounds of some of the negative reviewers. I have seen worse games by far with better scores 
 (for all platforms) . I like the game for the following reasons:
  
  1. You get some minimal exercise from playing, enough so where after an hour I need to move to 
 something else since my arms get tired. An hour here or there works nicely because, as a working 
 family guy, I don't have 3+ hours a day to play video games anyway. 
  2. Every time I have played it has been together with my 9 year old daughter. My big negative for 
 the game is the price but it can be a Visa commercial. Game $50. Afternoon together with my daughter, 
 priceless. 
  
  Neither my daughter nor me have had a problem with the controls, aside from the learning curve. 
 Most of my "misses" come from my use of the controls and not the controls themselves, so I will 
 take the blame. You have to execute precisely to get great results, which takes time, practice 
 and patience. Executing precisely and with perfect results is not always repeatable. Is it me or 
 isn't that true for a real Olympic athlete? They don't break a world record every time they execute. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_Ford
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I've spent at least 10 hours playing this game so far and I have to say it's very fun. The controls 
 respond well to each event but some events take a little more time getting used to like the Aquatics 
 for example, performing the swimming motions is different for each character. I find Crawling to 
 be the most difficult. Athletics is very fun, the Track and Field events are some of my favorites 
 especially the Hammer Throw and the High Jump. Once you get the motions and timing down the events 
 become a lot easier though I didn't have too much trouble to begin with for most of the events. 
 I also really enjoy Gymnastics which features the Trampoline, Shooting which features Skeet and 
 Archery which only features Archery. The Dream Events are easily some of the best once you unlock 
 them. Fencing and Table Tennis are pretty fun too but my least favorite event would have to be 
 the Aquatics just because I've found that preforming the motions is more difficult than any of 
 the other events. Not all of the events are unlocked when you first start the game though, there 
 are quite a few to unlock but it's worth it. I believe there are around 24 events total.
  
  There's a Single Match Mode which is pretty much like a practice mode, you can choose one event 
 to compete in and once it's finished you can do it over or choose a new event. You can also earn 
 Medals in this mode and set new Olympic Records and World Records. There's a Circuit Mode, which 
 features Beginner's Class and Free Circuit, you have to unlock the rest. In Beginner's Circuit 
 there are 4 circuits, Mercury, Venus, Jupiter and Saturn with one to unlock and each circuit features 
 three events to compete in. You can also earn Trophies in this mode. There's a Mission Mode which 
 lets you choose any character you want and each character has six events, four at first with two 
 to unlock. There's a Gallery which has Olympic Trivia, Modern Olympic Games, Beijing 2008, Ancient 
 Olympic Games and About Athletes. And there's also Records which features Records, Rankings and 
 Collections. On Rankings it uses Wi-Fi. You can choose an event and then see a list of the Top 
 30 players or you can choose to see Near My Records if you're not in the Top 30, you can also Update 
 Rankings at any time just by clicking on the Update button.
  
  There's also a good selection of characters, 16 in all. Eight from Mario and eight from Sonic. 
 They each have their own strengths and weaknesses. There's four different sets of characters, Power 
 Type, All-Around, Speed Type and Skill Type and each set has four characters. Knuckles, Bowser, 
 Vector and Wario are Power. Mario, Amy, Luigi and Blaze are All-Around. Sonic, Daisy, Shadow and 
 Yoshi are Speed. And Peach, Tails, Waluigi and Eggman are Skill. You can also use Mii's. You can 
 choose from six pre-selected ones as well as actual Mii's you've created.
  
  All in all I'd have to say that this is a definite purchase especially if you like Mario and Sonic 
 or if you just like Mini-Games. You'll get tired playing this game if you play for long periods 
 of time but that's not a bad thing, exercise is good for everyone. It's definitly the best Mini-Game 
 collection on Wii so far next to Mario Party 8. The events are fun and don't get too repetitive. 
 There's definitely a lot of play time to be had especially with the Rankings being updated daily, 
 you can always try to break new records. And if you have four friends or family members playing 
 that's even better. There's a good selection of characters, a descent amount of events and you 
 can use Mii's. I recommend this game to anyone, especially people who have doubts about it. Even 
 if you just rent it you should give it a try. I give Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games 8.5 out 
 of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: broncosfan375
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  At first glance this game looks MEH. But once you start playing its actually a good experience. 
 There are twenty unique games and 16 characters ranging from mario to sonic to even vector (sonics 
 underknown alligator) . The controls are good and all but there is a couple of problems. 
  1. The concept: The Olympics?! everyone know sonic cpuld kick marios butt any day in racing so why 
 bother. they should have waited until after brawl to release this game
  2. The online logo on the cover is deceiving but ive come to realize that so far you can only post 
 your high scores on a worlds wide leader boards and not play.
  The Positives:
  1. good stylized colorful graphics
  2. nice controls and gameplay
  3. a nice variety of characters
 
  4. at least its a mario and sonic game
  5. xbox 360 like achievements called emblems
  
  if you enjoy party games this is a must buy and if you want a game with mario and sonic that presents 
 somewhat of a challenge wait till brawl overall its a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abzilla
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  The game itself looks fantastic, but as soon as I plugged it in I got annoyed. Do you remember 
 the days of "Now Loading" God, this game has that after EVERY SINGLE SELECTION YOU MAKE. and you 
 can feel the loading screens cuz it's actually like 15+ seconds long.
  
  For the gameplay itself.. it could have been done waaaay better. For instance, the jump runs.. 
 the triple jump and the long jump (only two i went through before turning off the system) .. the 
 system sometimes (most of the time) doesnt read ur motions, so ur always getting faults and u just 
 get constantly frustrated. I personally liked the javaline and and trampoline games, but again, 
 how far will that last. 
  
  I haven't tryed multiplayer yet so i wont judge that. 
  
  final verdict: if you REALLY want to get this game, give it a try before making the final sale. 
 Try the different types of events and see if it'll be something you'll want to spend 50$ on.
  
  -_-
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWholeFnGamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  The very first venture into a crossover game between Mario and Sonic. According to Gamespot, and 
 most major game reviewers, It was lackluster and filled with horrid controls, boring games and 
 some of the worst multiplayer action they've ever seen. I beg to differ. 
  
  
  Mario and Sonic, on it's surface, is not a perfect game. It's not as "Pick Up and Play"-able as 
 other party games such as Mario Party, but in the end , I feel like it's more fun, and it actually 
 take some skill, rather than random luck. 
  
  Delving into the control scheme, I found that sometimes, I did have problems... at first. The Javelin 
 throw especially threw me off, not exactly knowing my character would hop before he hit the line, 
 thus causing me to foul with each throw. But as with any game, practice makes perfect, and I'm 
 throwing like a true Olympiad now. Otherwise, I find nothing wrong with the control scheme, but 
 again, it may differ from player to player, and how "skilled" your hands are. Don't give up, and 
 you'll be rewarded with World Records galore. 
  
  
  What ever happened to practice? Gamers are so content with picking something up and being able 
 to play it, they forget that sometimes, a game just wont hand you a win. You truly need to earn 
 it in this game. I think most of the problem is in the hands of the gamers themselves, and honestly, 
 it's a breath of fresh air when I can't pick up a game and completely destroy it within the first 
 day of playing it. 
  
  Kudos to Nintendo and Sega for keeping this game easy, but with a bit of a learning curve, so it 
 may entertain all party game enthusiasts. That is, if you like a bit of challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordLanz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Can we say wow. This game rocks. Let me point out somethings I loved about this game. One, You 
 can use ur own Mii, so now my Mii has a body lol. And he can actually compete, all those long hrs 
 on Wii Sports payed off for him lol j/k. But seriously great idea. Secondly, great multiplay and 
 game play, wow four player, compete with friends and have a blast. And I think the greatest thing 
 about this game is Online Rankings, I mean you can take ur scores and post them on the Leaderboards. 
 And the Better you get the higher you ranking can go, so try and break the top 30 lol. And another 
 thing I think is great is after you break records you great badges, like I got one for being the 
 First person to Activate Wifi Ranking system, how cool is that. Wow great game overall, my arm 
 is so sore. Gamespot doesnt know what they are talking about, they need to open there ears lol 
 and listen to the people lol. Again great Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2Pro4Sh0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic at the Olympics is an all around good game. The graphics are really clean and give 
 the game the family-friend feel to it. The gameplay is fairly good; some games are easy to play 
 because of the way the motion sensors are used for the different types of games. The only downfall 
 of the gameplay is the fact that the user's actions aren't always picked up, so it can become frustrating.
 
  This game is a great party game because you can play up to four players and each event is a good 
 time length. It is probably the best multiplayer Wii game other than Mario Party 8, in my opinion.
 
  Another good feature is the ability to choose which character you want to use. There are 8 characters 
 from Mario's side and 8 from Sonic's side and you can also use the Mii's that are on your Wii.
 
  I would say that this game is a must-get for a family that likes friendly and fun competition 
 or for people that just want to play some Olympic Games with thier buddies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Ever since 2001 with Sonic entering nintendo systems, many have demanded Mario and Sonic to appear 
 in the same game, and now their prayers are answered with Mario and Sonic at the Olympic games. 
 Their is no storyline to the game, but it's not meant to follow a story, it's meant to entertain 
 you, and it does. Gameplay is really fun, but sometimes don't work i guess (they rarely worked 
 for my brother, but i haven't had a problem with them) . Graphics are incredible, possibly the best 
 looking Wii game I own. Sound is probably the biggest dissapointment in the game, while the music 
 is excellent, but the voice acting is horrible especially the announcers (he sounds like a **** 
 The game is so fun that you'll want to play everygame over and over. Basically if you own a wii 
 you have to buy it because it's the best Wii game yet and was obviously a great idea, with an even 
 better move. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XenoChron
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  It's fun. It gives you a fair workout with all the arm waving. What is most striking is what they 
 don't do right and it is immediately apparent. The good is that kids will have a lot of fun at 
 it and it has an online leader board. Finally a Wii game that actual uses the online capability 
 if only for scoring. It is unfortunate that you can't actually play online.
  
  Graphics are great. The presentation is pretty solid. I think that anyone looking for something 
 a bit more than just the WiiPlay and WiiSports games would be well served by picking this game 
 up if the bad (see below) don't turn them off.
  
  Now for the bad:
  
  There are only four save slots. Why they artificially limit this is beyond me. The also don't tie 
 the save slots to a character or Mii which would seem to make sense. Anything you do in multiplayer 
 (which is where the real fun is) doesn't get recorded. No scores are kept and nothing gets posted 
 online. This is a bit ridiculous.
  
  When going for records and just plain practicing an event, the cutesy medal ceremony and replays 
 get old real fast and you can't skip by them nearly fast enough.
  
  Your forced to constantly unplug and replug the numchuck which is a real pain in the neck especially 
 if you have the new Wii squishy cover for your Wii Remote. Why can't you just leave it plugged 
 in? I have no idea.
  
  The instructions are very poor. Would it have been too much to actually have an instructional video 
 here? The representations of what to do onscreen or very poor. The developer also doesn't seem 
 to know the difference between vertical and horizontal either. Several times you are told to hold 
 the controller vertical for events that clearly require a horizontal orientation.
  
  There are too many similar events as mentioned in the Gamespot review. Do I really need a 100m, 
 400m, and 4x100m?? What is with all the running? Some of the events could have been made a lot 
 more interesting. I really wanted to like this game and I do to some extent but I'm very disappointed 
 knowing what this could have been. This seemed to be the ultimate game for the Wii and it was botched 
 in many different ways. The most disappointing thing is that Online is really done poorly. Why 
 can't developers seem to grasp that we really want good Wii online games? Even Galaxy, which looks 
 to be great, isn't going to answer this question.
  
  The final verdict however is that my kids really enjoy this a great deal. I guess it just wasn't 
 made for the critical tastes of a long time gamer looking for something more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeleNel
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  As a real-life track and field runner myself, I drool from the mouth everytime I hear there's a 
 T&amp; F game coming out. I'll admit, at first I didn't think I was going to like this game, but 
 the variety of events, and then skill attributes you have to take into account keep you coming 
 back for more.
  
  Initially, only about a little under half of your events are unlocked, so you have to proceed through 
 circuits to get more of the events to use. At first, the beginner circuits are a joke, but once 
 you get up into the later half of the advanced and the master circuits, everyone starts to run 
 a least Olympic qualifying times.
  
  This also isn't a game I would play if you've just done some heavy lifting. You will be using your 
 arms, and a lot. Trying to scratch off that half a second, or being just that close to the world 
 record will have you yelling at your character to swim, run, or throw harder.
  
  Another nice addition is that fact you can use your Mii's in this game. While they don't have any 
 'stats' per say, they play overall like a well rounded character, so you won't truly be left in 
 the dust, but you won't easily blow people away either.
  
  Overall, there is a good amount of substaince to Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games. While 
 the addition of an online multiplayer would have been great (as it always is now a days) , the online 
 leaderboards give you something to aim for, as the postings are worldwide. This game will give 
 you a workout, so until Wii weightlifting or something other releases, this will be some of the 
 most tiring, but exciting fun you can have on the Wii this holiday season and beyond. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopyanthony11
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games is pure fun. The game looks amazing! OK you won't see these 
 graphics in Assassin's Creed, BUT for these two modern video game marvels they are perfect. It's 
 not all about looks though. M&amp; S's response to the Wiimote is incredible. That's a huge deal, 
 I know, with most fellow Wii gamers. That one game, mama's cook off or whatever, was horribly unresponsive. 
 I rented that game and played it for like 5 minutes. THIS GAME, however, does what it's told. The 
 ONLY problem I have is the darn long jump events. OK maybe I just suck, but you gotta wing that 
 Wiimote juuuuuust right to do a halfway decent jump. Some more practice and I'll have it down, 
 you wait and see.
  
  OK, I played for a few hours, my arms are noodles and I was about to stop, but then I saw the records 
 option on the main menu. You can post your times/points to be ranked. WELL, I couldn't let someone 
 beat me could I? Back to the noodle arming for another couple hours. So you have your default world 
 records, obviously, but then a great feature is the world records are then actually made by real 
 people around the world. There is no competitive online play though, which I kind of feel is expected 
 nowadays with the next gen consoles.
  
  I read a review on another website and they had some problems with the archery event. I happen 
 to think the archery is spot on. It's perfect with a pull back/release action like you're holding 
 a bow and well, it just works for me. This may be one of those games you love or hate. It IS a 
 bunch of mini games. Believe it or not that's what the Olympics are. Go into it thinking I AM going 
 to do events, and you'll come out happy. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoM3o7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  the way they just go about using all of the wii remote actions is just what makes it such a great 
 game, FORGET ABOUT A RENTAL THIS IS DEFFINETLY A MUST BUY! ESPECIALLY IF YOU ARE A PARTY GAME FAN.......... 
 even if you aren't a party gamer it still could be a great game to add to your collection deffinetly 
 if you love the mario and sonic series that have been going on for years. It is just great to see 
 two major masterpieces put together in one game, its just amazing. if you arent really a mini- 
 game fan than you're just missing out on the fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashunreal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Let me first say that the only reason that I didn't give this game the perfect 10 or the high 9.0 
 or 9.5 is that I'm not particularly fond of party-type games, and even less of a fan of sports-type 
 games. BUT! I'm one of those Segtendo fanboys... so, that being said, you understand why I bum-rushed 
 the last disc they had.
  
  This game IS monumental as an idea. Not that there's never been a video game where two game developers 
 came together for one versus game. But everyone since the two went head-to-head for recognition 
 as the best recognized video game character wanted this. Mario and Sonic in one game, pitted against 
 each other, or side by side. I gotta admit I sort of got a chill watching the opening sequence... 
 which is epic by the way.
  
  Now, to discuss the game itself. It IS an awesome game, even I have to admit. And like I said, 
 I despise party and sport games. The controls utilize the Wii-mote in the best ways discovered 
 thus far. The response is top-notch and most the time they work very well. There ARE however VERY 
 FEW instances where the controls are a tad too complicated. The learning curve is probably about 
 an hour for everything put together. It's really more about the timing, though. So I suppose faulting 
 the controls would be my folly. The variety of games is astounding as well. It covers pretty much 
 every single game in the Olympic games. Which... you know, I guess it should, seeing as it is an 
 official Beijing Olympics game. The few drawbacks are for the most part aesthetic. I mean, first 
 off, the catch phrases get kind of annoying fast. The character selection leaves something to be 
 desired as well, but I'm just gassing because some of my favorite Sonic characters didn't make 
 it in. However, Mario fans will be quite pleased.
  One thing that really brings down this game's score for me, however, is that the controls range 
 from easy to impossible. Which can be either boring or really frustrating. Also, it gets old really 
 fast if you're playing by yourself.
  Other than that, this is a great game for the Wii, one of the best certainly. Actually makes me 
 want to get all my friends together and play. And we have been. All night. And it will continue 
 long in to the morning...
  
  My suggestion: If you own a Wii, get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEPPY
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  A good start off with several fun events kicks you into the groove of the game. At first it seemed 
 that a couple of the events were a bit too difficult but once I got a feel for the timing I found 
 myself quickly improving and becoming more competitive. In short, the learning curve for most events 
 is quite quick.
  
  I started with myself, my 4 year old son and my wife. Some of the co-ordination required for some 
 of the events was a tad above the 4yr old typical abilities but then again... It was close to the 
 same for my wife. :)
  
  That being said, different events saw both my wife and my son beating me on occasion and the competition 
 was great fun. The multiplayer game should keep people playing for a good long time if beating 
 your own records repeatedly isn't enough.
  
  Comparing your records to those of others online is another thing that may keep you practicing 
 to achieve ranking. Just remember, there's always someone better than you are.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxrider5610
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  This is the best game ive ever played its great Mario vs Sonic its so much fun Great multiplayer 
 a whole bunch of different characters to be with their own stats you can be your miis put your 
 scores up against the world nice graphics DR EGGMANs my favortie Character 20 different games great 
 use of the wiis motion sensing ping pong is so much fun nice voice overs great sountrack the gallerys 
 fun and so are the minigames in it has a lot of info about the olimpics too this game is great 
 its cool having your own profile too 10 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Some people have been skeptical about if this game would be any good. Well you are hearing this. 
 THIS IS EASILY ONE OF ( IF NOT THE BEST) GAMES FOR THE Wii. I haven't had this much fun with a game 
 ever. The game features a large cast of both Sonic &amp; Mario characters with unique skills. They 
 are all brought together for the olympic games. There is a ridiculous amount of interactive games 
 to play. I am not going to name them all, but they have all the olympic style games like field 
 and aquatics. This game uses some of the most innovative and unique controls i have ever seen. 
 You will drum the controllers, flip them, press buttons, row with them and so much more. People 
 were wondering if this is just another assortment of mini-games, but it is MOST CERTAINLY NOT. 
 These are 100% authentic games. Each with their own unique style. This game is also one of the 
 most tiring games you will ever play. I thought Wii sports was tiring. You aint seen nothing until 
 you have played this. The game is so fun &amp; exciting though that you forget you are out of breath 
 lol. Overall this game is worth more than what you pay for it. It is fun, interactive, exiting, 
 unique and insanely fun. Buy it now!!!!!! It will NEVER get old. Multiplayer is awesome too. BUY 
 IT!!!!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
