-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mario Party 8
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/marioparty8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plenty of minigames.
 Some inventive boards.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 GameCube-caliber graphics.
 Spotty widescreen support.
 Chance still plays too large a role.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.3, 53 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 3,748 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Hudson
Genre: Party
Date: May 29, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There are some good minigames in Mario Party 8, but the overly familiar, chance-heavy board game 
 wrapper gets in their way. 

  The minigame masters at Hudson have long since proven they know how to produce gameplay that's 
 bite-size and easy to digest. Mario Party, the video game franchise that eats like a board game, 
 has now arrived on the Nintendo Wii for the first time with Mario Party 8, and it brims with plenty 
 of pick-up-and-play action. The move to the Wii could've been a great time to revamp the series, 
 and while many of the minigames make sound use of the Wii's unique controls, it's ultimately just 
 more of the same Mario Party.  

          Who's still RSVPing for this party?     

  This year, Mario Party goes to the Star Carnival, which is run by the symbiotic duo of MC Ballyhoo 
 and his talking top hat, Big Top. The carnival theme doesn't really penetrate past the menus, though, 
 and once you're in a game, it's pretty much the same old Mario Party that Hudson's been churning 
 out for the past eight years now. The primary mode still plays like a board game, with four players 
 smacking the dice block to move across spaces, collecting as many coins and stars as they can before 
 they finish a set number of turns, and of course, playing minigames at the end of each round.  
 

  Mario Party 8 doesn't have as many minigames as Mario Party 7, nor does it support eight players 
 or include a goofy microphone peripheral. It does, however, make generally solid use of the Wii 
 Remote, and the number of palette-swap minigames seems lower. A good number of minigames will have 
 you holding the remote sideways in standard gamepad fashion, but you'll also swing at baseballs, 
 furiously shake a can of soda, do some tightrope walking, use a paddle to help row a boat, and 
 more, all by gesticulating with the remote. There are also some good references to past Nintendo 
 games couched in these minigames, such as a first-person ghost-hunting minigame that appears to 
 take place in Luigi's mansion.  

  While many of the minigames are four-player free-for-alls, there are plenty of one-on-one, two-on-two, 
 or one-on-three games to mix things up, but what really helps keep the minigames fresh is the varied 
 focus of the minigames. The minigames never get terribly complicated, though there's always a practice 
 option if you're having trouble grasping one of the high-concept games. This simplicity makes it 
 easy to jump into Mario Party 8 with casual players, but it also cripples the lasting value of 
 the game. There are a number of minigames that, after the first time, you'll probably never want 
 to play again.  

  Bogus minigames aside, the biggest problem with Mario Party 8 is how chance-driven the game can 
 be, which, unfortunately, is also one of the franchise's defining characteristics. Roll an unfortunate 
 number and land on a bad space, and you could find yourself going from first to last, losing most 
 of your coins, or even one of your stars. There are six uniquely themed boards to play on here, 
 and most of them come packing a different gameplay gimmick as well. The Donkey Kong- and Super 
 Mario Sunshine-themed boards are traditional Mario Party game boards, with several paths that loop 
 back onto each other, though they get more inventive from there. The haunted mansion level's layout 
 is a mystery when you start, requiring you to explore its rooms and corridors as you hunt for stars. 
 One board takes place on a moving train that you must run through, as well as on top of, as you 
 collect coins to impress a movie star who's onboard. One of the cleverer boards looks an awful 
 lot like the Earthbound level from Super Smash Bros. Melee, where winning involves you investing 
 your coins in various hotels. The rules specific to these different boards could've injected some 
 much-needed strategy to the action, if the game just would've let them, but fortunes still reverse 
 so severely and so easily that any planning seems futile.  

          Not even some good waggle controls can make up for Mario Party's luck-of-the-draw nature. 
     

  Perhaps even more disappointing than the same-old structure of Mario Party 8 is its lackluster 
 presentation. The Mario Party games have never looked particularly amazing, and have relied on 
 the strength of its cast of characters and a real air-horn level of enthusiasm to make up the difference. 
 Mario Party 8 is certainly loud in multiple senses, with a garish color palette and a stomping, 
 blaring marching-band soundtrack, but the visual fidelity hasn't been improved at all in the move 
 from the GameCube; in some ways, it actually looks worse now. The aliasing is a real problem, and 
 save for the menus, the game is either incapable or unwilling to fill a widescreen display. Instead, 
 the game soaks up the extra real estate with gaudy borders. It's awkward, and it's borderline embarassing 
 that a Nintendo-published Wii game doesn't have full widescreen support.  

  Mario Party had been the only persistent minigame franchise for years, and Hudson got a little 
 too comfortable because of it. The fact that there are more interesting minigame collections out 
 there now, like Rayman Raving Rabbids, puts that laziness in stark relief and makes it more difficult 
 to tolerate. If you've got the patience to dig past the skill-free board game portions of Mario 
 Party 8, there are some genuinely inventive minigames to be played. The point, though, is that 
 you shouldn't have to dig at all.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (280 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: yoit
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2009 10:31 am PT
Review:  The good:
  -wiimote controls are good
  -good selections of playable characters
  -Candy item's are useful at times
  
  The Bad:
  -winning figures is pointless
  -the cool 
 sound effects and feel is threw out the window of this game
  -most boards don't have the old Mario party fell
  -the game can get easy once you're use to it
 
  -Gloomy Visuals
  
  I rented this game at movie gallery and I ought it be like the older one's (get the star on a spot 
 for 20 coins) but unfortunately only one board has that (dk's jungle) and all the other have a 
 new way that isn't amazing, it's disappointing.
  
  It has some neat new features like the candy power's that hit's a player instantly (but no pad 
 items which sucks) and the story mode for whatever it's called (i forget) . But some are pointless 
 and boring like the figures which they do nothing at all, they just sit there and you can buy mini 
 games you haven't played, like what's the point of that?! you can play them all on the main game 
 for FREE!
  
  The graphics are detailed and good to look at and the boards are colorful and pretty, the animations 
 aren't buggy and there are no frame drops whatsoever. it's all good.
  
  And the sound will disappoint you because they took all the awesome sound effects and music and 
 throw them out the window and throw a nuclear bomb of top of that and put in lame sound effects 
 and music feel.
  
  The mini games are great to like shake it is really fun! (i kept on playing it over and over) but 
 the bad thing is it's WAY TOO EASY, and at the end of the story mode you fight bowser which is 
 fun and challenging but if you die you can continue where you left off (WAY TOO EASY!!) and fruit 
 picker is just GARBAGE!! you have to pick 1 or more fruit and it's frustrating so I wrote them 
 down and if you pause or hit the home button the fruit is covered, so you have to hit it constantly 
 until you get it.
  
  So I said enough today and I was disappointed when I played it but the reason I gave it a 7 out 
 of 10 because it has some good parts on it but it not a good idea for a party or something but 
 for a sleepover game or home game with a brother or sister or guardian or parent, it a good idea, 
 but I don't think you should buy it it's only worth a rent, not a buy.
  This is my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmeads
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 8:21 am PT
Review:  This Mario Party 8 is a very poor game, the Wii control save the game for total waste of time.
 
  The Mario party serie are all very nice but this Mario party 8 is easy, have small levels with 
 a stupid places to fall and stayed idiot and confuse the objetive to win because you need get more 
 stars than others but to get a star is diddicult but to fall in a lace to lose a star is very easy, stupid 
 characters, graffics is not much good, have a confuse menu, they take out one important character 
 too the donk kong now he is a helper character like toad in mario party 1, you can beat this game 
 with 6 hours of game play and is very easy, the Mario Party 1,2,3,4,5 are amazing, 6 and 7 is so 
 so but is 8 is the worst game from Mario Party serie.
  but that guy with a strange hat is very strange and stupid this edition of Mario Party is for babys.
 
  Now I'm waiting the Mario Party 9 to see if this game will be better and not a waste of time.
 
  the only good thing is the minigames and the wii control to play them. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cory_Donald
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2009 11:13 pm PT
Review:  It's a very good game.
  It takes 0.5-1 hours, when Mario Party II took the afternoon.
  There is still heaps of room for improvement, which means it's good. It means Mario Party IX will 
 be awesome. My idea for MPIX is:
  (start of flashforward) There can be more players than remotes. The players who don't have one 
 share a remote. A roulette decides who will play minigames. (end of flashforward)
  My favorite board is Koopa's Tycoon Town. You get to race around investing money to hotels and 
 getting stars.
  My brother (Joey) 's favorite is the train. He likes the layout and how you get stars (or lose them) 
 in the cabin. It switches from Shyguy (sells you star for $20 :| ) to DK (gives you star! :) ) 
 to Bowser (steals star! : ( )
  I liked playing as Drybones. Joey liked Mario and Toad.
  Have a nice day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 12:34 pm PT
Review:  (NOTE: I ONLY PLAYED THIS AT A FRIEND'S HOUSE) . Mario Party 8 is a collection of minigames that 
 can be played on the wii in multiplayer and single player modes. There are a lot of different minigames 
 and the graphics stay very smooth throughout, but, because it is quite easy and does not include 
 enough different minigames, Mario Party 8 can be really good or a bit of a drag.
  
  The Good:
  -A great deal of different minigames to play
  -Pretty easy to learn the controls
 
  -Multiplayer and single player modes
  -Smooth graphics and great music
  
  The Bad:
  -The minigames aren't that varied, and some categories will just be a random choice between 3 minigames 
 that are all pretty much the same
  -You're almost 100% likely to win
  
  Overall, Mario Party 8 offers a huge collection of minigames, but the variety is just not big enough. 
 If you are a fan of Mario's little characters, then you may find this game quite enjoyable, and 
 it's great for parties.
  
  Overall, 6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazzfan4
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 13, 2009 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Now I love Mario, don't get me wrong but this game was terrible compared to Mario Parties 1-7. 
 When I heard this game was coming out, I was so excited because it was on the Wii, I love Mario 
 Party and so on. Some of the mini games they have are good, but they are losing ideas faster than 
 you would believe. Like in Mario Party 6 LAWN MOWING?!?!?! I had a lot higher expectations for 
 the wii. I have no idea what they were thinking about when they did story mode, please don't get 
 me started on that. 
  Now the good things are that there are some not-so-mini-games that you can use with your miis some 
 are better than others though. 
  
  Now if you can find this game for $20 or so than yeah go ahead and get it. If you like Mario Party 
 than I am sure you will like this more than I did. All I am saying is that I wasn't as satisfied 
 with the game as I hoped. 
  
  The good,
  Graphics Some good Mini Games
  Mii compatible games
  
  The Bad,
  Mini Games
  Story Mode
  Just the game itself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2009 10:20 am PT
Review:  There are many ways we could have started this review - telling you about some of the parties we've 
 been to, comparing Mario's latest mini-game outing to cheese and pineapple on a stick and so on. 
 But then, that'd be a complete waste of words when, in truth, what we're actually thinking can 
 be summed up in just 12 words: Mario Party 8 - it's not nearly as good as it should be.
  
  Are we sad about those 12 words then? Considering we had high hopes that have now been dashed on 
 the rocks of mediocrity, we'd have to say yes. But exactly what's bad about it? After all, the 
 game ticks all the right boxes for what you should expect from a Mario Party title but then, that's 
 probably half the problem right there. 
  
  
  Advertisement: Mario Party on the Wii was meant to be fresh and exciting, squeezing all the innovation 
 of the console into a game that yelled "Look what the Wii can do!" from the rooftops. It was meant 
 to... but it doesn't. In fact, it barely even looks up as it quietly shuffles past, doing almost 
 exactly what it's done for the last nine years and that, dear friends, is a massive missed opportunity 
 for Nintendo.
  
  Of course, being a Mario Party game, we'd be fools to not have expected Mario Party 8 to have at 
 least some things in common with its predecessors, specifically, the board game concept, a large 
 number of mini-games and a huge array of familiar Mario characters.
  
  We don't have a problem with any of these things because, as concepts go, they're pretty solid. 
 What we do raise issue with, however, is how they're handled now that something as unique as the 
 Wii is here and sadly, that's where things start to get real old, real fast.
  
  Take, for example, the six game boards that Mario Party 8 offers. Only one of them, Koopa's Tycoon 
 Town, made us think, "Wow, that's actually a pretty great idea." Instead of simply collecting Stars, 
 players have to 'buy' hotels which then reward them with Stars. The catch? Other players passing 
 the hotels can outbid you and effectively steal your Stars, which not only then increases how much 
 it'll cost you to buy them back but also upgrades the hotel, increasing the number of Stars available. 
 Pure genius, compared 
  to the other generic 'find Star space, pay coins, get Star' boards.
  
  Cheesy Nibbles
  However, 
 the lack of variety in the game boards is negligible compared to the biggest problem Mario Party 
 8 faces - the mini-games that make up the bulk of the gameplay. The issue isn't so much the number 
 of games on offer, because there are certainly plenty to go round. What is concerning is how stale 
 many of the games are. Sure, there's a smattering that make proper use of the Wii Remote, like 
 using a lasso to rope barrels or shaking a can 
  as fast as you can to make it explode, but those are the exception to the rule... or, 
  at least, 
 the exceptions that work.
  
  
  
  Time To Go Home
  Other attempts to utilise the controls, mainly in games that require the steering of vehicles or 
 lightgun-style shooting, seem like a good idea but have such spongy and unresponsive controls, 
 they wind up being annoying instead of fun. Sadly, even these are dwarfed by the number of games 
 that make little to no use of the Wii Remote's capabilities, which make up the majority.
  
  What's worse is that there are tons of other things wrong with the game that fill up the 'annoying 
 niggle' category. Problems like the pace of the game being far too slow (particularly when the 
 computer is involved) and the AI being rubbish are all things that have existed throughout the 
 Mario Party series and yet still haven't been fixed... surely Hudson should have done something 
 about them by now? It's like it hasn't listened to a single piece of criticism over the years. 
 
  
  Perhaps the biggest disappointment of all though is the total lack of online play which, if we're 
 honest, is unacceptable now the Wii is moving into online gaming. Fast-paced football in the form 
 of Mario Strikers Charged Football gets it, but not a turn-based game with an emphasis on multiplayer 
 action? We just don't get it...
  
  But then, that's probably a good way of defining what's wrong with Mario Party 
  8. Hudson Soft 
 has been given a massive opportunity to do something new with the series, but it clearly didn't 
 'get it' and decided to go with what it knew best instead. Why Nintendo allowed this to happen, 
 we don't know, but when the end result is as uninspired as this... well, if it's mini-games we're 
 after, we'll stick with those raving rabbids, thanks very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staffanj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 1:14 pm PT
Review:  December 2008, after Wii Sports this is still the best game for Wii yet! Add the Mario games Galaxy, 
 Brawl and Kart and you got the only games worth mentioning for the Wii console, but in Wii Sports 
 and Mario Party are the ones that lasts the longest. Unfortunately, the unfair bad reviews from 
 Gamespot among others (from a stupid grown up point of view) have turned too many away, so Hudson 
 apparently isn't going to do a Mario Party 9. Shame on you! However, if you have kids under 10 
 they will play this game for years. Mine still play it and have a lot of fun (.. and I have too 
 with them!) Buy it for your kids while you can still get a copy!
  
  This game contains a lot of fun mini games which you play in turns after you have rolled the dice 
 (shake the Wii remote) that position you on one of the 6 available boards - all with lots of rewards 
 and penalties you get each turn. You have a lot of Mario characters to choose from which will be 
 your player going for the stars and money in this battle with your opponent (s) . The one or the 
 one team with most stars is the ultimate winner. Pure and simple fun all the way and a great variety 
 of games. You never get bored! Add fun graphics, lots of great sound effects (also shaking your 
 Wii remote) and fun music scores and you have the PERFECT game for kids - especially playing together 
 against or with the computer player. GO FOR IT! (... and Hudson! PLEASE do Mario Party 9!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicdoy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 7:54 am PT
Review:  I'm a big MP games fan, gottem all! At first I did not like this one as much as the 6 and 7 and 
 even the DS one, but after playing the whole single player mode once, it grew on me. I saw almost 
 all mini-games, learned how to play the levels and unlocked the Bowser level which is very fun. 
 I like how they reinvent a part of the game every time, sometimes you lose something you like, 
 but sometimes you have cool surprises! DK is very useful in all levels because he boosts you accordingly 
 to the level. He either gives you a Star, sends you to a star space, gives you coins and so forth... But 
 if DK is powerful, so is Bowser so don't fall on his spaces or you'll lose big! The level I found 
 the most original was the Boo Mansion, you cant see where you are going but a few spaces up front 
 and you have to find Boo to get Stars and there are only 3 of them in the level, the rest of the 
 hidden room are black holes that send you back to the start. After playing the single mode, I played 
 it with my family during the holidays and we had loads of fun! LET'S PARTY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIEHARD117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  so yeah i rented this game and thought it was pretty ok if you just want a game to play when u 
 have friends over but if u got no bros. or sises. or frends at that mater dont get this game because 
 i garenty u will be throwing the remote in anger.
  
  but the controls are pretty standard wii controls and for the most point there just fine but then 
 there are some mini games that are varry irritatingly boring but yeah.
  
  the graphics arent the best every but there not chunky or anything so thats good. and all the characters 
 are fun and exciting but there voices are the most irritating things from hell! and most of the 
 mini games are varry repetitive....
  
  and that about all i have to say but i did buy it and its worth  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerTron0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is a great package of min-games. A story for a mini game collection sounds weird 
 and the story is not the best 1 ever. The story is that the mario characters have got together 
 cause the carnival is in town, and there is a series of mini games that must be played. There are 
 so many mini games that i cant even name or explain them all. There is so much content here that 
 this game entertain the party and next 1 and the next 1. Each game use's the uniqueness of the 
 wii-mote and does not abuse them at all. The graphics are nice and clear but not amazing, the music 
 and sound effects are ok for a mario game. Playing Mario Party 8 is fun to play with people and 
 can easily make a party be a lot more fun.
  
  Story: 5.1
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Graphics: 7.3
  Controls: 9.4
  Re-Play Value: 9.7
  Overall: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoNin360
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  If you own any of the previous Mario Party games (especially for the GameCube) then don't expect 
 that much difference out of this one. It was only natural to add a Mario Party to the Wii.
  
  It's not much different from the GC ones, except for the new controls. Some of the games require 
 you doing various things with the Wii remote and sometimes nunchuk... some may just to be too silly.
 
  
  This Mario Party seems to lack some good mini games, but that doesn't totally stop the fun, I really 
 did hope for there to be MORE minigames let alone good ones. Some will have you shaking the remote 
 up and down, side to side, and other stuff. There's one game where you are actually hitting baseballs. 
 So yeah some are interesting and others just so-so.
  
  Like all the other MP's, this one doesn't take as much skill to win as luck. That can be a rather 
 annoying element of the game. Whether your doing the story, playing the computers, or even other 
 people, you better hope you have some luck with you.
  
  It's not all luck though, some games require some skill to defeat the other computers or whatever. 
 And there are some strategic things you can do on the board as well.
  
  All in all the gameplay doesn't last to long. It can be rather fun at first and even coming back 
 to play it now and then. There's a few things to complete on story mode that shouldn't take long, 
 and plenty of useless crap to buy with your "carnival tickets" which yeah is the theme of the whole 
 game. Some of the purchased items are kinda cool though like extra games or side stuff. But there 
 is also all of those trophy things or whatever.
  
  Another thing (which isn't a shocker of course) is that this game is the full $50 and probobly 
 will remain at that. It's up to you to decide whether it's worth it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioboy333
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Now when I first played this game it was so fun. I rented this game by the way. I would of gave 
 it a 9.0 Then as you go through the game gets boring. Its still good but not great. The characters 
 are okay. The sound is good. The graphics are fine. The boards are very, very, very interesting,. The 
 boards just draw you. The characters are easy to unlock. The challenges are again very, very, very 
 interesting. The game gets you and slowly loses it grip on you. The game is good. I suggest you 
 rent it first. See if it stays on you. The story is okay. Also the mini games are really cool Well 
 that iss all for now. So at least try this game out. See if it holds a good grip on you. I hope 
 there is another mario party. i cannot wait for the new mini games it will have. Now that is it 
 for now thank you for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kendi09
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is one that should be the first into your collection. the fun game is good. While playing 
 you don't have to many controls like moving the characters on the board. that is for the game to 
 do. the mini games, really nicely done especially now that you can use the wii remotes. In Favorites 
 like Shake It Up, you must shake the wii remote until time's up. great use of the wii remote!!!! 
 all in all it really fun! If you were to get it I highly recommend it to people who like multilayer 
 games because up to four people can play at the same time. I rate it 7.5. mario party is great 
 so it was my x-mas gife and i love it!!!!!!!!!!!!! Players: 1-4 wow
  
  Mario PARTY Mario PARTY Mario PARTY
  Mario PARTY
  Mario PARTY
  
  This is my mario party 
 review and i hope this really helps!!!
  Mario PARTY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RingCollector
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Dam theres a lot of mario party games. This one has improved in a few ways but also gotten worse 
 in a few games.
  
  The good: - Great inventive stages that change the game in many ways for the better
  -Great graphics 
 for a Wii game. The circles on the board have been turned into squares that changes the stages 
 looks.
  - Great multiplayer
  
  The bad:
  
  -Alot of the minigames suck and i feel that many were rushed.
  - Only fun with friends.
  - 
 Story mode is plain, short and very boring.
  
  Overall it is a great game to play with friends. Its just that rayman raving rabbids is a much 
 better party game.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robomario
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Mario party has been a fun party game from Nintendo 64 to WII now it is kinda boring and has less 
 fun mini-games! besides that the story is that Mario and friends are trying to win a party for 
 the star staff. but Bowser takes it and you go to save it. just wonder-full.  : But I still like 
 it!! :D YOU can also play as Blooper and Hammer bro. Another mario game that is so easy. I can 
 beat it with my eyes closed. 0: But its still a Mario game. I much prefer the 1st and 2nd mario 
 partys. List of pros and cons!
  
  Pros: a lot of mini-games, tons of extra crap, fun main board stuff, and best of all you can play 
 as Blooper!
  
  Cons: 2 Easy, some boring mini-games, bad story line for mario, And well... Just reapeat the list 
 of cons OK. 
  Mario MArio MArio MArio MArio MAAARIOOO. NOTE I'm WRiGHTING this to add charecters sdhaldlajdjlkajdlk 
 skjlkjasdkj aksjdk jakljs d. THANK YOU 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashmaster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This game of course goes off of the same basic concept of the rest in the series where you play 
 a board game, gather coins, and buy stars and whoever has the most stars at the end wins. Mario 
 Party 8 does have some very good boards to play on giving you the ability to change the gameplay 
 a bit, but the minigames get old rather quickly and doesn't utilize the nunchuck at all. I recommend 
 that you stick to playing this game with 3 friends a few times and leave the computers out of it.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: 8
  Good but seem to sometimes be a little bit over the top. They are a little bit annoying sometimes 
 because they seem to try and give you bright, flashy colors over sharp, crisp textures. Sometimes 
 I feel like this game was made more for little kids rather then everybody in the family.
  
  CONTROLS: 8
  Simple and effective in each of the minigames, I only really wish they gave the 
 option of playing with the nunchuck to add another level to the game. Everything is done with the 
 WiiMote and some of the minigames are just put together to simply.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 6
  The minigames were far to simple, the announcer is often nothing more than annoying, they could 
 have easily incorporated the nunchuck to the gameplay, and this game still relies to heavily on 
 chance with very little strategy involved. I also had a problem with the number of minigames, after 
 you play through just 2 or 3 times you would have played almost all of the minigames offered.
 
  The best part of the game would have to be the different boards you can play on. They each unique 
 from eachother and you won't mind playing some of the same boards over again.
  
  SOUND: 5
  Certainly nothing amazing here. They are ok but just tend to be sometimes a bit annoying, 
 with the bad carnival music, and the annoying sounds the characters make just before there turn.
 
  
  STORY: n/a
  You are playing a board game, I am not counting a story in this game.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: 10
  This is of course the heart of this, and all the other Mario Parties. The computers 
 are not worth playing with, instead keep this as a party game and pull it out when you get the 
 chance to play it with 3 of your friends and you are looking for something to do. You will not 
 be disappointed.
  
  FINAL: 7.4
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: N0sferat_ninty
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  By playing this game and reading some of the user reviews I've came to the conclusion that it definitley 
 depends on WHO you play with.
  
  The minigames are good, so is the music, you can't complain about the graphics either, and the 
 board games are creative and nice. The Idea of making a board game where the objective is to get 
 first to the star by dicing and winning minigames or using the boards tricks against 3 other friends 
 is actually very nice. Also, its difficult trying to keep the game balanced so that there isnt 
 any unfairness when playing with others, this has been done well.
  
  The boards are simple, nice creative and colourful looking, the music is good too, the variety 
 of the minigames such as 4-Player Minigames or 1 vs 3 Minigames are very good.
  This way it doesnt get boring fast when you're having a laugh with your mates.
  Also in each 
 minigame, you have to make sure that the fairness is balanced and you can win by doing something 
 inevitable or broken and this problem in some other games is hard to avoid, though in Mario Party, 
 clearly this has been taken care of.
  
  Many don't see these fabulous ideas or acomplishments in Mario Party and simply rate it BAD
  
 
  but for no apparent reason.
  
  To me, many just aren't giving Mario Party games a chance and just are overlooking many good things 
 that have been acomplished so, many reviewers are ignorant.
  
  Many aren't even trying to have fun with the game.
  
  And it definitley depens on if you play 
 it with someone who hates Mario or Party games
  
  or
  
  if you play it with your little sister, that loves Mario games.
  Give it a chance, dont be a 
 **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackjack652
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first got my wii other than the wii sports this was the only game that I had and even until 
 this day I still play this game when I have friends over because its just a great game to play 
 and very many great games that you can choose from. I do wish that there was a cheat that could 
 give you all of the games but even with that not availible you can still have loads of fun with 
 friends and the whole family. Another thing that I wish was brought back is I wish you could Play 
 as Donkey Kong because well everyone loves him I mean he is just the greatest when it comes to 
 characters. Ive played this game over and over again and I still love to play it. This is a great 
 game and is still fun but definately improvements can be made in the next one. So with that I give 
 this game a 9.5 and hope that the designers can make another great Mario Party in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Melloshi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Not many people like this, and I must admit it's not fantastic but it's definitely not awful. The 
 first time I played it, I thought "Wow, what is this, a joke?", but that is just because I didn't 
 know what to do. Mario Party 8 is not something that'd impress you the first time round, it didn't 
 impress me until I'd played it for a few days. The main game is great, quite tricky until you get 
 the hang of it though, the double teams are the way to go because I love how they have a name for 
 every combination of characters. My personal favourite part of the game are the mini games. You 
 can't unlock them all until you play the main game a bit, at the end of each round there is a mini 
 game for all 4 players. I loved this part of the main game, because not only do you gather all 
 those coins if you win but you also unlock the mini game to play it any time. This game deserves 
 more than it has been given! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curtis_Bundy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Yes it is worth your money and I will tell you why in this review. First thing is yes the graphics 
 look like the 7th Mario Party but I don't really care about graphics in a game but some people 
 do. So I would say for those who care they aren't the prettiest but the games levels (boards) look 
 really good though which there is a total of 6 boards in this game. 
  The characters you can be in this game there is actually quite a few to select in this game and 
 there is two more to unlock so there is a total of 13 unless I counted wrong and put the wrong 
 amount but if I did correct me okay.
  The single player is not as strong as it was in the past games but it is still fun though.
  The 
 multiplayer is the best on this game you can still play in 3 different modes but I will keep them 
 a secret in this review so you can figure it out yourself or get the game. 
  The mini games are the most important part the Mario Party series and in this one since it is the 
 Wii they are extremely fun to play and also because they use the Wii controls really well especially 
 in this party game. Like there is one where you and your opponent or opponents shake a soda can 
 but shaking your Wii-Mote up and down as fast as you can it is really fun. There is also a section 
 to where you can play as a Mario character or your Mii in these exclusive mini games.
  The controls are really well thought out and really simple to play this game with since you don't 
 need the Nunchuck in this game.
  There is no Wi-Fi for multiplayer which is not cool but I think in the 9th they will have Wi-Fi 
 so you can have a party with your friends.
  So in conclusion if you need a party game or a multiplayer game that is fun then this game is for 
 you but if you are just looking for a fun game to play by yourself then I recommend this game only 
 half because this game is mostly intended for more then one person. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Good stuff:
  . The wii remote makes mario party better then ever before.
  
  . The best minigames in a mario party game.
  .Single player is fun.
  . ... But multiplayer 
 is still a complete blast!
  .Quite a lot to do.
  
  Bad stuff:
  . Like other mario party games. It can get really stressful.
  . It kinda leaves you wanting more.
 
  
  After the complete mediocre-ness of mario party 6, I didn't get mario party 7 because I thought 
 it would be the same. But then as mario party 8 came out, knowing wii remote controls could make 
 it better I brought this game and... It turned out to be the best mario party game!!!!!
  
  Here's the summing up.
  
  Graphics: Alright to say it's a wii game, but nothing reveloutionary 
 at all. 8.5/10
  
  Story: Mario and his friends have gone to the star carnival for a break. And that's pretty much 
 it... until Bowser crashes in! 6.5/10
  
  Sound&Music: It's alright, but like graphics, It's far from perfect. 8/10
  
  Gameplay: With 
 the wii remote and greater party games then ever before It's a blast! Also, you can use your miis 
 in extra party games and get prises at the Bazarr!
  but, as a wii game, it kinda leaves you wanting more. 9.5/10
  
  Overall: If you like mario 
 and/or party games, then i would easily reccomend this game to you as it's the best party game 
 on wii!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cubivore10
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the Mario Party games I have played, this one MIGHT just be my favorite! It is LOADS 
 of fun even if you don't have a buddy to play with, and there is all sorts of stuff to unlock and 
 collect, that keeps you coming back for more! Great characters, great feeling, and Mario Party 
 8 makes great use of the Wii's motion sensor, so you shouldn't be unhappy about that! All in all, 
 this game is great, and worth the 50 bucks. Maybe even if you don't like party games, it's still 
 worth checking out on sale, or something. This game gets the Cubivore10 stamp of greatness! Although 
 there are SOME minor flaws in the game... some of those flaws come from some mini games. Some can 
 be WAY to hard to figure out, or even get to work at times, but those few games that stink, are 
 not enough to keep this great game down. It's also great for people who just want a fun challenge, 
 or just want to east away time. But, if your going to buy a Mario Party game, then by all means, 
 pick up a copy of this rad game, and play it to death, because its loads, and loads of pure fun! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostofluigi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is the 8th installment in the popular Mario Party franchise and I got to say, they 
 did a pretty good job. The way they worked the motion-controls of the wii remote into the mingames 
 was great becuase it made the mingames really fun. Boards were pretty nice each with thier own purpose 
 on winning the game and they also have thier own twists and gimmicks. The extra minigames that you 
 could buy and use your Miis to play were awesome.
  
  
  The game had a few annoying problems like it could only be fitted into wide-screen adaption and 
 when ever it wasn't wide-screen, it had two grey bars on both sides of the screen and that was 
 irritating. Even though the minigames were really fun, a lot of them were just pointing at the screen 
 and button-mashing and I expected more motion-controlled minigames like shaking the wii remote. Single 
 Player mode was just same ol' same ol' like any other Mario party and that wasn't very fun.
  
  
  To conclude, Mario Party 8 is a fun minigame collection but it could have been way better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solid_shark88
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  This game is not worthy of the series. Graphics (5/10)
  Reasonably OK.
  
  Gameplay (1/10)
  The minigames aren't responsive enough and story mode gets my nerves.
  
 
  Sound (3/10) 
  It is nothing like the ones before MP5.
  
  Replay Value (3/10)
  Only is fun with friends but still sucks because the game turns at such random times! 
  
  Online 
 Ability (0/10)
  N/A.
  
  Overall (12/50)
  It comes to a 2.5. 
  
  Nintendo really has went downhill with this series since Mario Party 6. The first 5 were reasonably 
 fun but 7 and 8 really sucked. The main problem are broken controls. This game had a couple cool 
 minigames but it just needed help. Sorry Nintendo, but you let me down. This game series was always 
 for kids but soon it will be too hard for kids. I just think this series needs to end or at least 
 be revamped to be basic like the first 5 games. Hudson Soft is the problem, their games have been 
 horrid lately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  In this game you can be Mario and the crew and play party games.
  
  Minigame: The minigames are really easy to play and win.
  
  Board titles: Some of the boards 
 that you can play are Luigis mansion and space one but there are alot more but those are the ones 
 in the top of my head. You can also do multiplayer and play with friends. This game is the best 
 for partys and playing with friends so don't play it alone or it might get boring.
  
  People ask me is this game worth getting? I would say yes for partys and when friends come over. 
 The bad part of this game is that some of the minigames are really stupid and also that some of 
 the characters are not really fitting in.
  
  The good part is that it is great to play against friends and family.
  
  This s why I rate 
 this gam 9.0 outta 10. But there will be a Mario Party 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramboturd72
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  I have mixed feelings about Mario Party 8. The multiplayer is great but the single player is not 
 quite as good.
  
  Anyone who has played a Mario Party game would know that it is best when played in multiplayer 
 mode or "party mode." In party mode, you can play with up to 4 players on a virtual game board. 
 You take turns rolling dice, earning and losing coins until everyone playing has gone that round. 
 The coins help you either buy stars (on certain game boards) , get past certain obstacles, or buy 
 candy that can give you an edge in the game. Then, at the end of the round, all the players participate 
 in a minigame to try to win more coins. Some minigames are extremely fun, while others fall flat 
 and are pretty dull. There are 6 game boards to play on, all of which are unique and fun in different 
 ways.
  
  Now for the single player (sigh) . In single player, the main gameplay mode has you playing a 2 
 player game against a computer player. Your goal is to play through the 5 (and the secret 6th) 
 game boards without losing once to win the title of the superstar. There is also a free play mode 
 where you can play any minigames freely that you have already unlocked. Playing in certain game 
 modes will earn you cards that can be used to buy figurines, extra minigames, etc.
  
  If you plan to buy this game, I would suggest having friends or family who will want to play multiplayer 
 with you. Otherwise, this game really isn't worth the $50 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bopie64
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 20, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed Mario Party 8 for a while, but after that I got sick of it a lot quicker than I had with 
 the last one. It seems like this series has deteriorated a little bit. I enjoyed Mario Party 2 
 the most, it seems the mini games were very creative and I always go back to that one to play two 
 distinct mini games that I saw later. The N64 ones are still fun but a lot of the gamecube ones 
 aren't as appealing anymore. It seems like the motion controls aren't used in the most effective 
 way either. I mean in the most simple ones of course it was effectively used, like shaking a can 
 but other ones it seems like they just put it to the sideways usage. They should take a break from 
 Mario Party games and then try something new in a few years or something. Maybe they'll find something 
 new. It seems like the board game stuff just gets to be the same on each one with different themes 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peach100
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Mario Party 8 it was with friends and we all had a lot of fun. But when I started 
 playing it by myself it wasn't so fun after all. It was actually boring. Plus, this game doesn't 
 have any Wi-Fi capabilities, which is really stupid, so that didn't give it a more joyous game-play 
 experience anymore than playing alone did. 
  
  By the way, if you follow the CPU's they'll lead you right to the stars. What a challenge. Note 
 the hint of sarcasm in that previous sentence.
  
  The graphics are colorful and the mini-games are cool. Using the Wii Remote and Nunchuck during 
 the mini-games actually make you feel apart of those games. For example, there's a game in where 
 you're walking the tightrope and whomever can get to the other side of the cliff the fastest and 
 without falling is the winner of that game. I actually wanted to stand up while playing the mini-games. 
 I must admit, most of the mini-games are fun.
  
  The music matches the game's graphics. Bubbly, funny, skippy, and all those weird words would describe 
 the music. To put it in simple terms, the graphics and music are "Mario-like".
  
  I don't really play this game anymore due to the fact that, for me, it requires friends in order 
 for me to be happy while playing it. 
  
  Now, it isn't Nintendo's fault that I need friends in order to make this game fun for me, I understand 
 that, but they should of have allowed Wi-Fi capabilities just so most players would have a chance 
 to have more fun with the game as well as making the game last longer.
  
  I would recommend that this game be rented first and then bought if the renter enjoyed the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  Merits: Minigames are a lot of fun, includes most Mario characters, Many options.
  Demerits: The host talks too much and is very annoying, if you play with computers then they will 
 lead you to the star, lackluster graphics, lots of luck games.
  
  The basic point is that Mario Party 8 is not a success, it would be ok for a Gamecube game but 
 not for the Wii. You really don't do anything, all you do is just smack the dice and watch your 
 character run arount the board. Minigames have basic controls and in most Minigames you hold the 
 Wii Remote sideways which is discrimination for left handers that they have to take off their wrist 
 strap and play. The game does not support left hand and right hand feature like Wii Sports does. 
 The game lets you play a series of games with your Miis and in games like Table Tennis/Ping Pong, 
 for left handers if they hit backhand it will be forehand and then vice versa. This is a stupid 
 mistake made my Nintendo and is very annoying. 
  
  Although Mario Party 8 has its downs, it is still what it used to be, an enjoyable multiplayer 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppita001
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Mario party 8 is just an okay game. I honestly thought it could of been a bit better because, in 
 the video game, its mostly just about getting the most stars but if you and your oppointent have 
 the same amount of stars, the person with more money would win. Every end of each round (so after 
 everyone had their turn) you get to play mini games. I haven't played them all but most of them 
 are easy. I thought it could of been more challaging. I'm glad there were lots of charcters but 
 I still thought there could of been more and more choices of settings that would be even funner. 
 You shouldn't play the video game by yourself because it gets totally boring playing aganist computer 
 players so I much rather play with someone. Mario Party 8 doesn't seem as popular as other mario 
 party # video games. It could of been better. Tell me what you think about mario party 8? If you 
 played mario kart and super mario galaxy before or have the video game , don't you think it was 
 way better than this video game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Hudson has been with Nintendo working on Mario Party games for a long time. Not too long after 
 the Wii came out, the development of Mario Party 8 was already underway. The thing that has most 
 attracted fans are the minigames. Fun, little games that pits players against each other. The boards 
 are also normally fun looking and nice to play on. You really do feel some competition in a game 
 rated E. Unfortunately, little or no thought has been given to the latest installment in the series, 
 Mario Party 8.
  
  You're taking a visit to the Star carnival, which is run by the trio of MC Ballyhoo and his talking 
 hat, Big Top. If you were to be an adult, this would start to feel like a game for 3 year olds. 
 You are given a menu to choose which mode, none of which are new to the franchise, even after years 
 of producing games in it. You have a nice widescreen format when you are choosing, which awkwardly 
 goes away when you start playing the actual game.
  
  When you are playing, the presentation is crappy. There is no widescreen. It's just a square screen 
 that is bordered. The graphics aren't even any better than Mario Party 7. The text is just plain. 
 Nothing to say, "Hey! This is a fun game to play!" The boards are no better than ever before. They 
 seem to be recycled from previous games that might not even be in the franchise.
  
  The gameplay still relys on chance. The minigames aren't going to help you. Cross your fingers 
 because that's all you can hope for, luck. A little common sense still helps, but you probably 
 won't rely on your game skills to help you win.
  
  Speaking of the minigames, they are very good. While they use old techniques and don't take advantage 
 of the Wii remote capabilities, they can still be fun to play and can help you make someone do 
 the in your face dance. Some of the minigames, you pretty much can cheat on, like walking on the 
 rope, just get a flat surface and keep your Wii remote flat there. But don't worry about that, 
 worry that you probably won't get the chance to play all the minigames.
  
  While Mario Party has never screamed, "Buy Me!" to any gamer, it has been a good party game, especially 
 if you are lucky enough to get a bundle. It's most fun when you have some friend, but it'd be best 
 if they were also fans of Mario Party. While a normal gamer would turn their back on Mario Party 
 8, it would take a real dedicated fan to buy it. It doesn't seem that Hudson understands completly 
 that there making a game for the Wii, not the Gamecube. The series hasn't really evolved much, 
 but that is no excuse. If your excuse for buying it is because of the minigames, make sure you 
 have plenty of time. Those will take a lot of time and patience to find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super-wario-bro
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  Imagine going to a party where you know there is going to be no alcohol but when you get there 
 you soon realise that there is not even jelly and ice cream.
  This is how I felt about Mario Party 8 having played all previous 7 Mario party games on different 
 consoles and seeing them all evolve with no real improvements. We have had N64 versions, Gamecube 
 versions, microphone versions and gameboy advance versions with real boards printed in the manual. 
 So the Wii version will change the mould again and use the Wii's motion sensor.
  If you have had the pleasure of playing any previous games you will be familiar with the layout. 
 Pick your board (all Mario themed) , pick your charactar, collect coins, collect stars and play 
 mini games. The only thing that has changed dramatically is the controls which compared to the 
 last two versions is an improvement. Its a shame that the boards and mini games that house the 
 new control methods are so boring and dull. The mini games will last 2 minutes at most and mini 
 games that are based on pot luck (such as pick a card) will pop up when you are winning as a way 
 to take your stars and coins from you to level out the playing field and can be very infuriating.
 
  One player mode is very short . It's more of a one on one board game in a race to collect a star 
 or over a peroid of time/turns collect more stars than your opponent, with mini games selected 
 to play in the middle. And while the game was intended to be played as the name suggests (a party) 
 there is no online mode, but freinds and family (especially young children) will make the experience 
 more of a pleasure than one player mode.
  My last grumble is about how poor the graphics are. They can appear to blur like the n64 versions 
 of 8 years ago. I personally think this is weaker to look at than the gamecube versions.
  
  THE SUMMARY
  Weak game, just like all the others in the series where they change something drastic 
 like the controls but continue to leave out the fun. However I am yet to see any game from the 
 board game genre sparkle and be fun to play, so while this game is not for me, it may be for you 
 (especially if you have young children or a weird love for playing board games on a screen) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaggisGhillie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  I love Mario, but I didn't care for Mario Party 8. It's a simple board-game where players roll 
 the dice and move around. On the plus side, there are plenty of mini-games. Some of these are really 
 fun. However, I wish there was a way to just play the mini-games (like Super Monkey Ball) . But 
 the mini-games are randomly chosen. 
  
  Except for the plethora of mini-games, there is little to keep your attention. The board game itself 
 isn't that interesting once you play a board once or twice. At the end of the game there is are 
 a set of bonus points that are essentially randomly given out, which can affect the outcome of 
 the whole game. Furthermore, the game itself can get tediously long. A 10 or 15 move game with 
 4 people can easily last an hour. The game allows you up to a 50 move game! I can't imagine!
  
  Definitely rent this first before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_of_Kirby
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  With the abysmal addition of Mario Party 7, Nintendo decided to step it up a notch and make another 
 party game for the brand new Wii. They did a pretty good job with the minigames and characters, 
 but they tanked hardcore in the most vital asset of the game: the Party boards.
  
  Seriously, only SIX maps (one of which you had to unlock; more on that later) ? Even with the fun, 
 new ideas (and some old ones) , they'll just get boring fast. Even Koopa's Tycoon Town was only 
 good four or five times. What happened to the stellar selection in Mario Party 6? At this point 
 it's just plain unacceptable.
  
  Another new addition: the Star Carnival. You had to battle people on each board and, if you win, 
 you get the Star Rod (Kirby rip-off?)
  
  Eventualy, Bowser steals the Star Rod and you have to battle one of two minions: Blooper or Hammer 
 Bro. This will determine which one you unlock. If you don't like it, you have to beat the Star 
 Carnival AGAIN.
  
  However, beating the SC nets you 200 Carnival Cards, the currency in this game. You also get Carnival 
 Cards for playing in Party Mode, depending on the number of turns. These cards can be used to buy 
 a variety of things; little trophies (which you can put on parade) , extra minigames, staff records, 
 extra difficulties, etc. This is another fun aspect of the game, and will keep you playing a bit 
 longer, but after a while you'll just decide it's not worth it.
  
  The minigames, as mentioned before, are what you'd expect from a Mario Party game. There are even 
 some minigames where you can play as a Mii (NO ONE tells Chuck Norris what flag to raise!)
  
  Overall, Mario Party 8 is another fun addition to the series, and is great with family and 
 friends, but just lacks alot of replay value. You'll play it for a week or so, and may never play 
 it again. You might want to rent this first, and get everything it has to offer for a lot less 
 cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathdude415
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 2, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 was the first game I got for the Wii, I had never played A mario party before, so 
 I can't tell you what this game is like in relation to previous games. 
  If you didn't have any friends Mario Party would be a waste of time, because as expected the single 
 player game gets repetitive, and the game is pretty much made for multiplayer mode. So pretty much 
 the only reason you would play the single player mode is to by more mini-games (there is 50 mini-games 
 in all) The mini-games are varied and pretty random in the missions, like in one you will shake 
 a can of soda with the Wiimote to see how high the stream goes, and in another you will build a 
 cabin. almost all of the mini-games use the Wiimote for something, and only a select few have you 
 flip the controller sideways and use it like a regular control pad. The graphics aren't the best 
 (which nobody really cares about in this game) and the voice acting is limited. 
  
  Overall
  
  Pros: 
  Great Party game that can have up to 4 players
  Plenty of variety in 
 Mini-games 
  Some good uses of the Wiimote
  
  Cons:
  Boring single-player
  bad graphics
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 13, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  My wife was really excited when this game came out and we bought it because it was the first Mario 
 game for the Nintendo Wii. It was fun to play at first and gave us a lot of fun and play value 
 at the time, but now it is pretty much collecting dust on the shelf.
  
  Once you have played it over and over again it gets very repetitive and collecting stickers/prizes 
 are not all that fun as you cannot unlock anymore courses after that. Some of the boards/courses 
 are so boring that I cannot stand to play them ever again!
  
  I would have recommending this back when it came out when there was no Mario Galaxy out, but now 
 that this game it outdated I would not recommend playing it as you will grow tired and bored or 
 its repetitiveness. Find another Mario game like Galaxy of Kart and pass this one up on the shelf! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redshark691
Rating: 7
Date: May 2, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game to play when you have more than 2 people playing, but it just does not feel 
 right. I love playing the mini games and there is a ton of them but it still gets boring after 
 a while. 
  
  Speaking of the mini games they put the innovative Wii controls to use. This can sometimes be a 
 good thing and sometimes it just sucks lemons. The only thing I liked about this game was the mini 
 games. The levels are pretty boring and they could have put more levels to play on in the game. 
 
  
  You can play as a total is pretty good but not the best, you can pick from Mario, Luigi, Peach, 
 daisy, Yoshi, Wario, Waluigi, Toad, Toadette, Boo, Birdo, Bloober, Dry Bones, and Hammer bros.!
 
  
  So if you normally have 3 or 4 people around to play with I would get this game otherwise you should 
 just look for another multi player that works with 2 people.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vertiglug
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 1, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  I have always been a huge fan of the mario party series. I have been playing them since the 2nd 
 one came out on the N64 console. They always have hours of great muliplayer, but lack in 1st player. 
 Then again, if you get mario party to play 1 player, you might want to go out and make some friends. 
 The postive of this game is well only one thing, if you have 4 people, the game is pretty fun for 
 a few hours. Althou leaves you with a certain margarita kick afterwards wondering where your life 
 just went. The piss poor things of this game are, The terrible party games, They didn't use the 
 wii remote to thier advantage and the games came out subpar at best. There is only a handful of 
 interesting games to play. The Party Boards are terrible as well, They have the classic Donkey 
 Kong board and the Tycoon board can be fun at times, but really its overall pretty much boards 
 where coins don't matter, or its not about finding the star, but getting to it first. Both something 
 I don't appreicate in the genre. They need to go back to the drawing board on this one and find 
 what made the series so great in the first place. I'll be looking for a more improved, wii useable 
 Mario party Wii in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  well its not the best of the mario parties ever made but its quite fun with a group of friends. 
 you play as the usual mario characters and play it like a board game but on the wii. the game for 
 me really could have been better with much better graphics but the controls were very simple and 
 fitted the wii remote fantastically. the mini games are very short and for me boring. it is a game 
 only for multiple people. playing by yourself is sooooooo boring when you could be playing metroid 
 are legend of zelda instead. but the use of mii people is a good idea and being able to just play 
 mini games is also very good. but a game takes way to long and it easily bores you. a 10 turn game 
 gets boring around turn 7 and and then you turn it off to a decent game. not worth buying for more 
 than $50. it was fun the first couple of seconds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 21, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  *** MARIO PARTY 8 ***
  
  THE GOOD 
  -Fun for parties
  -Great selection of fun mini-games
  -New motion sensing / pointing features (with Wii Remote) 
 are fun
  -Good variety of game modes and customization
  
  THE BAD
  -Main game still relies too much on luck
  -Some unlockables are pointless
  
  OVERVIEW
  
 Mario Party 8 is a crazy but fun party game for all ages. You get to play as all your favorite 
 Mario characters like Mario, Luigi, and Peach. The setting of the game takes place at a carnival 
 with your host Ballyhoo. Ballyhoo is a weird looking fellow with a blue hat which looks to be alive 
 too. He introduces the carnival to everybody at the Mushroom Kingdom. Now everyone was having a 
 good time until Bowser finds out about the festivities and ruins all the fun. Now all the Mushroom 
 Kingdom characters have to try and not only stop Bowser but compete against each other while they 
 do that because Ballyhoo is giving a life-time supply of candy to the winner. In order to defeat 
 Bowser you must play through each of the board games at the carnival and win.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Mario Party 8 plays similar to its predecessors with some slight differences. So, if 
 you've played Mario Party before, it will be easy to get up to speed with this one. In this carnival 
 you have different "tents" to enter which let you do different things. There is the Star Battle 
 Arena, Party tent, Mini-game tent, Fun Bazaar and Extras Zone. 
  
  The Star Battle Arena is the "main game" where you square off against another computer player as 
 you play through each of the six board games. With Bowser waiting for you at the end. Each board 
 game has different rules and layouts. The object of each match is to collect more stars than the 
 computer. Stars are obtained by landing on the star space and have enough coins to purchase the 
 item. Each player takes turns rolling the dice and along the way they can pick up candy power-ups 
 (like twice candy for extra dice rolling, bowlo candy to steal coins, and dual candy to dual your 
 opponent for coins / stars) , land on special spaces to advance further on the board, or just simply 
 collect coins. Unfortunately, the Star Battle Arena has too much of the game based on luck and 
 not on skill. Most of your success is based on how well the dice roll. The only skill involved 
 is with purchasing candy at stores, using candy and playing dual games against the computer.
  
  The Party tent lets you and three other people play against each other or on teams. It plays 
 similar to the Star Battle Arena where you can battle each, on the six board games, in your quest 
 to obtain the most stars. The difference is that between each round (which is everybody rolling 
 the dice once) everybody plays a mini-game to earn extra coins. These mini games have simple controls 
 and objectives but can prove to be tons of fun. This is the part of the game where you get to show 
 off your skills in a variety of contests. Another added feature to Mario Party 8 is that there 
 are some mini-games that use the full range of the Wii Remote like pointing and motion. There isn't 
 as much riding on chance in the Party tent than the Star Battle Arena but enough to frustrate people. 
 But the good thing about the Party tent is that you can customize the game to put more emphasis 
 on skill.
  
  The Mini-Game tent is the place to go if you want to compete against friends or the computer in 
 all the Mini-games. This is my favorite part because the object is to defeat your opponents in 
 each mini-game and guess what? It is all skill here. Now you start off with a nice selection of 
 unlocked mini-games but you have to play through the Star Battle Arena or Party Tent to unlock 
 more. There are different types of matches you can setup here, plus you have the option to select 
 any mini-game freely.
  
  The Fun Bazaar is the place where you can take the points you've earned from the main game and 
 purchase mini-games, characters, souvenirs (which are stupid and pointless) , and look at mini-game 
 records. You won't spend too much time here but it is essential to making certain parts of the 
 game better.
  
  Lastly, the Extras Zone is a place where you can play extra mini-games. The difference is that 
 there are special mini-games that you can only play here and you get to use your Mii. There are 
 some great mini-games to play here so don't forget about this place.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The level design for each board is fun. The graphics are decent. There is nothing really good or 
 bad about the visuals in Mario Party 8.
  
  SOUND
  The sound effects are OK and the music is decent. Like the graphics, the audio is nothing much.
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  Mario Party 8 is another good party game. Even though the main game relies a lot on luck, there 
 are other things that you can do in the game to make it fun. I would recommend it to anybody that 
 has played and liked previous Mario Partys but to people who hate games based on chance, steer 
 clear from here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyalva222000
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok to begin with if you like the other Mario Party games, you'll like this one. Its the same old 
 rules but playing it on the Wii adds new games to play and adds to the whole feel of the game. 
 The new mini games are pretty fun but nothing that will blow you away. I dont belive the game is 
 worth 40 or 50 dollars for some new mini games. I graphics are very dispointing. Same old gamecube 
 graphic!!! That is a huge let down. The game is extremly boring unless you play with friends. There 
 are tons of games out there, adn this is one that nobody needs to have. Its nothing new, boring, 
 and the only good thing is that it has the whole "Wii" feel to it. Just playing the mini mgames 
 are fun. Tic Tac Toe is a fun way to play thie mini game. The game isnt a must have. It is a total 
 bore. Rent but dont buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_Rebel
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game isn't bad, but its not great either. This (along with the title) has party 
 game writen all over it. While, you can't deny that the plumber still has some moves, the moves 
 are getting alittle stale. This game has some potenial (if it wasn't used up already by the previous 
 titles) . It does several new games to add and you can use your Mii in some of the games, it just 
 still doesn't scream party like it used to. The character selection has barly (if not at all) extended. 
 The boards, while sometimes are fun, don't have much originalty like they used to and sometimes 
 get boring very quickly. Some big suggestions for this game, is more characters, more boards, don't 
 have an annoying voice annocer, and Wi-Fi. Wi-Fi would have made this game a huge hit, playing 
 a this game against other people anywhere would have expanded this game's sales even more. The 
 annocer and "story" mode also killed it for me. The annocer is not bad, but after awhile you just 
 want to strangle him. The "story" mode is not very good, but you have to do it to get the stuff 
 needed to unlock more stuff. Another complaint is the bonus stars. Every time the game ends and 
 you think you have won, you haven't they bring out the bonus stars which leads one of the computers 
 to getting them all and winning or tie with which you must hit a cube and who ever gets the highest 
 number wins. Not very good when you just played for a hour and then it leads to chance to see if 
 you have won or not. This really has been going on for too long and unless they amp it up for next 
 time, I won't be buyin'. While this game is nice, its really only for the ultimate Mario Party 
 lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megadeth_rule
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I have actually owned every mario party game, exept for the portable version (mario party advance 
 and mario party DS) and I was quite disapointed by mario party game since the sixth installement 
 in the series. everything feel recycled so, when you've played all the other game in the serie 
 I must say you got to avoid this one it's just like every other mario party with some motion sensing 
 mini-games and new board. If you never played mario party I suggest you to rent it first!
  
  -If you back track in time to the first mario party you could pass trought a 50 turn in about 
 2 or 3 hours now forget it there's so much event on the board that occur almost at every step you 
 make. If those event where fun I would'nt have any objection but they're actually quite boring.
 
  
  -If you've palyed just the half of the series you'll see that the minigames are just some recycled 
 stuff. Button mashing mini-game, dodging stuff mini-game, collecting stuff mini-game, chance mini-game 
 and the so-called 1vs3 and 2vs2 mini-game. that borrow all the same formula from the past mario 
 party, at one excpetion ''motion sensing''. I was actully suprised to see that about just a half 
 of the mini-game use motion sensing. All other mini-game you'll have to hold the wii-mote sideway 
 and use it as a classic controller. This said it make the game even more recycled.
  
  -The multiplayer can still be interesting but because there too much event on the board you might 
 get bored of waiting for you're turn to come. But still it remain kind of fun for a while.
  
  This is not a particularly bad game. But if you've played some of the other mario party game 
 (especially on the NGC) there nothing here to keep you intertained long enough for you're money. 
 The lack of new stuff is the biggest problem of this game. So, I can't give more than a 5.5 for 
 this half-baked game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeromeerome
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Clearly bringing the never ending Mario Party franchise to the Wii was a no brainer. The Wii is 
 flooded with mini-games. The new motion controls offered i MP8 do give this stale series something 
 new in terms of gameplay. There are still plenty of button mashing frenzied games in the series 
 but the new motion based games help break things up. New board modes including a Monopoly like 
 level involving owning the most property bought with stars. This game is OK when played alone but 
 not really much fun unless played with friends. Hence the name PARTY right? While the game does 
 offer some new games with motion controls there isn't really enough new content to make it last. 
 You will grow bored of it quickly after a few weeks of playing.
  
  I really wish Nintendo would branch out on the Wii and offer online gameplay. That would offer 
 a lot more value for this game. Another idea would be to enable users to create their own custom 
 boards that they can share online with friends. Both these ideas could significantly increase the 
 value and duration of gameplay. Unfortunately that is not the case here.
  
  Rent this one for a week and if you don't grow tired of it buy a used copy somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFS102
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 7, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Mario's hit franchise is back for its 8th showing. Mario Party as its called, is a party game build 
 around your favortive characters from the Mario franchise. 
  
  The gameplay is very familiar. In the game you compete with your friend or AI to see who is the 
 best player. After every round you play a mini-game. These mini-games range in a very wide variety, 
 from shooting to shaking your wii-mote. The gameplay is good for about the first have hour, but 
 after that it can get very boring. There is also a serious problem with some of the minigames, 
 they're to luck based! I hate the fact that some of the games can be won with out any skill, just 
 luck. I used to like Mario Party 5, and I was very good at it. It seems like I suck at MP8 though 
 because I can never win half of the mini-games that I play. The luck and the boringness combine 
 to make the gameplay of MP8 very lacking of fun. 
  
  Unfortunatly, the games whole appeal is based around gameplay. The graphics haven't been improved 
 hardly at all, in fact they are on the borderline of sucking ***. The controls are just ok, but 
 sometimes they can mess up. Theres not much replay value to the game either so if your going to 
 get the game, rent it for sure.
  
  Overall, the game is the same as the 7 before it. The Mario Party series has been dragged on for 
 too long now. MP8 is just an average Mario Party game with not much value to it at all. The game 
 is a rent if youre at all interested in it, but for the most part I reccomend you avoid it.
  
  I give Mario Party 8 a 6 out of 10.
  
  
  -NFS102
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Is there a place for a game like Mario Party 8 on the Nintendo Wii? After all, this is a platform 
 already inundated with party games. Why do you need another Mario Party when you can swing for 
 the fences or hit the lanes on Wii Sports, arguably the most successful party game in years? Pinball, 
 table tennis and pool await you in the casual-friendly Wii Play, and you don't want to count out 
 those Raving Rabbids. There's also Big Brain Academy on the horizon, as well as something for the 
 more serious gamer in Super Smash Bros. Brawl. So really, who needs another Mario Party? 
  
  Mario Party 8 is the game you break out in those occasions when you'd normally hit the closet 
 for Monopoly. This is the game that you play when you'd rather kick back on the couch and enjoy 
 some social time with your friends and the Wii without having to make elbow room for Tennis on 
 Wii Sports, or you've had quite enough of gyrating your hips in Wario Ware: Smooth Moves. 
  
  You really need a trio of friends to get the most out of Mario Party 8, since playing it alone 
 against the CPU is a downright bore. The mini-games are only entertaining when you can laugh and 
 joke with others, reveling in the spirit of competition.
  
  Hudson Soft has definitely gone back to the well to put together this collection of rather uninspired 
 mini-games. The only thing making these games any different from what you've played in previous 
 Mario Party games is that the controls make use of the Wii remote controller. Previous Mario Party 
 iterations have had downright brilliant mini-games to choose from, but many of those in this installment 
 feel uninspired.
  
  Most of the games rely on basic movements with the Wii remote, such as in the various target-shooting 
 games, while others default to the sideways NES controller configuration. The board layouts themselves 
 are entertaining, and bring unique gameplay mechanics into play. One that we particularly enjoyed 
 was similar to a game of monopoly, where the star count was based on property ownership across 
 the board. This board challenges players to skillfully invest in hotels, outbidding each other 
 for ownership and driving up property values by dumping those precious coins.
  
  There are many games in this collection, separated into groups like four-player free-for-alls, 
 one-on-one duel games, and even a handful of single-player challenges. Depending on how many people 
 you have to play with, whether you've got a full couch of friends or you're home alone once again 
 on a Saturday night, Mario Party 8's got you covered. You also have plenty of reasons to play, 
 since unlocking trophies and additional mini-games will take many late-night game sessions.
  
  The single-player Star Battle tournament is the lonely gamer's way of learning the layouts 
 of each board, but one of the underlying problems behind Mario Party 8 is that the game, like all 
 previous versions, relies on random die rolls and the fickle nature of the AI to determine a game's 
 winner. In this sense, it's comparable to board games like the game of Life, but can lead to some 
 very cheap outcomes. Being one roll away from victory after an hour-long game, only to be denied 
 your celebration by the predictably cruel nature of the die is almost enough to make you swear 
 never to play again. Still, if you don't mind playing a game that is almost completely unpredictable 
 (outside of the AI screwing you over and over) , then you may be entertained. 
  
  Mario Party 8's graphics also look puzzlingly poor. The visuals haven't seen significant improvement 
 since the GameCube era, and simple things like a fiery halo effect around characters can cause 
 the frame rate to noticeably dip. The menu screen teases you with a nice widescreen display, but 
 once a game actually starts, you're treated to a 4:3 ratio screen with sidebars -- it's almost 
 criminal that the game doesn't support a widescreen display.
  
  While unimpressive from a technical standpoint, and uninspired from a mini-games standpoint, the 
 core Mario Party formula remains intact. As with any multiplayer oriented game, having a good time 
 is always possible as long as you surround yourself with good friends. So yes, this eighth installment 
 of the series may be worth your while if you like throwing Wii parties and have exhausted all of 
 the Wii's better such games already. Otherwise, you're not missing much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEguitarhero08
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  I REPEAT DO NOT BUY MARIO PARTY 8 IF YOU'RE PLANNING ON PLAYING THE SINGLE PLAYER MODE. ITS NOT 
 FUN
  SINGLE PLAYER MODE: 1/10
  
  ok i got that out of the way
  mario party 8 has 2 sides to it.
  horrible and alright
  horrible being the single player
 
  alright being the multiplayer
  i am giving this game a 3/10 because not everybody has people to play Wii with. The single player 
 mode has you going from like 6 maps and beating 1 other opponent in a duel. yaya NOT FUN.
  if the game had wi fi, like you'd be able to have a party mode with other people, i woiuld give 
 it a 9
  but it doesn't
  so 3\
  my review has to be 800 characters long so
  jnlfes; fjnhJ HNFR: SHNJR S: HRSGR UGF: USFJUFSJFSJF SJsffjsfjhF DLKJSFD SKJLnjdd jglkdgl/ihl zL? GZO/gd 
 gg/zLJisvgj vkhgd/jn/ hn fv/;/ihgav mhn vgomo ruwrfh/rs shsFEs ffhIgfi eegtka gtejte 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman-2k8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  During the standard game, four different characters compete on one of six themed boards. When playing 
 with fewer than four humans, players select which characters the computer will control, as well 
 as their difficulty level and handicap. Players take turns rolling dice and moving across the game 
 board, with the goal being to amass as many stars as possible within the alloted turn limit.
  
  Towards the end of the game, during the last five turns, gameplay is altered slightly. This 
 can include events such as coins being awarded to the player in last place, as well as additional 
 coins being placed on each space. After the game has ended, three Bonus Stars (which can be enabled 
 or disabled as a game option) may be awarded to players for various feats during play. Finally, 
 the player with the most stars is declared the winner, with the number of coins possessed used 
 as a tiebreaker.
  
  Additional game modes allow players to directly compete in minigames without making use of the 
 game board. Several of these modes tie a number of minigames together, with each minigame won moving 
 the winning player closer to victory.
  
  Minigames
  At the heart of Mario Party 8 are the minigames, with one taking place at least once per turn. 
 A number of the minigames rely on the unique capabilities of the Wii Remote, while others instead 
 require players to hold the controller sideways and use only the buttons.
  
  There are eight different types of minigames: 4 player "everyone for themselves", 1 vs. 3, 2 vs. 
 2, Battle, Duel, Challenge, Extra, and Last.
  
  Playable characters
  Playable characters returning from the previous titles include Mario, Luigi, Princess Peach, Princess 
 Daisy, Wario, Waluigi, Yoshi, Birdo, Dry Bones, Boo, Toad, and Toadette. In addition, two new characters 
 have been added to the roster: Blooper and Hammer Bro. This provides a total of 14 playable characters 
 once all have been unlocked. Bowser, Donkey Kong, Shy Guys, Koopa Troopas and Goombas have secondary 
 roles throughout minigames, boards and menus. Other Mario characters and enemies make minor appearance, 
 for example Bob-ombs appear in a minigame.
  
  Players can also use Miis in any "Extras Zone" minigames unlocked via the "Fun Bazaar", although 
 Miis are not otherwise usable during normal gameplay. Miis can also be seen in the background of 
 the Minigames Tent and in minigames.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  There was no "party" genre before Mario Party, released for the Nintendo 64. And when you think 
 about it, this makes perfect sense. After all, video games, at least at first, didn't really seem 
 to be all that great for a "party". Can you imagine being invited to a party where the whole point 
 is to play a video game? I couldn'tbut now I can. And it's all thanks to Mario Party.
  
  Mario Party games are rather straightforward. They pretty much just consist of playing through 
 a variety of unique and fun that last a few minutes long. Some games have undeniably been better 
 than others, but when Mario Party 8 was announced, gamers were geared up for the best Mario Party 
 even -- even toppling the near-perfect Mario Party 2 from its pedestal. After all, the Wii's remote 
 offered such numerous possibilities for new, motion-controlled mini-games. What isn't there to 
 like?
  
  Well, unfortunately, there is some stuff not to like, though you won't really get it until you've 
 played the game for a while. In fact, at first, Mario Party 8 seems like everything that you could 
 possibly want it to be. The graphics, while not incredibly noticeable, are slightly better than 
 those of recent GameCube iterations of the Mario Party franchise. Colors are bright and crisp, 
 and the graphics run smoothly and consistently. Characters are fairly detailed, and overall, the 
 game is just nice to look at.
  
  Along the lines of immersion, the music of Mario Party 8 also ought to be discusses. While it is 
 certainly nothing incredible, it's decent. It's somewhat catchy and fits in nicely with the cheery, 
 colorful environment of the game. There's a general musical theme for each board that you play 
 on (more on that later, though) , so it's sometimes annoyingly repetitive. Still, though, it gets 
 the job done, although without any real flair or excitement.
  
  The meat of the game isyou guessed it: partying (if it can really be called that) . There are a 
 number of different modes, the two most standard being the "Party Mode" (really creative, I know) 
 and Free Play. Party Mode is what Mario Party really is all about. You select a game board, each 
 with a different theme. Each board also has different objectives and goals. For example, on the 
 Boardwalk Board, there's a very nautical theme, and the object is to amass as much treasure as 
 possible. On the other hand, there's also a board set in a city, where the object resembles that 
 of Monopoly: earn money to purchase and upgrade properties.
  
  Once you've decided upon which board to play on, you will select a character. A number of characters 
 from the Mario world are available to play, including Mario himself, Luigi, Peach, and Yoshi, as 
 well as many others. The one real downside is that there's no advantage or disadvantage to picking 
 any character; they are just like playing tokens in a board game. Unlike a game like Super Smash 
 Bros. or Mario Kart, characters have no special abilities, nor do they at all affect the outcome 
 of any game that you will play.
  
  Once you've got all that straightened out, it's time to actually party on. The game progresses 
 in a rather simple and straightforward manner. Role a die, then move that number of spaces on the 
 game board. Normally, you will obtain a certain number of coins, as long as you land on a proper-colored 
 space. Some spaces, however, are a bit more interesting. Some will immediately launch you into 
 a minigame, some will detract coins from you, some will award you a candy.
  
  Candies are a somewhat interesting aspect of game play in Mario Party 8, but nothing really mind-blowing. 
 You obtain candies either by randomly being awarded them or purchasing them on shops found on the 
 game board. Different candies have different effects; some switch places with other characters, 
 some steal coins from your opponents, others turn you into a ball and bowl over anyone in your 
 way. Their sole redeeming value is that they can alter the course of a game, though they're nothing 
 that can switch the tide of the game around instantly. Aside from that, really, they're rather 
 forgettable.
  
  Once everybody has had a turn rolling dice and progressing through the board, then a minigame ensues. 
 Minigames can be one player versus three, a two on two team battle, or a game in which its every 
 many for himself. There are more than 60 "all-new" minigames in Mario Party 8, all of which are 
 somehow controlled by use of the Wii remote. Mini games usually remain relatively simple, some 
 examples including breaking a statue with a hammer by waving the Wii remote around like a nut, 
 lassoing barrels by swinging around the Wii remote and then releasing it, and performing construction 
 jobs by emulating such actions as hammering and sawing with the Wii remote.
  
  Sound fun? Well, I've got some bad newsit really isn't. While there is clearly some great potential 
 in Mario Party 8, especially seeing what the Wii remote is capable of, Mario Party 8 fails to impress 
 merely in terms of its game play. The minigames are of the same vein as those in just about every 
 Mario Party game to date; if you're a fan of the franchise, you pretty much know what to expect, 
 which is a real fundamental disappointment. When you think about the fact that the franchise itself 
 was founded upon the basis of innovation and originality, it's a pity to see the same ideas being 
 recycled over and over again.
  
  Another problem is that the Wii remote's controls are nowhere near as fun as they should be. The 
 Wii has proven that it's little remote is capable of huge things; Wii Sports, a freaking bundle 
 title, has exemplified just how wonderfully immersive the Wii remote can make a game. And yet, 
 for some reason, a 50 dollar game from a Nintendo-staple franchise refuses to acknowledge that 
 fact. Controls are clunky and annoying, and sometimes don't even work properly. It's bad enough 
 that the games are pretty boring and not at all original; the whole situation is made even worse 
 once you find that sometimes you can't even play the game properly. It's rather clear that this 
 one came into existence with the intent to be a GameCube title; the Wii controls feel incredibly 
 tacked on, as if the developers didn't even work that hard toward getting it all right.
  
  And because the minigames themselves aren't even all that fun, another flaw of the game becomes 
 even more pronounced. You see, all Mario Party games have suffered from the fact that they were 
 really designed to be multiplayer games; playing by yourself just doesn't yield the same gaming 
 experience. That said, most past Mario Party games have been fun enough that you can still play 
 by yourself and have an enjoyable time of it. However, Mario Party 8 is so annoying and genuinely 
 not fun to play that you must be playing it with friends for it to be even remotely fun.
  
  That said, though, the multiplayer does partially redeem the somewhat negative gaming experience 
 that Mario Party 8 offers. While it's quite boring to play against computers, it's actually pretty 
 fun to play all these wacky games if you've got some friends with you. In fact, it is probably 
 fun enough with friends that, as long as you're playing multiplayer, you can overlook the major 
 flaws that are present -- and amplified -- when playing single player. It doesn't redeem the game 
 overall, but at least you'll know that as long as you are playing alongside some friends, this 
 game won't be a complete flop. The problems are still there, but the human interaction helps to 
 dilute them somewhat.
  
  On this point, I'd like to bring up that there is, in fact, something that the developers could 
 have done to make Mario Party 8 a real Wii blockbuster. What is that, you ask? Online multiplayer. 
 Other Wii games have it, so why not Mario Party 8? I've already commented that the games flaws 
 can be somewhat forgotten, at least when playing multiplayer, and an online party mode would have 
 ensured that there's always somebody ready to play. Sadly, though, and due to what I believe to 
 be laziness on the part of the developer, a WiFi play mode was omitted. As a result, Mario Party 
 8 really suffers.
  
  To add on to the blatant lack of fun in Mario Party 8, there's seriously nothing to do that's at 
 all fun, besides multiplayer gaming. Though there is part of the game that allows you to play all 
 the minigames that you've accrued, without the boredom of having to play on a game board, it's 
 no good by yourself. It may serve to satisfy you and your friends for a bit, but once you've played 
 every game a few times, there's nothing much to go back to. There are no real unlockables in the 
 game, and there's just no replay value. It's a pity, because with a game this poorly executed, 
 it would be great if there were some sort of incentive for gamers to keep on playing.
  
  Overall, Mario Party 8 is just not at all a fun game. Playing by yourself is easily one of the 
 most boring video game experiences that you will ever partake in, and even multiplayer is not mind-boggling. 
 The music and graphics are fine, but they're nothing that can pull up the game from the quicksand 
 of mediocrity that it is shoulder-deep in. The minigames themselves, in fact, are rather unimaginative, 
 and the Wii controls are poorly executed and feel tacked on. The $50 price tag is ridiculous, just 
 considering the dearth of fun things to do in this game It's a pity, really, because with a bit 
 more effort, Mario Party 8 could have been something really great. Instead, though, I can only 
 label it a title that I would advise anyone against purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  First let me say that yes... Mario Party 8 is more of the same formula and minigames we've become 
 accustomed to. 2nd... that's not really a bad thing. This game has all the charm and fun of any 
 past Mario Party games with the added bonus of game mechanics only possible on the Wii. 
  
  The Wii brings a lot of room for new gameplay to the table and Mario Party 8 takes full advantage. 
 The story's main character isn't anything to memorable but i guess it's better than just Bowser 
 again. Although if Bowser's not the boss/bad guy this time it would've been cool to have Bowser 
 as a playable. Regardless of what anyone says about Wario... Bowser is still the best bad guy Mario 
 has and playing as Bowser would have been fun. He doesn't play a significant role in this game 
 so making him playable would be my only suggestion. 
  
  Other than that all the elements that make you either hate or love Mario Party are here... from 
 the chance heavy element to the way the game seems to set up the losers to be winners at the end. 
 
  
  If you like party games or are a Mario Party fan and have a Wii you should pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basketball3r22
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This Mario party game is the worst one of them all. I really liked the past mario party games, 
 but this one broke the mold, it has by far the worst mini games, the best one is the basketball 
 one, and thats just because i love basketball, if that game wasn't there all the games would be 
 crap. No matter how much you play this game you will never get any better then what a begginer 
 would be because it is 99.99% chance except for knowing when to use a candy at the right time, 
 the graphics look like it should be an early gamecube game and the motion control doesn't feel 
 as good as it should, the only game that uses the motion control is the one where you have to paint 
 a board cut a plank of wood. And all the mini games are so not realistic i mean there is this one 
 where your all on a ice cube and whats the first thing you do fight each other of couse. If I was 
 you I would only buy this game if it was in a barigain bin for $20, go and spend your hard earned 
 money on a game like Super Smash Bros Brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman1995
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  During the standard game, four different characters compete on one of six themed boards. When playing 
 with fewer than four humans, players select which characters the computer will control, as well 
 as their difficulty level and handicap. Players take turns rolling dice and moving across the game 
 board, with the goal being to amass as many stars as possible within the alloted turn limit.
  
  Towards the end of the game, during the last five turns, gameplay is altered slightly. This 
 can include events such as coins being awarded to the player in last place, as well as additional 
 coins being placed on each space. After the game has ended, five Bonus Stars (which can be enabled 
 or disabled as a game option) may be awarded to players for various feats during play. Finally, 
 the player with the most stars is declared the winner, with the number of coins possessed used 
 as a tiebreaker.
  
  Additional game modes allow players to directly compete in minigames without making use of the 
 game board. Several of these modes tie a number of minigames together, with each minigame won moving 
 the winning player closer to victory.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi487
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is the first MP game on the Wii, and how well does it compare to previous games in 
 the series? read on to find out. The basic story in MP8 is that there is a festival to see who 
 can win a year's worth of candy (Whoever wins is going to have a major toothache) by completing 
 all of the boards and winning in them. While the story mode is the only way you can unlock the 
 2 brand-spanking new characters to the MP8 universe, (I'm not saying who they are) . You will basically 
 just skip the story, and move right on to the gameboards, the gameboards themselves are very interesting 
 and colorful, they include a sun-drenched beach to a tycoon town where you have to invest in hotels 
 to get the all-important stars, the set of boards in this game are the best ever in a MP game. 
 This is on the Wii so there has to be some motion-sensing capabilities, and there's plenty in this 
 game, you'll be pointing at the screen to select menus and game settings, then when you get the 
 game board you'll flick the Wii-mote up to hit the dice block to see how many spaces you will move, 
 the minigames also are the best in the franchise, and there's plenty of motion control in the minigames 
 from lassoing barrels to flipping chimps the controls work perfectly and make the minigames themselves 
 better. You can play as your Mii character in the extras zone of the game to play special minigames 
 which include bowling (but Wii Sports Bowling is so much better) to a race with mopeds, but more 
 than likely you'll use the Mario Party characters for this mode like I do (the character I use 
 is Princess Daisy) but if you like playing as you Mii then you will more then likely play this 
 mode all the time. Even if you can't play as your Miis in the game boards, in a lot of the minigames 
 in the backgrounds you will see your hand-made Miis watching you.
  
  In conclusion, buy this game and get ready to have yourself a jolly-old time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezzat30
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  This year, Mario Party goes to the Star Carnival, which is run by the symbiotic duo of MC Ballyhoo 
 and his talking top hat, Big Top. The carnival theme doesn't really penetrate past the menus, though, 
 and once you're in a game, it's pretty much the same old Mario Party that Hudson's been churning 
 out for the past eight years now. The primary mode still plays like a board game, with four players 
 smacking the dice block to move across spaces, collecting as many coins and stars as they can before 
 they finish a set number of turns, and of course, playing minigames at the end of each round. 
 
  
  Mario Party 8 doesn't have as many minigames as Mario Party 7, nor does it support eight players 
 or include a goofy microphone peripheral. It does, however, make generally solid use of the Wii 
 Remote, and the number of palette-swap minigames seems lower. A good number of minigames will have 
 you holding the remote sideways in standard gamepad fashion, but you'll also swing at baseballs, 
 furiously shake a can of soda, do some tightrope walking, use a paddle to help row a boat, and 
 more, all by gesticulating with the remote. There are also some good references to past Nintendo 
 games couched in these minigames, such as a first-person ghost-hunting minigame that appears to 
 take place in Luigi's mansion. 
  
  While many of the minigames are four-player free-for-alls, there are plenty of one-on-one, two-on-two, 
 or one-on-three games to mix things up, but what really helps keep the minigames fresh is the varied 
 focus of the minigames. The minigames never get terribly complicated, though there's always a practice 
 option if you're having trouble grasping one of the high-concept games. This simplicity makes it 
 easy to jump into Mario Party 8 with casual players, but it also cripples the lasting value of 
 the game. There are a number of minigames that, after the first time, you'll probably never want 
 to play again. 
  
  Bogus minigames aside, the biggest problem with Mario Party 8 is how chance-driven the game can 
 be, which, unfortunately, is also one of the franchise's defining characteristics. Roll an unfortunate 
 number and land on a bad space, and you could find yourself going from first to last, losing most 
 of your coins, or even one of your stars. There are six uniquely themed boards to play on here, 
 and most of them come packing a different gameplay gimmick as well. The Donkey Kong- and Super 
 Mario Sunshine-themed boards are traditional Mario Party game boards, with several paths that loop 
 back onto each other, though they get more inventive from there. The haunted mansion level's layout 
 is a mystery when you start, requiring you to explore its rooms and corridors as you hunt for stars. 
 One board takes place on a moving train that you must run through, as well as on top of, as you 
 collect coins to impress a movie star who's onboard. One of the cleverer boards looks an awful 
 lot like the Earthbound level from Super Smash Bros. Melee, where winning involves you investing 
 your coins in various hotels. The rules specific to these different boards could've injected some 
 much-needed strategy to the action, if the game just would've let them, but fortunes still reverse 
 so severely and so easily that any planning seems futile.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver022
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  The Mario Party franchise has brought me many hours of fun.. But with the recent Mario Party 8, 
 it seems that novelty is wearing off. The game feels clunky and somewhat unresponsive.. Even hitting 
 your dice block before each play seems a litle late. Instead of simply hitting the A button to 
 jump, you swing the Wiimote up, and your character jumps a second later. So if you time your jumps, 
 no luck here. Also, the host of the game is unbelievably annoying, and the use of candy is kind 
 of ridiculous. Seems like they tried to pack too much into one game just for the sake of changing 
 the franchise. Meh.. It's okay. Wouldn't pay more than $30 for it, though.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This game let me tell you right off the bat is very, very fun for multi-player. It would be a lot 
 funner if you have four people to play with then just two which sadly i was only able to play with 
 my cousin but i was lucky for that. Our by your self is almost completely a drag. It really lacks 
 maps and i don't think it was out of time or budget to add 3 - 4 minimum. 
  
  The game doesn't revolve around the graphics but they are just perfect for this type of game. While 
 playing the board games you do get really board while waiting for the others to go. They should 
 have made it where the player is able to choose how many computers you go against. This way it 
 eliminates all the long waiting periods.
  
  The mini games are fun but there is a big problem in the which is mostly all of them your holding 
 the controller vertically. Also a lot of them are races in which it makes you feel like they rushed 
 through the mini games. But i have to say they did have a lot which i believe was 70 total. 
  
  Overall, i only would recommend this game if you have friends over a lot, period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veixsinx
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  Mario party 8 is a fun, exciting, giant board game! How cool is that! Anyway in the game you go through 
 the giant board collecting stars, and whoever has the most stars wins. Sounds pretty simple huh? Well 
 you are wrong. There are so many traps i cant explain them all.
  
  The good: Good 3D, good replay value, good music, Mario party is flawless in every area! I really liked 
 boos castle level. Some of the mini games were just so fun to play with your cousins. Grab your 10 
 year old cousin and play this game with him.
  
  The bad: The thing i really hated about this game was the koppa town level. You have to like, rent 
 these hotel to get stars i thought it was just annoying.
  
  Overall this game gets a 8/10 Have a great day and Peace out! =DLook foward to my next review on 
 Madden08 for wii.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  h h h h hh h h hhhh hh h h h hh h h h h h h hh h h h h h hh h h hh 
 h h h h h 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bongo_boy
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  this game looked great, but after i had played it a couple of times, it just got really boring. 
 its really just one big board game with a load of extras, this is stupid coz it deifies the idea 
 of a games console, i mean, who wants to play a board game on the TV. 
  this game is rubbish !!! !!!!!!! ! !! !!!! !!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!  !!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!  
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !  
  
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!  !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! ! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  !!!!!!!!  
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !! !!! !!! !!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
  and it is also very overrated.
  do you like it e-mail with your opinions.
   
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_atlantican
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 has some very poor gameplay, but it's quality improves through it's minigames and 
 the way the Wii remote is used to play them.
  
  Mario Party 8's Graphics are of a good quality, although there not the best; they get the job done 
 for a cartoon looking video game. The game's Sound is also good quality; it allows you to easily 
 understand how to play the game and it also allows you to enjoy the game aswell.
  
  Mario Party 8's gameplay consists of five different maps (board games) and each of these maps creates 
 a challenge for the player, in getting their stars and defeating their opponents. The maps in Mario 
 Party 8 do not live up to the ones found in the older Mario Party games; these maps are small and 
 very easy to navigate, compared to the large maps found in the older Mario Party games. Although 
 the minigames in Mario Party 8 are made more fun through the use of the Wii remotes abilities, 
 some of them are very boring and some seem to be copied from the older Mario Party games (but changed 
 a little) .
  
  The single player mode in Mario Party 8 is not that fun to play: it consists of 5 rounds were the 
 player must compete against one different foe on each map. You do not play minigames in single 
 player unless you land on the correct spot in the map, you must continuously take turns moving 
 spaces until someone completes the maps objective and wins the round.
  
  Multiplayer seems to be the most fun the game can offer, because it allows you to play with your 
 friends. To win multiplayer the rules are simple: you must be holding more stars than your opponent 
 by the end of the match.
  
  Mario Party 8 has to be one of the worst Mario Party games created so far. I only reccommend this 
 game to people who are already big fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dub728
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 11, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Even though it really doesn't push any of the Wii's limits, I feel that if Nintendo would have 
 made the game move along at a faster pace, Mario Party 8 would have been a good game. 
  
  There are many contributions to the slow paced nature of MP8. First and foremost are the instructions. 
 This game is very wordy when it comes to explaining the object of each level or how to play the 
 minigames. Sure it gets better as you eventually begin to remember how to play the minigames, but 
 MP8 is a party game, meaning that every time you invite friends over to play this game for the 
 first time, they have to read the instructions over again. It's not like these minigames are set 
 at a high difficulty. So with that said had these instructions and controls been explained in short 
 and down to the point sentences, a player would flow into the action rather than stopping and having 
 a learning experience.
  
  Secondly there is the voice acting, and by that I mean there are none. Every piece of information 
 that is communicated between the game and the gamer is through "one font" messages with the emphasized 
 words being an in bold color. For example, if the announcer would have verbally told the audience 
 that . . . "it seems that Mario is in the lead" and "the way things are going, Peach is sure to 
 loose" followed by "lets have Peach spin the dart wheel. . ." instead of complimenting this and 
 other long ideas with annoying grunts like "stuno (?) " and big belly laughs, not only would the 
 game move faster but it would also help easily bored players stay in the game.
  
  Perhaps the worst and heaviest contribution to the "dragged" nature of MP8 is the dramatic pauses 
 during each minigame. Let's take a look at the minigame where we have to shoot down the "boo's" 
 followed by the giant boo at the end. In the beginning, all the characters run on the screen with 
 guns in hand followed by the front gate slowly opening. At this point it already feels kind of 
 slow but it's still ok. So now we begin. The first wave of boo's appear out of nowhere in the front 
 yard and we shoot them down. Great! Now let's sit and wait for about 3 to 4 seconds then watch 
 our characters jog inside the house where the second wave appears. Same process . . . different 
 environment. Cool, now let's wait another 3 seconds then jog down stairs to fight the big one! 
 Once we finally get down there and shoot him down, the minigame is over right . . . or is it? Even 
 though every one knows who won because the loser's boo is obviously still alive, the audience has 
 to sit back and watch the winner run through the mansion, out the door, through the front yard, 
 and out the gate before they do their repetitive victory dance. I call this "dead play." This valuable 
 time could have been spent with the player actually infiltrating the mansion and shooting down 
 more boo's, giving the game more play time instead of watching the game play itself.
  
  Mario party is overall a good long standing franchise that has been friendly-family fun around 
 the world. This doesn't necessarily mean that the gameplay for the latest installment had to go 
 so slow in order for all audiences to keep up and enjoy the game. Had these important yet minor 
 issues been tweaked, the rating fro MP8 would be at least a point higher.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacuuuuu3
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 10, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is the last Mario Party game in a home console until now. The game is about... well, 
 you must know! The game is obviously focused in the multiplayer. Sometimes fun to play with friends 
 and sometimes just not fun. The story is almost the same story. Bowser wasn't invited and... Well, 
 anyways you know what I'm talking about. The gameplay it's easy and the game modes are varied, 
 there are even minigames for the Mii's! But there's an only problem in this game besides sometimes 
 not being fun. The lack of online play. I mean, fans have been waiting a lot for an online Mario 
 Party, which was obviously not going to happen in the GameCube, but there could have been in the 
 DS. Now let's proceed:
  Pros: Good gameplay. Awesome powerups. Minigames with the miis. 2 new characters.
  Contras: Lack 
 of online play. Sometimes is not fun. Almost the same basic concept as in most of it's predecesors.
 
  Graphics: The graphics look good. Not much to say about them:
  9.5/10
  Difficulty: Mario Party games have a lack of difficulty (at least most of them) and this is not 
 an exception:
  6/10
  Addiction: A loy if you are with friends or if you want to get any hidden character, but not much 
 after that:
  7/10
  Gameplay: Some minigames are okay, some are not, that's most of the game, like halfway, but being 
 a minigame connection it had to have a good gameplay. And at least it works like that:
  8/10
  Replay Value: The multiplayer and game modes give it some, but online play would have made 
 it grow monstrously:
  6/10
  Variety: The game has a lot of variety as in all Mario Party's. So then:
  9.7/10
  Sound: The 
 sound it's okay sometimes but it becomes annoying easily so:
  5/10
  Story: The story is the same as always but no one, and I really mean no one cares about Mario Party's 
 story:
  4/10
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer is sometimes fun and sometimes not. But again, IT LACKS OF ONLINE 
 PLAY:
  8/10
  Total:
  7/10
  Conclusion: It can get boring with time, and it lacks of online play, but it's still really recommendable, 
 I think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game just lines up in competition with Mario Party 4, except for the widescreen, I switched 
 on the game and the Main Menu and everything was widescreen, but the game itself (board games, 
 mini games, all that kinda stuff) was 4:3.. It didn't bother me so badly as I kept on playing it, 
 to be honest, the border isn't so noticeable if you just keep on playing and stop ranting on about 
 the game sucking arse overall just because it has to black bars on each side of the game :) . It 
 really.. is not noticeable when you play the game.. last say: look at the game, not the border :)
 
  
  
  The maps are .. ooook, I althought I did prefer Mario Party 4's boards, I do like the arrival of 
 Dry Bones :DD, and the 2 locked characters which I haven't.. quite.. unlocked yet...
  
  On the whole, this game is worth all the money it's being sold for if you have that money ;) But 
 I'd pick up Mario Party 4 first
  
  Oh, and one last thing that irritates me, is that the board itself is just based on luck, no skill 
 required, timing the dice doesn't matter, you'll end up with a randomized number... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccooldudecool
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  I'm really dissapointed at mario party 8 the price of the game isn't worth it really. If you had 
 some of the original mario parties you might say they were loads of fun, This one though has a 
 diffrent style of gameplay but it really isn't bringing much new too the table. There's only six 
 maps and the only really "good/cool" one is boo's castle where it's hide and seek kinda where you 
 need to find which room boo is in this dark castle, and if it's wrong you die! Also there is real-estate 
 where you have to get the most stars on your hotels that you own and be a tycoon!
  The graphics there's a huge precent you'll get a head ache i've stopped playing this for a while 
 since i kept getting horrible head aches with all of the blasting graphics. The graphics are not 
 that great anyway.
  The gameplay is waay too simple compared too the other party games, sometimes you don't even need 
 to do anything if your teamed with a computer. There is a few good games but there all not that 
 great. And some are just luck pure luck which does make it somewhat boring sometimes making you 
 feel like you don't have skills. 
  I don't suggest this game that much but you could buy it but there is loads of better Wii games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodozhang21
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  My husband and I own pretty much all of the Mario Party games. We absolutely love these games. 
 With that said though I'm a bit disappointed with this one. I wish there are more maps. Although 
 most of the Mario Party games have around 5-6 maps, I think they can improve on that. I even think 
 it will be a awesome idea to allow us to buy more maps via the Wii online shopping mall. There 
 are many fun mini games. I found one disgustingly annoying and poorly designed. That will be the 
 "Flip a chimp" game. I think the game does not respond to the Wiimote motions as fast as it should. 
 Thus a result the game seems retarded. Also the carnival cards you collect at the end of the game 
 open nothing significant. I was hoping that they'd open another map or something. It makes the 
 cards redundant.
  
  Overall I rate this game a 6.5. It's still a good party game to own but it's not a game with much 
 break through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirulino77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Most of party games are boring if you are playing alone... but thats not the case with mario party 
 8... because you can get a lot of fun if you are playing alone and even more fun if you play with 
 a friend.... after one hour of playing you become a fan of this game... its just fun!
  If you are looking multiplayer, fun, color and more fun this is the game that you have to get.
 
  The characters have great design... the minigames are new and fun.. and very different!
  Did i say to much fun?
  Well... tahts my point... tahts the effect that the game have on the people... simply 
 you just dont get tired of playing this,,, is a great game... and deserve the name of mario on his 
 title... is just good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 published by Nintendo for the WII is a game which offers fun while it lasts.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Mario Party 8 is based on the same premise as previous titles in the series. 
 The player takes control of one of the popular characters from the Mario universe and plays through 
 board game levels full of mini games and surprises. Similar to previous titles Mario Party 8 offers 
 the most fun when played with others, and there are numerous ways to do just that.
  
  The main mode of play is battle mode where up to four human controlled players can partake in board 
 game antics. The rest of the open spots are filled in with computer controlled AI. The goal for 
 each board is to collect the most stars. Stars are collected differently on each of the six boards, 
 and bonus stars are also awarded at the end of the game. The second multiplayer option are the 
 duel boards which take the same boards and shorten them. There are no computer controlled players, 
 and this is my preferred mode of play. The only downside is that mini games are only triggered 
 when landing on a designated space, and it is possible to play a round without a mini game. Other 
 multiplayer options include games based on tic tac toe and tile control using min game performance 
 for awarding players. A major flaw in the multiplayer aspect of the game is that there is no online 
 play, but Nintendo can be forgiven because the WII is still in its early stages.
  
  The single player experience pit's the player against an opponent on each duel board, and in order 
 to advance the player must defeat them. This mode will provide the player with a few hour of fun 
 since that is how long it lasts. The strategic player can get through it easily in 3-4 hours. The 
 game tries to reward players for playing often in the form of carnival cards which can be redeemed 
 for unlikable. The only things noteworthy of being unlocked are the harder difficulty and the mini 
 games. Other than that collecting the cards is a complete waste of time. The single player experience 
 really falls short.
  
  The meat of the gameplay are the mini games. There are a lot of them and some will still not be 
 discovered after hours of playing. The games really shine when the WII motion controls are put 
 to use, but not every game uses them. Only a select number of games take advantage of the motion 
 controls which is disappointing. There is a lot of variety in the games, but Nintendo still could 
 have spent a little more effort with them. 
  
  Gameplay: 6 out of 10
  
  Graphics:
  
  One of the areas of the game which really surprised me was the graphics. Some of the graphics 
 have been horrible for WII games, but I was surprised to see the graphics in Mario Party 8 were 
 good. There isn't much to display, but what is displayed looks good. There are no bugs or glitches 
 in the game which is great since many games released come with loads of them. The game doesn't 
 support widescreen which isn't a big issue but could get annoying. 
  
  Graphics: 8 out of 10
  
  Presentation:
  
  Similar to the graphics department the presentation 
 in Mario Party 8 is very good. The menu design is slick and the mechanics of the game are very 
 good. This is one of the best presented WII games.
  
  Presentation: 8 out of 10
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound in the game is also good, but some of the music gets repetitive and boring 
 over time. Each of the characters make their unique sounds, and the music holds true with the party 
 aspect of the game.
  
  Sound: 7 out of 10
  
  Lasting Appeal/Value
  
  The major component of a game I look for is a great single player experience, with online multiplayer 
 my second option. Mario Party 8 offers virtually none of that which knocks it down a few notches. 
 The multiplayer is very good and will last a while, but that alone could not sell me this game. 
 The game retails for 49.99$ and can be found used for 39.99$. I wouldn't purchase this game unless 
 it was under 25$ or if you really want a good party game.
  
  LA/Value: 6 out of 10
  
  Overall: 6.6 out of 10 rounded to 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Whenever Nintendo need fast, easy money, who do they call.. The guys over at Hudson to make up 
 another Mario Party Game.. They a cheap to make, and have big profits. Now we have the 8th Mario 
 party in the series.. How does it play with brand new wii remote Controls.. Is it still fun? I 
 would have to say that this is a half inspired game that seems that hardly any "Hard" work was 
 put into it, to make it special..
  
  Mario and his buddies are enjoying themesleves once agian.. Until the Carnaval rolls into town. 
 Meeting a new character with a funny, talking hat he sets out magical candies and its off to the 
 boards and collecting stars. This time the stars are used in different ways.. Like in the Beach 
 level you have once central star location, or the hotel where you invest money in hotels and get 
 stars.. The stories and maps have not been that creative, you basically have the same types of 
 levels over and over agian but with minor differences.. i mean how many times have we seen a beach 
 level in a mario party game?
  
  All the usal characters are back, Mario luigi, Toad, Wario, Daisy. but now Miis are playable, as 
 well as a Squid, and Hammer Bros. But they are unlockable. They all play pretty much the same, 
 just like every other mario party game. No character has some sort of advatage over another. They 
 are place holders in any other board game.
  
  When you bring a game to the Wii, you know have Wii controls, they are very basic, sometimes you 
 hold it NES style, sometimes its pointer, or baton (Wario Ware name for the stance) they are diverse 
 and there is a good mix of each, but some of the games are getting old. Some of them are completely 
 stupid and pointless, they lack some creativeity or freshness. It seems like they need a new maker 
 of these games, cause right now its really getting stale, i have been saying that since Mario party 
 4. 
  
  Mario is still fun with a number of people on a game board, i will say that, but its another lifeless, 
 crappy graphics, and boring game in the series. I would like some creativity and actual new concepts 
 in the next mario party games. But i doubt they will, with no real changes and nothing we have 
 not seen before on the wii, there is little reason to go out a buy this game. Unless you have 4 
 wii motes, and want to play mini games you have already played million times over be my guest, 
 that is when mario party games are fun, but if you want some substance in video games, stay clear 
 from this game. also no online play yet in mario party is horrible.. i hope in mario party 9 there 
 is online play, that may make it worth playing... until then Nintendo Will get rich off Mario Party 
 8 sales, even though this game is nothing new, or good.
  
  Breakdown
  
  Gameplay: like always, travel the board level, collect coins, get stars use power ups, and play 
 a mini game at the end of the round
  Graphics: Ugh.. nothing good, looks like a gamecube game at best.. it really does nothing the gamecube 
 could not easy pull off.. except the motion controls.
  Sound: mario SOunds agian, there is a shop to buy music.. but agian its rehased from pervious mario 
 party games
  Value: not much its short, unless you invested on tons of wii motes and have players to play with, 
 then you def. don't get you moneys worth
  Overall Yet another Easy money Nintendo game, its uninspired and its the same game we have been 
 playing 8 times! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andres_smw
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I was excited to play the game when I bought it. After playing it for some hours, it started to 
 feel boring, and old. Even I think the first Mario Party games from the Nintendo 64 were funnier 
 and more enjoyable. Let's get into details:
  
  Gameplay: The main problem is the chance in the game. You pick a wrong number and Game Over, sunshine. 
 Ok, in the first Mario Party games the chance was also big, but hey, this is getting worse and 
 worse. For example, in the DK board, if an opponent falls into the DK space, he/she will be sent 
 to where the star is immediately, and that's a big bad new for you. Another example is that battle 
 minigame where you have to cut the correct rope to prevent getting launched. That minigame is not 
 about skills, it's about chance. Another thing that got me really angry is the speech. Ballyhoo 
 talks WAY too much, and the 90% of the things he says are unnecessary. Also, when you start the 
 game, Ballyhoo comes flying saying "Welcome to the Star Carnival!!!", and then he starts talking. 
 Cannot he say that only when a new file is created?
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't bad, but they aren't too innovative or impressive, feeling dated 
 in most of the time. Also, the game didn't have a complete widescreen support. It doesn't affects 
 me, because I have a 4:3 TV, but the newest TV are widescreen.
  
  Music and sound: The music in the game isn't bad, in fact, I like some songs, but sometimes they 
 get too repetitive.
  
  Replay: Just replay it if you've nothing to do, or if you want a nice time with friends, but I 
 find this one boring and dissapointing. If you have better games than this, don't doubt in playing 
 them before than this.
  
  
  Gameplay: 5
  Graphics: 6
  Music and sound: 7
  Replay: 5
  
  Overall Score (rounded) : 5.5
  
  Well, that was my first review and I hope 
 you liked it :) . Tough I've not picked the best game to start with :P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbudwill
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Mario party 8 continues with most of the features of the earlier Mario party games but with the 
 new wii controller system. It makes it all but irritating. The party places seem a bit scaled down 
 and not as interesting as earlier games such as in party 5 and 6. The party places are varied but 
 they are not that enjoyable and are small. You do progress around the board fairly quickly which 
 is good. But some boards get randomly reshuffled or the map is not complete so it ends up being 
 more luck instead of skill in getting to a star. 
  
  The mini games are also fairly simple like in Party 7 where they were dumber so that two people 
 could use one controller (which feature I doubt was seldom used) at the expense of the game controls. 
 The games do not require the nunchuk since the controls required are minimal. Some games require 
 steering a vehicle with the wii remote and this leads to some frustration since the level of control 
 is less than with a traditional joystick. This takes away from the mini game enjoyment to a large 
 extent. Nintendo obviously is acting stupid by pushing the new wii remote at the expense of game 
 enjoyment which hopefully will settle out by the next Mario party game if the stupid developers 
 get back on track and off their high horse. 
  
  While most Mario characters are enjoyable, the new MC for this party game is an irritating lout 
 who looks as stupid as the developers of this game must be by using him. At least he talks a little 
 bit but likes to say "You know" which we do of course rather than having to read the same stuff 
 all the time. The game pace has picked up a bit so you don't have to wait for your turn quite as 
 long as with earlier party games. However the stupid candy shops will slow you down and what happened 
 to the orbs? They've fallen out of favor some how. Now it's candy. 
  
  In summary, the game pushes the wii remote at the expense of the game play and the games and party 
 places are basic and not as nice as older party games. Perhaps it was a rush job or they subcontracted 
 the game development to some second rate sweat shop run by the likes of Wario or Waluigi. This 
 game is disappointing and will appeal to only the most devout fans and turn many of them off this 
 franchise. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: juztenrox
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  It's called Mario Party, and thats because its really only good for one thing. Parties. The first 
 time I ever played this was at a party. And it was great. We had 3 remotes going, and some of the 
 mini games were so fun, we'd play them in practice mode 3 or 4 times before starting the real one. 
 Sadly though, thats about where the fun stops.
  
  As with most Mario games on the Wii, there is too much reading. You get bored so quickly, and its 
 even worse because about 97% of the reading won't affect how you play the game. There also seems 
 to be no 'skip' feature. When ever a character is changing after use of a candy, you have to watch 
 it change, and this can take up to 8 or 9 seconds. It doesn't sound much, but it breaks up the 
 play, and adds to you wanting to turn it off and go play another game.
  
  The great thing about playing with others is the fact that how you play can change the way the 
 game will end. Sadly, that stops when you get to single player. It suddenly becomes entirely luck. 
 The first board is easy. I mean easy as in you could start a minigame 5 or 6 seconds after your 
 opponent starts, and still easily win. However once you get to about th 4th bored, it suddenly 
 jumps up and becomes strong. Which is a good thing, because its at this point your really regretting 
 buying it. And its at that point where the AI gets good, that the single player ends. Sure, you've 
 unlocked one new character and a new map, but is it really worth going through crap loads of text, 
 and un-skippable scenes to unlock another character, which doesn't effect the way you play? No.
 
  
  One good feature is the ability to be able to play minigames that you've unlocked freely in any 
 order you want. However to get here, you have to sit through a whole novel of text, and then boring 
 scenes that you can't skip. 
  
  Graphics are nothing special either. Because its not trying to look 'real life', you might be saying 
 that they don't have to. But Super Mario Galaxy isn't 'real life', however it looks 10 times better.
 
  
  It's a good idea, and its proven that by there being so many versiosn before that. But there are 
 just too many let downs and chance elements that restrict this game, and brand it only good for 
 an overnight rental if you're having a party. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmario123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  For the first Mario Party installment on the Wii, this one was actually better than I expected. 
 Although most of the mini games felt like they were made up on the spot, they were fun. To unlock 
 the only two characters (hammer bro and blooper) you need to go through story mode to unlock one 
 character, and then go through story again with the character you unlocked. A new feature that 
 could only be achieved on the Wii is the ability to let your Miis join in on the fun on a few unlockable 
 mini games. Along with buying mini games, there are virtual knick- knacks to purchase. They are 
 only there for the gamers who love completing games 100%. With fun and colorful boards to play 
 the classic party mode on, you will compete with human players, or computer generated characters 
 for the power star. The one with the most stars at the end of the set amount of turns is the winner. 
 While competin for the stars, you can use magical candy to turn the tides on the game. The Wii's 
 innovative controls made an already awesome party game even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknown2114
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party on the Wii sounds like a great idea, four players and Wii controls, what could go wrong, 
 sadly a few things. The good pionts to MP8 is that some of the mini games have some interesting 
 controls, also some of the boards are really interesting and creative. The bad pionts are that 
 some and by some i mean most of the mini games have controls as if you are holding a controllor 
 instead of the Wii mote. Also the AI for you computer players is low and stupid, this is solved 
 though by playing with humans. The game is also not for people who are playing alone. Finally the 
 game's chance of luck can sometimes hurt you in your pride and it never seems to help you when 
 your down on your luck. Bottom Line: MP8 could have been a good start to the Mario Party series 
 on Wii but unfortunatly fans will have to see if the next party will get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhys_101
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is a fun game to play just as all the other Mario Party games that have surfaced onto 
 the other Nintendo Platforms (N64, GC, DS) , with the acception of more characters, mini games 
 and the use of the wiimote. This game is fun for multiplayer but does not offer much for people 
 looking for a single player experiance. Will garantee to make you laugh at some point and also 
 cause some arguments due to the extreme luck in the game.
  Lots of characters to choose from, all the characters you could want from the mario franchise. 
 On a worse note, a few of the games use the wiimote, when it would of been more fun not to use 
 it. The visuals arn't bad but could of done with a bit more work on some textures.
  
  Pros:
  + Fun 4 Player Experiance that will not dissapoint
  + Keep you entertained for a while
 
  + Easy controls to use
  + As fun as the other Mario Party Games
  + Its a Mario game, cant think of a bad one to date
  
  Cons:
  - Not much point if you wont 
 play multiplayer
  - Some annoying games you wish it didnt use the wiimotes motion sensing
  - Visuals could of done with a bit of work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Fair?? This game got a Fair rating! You have got to be kidding me! First of all I have played all 
 the Mario Party games and loved every one! This one could be the best. It is played like the other 
 Mario Party games where you go around the board , roll the dice and play mini games for coins so 
 that you can buy stars. The one with the most starts wins the game. Now put the WII twist on it 
 and it just makes it that much better! The mini games are Great , the Graphics and sound are great 
 and this is a game that the whole family can play or you can play alone and it is still just as 
 fun! This game is a must have for anyone who likes Mario games or has a WII for that Matter. I 
 really can not see anything about this game that I do not like or that would make it better. I 
 give it a A+ Mario + Party = Fun for all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doey77
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun and addictive, but it's easy to just quit. The Solo-Player really gets 
 boring, so the muliplayer needs to shine and it does. Now its time for the good and the bad. 
 
  
  
  
  The Good: 
  
  Great Mulitplayer. Wonderful Graphics. Has a wide variety of games. Anyone old or new to the series 
 can play. Theres fun for everyone. one of the best party games. 
  
  The Bad: 
  
  The Solo-Player is bad. Its fun, but can get boring. The card points are hard to get. if the solo 
 is bad, no one will waste their time to do it twice to unlock just 2 characters that dont do anything 
 special. 
  
  Overall: 
  
  The Best part of it is its Multiplayer, which makes it a good party game for... parties! So, i suggest 
 you rent it, unless you need a decent party game right away and want to keep for future parties 
 (if you use you're wii at parties) then buy it, or if you have enjoyed the series already and want 
 the sequel. That's My review. The end.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Mario Party games are not my favourite genre in the Mario series they are all right but not anywhere 
 near as fun as Mario Kart. The reasons obviously is luck over skill whereas in games like Mario 
 Kart you use alot of skill in that game.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Mario Party is played on a different set of boards an the winner is the person who gets the most 
 stars so it is basically the same game as the others. Getting the stars in the game requires hardly 
 any skill just pure luck and hope you get a good number for that you just use the Wii mote the 
 Nunchuck isn't needed. There are mini games and some are through skills ome are through luck again. 
 I don't like the duel capsule in this one because you can't decide on what you want from your other 
 opponents you hit a roulette board and it takes either a star or 10 or 20 coins off the person 
 you just played. It's a shame because you could choose if you want a star in Duel games on previous 
 versions. The mini games are 1 v 3 2 v 2 and 4 player mini game. Some are through skill and some 
 through luck. It also doesn't seem to matter which character you choose there seems to be no stats 
 to some games because it would be nice to change something about the gameplay
  
  Sound
  
  The character voices are there and they sound like they do in previous Mario games.
  
  
 Graphics
  
  Well it looks nice nothing fantastic but it is okay.
  
  Lastabilty
  
  If you have friends it might last you along time but if not then you might get bored very quickly. 
 It needs to change I think it is just staying the same if you have friends or are new to the series 
 you will like it. It is an easy game to understand.
  
  Overall Opinion
  
  Well I am not a huge fan of Mario Party it can be good sometimes with friends but winning the game 
 is more based on luck than skill. You could not win one star but have the best winning record on 
 the mini games. That is where the game really lets itself down it is more luck than skill but overall 
 it is okay. Multiplayer with friends is good fun but it can get boring quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redrescue5
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Not really the best game in the world, but it's ok. The mini games are pretty fun, since it's for 
 wii, but the party modes take for ever and the story mode is so boring. The only fun part about 
 story mode is at the very end where you kill bowser. This would be a good game if your having a 
 couple of friends over, but despite the name, this is not a good party game. well, i still need 
 26 words from where this sentence started. Now 15. Now 13. Now 11. Now 9. Now 7. Now 5. Now 3. 
 Bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuck1234526
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  What is the first thing you think of when you think of party games? Minigames, right. Mario party 
 8 is just another one of those games with some board-game styles and crazy power-ups. 
  
  When Mario Party was first created, the whole board game thing was new and awesome to gamers everywhere. 
 Now, even with motion control, it's worn off. Like all Mario Partys, the board is covered with 
 different squares that do different things. There are so many different ways to torture your opponents 
 and steal coins, the game frustrates you in many ways. 
  
  What would a Mario Party be without power-ups? This time, they appear in the form of candy, in 
 which you eat and transform in different ways. There are so many ways to frustrate your opponents, 
 such as stealing coins, sending people back to the start, or challenging somebody to a duel minigame. 
 
  
  For parties, this game succeeds in many ways, but for keeping the series alive, it does a horrible 
 job. Serious mario lovers, beware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Eight years ago, Hudson's first foray into digital board games brought to life by Nintendo's brightest 
 stars and a myriad minigames set the beloved N64 alight. 
  
  However, as the familiar formula hasn't changed one jot since then - and the series has actually 
 got worse in many respects - the eighth Mario Party is the sort of bash you wouldn't be seen dead 
 at.
  
  Although the Wii's motion controls would be the perfect way to reinvent Mario Party's legion of 
 challenges, the minigames rarely make best use of the console's unique interface and instead come 
 across as left-over GameCube duels with motion-controls tagged on; for the bowling minigame, for 
 example, the developers only had to look at Wii Sports to see how it should be done, but instead 
 completely missed the point and give players limited control over their shots. 
  
  Moreover, even though there are over 60 bite-sized games to unlock, few of them will hold any challenge 
 for seasoned gamers, meaning the quirky romps soon become a chore to play and do little to keep 
 you coming back for more.
  
  The frustratingly unpredictable nature of the board game sections - where you can go from first 
 to last place if you have bad luck when rolling the dice - will also irritate players hoping for 
 an evolution of the candy-coloured series, and while groups of younger players may be happy whiling 
 away lazy summer afternoons playing Mario Party 8 with a group of friends, the game has absolutely 
 nothing for anyone searching for single-player thrills, its leaden pace becoming acutely dull in 
 the space of a few minutes if you aren't playing without other human competitors to keep your spirits 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: air_wolf_cubed
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  This will just be a straight to the point, pros and cons review
  
  Pros:
  A lot of fun mini-games, great character selection, lots of extra content, fun multiplayer, fun 
 boards, mii functionality, good use of wiimote, decent graphics, alright music, you might find 
 yourself coming back to it every once in a while
  
  Which is basically I can think of
  
  Cons:
  A lot of mini games you're gunna hate, some sketchy frame-rate, no widescreen, mostly 
 crappy and repetitive music, not enough voice overs, no online, gets boring after a little while, 
 crappy single player, some gimmicky controls, gets a little aggravating
  
  Overall a pretty fun party game but I'm sure theres better out there. You should wait for a price 
 drop or rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akluvum
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is a staple in the Mario and Wii series. More good can only come from what excelence 
 Nintendo has seemingly been unbeaten at, Platformers. This game will inspire all video game inthusiasts 
 and this game will be cherished for a very long time. The levels and map designs are indefinitely 
 the best and smoothest seen in years. The new mario will capture what many gamers have been missing 
 without even knowing the simplicity of the game leads you on to continue to beat it and from there 
 completing everything. Great buy, no disapointments what so ever. SOLID! This game should sell 
 the wii just by itself, from mario's first 2d adventure they have all been so very enjoyable, it's 
 all the more reason to go and buy this game. The game is made so even a lesser gamer could finish 
 this game but still leaves more for those of us who go beyond the need and reach for the "STARS". 
 Mario galaxy 10/10 Hands Down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poke_72
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I will never give it back to a store. This is one of my favorite games ever invented!!! 
 I cannot w8 for Mario Party DS. But while I w8 I have to play what I can so Mario Party 8 is the 
 game. If someone was looking for a game to get someone young for the Holidays this would be the 
 best. I got mine at Costco. You might want to get it at GameStop of EBGames for maybe a sale. This 
 game I play with my family so everyone plays. So if want to get/get someone a game I will say "Get 
 Mario Party 8!!!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johno1995
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I preordered my copy of one of my favorite series, and I was disappointed with many reviews, especially 
 since IGN's guy Matt purposely made the score low (read the last few paragraphs of the review) . 
 I decided that since I loved Mario Parties 1-7, I'd just ignore IGN's lackluster review and get 
 it anyway. 
  
  Man am I happy I did so! This game is the only thing that's been on since Monday when I got it. 
 We haven't been watching much TV since then, either. My mom, my little 4 year old brother and I 
 always play this title, skipping other Wii-hogging games we used to always play, Kororinpa and 
 Wii Sports. 
  
  Mario Party 7 made me nervous. Many of the mini-games showed that Hudson Soft and Nintendo were 
 running out of good ideas. But, Mario Party 8 brings back some of the best minis since Mario Party 
 4. They are truly original and the Wii controls feel smooth and very fun to use! 
  
  The graphics are no where NEAR as horrible as reviewers (especially Matt from IGN) made it seem. 
 Personally, I do not have a Widescreen/HD TV, so I have not experienced the problems that Widescreen 
 TV owners have had. The water effects, character models and boards are all improved over Mario 
 Party 7 greatly, but, come on! Graphics have never been a big deal in the Mario Party series, anyways!
 
  
  The gameplay is where this game really shines. The mini-games are easy to use, fun and very addictive. 
 This game is also a great improvement in originality, making some of the best mini-games since 
 Mario Party 4! The motion control is implemented in a disappointing 50% of games, when they should 
 be in at least 75% of them. It doesn't make them less fun, but still a little disappointing on 
 a system made for motion controls. Unlockables are everywhere, including two newcomers to the party 
 scene: Blooper and Hammer Bro. 
  
  Hopefully, Mario Party 9 will bring some new features (maybe Nintendo Wi-Fi!) and a larger amount 
 of mini-games, but, other than that, this puts the other games in my Wii collection out in the 
 dark! Highly reccomended, and can't wait until Mario Party 9 next year... just put in Wi-Fi!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: backfromdagrave
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This game's using alot of the possibility of the Wiimote. Twist and turn, jab and grab, etc.. But 
 it's like a new coating of paint over an old wall. And to be honest... the minigames just don't 
 have that... spark they used to. Learning how to play is half the fun... but this almost takes that 
 away. Sure, the new boards are pretty fun, and the new characters and abilities... (or, candies, 
 as they call them) ... but if you ask me, somethings just missing. I thought Mario Party 7 was more 
 fun, really. I recommend renting this first, and playing with a friend makes many video games more 
 interesting... as with this one. It has that been there, done that feeling, so if your a die-hard 
 board game fan go ahead. Those of boards AND Mario, think about it. Die-hard Mario fans, STILL 
 rent it first. It's not THAT bad, so you should give it a try. And that's why I gave it a 7.5/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Freak87
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  This is a fun game, it's great cause as long as you have more then player you can easily play the 
 game for a least a few hours. It's true that the graphics aren't to horribly great, and there's 
 only about five or six boards. but it's a good start anyways. because some of the games are really 
 fun, specially with a fun person. but if you have at least three or four people to play this game 
 then hell you'll have lot's and lot's of fun with it. so, just as the name implies, it's and awesome 
 party game. there are more charecter's then usual, they add a few new ones such as blooper and 
 a hammer bro. nothing to spectacular though although entertaining. Personally, i think the game 
 could have used alot more bonus content though, because you get carnival cards and can buy some 
 new mini games that are exclusive to you buying them. and some of them are pretty fun, and if you 
 like collecting things then getting the trophies would be perfect, and there's a sound test and 
 different things that you can get, the one player is pretty pointless, because you play through 
 it once and you get one of the new character's and all the boards that you can get. but still, 
 i still have an awesome time with the game when i sit down and play it with my girlfriend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forgiven3200
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party was the first game I have ever played. I love all of the Mario Party's. I collected 
 all eight of them so far. My all-time favorite is Mario Party 8. The game's graphics get better 
 and better every time a new one comes out. Mario Party 8 actually has different types of games 
 you can play (bonus, etc.) . It has different obstacles to play on. Overall, this game is an awesome 
 game to play with your family. Although you can beat this came rather quickly, it still has the 
 classic Mario fun attatched to it. Make sure you put your mini-game hat on, there's plenty of games 
 to go around! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuilSSJ
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  This Mario Party 8 is a very poor game, the Wii control save the game for total waste of time.
 
  The Mario party serie are all very nice but this Mario party 8 is easy, have small levels with 
 a stupid places to fall and stayed idiot and confuse the objetive to win because you need get more 
 stars than others but to get a star is diddicult but to fall in a lace to lose a star is very easy, stupid 
 characters, graffics is not much good, have a confuse menu, they take out one important character 
 too the donk kong now he is a helper character like toad in mario party 1, you can beat this game 
 with 6 hours of game play and is very easy, the Mario Party 1,2,3,4,5 are amazing, 6 and 7 is so 
 so but is 8 is the worst game from Mario Party serie.
  but that guy with a strange hat is very strange and stupid this edition of Mario Party is for babys.
 
  Now I'm waiting the Mario Party 9 to see if this game will be better and not a waste of time.
 
  the only good thing is the minigames and the wii control to play them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Zills-
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I have bought Mario Part 3,6 and now 8 and I feel 8 is the best one of those three. The Wii remote 
 really is well used in this game. Some of the games can be quite difficult though. At points during 
 party mode the computer would waste me and all the other players quite easily, not even playing 
 on hard. The controls for the most part are very responsive and quite enjoyable even with the odd 
 impossible game. The graphics are nothing to write home about and definatly look like something 
 the N64 could handle. But who really buys Mario Party for it's graphics? You buy it for the best 
 party game on the market to enjoy with family and friends and Mario Party 8 does not disapoint. 
 They have added quite a few new features to this edition, the boards probably being the largest. 
 Each board has a diffrent style no board runs on the same principles. For example they have a board 
 where the objective is to buy hotels and get stars by making them 1,2, and 3 star hotels. The catch 
 is other people can buy your hotel so you have to invest tons of money so your opponents can't 
 afford to do so. Other then the boards some new characters have been added mainly Hammer Bro and 
 Bloop who need to be unlocked by beating 1 player mode. They also added a few mini games such a 
 bowling that are not playable in party mode but you can use Mii's kind of cool but far from as 
 good as Wii Sports. So if you need a good multiplayer game for Wii pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiseWarrior101
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  I've enjoyed all 7 of the previous Mario Partys, but this is one "party" that you'll want to pass 
 on. First of all, it's very short. I completed the Single Player mode in only a half hour. The 
 mini games, aren't really fun, and no different than previous ones. The boards are dull, and very 
 short, some are only like 20 spaces. More than 1 only have 1 path, providing limited excitement. 
 Chance is the worst part. You can have 500 coins, and win every mini game, but lose to someone 
 that landed on more red spaces then you did. I'm not going to go into much more detail, for frankly, 
 you shouldn't get it.
  
  Gameplay: 5/10
  Multi Player: 7/10
  Graphics: 6/10
  Fun: 4/10
  Sound: 6.5/10
  Replayability: 7.5/10
  Overall: (Not an average) 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazasul
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  "Flawed" is definetly the key word of this review. More specifically, the board game portion of 
 the game. It relies so ridiculously heavily on chance that it breaks all of the fun.
  
  I'll give a short description of the game. If you've played any other Mario Party you may as well 
 skip these paragraphs as it's almost exactly the same sort of deal as the last 7 games. 
  
  There are a number of boards to play on. All require you to collect stars. How you get these stars 
 changes depending on the board. Four players rush around the board to get these stars. I say rush, 
 it's actually an annoyingly slow process of "rolling" a 1-10 die and hoping to get lucky.
  
  After each character has taken it's time for a mini-game. These are actually the small glimmer 
 of hope for the game. A lot of them can be fun. Problem is, playing them makes so very, very little 
 difference to the board game. Making them a waste of time in party play.
  
  Back to the mini-games. They're pretty varied, but a lot of them are pretty shallow and not many 
 games you'll play frequently. 
  
  I really have nothing else to say about the game other than don't buy it unless the chance thing 
 doesn't bother you. In fact, if the chance thing doesn't bother you then by all means do buy it 
 as thats the letdown that brings the game down. If you crave a party game I recommend Rayman Raving 
 Rabbids or Super Monkey Ball. Well, this is Wii so you'll never not have enough party games to 
 play.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NyJeo723
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good step forward for the Mario party. It shows signs of changing in game play and 
 with the new control we can have more unique and fun games.
  
  The party mode (boardgames) changed. For the better and some variety imo. Each map will have you 
 do something different to get the star. For example on shy guy's and goomba's stage you will have 
 to get to a destination on a straight long forward path. Although it might sound easy its not. 
 Other player will use items on you and some chance spaces you land on may move you to the back 
 of the map. Also if you don't have the amount of coin when you get to the destination of the star ( 
 end of the straight forward path) you will be sent back to the beginning.
  
  The boo map is the most fun for me. You are in a haunted mansion and they don't give you the path 
 to the star. you have to figure out where it is. And when you do they will be 2 doors. One with 
 boo and the star while the other door has nothing and u will have to start over.
  
  As you can see its not lets put a star on a the map and let them get it . They thought about changing 
 it a bit to make it better.
  
  Although people who still like that, there is donkey kong map which plays by putting a star in 
 a location and people race to the spot to get it first. then moves to another location ect..
  
  Overall i can see they try to change up the game play and the mini games are good but thats 
 they are only good. Fun game with a group of friends.
  
  7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is the best of the series. The new motion control scheme makes gameplay very exciting. 
 The game still feels like Mario Party. You will still have periods where you are bored to death 
 of playing, but the game is great. There aren't as many mini-games in this Mario Party, but the 
 ones that they do have are highly addictive. It being a multiplayer game makes the fun even more 
 extensive. The extra games are very fun too. They have table tennis, races and other games. If 
 you like the Mario Party series you will like this game and if you hate the Mario Party series 
 you will hate this game. It's as simple as that. Overall this game is great and will make a great 
 addition too any gamers collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tupaschoal
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is fun, it shows you some new ways of playing in each Board, with more characters 
 and with the use of the Wii Remote to let things more real. The fact is that since Mario Party 
 1 for N64, it doesn't have many boards and it's a bad point, it could have more so you wouldn't 
 get bored that fast, another bad point is that it has many minigames remakes, I mean many other 
 minigames from others 'Mario Parties , were remade and reintroduced, so if you played all the others, 
 you won't enjoy that much.
  By the way if you only played 1 to 3 Mario Parties, it looks kinda interesting and give lots of 
 fun, especially playing with another 3 friends, the Koopa board remembers Monopoly Tycoon, but 
 with a Mario's touch, the items make things more difficult and interesting, what about smashing 
 half of your friend 200 coins? You may have fun in group, but the single player isn't good and 
 you will do it only to unlock hammer bro and dry bones, or to win cards and trade for things in 
 Fun Bazaar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mushroom_idol
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is another part of the mario party series. in my opinion, this is my favorite one 
 of them all.
  
  The Good:
  Mario Party 8 adds some new characters to the game. in this game they have all of the characters 
 from the last game. they also added blopper and hammer bros. that was really good.
  Another good thing about the game is that they have good mini games that use the wii remote well. 
 i really like that they used the wii remote to a good way.
  
  The Bad: The miis are in part of the game. they are only in extra, but that is a good part of the 
 game. i really i'm not a big fan of the miis, that why.
  
  Overall: this is a really good game that should have been at least a 8.9 then a 6.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegamemonkey
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Back when I bought one of the first ones It was alot of fun. So when I heard about this I was very 
 exited, when I finally got It my enthusiasm died. The A. I. in this game is very cheap, everything 
 depends on luck and the computer seems to have the upper hand. Not to mention most of your decisions 
 are determined by dart wheel, so you could waste twenty coins on duel candy and then win five of 
 them back from the player you challenged. The voice acting is really annoying, even for a mario 
 game. The first time you beat the game there is absolutely no way to skip the never ending credits, 
 If you do manage to waste the next 15 minutes of your life on the credits you will be rewarded 
 with a new character: hammer bro. sounds like a good Idea right? WRONG! he sounds like a toddler 
 on cocaine, randomly yelling woo hoo hoo the whole time. In fact I think my rating of 5.0 is way 
 to generous. Don't make the same mistake I did, buy something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is just a way for Nintendo to put a Mario game on the Wii because Mario Galaxy ans Super 
 Smash Bros. Brawl aren't going to be out for a while. I guess I'll start out with the two positive 
 things about this game. The first of which is that the graphics are actually very good for a party 
 game. The other positive thing about this game is that its so boring and monotonous it can help 
 you sleep. The music sounds like a dumbed down and even more annoying version of the Super Mario 
 Sunshine soundtrack. The voice acting is absolutely horrible and seems like it is ripped right 
 out of a Mr. Rogers episode. It plays very slowly, and turns can seem to take forever at times. 
 The worst part is that the mini games, the main attraction of this series, are dreadful. It came 
 to a point where I would dread seeing the game choices spin in front of me. What they did with 
 this game, is took the basic premise of the old Mario Party games, dumbed it down for an even more 
 massive audience than before, and then made it shiny to attract people with ADD. I wouldn't have 
 even bought this game except that it came packaged with the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 6
Date: May 20, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This is likely a game that killed the entire Mario party series. It's fun and all, minus many, 
 many MANY MISTAKES!!
  
  The music was the best of the series, reason that this never scored a 1.0. Awesome music; I can't 
 actually get enough of it.
  
  The sound is not really that good but is still okay
  
  The graphics; woah! Is this gamecube? No? Then WHY ARE THERE GAMECUBE GRAPHICS ON THE WII??!! This 
 is one of the biggest mistakes of the game!
  
  The control is the worst ever! It's on the wii, which means that you won't get used to the control, 
 and you won't get used to it AT ALL!!
  
  The camera sucks. Make a difference and don't look at the camera at all. Sure, you'll might end 
 up in the wrong place, but at least I protected you from playing this awful, awful game.
  
  This game is very stupid; the worst in the series.
  
  This recieved a #9 on my worst games 
 of 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raza3
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  &gt; gospvg wrote in message  &gt;&gt; jumpman wrote 
 in message &gt;&gt;  &gt;&gt;&gt; Found out how 
 to get rid of the bars. If you switch the Wii to 4:3 in &gt;&gt;&gt; the system menu, they'll be 
 gone. &gt;&gt;&gt; Mario Party 8 is the same as all the others. If you've 4 people to &gt;&gt;&gt; 
 play with it's great fun. &gt;&gt; We had Sonic, Red Steel &amp; Wii Play/Sports before I sold 
 the wii. The kids &gt;&gt; just could not control Sonic and were not impressed with wii play. They 
 &gt;&gt; would either use the wii to play gamecube games or wii sports. So i left &gt;&gt; them 
 with the gamecube and sold the wii, I enjoyed Red Steel but could not &gt;&gt; really find the 
 time to play it. &gt;&gt; They have seens the ads on TV for Mario Party 8 and have now started 
 to &gt;&gt; badger me again, I may look at picking it up if found on the cheap. &gt; I think you'll 
 be lucky to find a cheap Wii since there's barely enough &gt; stock to supply demand, 6+months after 
 launch. There may not be a glut of &gt; games for it, but the best is clearly yet to come for the 
 Wii - (mainly &gt; thinking of Mario Galaxy and Wii Fit) . &gt; But I suppose you might get one from 
 some disillusioned poor soul like you &gt; were. I don't see why you didn't sell your GC at the 
 time instead, since the &gt; Wii was capable of playing those games anyway. ? &gt; -Kevin. because 
 he probably got his money back on selling the wii, or close to it, whereas the average going price 
 for a second hand cube these days is about 25p. -- gamertag: Chrisflynnuk http://live. xbox. com/member/Chrisflynnuk 
 Current eBay auctions: http://tinyurl. com/hutcb 360, DS, PS2 and Saturn Games For Auction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankDK1995
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  this is another one of those games where there is like nothing to do after you beat the story mode 
 part! and story mode was very short! you can play the boards or do story mode over again but that 
 gets boring pretty quick! the boards and mini games are all around pretty good but I think they 
 should have more games where you have to use the motion feature, and not just hold it sideways 
 and click the buttons. . . . you still can't play as DK!!!
  I used to love to play as him but not anymore he is just one of the stupid people that hand out 
 things when you land on their space..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danishahmed
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  the gameplay of mario party 8 is not that fun but it gets a little fun when you start playing it. 
 some of the minigames are just like playing a real out door activity game. the graphic are fine 
 the gameplay best every. the game is about playing in a canival and becoming a super star. But 
 when you just about to get the star rod bowser shows up and steals the star rod. he chalanges you 
 to a star battle but this star battle you have to steal every stars from the abonit to order to 
 win. After you win there is one last battle to do. A minigae bowser VS any one you are but to have 
 a bather game. I think you'll like super paper mario way fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TopazLeader06
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Upon purchasing the game of my favorite franchise, I was expecting the old classics that previous 
 Mario Parties (excluding Advance) had to offer.
  
  Unfortunately, I was disappointed for a bit.
  
  Storyline - 5/10
  
  A freakish-looking 
 guy who resembles Chuck Quizmo from Paper Mario, MC Balleyhoo and his assistant Big Top, have thrown 
 together a huge party known as the Star Carnival . In the single-player Star Arena, the winner 
 is to be given... here it comes... a year's supply of... candy?! Man, I was hoping for something better, 
 like Peach posing in a bikini. But that would've boosted the rating to Teen instead.
  
  Graphics - 5/10
  
  In the previous games, the look was really good and shiny as well. Here... well... the 
 frame rate drops in board games for some reason, and they don't even look at all as good as the 
 GCN games did.
  
  Gameplay - 7/10
  
  As in previous Mario Parties, you get 4 people to play a board game. After every turn, the traditional 
 mini-game roulette appears and spins until the light shines on the game you'll play. They range 
 from 4-player to 1-vs-3 games. That's just the tasty icing. The stale cake part are the boards 
 themselves. For some odd reason, Nintendo decided to dump out the gameplay and make it so that 
 that the game focuses on luck instead of skill. People will get frustrated at how the CPU keeps 
 cheating somehow. Meanwhile, the game introduces the ability to play as Miis in the Extra Zone. 
 But don't settle for putting your fingerless dolls in it, there isn't much to do.
  
  Sound/Music - 5/10
  
  Well, I haven't got much to say. Our good friend Charles Martinet continues 
 to give our chubby overall-wearing friends the voices we all knew and loved. Some of the characters' 
 vocal cords have changed, from strange to downright ridiculous. If you listen to Boo's voice, he 
 sounds like he swallowed some helium! Not to mention that when the game informs you that your turn 
 is ready, your character makes a barely-audible sound through the Wii Remote. I would've expected 
 that given the specs, but Toad sounds like he's got cloth in his throat!
  
  Replayability - 6/10
  
  As in previous games, you keep playing the boards until you get a lot 
 of Carnival Cards, with which you can spend on knickknacks and doodads, such as figures that you 
 can put in your own plastic parade to songs you can listen to until your ears bleed. Who would 
 listen to Boo's voice over and over?
  
  Conclusion
  
  I recommend that you rent this game at least once to give the luck-challenged game a try. Ignore 
 what Nintendo says. Just because a game is featured in a commercial doesn't say that this deserves 
 to be in a party list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conan6980
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  If playing interactive board games sounds fun than this is the game for you. Those familiar with 
 the Mario Party games will see the similar style of spin, move, mini-game that has made these games 
 popular. There are less boards to play than in other versions of this game but more features have 
 been put into each of the boards.
  
  The graphics look like classic Mario with cartoon looking characters, very colorful both in looks 
 and personality. They have, as usual, added more mini-games that are separated by 4 player battle, 
 2 vs 2, and 3 vs 1. The boards themselves are basically the same as before: blue, red and chance 
 spaces, DK and Bowser spaces and a few bonus paths.
  
  The games are quite entertaining, with Nintendo using the motion controls of the Wii-mote to it's 
 advantage. Every game has you turning, waving, and spinning the Wii-mote, as instructed, to get 
 you character to the finish.
  
  As a family game, this is right to par. Fun for all ages and gaming experiences. It is very easy 
 to pick up and play without having had any prior experience with the game. There seems to be enough 
 mini-games to keep a first time player entertained without having to repeat a lot of the same games. 
 So if you're looking for a game to play with the family or having a group of friends coming by, 
 this is a great game to get everyone involved, though there is nothing ground breaking with this 
 version of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomcatclower
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 4, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 was a good game at first. The replay value isn't as great as the last ones used to 
 be. The boards become very repetitive because they are all the same style and it seems that the 
 games are to easy and don't pose many challenges. The game has its moments and is great until you 
 start playing the boards for about the 5th time. The majority of the boards tend to be straight 
 shot maps and there is no moving around and choosing different ways to go strategically. I like 
 the new elements of the items and each maps special travel options, but I was very disappointed 
 with the game as a whole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slionheart_8
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 2, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is a game that is absolute fun with a group of friends not so fun by yourself. The 
 games are too familiar, but it is pretty hard to make different games when you've created 8 games 
 in the series with about 50 minigames per game made. What makes it different to other Mario Party's 
 is that this one is using the Wii's motion sensitive control. What lets this game down is that 
 you can't have your friends over your house when you want them to. So it can get boring really 
 quick.
  
  Overall, just another game with nothing special about it except the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - If you ever played a mario party you'll be very familiar with this. The game dosen't 
 waste time like a couple previous installments , it's always fast paced and progressing. It even 
 has a 1v1 mode if you don't have a third person to play with. The single player is missing though 
 - it's really no fun to play with 3 computers. Graphics - If you like the cartoony nintendo style 
 , you won't be let down . This is really not the point of the game. Length - If you got a group 
 of people you can play this for a LONG , LONG time . I've played mario party 4 for more than 2-3 
 years with friends . Sadley , there's no online multiplayer - which would be really amazing for 
 this series. Good Tilt - one of the few 4 players at a time game for wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  For fans of the series this, this first Wii version delivers everything we would expect: Good boards, 
 a nice variety of mini games and clever use of the Wii remote. If your are new to Mario Party though, 
 you may find it unfair and frustrating at times, as many of the boards rely heavily on luck.
  
  For those who have never played Mario Party before, the basic premise is a four player board 
 game - a bit like snakes and ladders - where you collect Coins to Buy stars. The Stars require 
 you to pass a special moving star square with at least 20 coins, however, you can also steal Stars 
 and Coins from your fellow players. You earn coins by winning mini games (in each round) as well 
 as landing on certain squares or starting events. At the end of the game (20 turns) additional 
 stars are handed out for the best mini game player, luckiest player, etc. The player with the most 
 stars wins.
  
  The highlights of Mario Party have always been the clever board designs and huge variety of mini 
 games (40+ here) . Most of the mini games in Mario Party 8 make good use of the Wii remote for pointing, 
 waggling, swiping, or generally making you look a fool. It is this that makes Mario Party so much 
 fun: get a group of friends and some 'beverages', and generally have a silly and competitive time; 
 where it is normally not the best player who wins.
  
  For: Good mini games; nice board design; fun as usual
  Against: Poor graphics; no wide screen 
 support; lacks the polish of Mario Party 5 and 6; no online as promised
  
  Gameplay: 7 Presentation: 6 - why no widescreen?
  Design: 7 - if you embrace the luck it is a 
 lot of fun
  Story: 5 - not much fun on your own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABetancourt
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I've been away from the mario party franchise that i don't even remember what is the last game 
 i played... and this is due to the additions and innovations that hudson put in the new games of 
 this series that instead of give help to the player all they could do is interfere with the fun, 
 in less words... the new items, maptraps, and a large amount of etceteras were a pain in the ass 
 and not a improvement.
  
  Well, i've got a Wii, and when i first heard about a new MP game i was a little dubious about that 
 but i decided to give it a try and oooooh boy i wasn't disappointed at all.
  
  From the start the MP8 menu seems to be the ugliest in all the games i've played, but this is to 
 gain simplicity and quick acces to the boards an minigames and yes it does. The Wiimote is used 
 brilliantly in all the mini-games and using it in different positions give the player a plus, and 
 more brilliant is the way in the mini-games controls are explained.
  
  The stars easy to achieve, the candys all useful but the weegle one and i loved the koopa board 
 because of the strategy.
  
  Finally i recommend this game only for multiplayer purposes because you'll get bored if you dare 
 to play in single mode because de AI is lame, the graphics, not the best seen for Wii, but damnit 
 who cares?? is funny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SleepingAurora
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Okay I will admit I am a Mario Party fanatic. I love it!!! So when this one came out I was super 
 duper excited!!! I played it once and was not very impressed. The problem is that it seems the 
 same old same old. The games that involved the Wii remote were pretty neat but I really think I 
 wanted a little more. With the new Wii system I was really hoping to be in awe. I wasn't. The problem 
 is sometimes your get too hyped for a game and then when it is not up to par the disappointment 
 is even greater. That won't stop me from giving it another try, if another one comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shishio817
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 2, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I'm saddened to see a once-great series like Mario Party come to this. With gimmicky and sometimes 
 non-responsive and dumb controls, unoriginal games, frankly last-gen graphics, Mario Party 8 is 
 just a total disappointment. Phew... now that I've got that out, let's talk specifics. 
  
  
  In terms of graphics, I'd give it maybe a 6 or 7. It looks essentially like a Gamecube game; 
 in fact, some of the Gamecube games looked better! What the heck? If you look at Super Mario Galaxy, 
 or even Twilight Princess, you can easily see that they didn't spend any time on making this game 
 look great, especially for the first Mario Party game on the Wii with motion controls (and I'm 
 sure that I'm not the only one who thought that'd be awesome) . 
  
  
  Speaking of controls... wow. Um, well, some of the games are pretty fun with Wii controls, but it 
 gets old and, in truth, it doesn't add much to the overall experience. That may be just because 
 the controls in Mario Party 8 aren't refined at all, and in fact are at times not responsive. Many 
 times, I found myself wishing they wouldn't focus so much on motion controls, because in a good 
 deal of the games, they just don't work. My advice for Mario Party 9 (if they even bother) , and 
 for Wii games in general (are you listening, Nintendo?) is stop focusing on the motion controls 
 so much; balance the game play between refined, fluid, well-responding Wii motion controls and 
 classic button mashing, sideways-holding controls. The Wii controls can be great, but they can 
 also backfire. 
  
  
  Anyway, when it comes to the game itself, the mini games aren't very original, though some are 
 pretty fun... for a while. There also isn't enough maps (where did the like 7 or so maps of N64 
 Mario Partys go?) , and the maps that are there all have some sort of gimmicky objective to them, 
 such as: reach so and so and he'll give you this but then this and that and then and, and... GAAH! 
 What happened to the simple, board game style of Mario Party 1-4. These condition maps just don't 
 work, I'm afraid. The music in the game isn't particularly good, nothing like it used to be. 
 
  
  
  Overall, this game is broken and disappointing. What Nintendo needs to do now is not make another 
 Mario Party, but rather release Mario Party 1 and 2 on the Virtual Console. I'd buy those in an 
 instant. If they do make another, they have to go back to the old formula, which worked and was 
 actually really fun. If they repeat this garbage, they might as well lay the Mario Party series 
 to rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is a good game if you have 3 other people to play along with you, otherwise playing 
 by yourself makes the game significantly less exciting. Good number of mini games and they all 
 work just fine with the Wii remote, but I wish the games were more innovative and longer they end 
 too soon. I guess this is why the main game is played on a board game, MP8 makes you play more 
 in the game boards than on the mini games. The boardgames are too simple and doesn't require a 
 lot of strategy to win. The character's voices are funny to listen to, it's a pity they don't talk 
 in complete sentences cause it would've brought more live to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkthemaniac
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 20, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I was fairly little when the first Mario Party games came out. It was a great game and worthy of 
 praise. Now, at the age of fifteen, I purchase Mario Party 8, hoping for a blend of nostalgia and 
 excitement to come with the package. I don't think my standards of games have improved that much, 
 but this game broght none of the excitement that the first ones did, and that leaves the only explanation 
 to be that a less quality game has been produced for the Wii than should have.
  
  Mario Party is synonymous with party game. Hell, it's right in the name. The strengths of this 
 game do shrine when treated thusly, while playing with four human players. While playing with a 
 single computer opponent, the games seem to drag on forever, which is a flaw of the game. Unless 
 you have four players, it seems pointless.
  
  When you DO have four players, the game is fairly good at first. The use of the Wii remote is good, 
 but all too many games have you use the Wii controller like an SNES controller (funnily enough, 
 none of these games are in the commercials) . Still, the controls are good and responsive, and many 
 games have alot of lasting value. The downside is that for every game that has lasting value, theres 
 another that is monotonous after one or two games. Still, one half is pretty good, but not in line 
 with the first games of the series.
  
  Then theres the gameboard part of the map. I don't remember there being nearly as many map-unique 
 tiles in the first games, and I son't think it was an improvement. It makes the game go slower, 
 and it makes luck too much of a factor. Sure, luck should mean something, considering that this 
 is a virtual boardgame with a twist of minigames, but it's imbalanced.
  
  The games uses the remote as good as any game on the Wii, but it came short in capturing the flair 
 that the first games had. I hope that the Execs at Hudson hook up their old dusty N64's to try 
 and pinpoint the joy and magic that happened in those games. Until then, they're stuck in a perpetual 
 cycle of medriocrity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi34
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 12, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  The good:
  
  More characters
  Good use of Wii remote
  No toadsworth! WOO!
  Turns last shorter
  
  The bad:
  
  All luck and no skill
  Still gamecube graphics
  Takes 
 way too long, even on 10 turns
  No widescreen
  
  Okay, so I played this before thought, heck, this can't be bad, but then when I played it in realistic, 
 it was an execution. This one is BAD... and I mean BAD. Why need to be just chance and less skill? 
 Really now, what's wrong with skill? There was a lot of skill in the previous ones (Not mario party 
 7 cause it sucked too, much more than this though) and even if you're a strong player, you're not 
 going to be able to enjoy it. The single player is bad, and the host is actually NOT toadsworth. 
 It's actually some guy that looks like Peter Griffin's face! I'm not kidding!! I am not buying 
 this one, and you shouldn't either! So if you see this, run away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingX
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  For those that enjoys Mario Party and was looking forward for another interesting game this game 
 could have been it.
  It plays well, works well and have funny mini games BUT it all falls on the fact that when it comes 
 to playing it all goes into this 4:3 screen that annoys the hell out of me.
  
  Why oh WHY couldn't you use widescreen during play? it works so well during non-play. like going 
 thru different options, selecing characters etc.
  
  To make such a mistake has no understanding at all from my side.
  and then to make it this huge 
 miss and pay full price to and go with the id&eacute; a hey we don't have to optimize a game people 
 will buy it anyway is not cool at all.
  
  It had just the type of mini games that we all love in Mario Party games. the wii remote worked 
 well with the mini games..
  and it falls on this totally NOT cool mistake 
  
  I say avoid this one and wait for mario party 9 instead, hopefully they will understand that making 
 a game today and scale down the picture to 4:3 size is out of the question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  I bought this game to play with my girlfriend. We played Mario party since part 4, and she always 
 liked playing these games. So we thought, Mario Party combined with the innovative control of the 
 wii would totally be a blast. Boy we were wrong..
  
  Something itchy crawled upon us when we first played this game. Everything in this game is so happy 
 and joyful, we got sick of it. Sure it's all very colourful, but way over the top!
  And then the minigames.. Boring with a capital B. The wii-remote doesn't add anything to the gameplay, 
 because I've done it all with other games, wich were much more fun to play (Warioware: smooth moves, 
 Rayman Raving Rabbids) . The game relys too much on luck.
  
  If you never played a Mario Party game, and you own a Wii for a short while, this game might be 
 worth a purchase. If you played Rayman, Warioware or another game with many minigames, don't even 
 bother to rent this game.
  
  I think it's time for a new epic adventure or shooter.... Metroid prime 3: Corruption... please 
 come soon...
  
  the good:
  -A lot of characters to play with
  -colourful presentation
  
  The bad:
  -It's soooo boring!
  -slow progressing of rolling 
 the dice-moving the player.
  -Been there, done that.... Much better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jo_Dal92
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  You can't play this game for more than 30 min in 1 day cause you will say (believe me) : ah I'm 
 just gonna keep playing.... there's got to be at least 1 good mini game.... right?.... not!. Don't 
 waste your time buying this Mario Party or any Mario Party that comes later on cause im sure it 
 will be the same you know what ....
  
  Its incredible really... I could not believe there not even 1 fun mini game at all! and believe 
 me I got them all. The new host as they call it, looks like a cartoon for kids younger than 3 years 
 old... There are also some nonsense carnival cards they give you each time you play so you can 
 buy figures and put them on a parade... not joking...
  
  Conclusion: don't even think of buying this game.... really don't even let it cross through your 
 mind just forget it and never think of it again...
  
  simple....
  DON'T BUY IT!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonBrawl
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I disliked this game, to much repetetive games, its just added on with an 8 and for a new system. 
 Im glad I rented this game and not bought it. The maps are bad, the animation and character design 
 are poor and no better then NCG ( nintendo Game Cube ) . Stop making the mario party series its 
 over and stale. Im telling you not to buy this game, its very bad and over rated. Nintendo has 
 gone to far and if they make another for wii or ds No one will buy it. Plus whats with blooped 
 how the hell can you play with a squid thats just stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Chic531
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Mario Party 8.... definatly not a fave.... the best would be the 4th... the levels are pretty boring 
 and the mini games are almost exactly the same. it gets pretty boring after about 5 rounds and 
 i only played the game about 3 times and i sold it. if you are a big fan of Mario games... i suggest 
 you rent it first. you might not appreicate it as much as the last games. but on the bright side 
 if you like easy mini games and such this is the game for you. the mini games are all the same, 
 using the same motions as the last but some have a little twist. all i have to say is that if you 
 like mario games you definatly need to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxfall2pieces
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is a very good sequel. The fact that it is on the Wii makes it that much better. 
 This game continues the same style used in previous versions. There are board games, rolling dice, 
 mini-games, and turns like in the previous games. The part that makes this game better than the 
 others is the controller. The controller allows you to be more interactive with the game and makes 
 it more fun. This is a great game to play with your friends. It is still fun to play by yourself, 
 but i recommend playing with your friends instead. The wide variety of mini-games are fun and exciting 
 and the different levels are innovative. I definitely recommend this game if you are looking for 
 a fun game to play with your friends. If you are looking for substance, then look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adnan107
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i go on gamespot and i see a big 6.5 for this game. Wow im dissapointed in gamespot for such 
 a low score, but i guess they have their reasons.
  
  Gameplay 9: ok this game just really did well. Most minigames are really fun and enjoyable. They 
 work well with the wii-mote and shows the true potential of the wii. They did not try to use the 
 wii-mote for every game which was nice. Sometimes the remote does not respond perfectly which might 
 ruin ur chances of winning, but this usually does not happen.
  
  Graphics 7: ok this game might not have the best graphics, but its Mario Party so its ok. Still 
 though it definently looks like a GC game and does not support widescreen which made me very angry!!! 
 Audio 8: It works fine no problems, but sometimes the characters voice comes out of the wii-mote 
 which is neat, but ruins the audio sometimes because its unclear.
  
  Value 8: Ok don't get this game for single player!!!! The star battle arena stinks and there is 
 no skill involved for winning or losing. Party mode is fun for about 8 games then it just sits 
 on ur shelf. However if u have friends who come over a lot then this is a great game. There is 
 2 on 2 and free for all which makes it so much fun when ur friends are over and ur going all out 
 against each other.
  
  Tilt 9: A fun game all together with a great idea and it makes it very enjoyable for all ages. 
 A great game for multiplayer and hope u enjoy it. All together this game is fun, but this game 
 is not for serious players I MEAN IT!!! I hope my review helped!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoreanPork
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I like this game because it's fun like the classics but the mini games could be more innovative. 
 Another reason I like this game is because I haven't played Mario Party since the first three games 
 on the n64. Mario Party 8 keeps me playing because it has a lot of replay value. You can collect 
 cards after playing mini games or by just playing the regular board game. But I still wish you 
 could play as Donkey Kong in this game. And I wish that there were more boards to play on. This 
 ends my short and boring review for Mario Party 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmunger
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Mario Party 8 is a great idea with great characters and great items (called 'candies' this time 
 around) . It sticks to the boardgame core of the older Mario Party games, but Bowser time is less 
 stupid and you get to use your Miis. The 'candy' items allow you to transform into different things. 
 From vampires, to bowling balls, to 8-bit miniatures of yourself (I haven't seen what they've done 
 with Waluigi and Toadette yet) . They're oodles of fun!
  
  As far as graphics go, I'll say that cell-shaded is a really good look for most of the characters...
 
  
  The boards are all different from each other but if they were all the same, the game wouldn't be 
 fun. So, what did you expect?
  
  They chose their characters well in this game. They kept all the MP7 characters and added in Hammer 
 Bro. and Blooper, who're both unique and deserving characters.
  
  The final good thing about this game is the concept. When this was first announced I was all like 
 'MARIO PARTY FOR THE WII? THIS IS GONNA BE SWEET!'. ... This leads me to the next section of the 
 review.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Unfortunately, I set my expectations a little too high. When I played MP8, I thought it was cool 
 but not as cool as I pictured it. I guess after playing Wario Ware Smooth Moves, I thought that 
 all minigame games for the Wii would be rad.... I GUESS NOT!
  
  Though I was never a fan of Bowser time, I was a fan of Koopa Kid and the game didn't quite feel 
 natural without him. I suppose all things must pass...
  
  The 'candies' were cool but they were really just cleverly disguised orbs from the previous Mario 
 Parties. What a pity! What a shame!
  
  The boards might be different from EACH OTHER but they certainly aren't much different from the 
 boards in Mario Party 7! Goomba Boardwalk is Pagoda Peak, Shy Guy's City (or whatever it's called) 
 is Windmillville, and DK's board (I forget the name) is errr.... The Italy-themed board in Mario 
 Party 7. The only unique board I've uncovered so far is The Excess Express, which isn't even all 
 that unique.... Hammer Bro. and Blooper might have been deserving, but so were:
  
  Diddy Kong, Dixie Kong, Baby Mario Bros, Paper Mario, Paper Peach, Wart, Mouser, R. O. B., Mr. Game 
 and Watch, Jimmy T, Mona, Captain Syrup, and many many more.
  
  It's also a shame that they didn't make DK back into a playable character. But we're so used to 
 the DK space that if it disappeared now, we'd think it was still there.
  
  My final concern is the new host (his name is Ballyhoo, right?) . He's creepy and he has no video 
 game history whatsoever (except that he will be disguised as a Prymid in Brawl... JK!) . My friend 
 Jimmy described him as 'Some random crackhead' and I don't think he's too far off. BTW, Toadsworth 
 was totally 'CAPITAL!'.
  
  
  Closing Statements: 
 This is definately a game that you should rent first (if you're in to that sort of thing) . It is 
 worse than its predecessor in someways, and better than it in others. One interesting thing to 
 note though, this is 1 of 10 games that Nintendo and Hudson have worked together on over the past 
 decade or so. With that close of a connection, it doesn't seem too farfetched to thing Bomberman 
 will be in Brawl (old design, not ugly Act Zero design) . But that's a discussion for another day! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junkchaser
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  If you read my review on Wii Sports, you'll know my girlfriend liked it so much as I do. And she 
 bought more! Mario Party 8.
  
  As we played it about an hour or two I really got bored. This game is really made for small children. 
 By playing this game I got afraid buying wrong games because of the fact Nintendo has, instead 
 of PS3 or XBOX360, younger gamers. Maybe this game was not such a good idea to buy. But still I 
 think this is a great game for children.
  
  If you are looking at it as a commercial product it's a whole other story. It's really bad quality. 
 Mario is quality right? Well ... in the year 2007 it has gone crappy. Like a lot of other stupid 
 games out there it has nothing interesting to give you. Only repeatable irritating music and sounds 
 with colorful cheap mini-games. Thank you Nintendo for releasing a crappy title hyped like hell 
 ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlippyBP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  When I first started to play, I found myself immersed in fun. My sister and I played against the 
 computers for hours. The graphics are good, not great, but pretty good. When I play with the taunts 
 on, it's the noisiest game I have ever played. This game has unlockable boards, characters, difficulties, 
 and other goodies (Although they're pretty useless) . This game is fun when you are playing with 
 more than 1 person. The story mode is fun, but it is a little dry most of the time. I have not 
 played any of the others, but this one seems more interactive. Although it does have it's share 
 of problems. This game is based on luck the majority of the time, which I don't much care for. 
 Some minigames can't be played while in certain modes of the game. Another is that it doesn't have 
 many boards to play on. Finally, the game begins to be very repetitive. A summary:
  
  Pros:
  1.) Great Party game (No pun intended.....)
  2.) Long lasting fun.
  3.) Quite a few 
 unlockables.
  4.) Pretty good graphics.
  5.) Many minigames.
  
  Cons:
  1.) As what happens to all games, it becomes repetitive.
  2.) To have the most fun, you have 
 to play with more people.
  3.) Not enough boards to play on.
  4.) Based on luck.
  5.) Some minigames can't be played in certain modes.
  
  Overall:
  8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigMigs
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 29, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  With less then gamecube quality graphics, no widescreen support, and more bull crap then a ranch, 
 this game is garbage. In the beginning mario party required some skill to win, which made it a 
 fun party game. With the rules in the latest installment no skill is required. A mindless idiot 
 just pressing the A button and swinging the remote wildy still stands a good chance at winning 
 with all the randomness in this piece of crap. Even with the bonus stars turned off it is still 
 a piece of trash. It is sure to piss you off and disapoint. Save your money and don't buy this 
 filth. Send a message to the developers!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonzilla_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  First impressions: Of course i am a fan of the Mario Party series and MP8 was no exception. I even 
 traded in Wario Ware smooth moves for this game. Good graphics and good sound and a butt load of 
 minigames. Excellent!
  
  Graphics: Overall the graphics are good. I found that the graphics when you take a candy was a 
 cool addition but would have been better to be able to switch off the animation. Boards are well 
 designed and the characters are well designed.
  
  Sound: Sound is excellent. If you unlock the players sound that can get annoying during game play 
 but the sound is excellent. Gameplay: With the wii, gameplay is where its at. Its not about graphics 
 but about gameplay. The game play and party mode is allot of fun. All the board games are fun. 
 theres not one that you can say that the controller doesn't work on it. Overall: The game is a 
 must for any party and any family. The only down side would be the animations for the candy are 
 a bit too long and no option to shut it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkhedgehog148
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit: I like the Mario Party series. I've loved 1, 2, and 3 since I got them, and 4 
 for a little while, but after that, I didn't like it anymore. Why? The newer ones brought no innovation 
 and were interesting only for a while. But now I can finally say that I have BOUGHT and not rented 
 Mario Party 8, and BOY am I satisified. It's a huge leap from the crap that Mario Party 7 gave 
 us, and it's almost as good as 3 was to me. And now it is time for me to (as I do in all my reviews) 
 break it down into catagories.
  
  Graphics: 6. Unfortunatly, they're still GameCube calibur, but they're still pretty good nonetheless.
 
  
  Gameplay: 8. It kinda brings back memories of the good times I used to have while playing Mario 
 Party 3. Really a step up from MP5-7.
  
  Sound: 7. Pretty good sounds in the game, though I don't like what they did to Yoshi's voice...
 
  
  Replay Value: 9. A blast to play over and over... when you have friends with you.
  
  Overall: 8. It's pretty good, but Mario Partys 1, 2, and 3 still beat it. It's definatly a sign 
 that the series is going to slowly get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalasgalefist
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  What is there to say about a series of games that have been alive and kicking since the 90's? Well, 
 there's alot to say, but to put it simply, it's pretty much the same stuff over and over and over 
 again. Mario Party 8 for the Wii does bring some more thrill to the series by making it feel like 
 you're actually in the game (thank you Wii) , but has you playing almost the exact same minigames 
 you've been playing over the years with the other, oh, seven Mario Party enstallments. Granted, 
 it's a great party game, and some of the minigames are highly enjoyable. It's just not the same 
 as the classic Mario Party. However, there IS enough enjoyment in the game to make me want to break 
 this game down bit by it. So let's.
  
  Graphics: The average beautiful graphics that you'd expect from the Wii, that makes you feel even 
 more in tune with your characters.
  
  Minigames: As with all Mario Party games, there are minigames that will make you excited every 
 time it is chosen. There are also those games that make you wish there was a retractable blade 
 in the Wii-mote so that you can stab yourself every time it is selected. This enstallment of Mario 
 Party, is no different. With games varying from a high-speed down river race... on leaves, to a 
 minigame that makes you wonder if PERHAPS, they got the idea from Yu-Gi-Oh, there are over... 100 
 (exciting, yes, I know) ... minigames for you and your friends to play.
  
  Voices: One thing that makes a game more enjoyable, is the DIFFERENT VARIETY OF NOISES that you 
 hear from the game... let me tell you right now... that doesn't apply to this game. The voices 
 are great... for the first... hour... then they get repetitive. Very, very, repetitive.
  
  So there you go, a breakdown of the eighth enstallment in the Mario party series. With the usual 
 flaws and benefits, that every Mario party game has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spinal15
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Why nintendo did you have to ruin a good party game. Mario party 8 sucks badly. The mini games 
 were realy dumb. The 2 new charaters were funny but still there is others who can be in the game 
 then a hammer bro and blooper. The boards were just plain bland and were not fun. The only good 
 thing I liked about the game was the candy other then that this is the worst mario party game ever 
 made and I thought 5 was badO. O. They should ahve stoped with mario party 7 because that was the 
 best. Great mini games, charaters, boards, story mode and cool stuff to buy. This game is a wast of 
 50 bucks and I wish I never bought it, and the bad thing is there palning on making number 9 for 
 the wii great if they do they better fix alot of things and add tapping games because those make 
 a mario party game. So dont buy or rent this game its a wast of a penny. If you want mario party 
 get 7 and if you have it get your friends and play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gardevoir_1993
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  The Good: EXTRAS!!!!, Good minigames, Wiimote doesn't complicate the game too much.
  
  The Bad: Miis are embarrassing, Single Player Sucks (AS USUAL!)
  
  Full Review: After the disappointment 
 of Mario Parties 6 and 7, the series can only get better, right? Well, it's true! Mario Party 8 
 is a big step forward for the series and redeems both 6 and 7. The developers have put the extras 
 back in, thank goodness, and these will keep the game going for quite some time. My favourite part 
 of the new game is Moped Mayhem, a mass-participation cycle game. Thankfully the Wiimote does not 
 complicate the game and if anything it makes it better. However, the inclusion of Miis hasn't helped 
 the series. They completely embarrass their creators by what they do and wear UGLY overalls. But 
 that doesn't spoil the party so in all, this game is brilliant and is definitely worth playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billy2by4
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  *note* in paragraph 4 the reason explanations begin at every three dashes
  
  I have played every mario party game and beat it. 1,2,3 and 5 were my favorite because they put 
 the most out of all eight into the minigames. Mario Party 8 may have new controls but is still 
 getting pretty old.
  
  The basic game is good it's just that its gone on for far too long. The board is just as boring 
 as ever and not enough games for 4 people to play. They're just way too many duel minigames. If 
 you only have 1friend or sibling at your house, yeah it can be fun, but it still gets boring after 
 a while. If you have more people at your house you will probably only play for a little as there 
 are plainly just not enough.
  
  Now single player, probably the worst out of all eight. For 5 reasons, 1. you face only one person 
 per board. 2. You rarely play and minigames. 3. There are like only five boards and then Bower's 
 board. 4. The stages are smaller than usual. And 5. which is especially not least, the whole match 
 bases just on luck.
  
  ///For reason number one, facing only one person gets boring and dull. Having more people is more 
 fun its more of a challenge and you play more than duel minigames. ///Speaking of minigames for 
 reason two, you don't play minigames every turn. The only time you play a minigame is when either 
 you or opponent lands on a duel space (which is very uncommon) .///For reason number three, only 
 five boards and bowsers boards for a small amount of time in each one make the time go by very 
 quick making the game get boring that much quicker./// For reason number four, the stages are smaller 
 than the normal boards, making it quicker to get stars coins or whatever you need to get quicker 
 and in turn more boring once again.///Finally, for reason number five, the only way to make the 
 story longer is by losing frequently which might happen even if you did not mean to. This is because 
 the whole story is based on luck. LUCK!!! It's not smart to make any game except gambling type 
 of games like the roulette out of pure luck! Say your trying to get 50 coins, its luck on your 
 dice roll to land on a blue space and get some, when you could land on a red or question mark that 
 just move you from one place to another, nothing else. And you have to face all of these reasons 
 twice to unlock both of the characters.
  
  So if you want mario party 8 only because of the new wii mote controls. My advice is to either 
 wait for the price to drop to around 30$, or don't get it at all unless you seen tried and loved 
 the game already. The wii mote makes it more fun, but the games are more a prototype in my opinion 
 to see if they will continue with other mario parties on the wii. Ex. one of the minigames (minor 
 spoiler alert!) is a duel mini game and you swing the rope using the wii mote and throw the rope 
 over barrels going around in a circle. This one is frustrating trying to swing throw and the timing. 
 To me I think the games are fun, yet some are boring and annoying.
  
  In conclusion, if you played the last couple of them and didn't think mario party 7 or 6 were either 
 getting old, not good minigames or both, I suggest not getting mario party 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 19, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Overview:
  Story - N/A
  Gameplay - 6/10
  Graphics - 7/10
  Sound - 7/10
  Lasting Value - 5/10
  
  I'd consider myself to be a fan of the series. I started with 4, and 
 also have 5, 6, and the GBA version. But I dunno... after playing this game, it seems like it's 
 just gotten... stale. I mean, there's nothing really wrong with the game, if this game had been 
 released as Mario Party 4 and been my first Mario Party experience 4 or 5 years ago, I'd love it, 
 probably almost as much as I liked 4 (my favourite in the series) . It's not that the gameplay formula 
 is BAD, it's more that it's OLD.
  
  While the Wiimote certainly adds something new to the series, there are far too many games that 
 simply tell you to turn your Wiimote on its side and play with buttons. The minigames themselves 
 are pretty fun, but you can't help but feel like you've already seen them before, with the same 
 objective but different look. Plus, I found that there were far too many duel minigames, when really 
 there should have been more 4 player, 2v2, and 3v1 games.
  
  The single player is really lacking as well. I mean, it's basically 5 boards plus the Bowser board, 
 and they're basically smaller versions of the 4 player game, and with 1 opponent. You don't play 
 minigames after each turn, instead there'll be an objective that you have to do (e. g. collect 50 
 coins) . The problem is that there is very little playing of minigames in the single player mode. 
 You only play a minigame if you or your opponent land on a Duel space, which isn't very likely. 
 After you beat the storymode twice (to unlock both characters) , which will take you roughly 2-4 
 hours depending on your luck, there's pretty much nothing to do single player wise. And that's 
 another thing - luck. The single player relies far too heavily on luck, since you're not really 
 playing minigames and so most of the time victory relies on who rolled the better numbers on their 
 dice...
  
  Multiplayer is pretty cool as always. I really like playing it with my brother or some friends. 
 Though to me it suffers the same flaw of the other Mario Parties in that if the other friends don't 
 own the game as well, you'll have to take a big pause between turns while you explain to the uninformed 
 friend the rules to that particular minigame, and often the explaining takes just as long (if not 
 longer) than the minigame itself. But still, the multiplayer is pretty cool just like in the other 
 Mario Party games.
  
  Overall, I think this is it for me and the Mario Party series. I've had a good time over the years, 
 but the series has run out of steam for me. The single player modes have been getting less and 
 less fun, and now it pretty much all relies on multiplayer, which is getting harder to find people 
 to play it with. So all in all, if you're new to the series, give it a shot, but honestly, if you've 
 already grown tired of the series and think the Wiimote will bring the series to a new level, you'd 
 be best to just hold on to your cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ako389
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  It is a game with nice graphics but unfortunately only redoes the games from the previous seven 
 to fit the Wii and sometimes isn't executed very well. There is a good gameplay value to it, but 
 I would only buy this if you plan on playing with friends. The story mode sucks big time. I would 
 do it once to get a feel for the game and then never do it again. The game all in all is not bad, 
 but I wouldn't call it great. I enjoy playing maybe one board with my friends every onace and a 
 while. Buy it only for parties or better yet rent it for parties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: queek1313
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 15, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  1st thing I have to say about this game is that the single player game makes me want to cry. This 
 is by far one of the best looking Mario party games out there but that is about all that makes 
 it stand out from the rest. The game play has not changed in what 6 Mario party's. Its pretty much 
 shoots and ladders with graphics. Don't get me wrong its a fun game to get 4 of your best friends 
 together and look like a bunch of fools. Nothing like seeing 4 grown men sitting on a couch shaking 
 their remotes as fast as they can to win a mini game. Another thing that I found a little disappointing 
 was there is no wide screen on the game. It just fills the extra space with a wall paper and to 
 me this means they really did not put in all they could to make the game. Is it fun, yes with a 
 group of friends. Is it hard, the randomness of the game makes it a little challenging but I would 
 say no. All in all Its a party game and goes very well with the WII but Its not for everyone that 
 is for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  Now before you read this know I've only owned Party 1-4 and 8. I've only played 7 twice.
  GAMEPLAY: Single-player definately does not help here but once you get some friends over on go 
 to the Mini-Game Tent the really starts. I also do like the new innovative boards. The unpredictable 
 maze of King Boo's Mansion. The battle for the hotels in the Tycoon Town. The star stealing battles 
 of Bowser's Space Warp. The straight-foward Pirate Boardwalk. Impressing the rich koopa on Shy 
 Guy's Train. And of course the classic Mario Party style on D. K's Jungle. Too bad the boards are 
 small and there is only 6 boards. The mini-games are new and fun not to mention about 70 of them 
 though Party 7 apparently had more. I give gameplay a 7 out of 10 but only when playing with friends.
 
  GRAPHICS: I personally don't see everyone's problem with the graphics. I think they are better 
 then most Wii Games so far. Sure they look like an amazing GC game but still its nintendo. As for 
 widescreen problems. I never use widescreen. To me widescreen is pretty useless. So I'm going to 
 say 8 out of 10.
  SOUND: I think the music fits the boards very well. I personally think the Pirate Boardwalk would 
 sound better with Mario Sunshine music. (Ricco Harbor theme anyone?) . Still the sound fits and 
 that's all I care 9 out of 10.
  VALUE: This game is great but not $50 great. $40 dollars sounds better. If you ask me even though 
 I think it is the best Mario Party buy it used or if you don't like Mario Party that much rent 
 it first. 7 out of 10.
  TILT: This is my favorite Mario Party to date so for my tilt I'l have to say an 8 out of 10 maybe 
 8.5 out of 10 but the scale below the review text box doesn't do that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kieranm2005
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  This game has it good points for someone new to the Mario Party series like me, but even still 
 there are bad points too.
  
  Two of the boards in this game are great, but the rest are only ok and aren't that great. The single 
 player in this game is very short and is only worth doing to unlock the two other boards (one great 
 the other not so much) and two more characters. The multiplayer in this game is great and is what 
 helps it get such a good score, along with the use of Miis in one of the tents for mini games (well 
 two but they are only in the background) There are three tents where you can play games in one 
 you play the boards from single player with 4 players (or 3 bots and you) The Part tent is fun 
 because you can team up with a mate and play against the bots or two other mates if you have 4 
 remotes, you can also play all vs all or just have a one on one. The Minigame tent is more like 
 a game show where you play mini games just one by one and can pick each one in mode. Your Miis 
 are also in the background in this tent in each mini game played here which is good use of them. 
 The last tent is the Extras zone where you have 8 different mini games that you can use your Miis 
 to play in (4 need to be brought in the Fun Bazzar 1st) the 8th one is my favourite one where you 
 have to race on a motorbike against 30 characters or 29 and another player. So overall a good game 
 which is great for multiplayer but not really any good for single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderJ1122
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 13, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game just about as much as I like all the other mario parties. The wiimote adds a 
 little bit extra but nothing to write home about. I really did love this game until I lost it somewhere 
 on the streets on Georgia by it falling off the roof of my car. Now I owe Blockbuster fifty bucks. 
 As for graphics they seemed on par with all the other great wii games out there.
  
  Im still waiting for nintendo to throw everyone into the Parties like they do with smash brothers. 
 Im tired of being Toad all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seabono12
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 13, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Okay yeah the other mario parties were better. But 8 is better than 7. I personally think mario 
 party is kinda goin downhill. I'm sure this was the only time mario party is going to improve. 
 My favorites were 5 and 3. 3 and 6 weren't too shabby, and i love 2 and 1 as well, but they don't 
 have the best of graphics, but they are still great games. But anyways. They've got an extra zone 
 which is pretty nice. I epsicially enjoy the ping-pong it is really enjoyable. Another thing about 
 this game that I liked was the 2 new characters. They were pretty much the most unexpected but 
 great characters. I was mostly shocked at the thought that blooper was playable because he is a 
 sea creature. I don't think that mario party will get much better than this when time goes on. 
 But that does no mean that I am not a mario fanatic anymore! There are other great games to play 
 mario-wise even the older mario parties! One last thing, it is hard to adapt to this game becasue 
 mni-games are hard with the wii-remote. This game is best for multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ereyes104
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 13, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This is of course the 8th game in its series but all the games have been losing their touch after 
 the first two. When Mario Party came out for the N64 I bought it and was having lots of fun playing 
 with friends. Especially when the 2nd one came out it was a great follow up to the original. This 
 game puts a lot of new twists to the original concept of the game. It is fun but in my opinion 
 it gets kind of repetitive and lowers the quality of game. If they made online capabilities to 
 the game now that would be a nice twist to the game.
  
  The game is fun only if you use it while playing friends. Many of the new minigames are kind of 
 short and boring but still fun. The replay quality of it is very high but it doesn't seem like 
 a game that would be that fun to play again and again if you're playing by yourself. It seems to 
 get better but it also loses its replay value after playing each level a numerous amount of times.
 
  
  Yet the way the creators made the game to me a was a good concept but it changes from the originals. 
 It was originally an easy concept having to get coins and get the most stars while having many 
 different obstacles or other things in the way. However, It has changed because it's not that simple 
 anymore, but almost the same. The new concepts of the star being obtained in various ways is kind 
 of fun though. Yet I miss the original getting coins and getting a star. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiowns
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 IS a fun game, but me being one of the people who has played the first Mario Party 
 games, this one makes the whole series seem like it's slowly dying. The only thing that kept this 
 game from doing horribly is that it's the first Mario Party game using the Wii's motion sensing 
 technology.
  
  This time there is no overall story mode to it, it's just a big carnival where you can chose from 
 different tents, such as the Star Battle Arena, Party Tent and others.
  
  Party mode is like always the biggest part of this game. It's the same basic concept, roll a dice, 
 move that number of spaces, see what happens, get stars and coins etc. This time however there 
 is a different theme to it. Each of the levels has a twist on the original Get to the star objective. 
 It's the same goal, but depending on the stage you chose, you either don't know where it is, have 
 to buy hotels to get stars, get to the end of the train that changes every once in a while, and 
 also just see who can get to the end of the strip of spaces. There is the original Get to the Star 
 objective but most of the maps have one of those twists. This is a mixed blessing because on some 
 maps it is fun, such as the Hotels give you stars map, but in others it seems that the game developers 
 just got lazy, as in the go down the straightaway of land the fastest .
  
  The minigames once again seem a little less hectic as they did in the original Mario Party games, 
 even though they still are very creative. A few feel less like actual Mario Party minigames, and 
 more like Wario Ware micro games, such as The Chomp Wash where you have to scrub up and down on 
 the Wii Remote as fast as you can. The many minigames are enough to keep you interested and some 
 are just plain fun.
  
  The level designs are somewhat less decorative as in the previous Mario Party games. Personally 
 I still favor the old not truly 3-D backgrounds to the now truly 3-D backgrounds, but there are 
 plenty of pretty effects, such as when you eat Candy which lets you steal coins, move extra spaces 
 or steal candy from other players. The effects that are shown when you eat one show beams of light, 
 your player turning into a whole bunch of different forms, such as a ball, a stone and even an 
 8 bit version of yourself.
  
  Since there is no overall objective in the entire game such as the previous ones there feels to 
 be a lack of direction, which is good one way because there is no need to do anything except the 
 party mode for gamers who just want to have fun, but for gamers who want to beat every game they 
 have this will leave them feeling incomplete.
  
  In the end, it seems that not every game has to have 100 sequels, even if they do sell good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrono-Cross
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 12, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This Mario Party is really great. The games are really interesting. Some are hard, some are favorites 
 and a couple are really easy. Its great how you control the Wii Remote in Mario Party 8. This Mario 
 party has a great use of items.
  
  They use candy, most of the candy is pretty useful on the board games. There are 5 board games 
 1 you must unlock, Each Board game is diffrent on how you collect a star. For example on the Bowser 
 stage, you need to steal the other player's stars to win.
  
  Some Candy are exclusive on this board. Like the Bullet Bill candy, and also the Bowser Candy , 
 which are the candies to steal stars. The Story Mode called Star Battle is very diffrent and great, 
 You can unlock 2 new characters called Hammer Bros. and Blooper. You also unlock the Bowser stage 
 there.
  
  The only disapointing thing in this Mario Party was that there were only 5 boards. Also by playing 
 Story mode, and multiplayer you get Carnival Cards at the end.
  
  Which you can go to the store tent, to buy figurines and special mini games where you play in a 
 diffrent tent. You also get to buy Very Hard , if you want a great challenge. I say if you have 
 friends and family this game will be worth it and fun to play.
  
  This game has really relaxing music, and you ll get how to play with the Wii remote in 30 minutes 
 or less. Before you start any mini game, they tell you the controls, or if you want a practice 
 before you play. This is one of the greatest Mario Parties I played yet and I bet you ll enjoy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jukilum
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 does follow the Mario party style, but that is good, not 6.1 .
  
  Mario Party takes some sharp turns from the previous games, but some elements were added back in. 
 The orb system we all know and love is gone, replaced by candy. Which is exactly the same, but 
 you can't own game spaces and there is not much variety. When you actually play the game, it is 
 a quite enjoyable experience. There are fewer references to casino type games and the boards are 
 the best in all the games I've played. The Bowser board stinks, but what else is new? Wrestling 
 to the front of a train, buying hotels, and of course the classic board all add to the fun.
  
  The minigames are very enjoyable, with very few that make you groan when they show up in a 
 game but the quantity of games is too few. It leaves you with a That's it? feeling.
  
  The graphics, while not important in this series are about twice as good as the last party, and 
 the sound and music is much less annoying.
  
  Overall, while this game has its faults, it is definitely one to buy as soon as possible. What 
 was lost is regained in other areas, which makes this the best party yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoshiMustDie
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  The latest installment of the Mario Party games doesn't disappoint. It's the same thing, but with 
 a good enough twist on it that makes you love it. I loved the previous Mario Party games that I've 
 owned, even when I was shredding my palm on the N64 Joystick trying to rotate it.
  
  The game takes all the classic things and makes them so much more fun with the kinesthetic controllers 
 of the Wii. To hit your die, you must thrust the Wiimote into the air.
  
  The Good: Great with multiple players. Yoshi is still a cheating jerk (I always liked Yoshi until 
 I started to play Mario Party, hence my User Name) . The in game content is nice, with the points 
 you earn, you can buy player taunts, extra mini games and character trophies. You can unlock other 
 characters thats always a motivator.
  
  The Bad: Not much motivation to try to collect the trophies. It's not online. If it was online 
 it would be so much better. Don't play it alone, it's kind of droll.
  
  Overall: Great game, I don't regret buying it, and don't plan on trading it anytime soon. I really 
 hope the next installment is online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckat609
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 7, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  A quick note... I won't be reviewing graphics or sound since it won't matter to make my point (if 
 I do manage to make one) :-p
  
  I went out and got this games the day it came out... you could say I was a bit hyped. I have to 
 be honest though, I was expecting a bit more from this game. I kinda felt like when you go to a 
 restaurant and you see this picture of a huge juicy burger waiting to be eaten and seeing yours 
 sitting right next to it and thinking what the hell? . Anyway, I started playing it on my own and 
 I have to say it wasn't that hard going through all the boards... it was very disappointing. It 
 wasn't until a week later that I took my Wii and the game to my girlfriend's house that I realized 
 how much fun this game really was. We played with the whole family and we had a blast. It's fun 
 to see the older crowd (my father/mother in law) getting into the game and making complete fools 
 of themselves while their grandchildren kick their assess... it was just hilarious.
  
  The most rewarding part for me about this game is that it takes you through a fairly large selection 
 of mini games to reach a goal. It's not like the other party games where you play for 5 seconds, 
 then next guy plays for another 5 seconds and so on without actually accomplishing anything. Going 
 through the mini games to get coins that will actually serve a purpose (getting the stars and other 
 goodies) is a pretty good reason to keep you coming back for more.
  
  Another thing that made it more interesting for me was the bonus stars at the end of the game. 
 We got a kick out of seeing my father in law being rewarded a star for landing the most red spaces 
 throughout the game. I think this makes it more challenging since you can get your ass kicked by 
 the guy sucked the most (it sometimes seems a bit unfair but it's a lot of fun) .
  
  I would recommend this game for the casual crowd since a hardcore gamer might be disappointed after 
 a few minutes of game play. It definetely is a game for the WHOLE family... believe me, your parents 
 won't be intimidated by this game. If you're still a bit unsure about getting it, rent it first 
 and give it a shot. One more thing... if and when you decide to give this one a shot, get some 
 friends and family... it isn't called Mario PARTY for nothing.
  
  Like I said before... this one is probably not the best in the series but it does a good job in 
 keeping you entertained... and it probably is one of the best party games out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murphydee
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 7, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Eight party's and counting, Mario's fun filled board game is getting more frequent than a fifa 
 game so has the wii remote given it a new lease of life, well yes and no really. For party veterans 
 there isn't much new here, same format, similar minigames means you could easily be happier with 
 a previous installment. To start with the single player mode is definitely a miss, a mode where 
 you and one computer controlled character run around the board occasionally interrupted by a minigame 
 if you land in the right place, play this first thing and you won't be impressed.
  However terrible single player aside you can't fault Mario party for it's main attraction the multiplayer, 
 get 3 friends round and you'll start to feel better about your purchase. The boards are more original 
 and slightly more random than usual which can provide some heated competition, levels include a 
 train which dishes out stars every time you reach the driver and a monopoly style board where you 
 invest in hotels in order to win stars, and the more invested the more stars you get. There isn't 
 much variation in the wii controls but they work rather well and can't be faulted.
  As for graphics you won't be getting much special here but thats never been what Mario party is 
 about, they get the job done anyway.
  Overall its not the best party ever but its a good first effort for wii and one of the best multiplayer 
 experiences on Nintendo's little white box so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is one of those games where it is so bad it is fun to play. While the minigames in 
 themselves are devoid from anything resembling fun, you will find yourself laughing just from how 
 bad the game really is. There is a moment while playing when the announcer says, I am feeling 
 really lightheaded. Ironically enough, this simple reminder effectively describes the game as 
 a whole. You will constantly find yourself laughing at the terrible dialogue, the corny minigames, 
 and the horrible unbalanced gameplay. Mario Party 8 will make you feel lightheaded from laughing, 
 but for merely at how bad the game really is.
  
  Mario Party 8 is set in a carnival type world, in which there are separate tents for which you 
 can participate. The separate tents let you play the story mode, compete against your friends, 
 or just have fun with the minigames you have unlocked. The term have fun is used rather loosely 
 considering not one of them will have you laughing with glee. By choosing the story mode you can 
 play against three other characters in up to eight different-themed worlds. Most of them have been 
 recycled from previous Mario Party games (such as the horror, pirate, and space worlds) yet none 
 of the new ones are as fun as the others.
  
  Playing against the computer characters is never a good idea considering they will always win the 
 game. After roughly ten different games scattered across all the boards, the finally tally was 
 9-1 in favor of the computer. The games never rely on any skill whatsoever, and it literally comes 
 down to how well you can hit the dice block. Unlike previous Mario Party titles however, the stars 
 are located in one spot on the board for everyone to earn once they reach the designated area. 
 The spot will never move and there are no coins needed to purchase a star neither. This makes strategy 
 hardly essential to achieving victory, as everyone will ultimately be tied throughout the game. 
 To make things even more unbalanced, the computer characters will always gain high numbers when 
 they hit the dice block, meaning they can move nearly twice as many spots as you would.
  
  Scattered around the boards are green tiles, which make navigating to the star faster to manage. 
 If you wish to give up your coins you can jump on a dolphin, hop on a train, or fly through the 
 air for a shortcut that usually bypasses around twenty spaces. The computer will never hesitate 
 to use these spaces, and it always takes an exorbent amount of time to complete this little shortcut. 
 Since your coins basically have no use anymore in the game (unless you wish to buy useless items) , 
 it is always in your best interest to take advantage of these shortcuts in order to stay neck-and-neck 
 with the computer.
  
  There are little kiosks in which you can buy candy as well, items that give you a slight advantage 
 at the start of your turn. Some of them are creative, such as a tornado that gobbles up coins from 
 anyone you pass on your turn, or a spring that lets you change positions with any player, yet none 
 of them are as effective as described. The computer players will always get secret candies, which 
 let them force other players back to the start or steal any stars they may have as well. You can 
 probably see how annoying this could become when you are several spaces away from the star and 
 the computer unleashes their secret power on you.
  
  If you manage to continue playing even after all of these unfair computer tactics, you will be 
 assorted into various minigames in order to earn more useless coins. All of the games lack any 
 form of originality and many of them have been featured in previous Mario Party games, just with 
 some minor change to the look and controls. Since the need to use coins has become irrelevant, 
 it feels more or less like a chore to play through all of the games since they are all so much 
 alike. Mario Party also does a very poor job of trying to make the titles of the games clever and 
 funny, with such ridiculous names like Crops and Robbers (which has nothing to do with crops 
 and/or robbing) and other pun-related nonsense.
  
  The controls never respond as well as they should either, making navigating around the boards and 
 playing in games an ever-bigger hassle to manage. Hitting the dice block at the start of every 
 turn requires you to swing the controller in an upward motion, however it usually takes three or 
 four thrusts before you actually manage to jump. The games in themselves are irritating affairs. 
 The menu before every game has clear and simple instructions on who controls what object and the 
 designated movements for each. Numerous times you will find out that those said movements do not 
 work in the games, and many times it will come down to frantic flailing with the controller. The 
 computer naturally will win more than half of the games, and even on the easiest difficulty they 
 are always so much better than you.
  
  Mario Party 8 sounds similar to previous titles, so expect plenty of recycled voices and noises. 
 The constant bombardment of similar noises and over-the-top circus tracks really make Mario Party 
 8 an annoying amusement. Nintendo has also managed to create an equally annoying new host, who 
 screams in weird sounds and always seems way too excited at all the wrong moments.
  
  Like a good song that got overplayed on the radio, Mario Party 8 is simply too much of a good thing. 
 The series is in desperate need of a revival and one can only hope that Nintendo looks at this 
 title as reference of what not to do in the future. The new motion-sensing controls do nothing 
 to make the games or overall presentation any better and the unbalanced computer characters make 
 playing more frustrating than fun. Fans might enjoy playing the game and having a few laughs, but 
 those laughs are for all the wrong reasons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daooat
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I have seen the critics unjustifiably slam this game. It's just a party game. You expectations 
 is that any of friends (even my mother-in-law or little niece) should be able to sit down, play 
 and have a good time. The professional critics whine that the graphics don't compare to the PS3 
 (silly) , it doesn't support wide-screen (unnecessary) , and not every mini-game is awesome (unrealistic) . 
 I will give them that chance does play a huge role in this game, but so do a vast majority of boardgames. 
 While this can be frustrating to the cutthroat mentality of most hardcore gamers, chance is an 
 essential to allow casual (and first-time) gamers access. Besides, the point of this game isn't 
 the winning it is the social interaction with your friends and family.
  
  I really think that the critics just totally miss the boat on this one. Not all games are about 
 mastery and bragging rights. Sometimes a game is just a game, and moreover and excuse to hang with 
 friend and laugh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi892
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is the first of a long running series to hit the Nintendo Wii. Whilst promissing 
 a new experience than the previous games, this game fails in just about every way.
  
  Lets start with the worst bits. The graphics are diabolical. They are probably the worst to hit 
 a next-generation system. Widescreen mode is also not present and even if it was, it wouldn't do 
 much for the ugly textures, rubbish character models and pixelated worlds.
  
  Following up behind the graphics are the poorly implemeted Wii Controls. The Wii was meant to make 
 gaming more fun. This game just makes it painful. Granted, some mini-games work relatively well 
 and you will agree that it was a step up from the Gamecube games but for the vast majority of the 
 game, you will just get annoyed with it. If you enjoy getting annoyed with games then go ahead 
 and by it and imagine my review score was a 10 (yes thats how annoying it is!) 
  
  This game however is relatively fun when playing with friends. I do however feel that the lack 
 of online play is sorely missed. Had this been included it would make this game have a higher replay 
 value, meaning it would actually be worth buying. Unfortunately though it lacks online play.
  
  To summarise. Mario Party 8 is a massive disspointment. What could have been good was ruined 
 by lousy controls, appaling graphics and lack of online play.
  
  Summary
  + Some controls work well...
  - ... But in very few cases
  - Appaling graphics
  - Lack of 
 online play is a missed oppurtunity
  - Can be very frustrating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benwest96
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is the best in the series. It feels new and fresh. I have to say, I own every single 
 Mario Party. This one is no doubt the best one yet. Why do I say that, you ask?
  
  For starters, Shyguy's Perplex Express, Koopa's Tycoon Town, and Boo's Haunted Hideaway are probably 
 the best gameboards that Mario Party has ever seen. They are so imaginative and different from 
 the rest. Who knew that travelling to the front of a train would be so much fun? The new improved 
 candy items are also great. The orbs that were introduced in Mario Party 5 were really dry, throwing 
 them onto the spaces really wasn't any fun. Candy brings the items back to what they used to be 
 like in the first few Mario Partys.
  
  The minigames may not be the best, but they have this new feeling to them that is currently unique 
 to Mario Party 8. I don't know about anyone else who has played previous Mario Partys, but I got 
 sick of the 'press A as fast as possible' minigames a long time ago.
  
  Mario Party 8 also has the best soundtrack out of all Mario Partys. I have heard the Minigame Rules 
 tune so many times, and it still seems to cheer me up. The graphics aren't the best, but they are 
 still better than the graphics in Mario Party 7, and plus: there are these really neat blur effects.
 
  
  Overall, there is a lot of room to improve, but it still remains to be a lot of fun, especially 
 with a group of friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilight_King85
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is so stupied and boring the mini games are horrable and the levals look kidnda cool 
 but once you start playing over and over again they get boring circleing it over and over again. 
 you would think this is a fun good game because it is for the wii but it sux!!!!!! dont bye this 
 the storyline is horrable there is like 2 or 3 good mini games all the others are stupies and pointless 
 if i were u i would not buy this stick to the only good one and thats mario party 4 ever one now 
 just gets worse and worse!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supuhpapuhmario
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 4, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for the first - second day in your home. But once you hit the third day OR when 
 you obtain all the mingames... sigh... BORING... Doesn't last you long and regret buying it for 50 
 dollars., thinking that you should have rented it first. OK... you may be saying that it may not 
 be boring to you... This is MY opinion. The storyline is way over stupid. The only reason why mario 
 plays on this poorly constructed game board is because he wants a year worth a cavities and tartar 
 jammed into his teeth. AKA: a year's supply of candy. stupid storyline... now lets talk gameplay... This 
 is how it goes. each player either eats candy or rolls a die or does both. they move the amount 
 of space that the die rolls which is up to ten (DIE ONLY HAVE 6 SIDES!!!!) when they land on the 
 space they either get 3 coins or lose 3 coins. On special occasions they will stop by a candy booth 
 or they will land on a special square on something magically stupid will happend. HECK!!! Mind 
 as well buy MONOPOLY!!!! It's only 20 bucks and you won't get bored of it just as fast as this 
 game. The controllers are good, but some controls are used in like 10 of minigames and this often 
 makes the game BORING and monotinous. Grapics are way too smooth and shiny. They really have to 
 add texture to things. Sounds? They pretty much are like 4 year old electronic toy. They either 
 shout for koy, shriek with sadness, some goofy sound effects come up, or sound wierd elevator type 
 music kicks in. Value? .... ima make this one short and easy... not worth ur 5o dollars... please... read 
 this before you buy mario party 8... i think mario party shouldve stopped at mario party 6. seriously. 
 Im sure your money is better spent elsewhere like on um.... well.... just sleep on mario for this 
 month... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da-Kiid
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 was ever yhing I expected it not to be. Yeah it has a bunch of mini-games but that 
 doesn't mean anything when over half of them are unorginal and don't take advantage of the wii 
 remote at all, while the other third of what's left leaves you with the chance. The response of 
 the wii remote to the in game motions is bad, very repetitive and worth only a few good hours of 
 play with other people. I was surprised at the game because I thought the response would be much 
 better and the vibe I got was that this game was rushed during the making. I recommend do not buy 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdechert
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 30, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  I don't get it. The GS reviewers will play a spazzed out game like WarioWare Smooth Moves and give 
 it great reviews. Then they play a game with an ounce of coherence and give it mediocre reviews. 
 The minigames of Mario Party 8 actually make sense and are somewhat fun - especially with multiplayer 
 not having to hand off the remote. This is a game my kids can play and enjoy. This is what a party 
 game is all about. If you want good, solid multiplayer party game fun for the whole family, Mario 
 Party 8 is your ticket. It doesn't feel like you need to have ADD while being on speed in order 
 to play this like Wario does. A good choice for family gaming with young kids. Recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegoods470
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 29, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited to get Mario Party 8 at first, but I was quickly dissapointed. The previous 
 editions had much better minigames and value. after only 2 rounds of play, I was already bored. 
 The game runs for WAY too long because you have to watch everyones moves and cutscenes and altogether 
 a game can take as much as an hour and a half. And the singleplayer mode was extremely easy and 
 I beat it in 2 hours flat. If you do buy it, make sure you have a lot of people to play with, or 
 else you will stop playing after a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oswall
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 29, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party was one of those games that you used to play at late night party's and have a good 
 laugh. But now it seems that Mario Party has come to a screeching halt in making those great games. 
 Being me, I'm not that picky when it comes to games that i play, but somehow Mario Party is one 
 of the few games that i can't really play for a long time.
  
  The single player mode is utter crap. It's almost entirely based on luck and you almost never play 
 in duel mini games against your opponent. It really seems that the only way to win is by 1. having 
 a ton of coins 2. getting lucky with your dice roll and 3. having enough coins to buy candy
  If your unlucky, (which i am) , then don't waste your time with single player mode.
  
  Now for 
 what Mario Party is all about, Multi player Mode! This is really what Mario Party is all about, 
 however, somehow it just doesn't really give me that rush of excitement that it used to. Sure they 
 have *A LOT* of mini games to mess around with, but most of these games are just dumb. But don't 
 fret there are still some pretty nice games here that never really get old. Unfortunately you have 
 to unlock them through a random mini game wheel. But this game did come through with some amazing 
 game boards. You've got your haunted mansion, your beach, your jungle plus more. Each board has 
 it's own thing to it. Like Boo's haunted mansion is like a maze that's fun but can get unimaginably 
 frustrating when trying to find the star. And the Jungle level which instead of being a game board 
 is like a ladder. Overall, this game is pretty good, but can really bring you down when you were 
 expecting so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbmikkim
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 28, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  Ok... this game is missing way too much first of all to be 50 bucks.
  
  Theres only like 60-70 minigames [ Yeah thats it ] that are mostly based on luck and/or swinging 
 the remote around like crazy.
  
  I thought Wario Ware had ok minigames... but compared to this.... they rock.
  
  The graphics 
 are great and the music is enjoyable... but that's it.
  
  I think also the lack of game boards and extra-minigames THAT ARE ACTUALLY FUN needed to be more 
 of.
  
  So the 8th installment is probally the worst... but best graphics i've seen so far.
  
  It seemed 
 the game was rushed a bit also. The game boards needed to be longer...
  
  And i beat the whole game in about a day or two...
  
  This game isn't a buy... and only a rent 
 for Mario Party fans...
  
  Uckk... just stay away from this crashed party! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 28, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  I'll admit, I was really looking forward to Mario Party 8. Unfortunately, I was incredibly let 
 down on this one. First, the graphics. The graphics are just subpar all the way through. Virtually 
 nothing to enjoy visually in my opinion. Second, the game, at nearly every level, just is so incredibly 
 boring it was very hard for me to even get through a complete game without just shutting it off. 
 This game is good for children but certainly isn't a good game for someone looking for a fun afternoon. 
 I tried to do the party thing but everyone who played with me was bored too. A sad title and one 
 that assured me that I won't play another version of this game unless they do some SERIOUS upgrades 
 all the way around. On the positive side, if you like to play things like Candy Land then this 
 might be a great add to your Wii collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toadettefanboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  I know alot of people think that this game basically sucks, but everyone is entitled to their own 
 opinion, and my opinion is that this game ROCKS!
  
  Gameplay 9/10: The wii remote controls work great with all the minigames, A few notable minigames 
 come to mind, such as the soda can minigame, and the lassoing game. The controls are just as if 
 you actually had a can of soda with you or a lasso. Of course, not all the minigames are perfect, 
 but the controls work pretty great still.
  
  Graphics 9/10: I know this game was meant to be a gamecube game, but he graphics still look great 
 to me. You'll see what I mean if you look at the Koopa's Tycoon board. It just looks so real... 
 at least to me.
  
  Sound 9/10: The music and sounds are, once again, awesome. The familiar little chime as you pass 
 a space on a board, the music to the minigames, it's just so great.
  
  Value 10/10: It's a multiplayer party game, OF COURSE it's gonna have alot of replay value. Aside 
 from that, there is a single player mode. It isn't the greatest in the world, but it's still... 
 sort of... um... fun.
  
  Tilt 10/10: Get the game, it's great like all the mario parties before, and out of all the mario 
 parties made, it's my 3rd favorite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesmiknat
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 24, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  Believe The Hype! this game is a barrel of laughs, inside a barrel of fun, inide a bartrel of minigames, 
 inside another barrel of laughs, inside a board game with coins and stars, thats inside the mario 
 party 8 Disk, thats inside my wii right now!
  
  i'm a person from the small group who actually enjoy this game all the time, alone or with buddies! 
 although its better with buddies. This game is The Ullitmate game to play with 4 people, and even 
 if you only have two remotes, its still fun. single player lasts about 7 hours, beause you have 
 to go through it twice to unlock the secret characters+
  the best thing about this game is that anything can happen! the game is all about luck, just as 
 board games should be, because everybody can have an even chance of winning, which can bring anybody 
 of any skill level into the party.
  the only downside to the game is a handful of boring, and repetative minigames and the last gen 
 graphics level, but, this was meant to be a gamecube game, so the next party should be much better
 
  overall, its a good game which lived up to my expectations, and i have been playing for weeks 
 and plan to play most of the summer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tk-42121
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  as you would expect mario party is back but this time at the star carnival were theres new maps, 
 mini-games and more now th ups of the game are borad games can have major suprises, mini-games 
 are extremly fun its just a fun game and its nice that all the mini-games dont have mostion senser 
 when they relaly weren't needed but the downs well it has game cube Graphics and to much chanse 
 i lost a few game just because of chance and the widescreen is realy only in the menus but over 
 all mario party 8 is a fun game witch any looking for a good fun game on the wii should get 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK-47-M4
Rating: 3.7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Some of you may be wondering why I said this game was very hard. Well it's because it is all based 
 on luck. You could be in first place one turn, next you are in last. You can't add ANY strategy 
 at all. This is why Mario Party NEEDS to change it's formula. The last few Mario Parties have been 
 substandard. I thought with the unique Wii controls they could give the series the boost it needed. 
 Quite the opposite. Most of the approx. 70 minigames don't even use the motion sensing controls. 
 As a substitute you hold the controller sideways and press buttons. Around a dozen minigames do 
 use the motion controls in a fun way leading to gameplay getting the three out of ten it got. The 
 boards are tiny compared to previous titles and the single player mode is HORRIBLE.
  
  The game runs in 4:3, so these horrible green bars go to the sides of the screen to fill up that 
 lost space. These are distracting so you will want to change the Wii to play games in 4:3, stretching 
 the game so the graphics are horrible.
  
  There are a few good sound effects, but nothing outstanding.
  
  This game might be fun to play 
 with others, but that is it. It is not worth the money and you can tell it was made for the Gamecube 
 and ported to the Wii with tacked on motion sensing controls at the last minute.
  
  This games is the worst in the series, hence the bad taste in my mouth.
  
  If you want to play 
 it, I suggest a rental. Even if you had a coupon for a free rental, trust me it's not worth it. 
 Save your money. If we don't buy it perhaps Hudson will do us a favor and change the formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 20, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty great, but the result was pretty disappointing, but still not bad! Find out 
 why here!
  
  Gameplay (7/10) -
  Fun minigames like always! And it's even cooler now that you can use the wiimote to play! But now 
 the game has even less minigames! = ( I got all the minigames in 2 days!
  
  Graphics (8/10) -
  They look all the same! But I like it that way anyways!
  
  Sound (8/10) -
 
  The music is peppy and happy! I like it! About the sound, it's kinda same, but I like it that 
 way. =) But I don't like how some character's voices changed... like Yoshi and Boo. Boo and Yoshi 
 sound squeakier! = (
  
  Value (7/10) -
  It's not really as fun as it's previous versions! But it doesn't mean you shouldn't buy it!
  
 
  Reviewer's Tilt (8/10) -
  Fun while it lasts!
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (7.5/10) -
  This game is great and fun while it lasts! Not really as fun and long as it's older ones! But like 
 I said above, it doesn't mean you shouldn't buy it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 covers a feasible amount of minigames to discover whereas it tries to compensate 
 for it's lack of refreshing gameplay and "newness" feel. New and old characters provide a variation 
 of feel, as well as diverse gameplay and boards to which promotes the game's reutation.
  
  The problem with the Mario Party franchise is that, like many boards games, the content of the 
 game itself is too luck depensant which proves to be a monotonous constraint. The basic game will 
 feature the player pursuing "stars" where you will have to pay a fee of 20 coins to obtain. The 
 star will be characterized as the highest regarded value in the game, so the player with the most 
 stars is the candidate for the win.
  
  The content itself will get noticeably tedious all the meanwhile the game will still be fun. For 
 fans of the series such as me, the experience should be more pleasurable whilst newly branded gamers/players 
 will recieve a conviction towards the wiimote capabilities.
  
  In the grand scheme of things, the dynamics between the transition from the wii to the gamecube 
 never seemed to change. With that being said, their is a lot of wiimote action. All in all, Mario 
 Party 8 does prove to be alright after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punaeased
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Overall this is a pretty good game but don't buy it! It gets very old fast!
  A better idea would be to rent it. Well only 2 or the 6 boards are fun (tycoon town and boo's mansion) 
 The others are very boring and ANNOYING! Nintendo got very lazy in making the minigames, in most 
 of them all your doing is moving the wii-mote (up, down, left, right, and shaking) . Multi player 
 is pretty fun but that gets old fast too. The extras zone's mini games aren't much more fun than 
 origional ones but it is fun that you can play as your miis. This would be very fun for a weekend 
 rental or to play at a friend's house but just for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invaderzim17
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is a great game, plain and simple. The minigames are fun for the most part, the graphics 
 (at least, in my opinion) look pretty nice, and it really is nice to see a game that really uses 
 the Wii remote in so many different ways. This game should be enough to prove to all those Wii 
 skeptics out there that this thing IS worth playing. Come on, you know whacking Bowser with an 
 energy blast from the Star Rod/Wii remote is just what you always wanted to do. I'll admit, it 
 does involve a certain amount of luck as far as the board portions are concerned, but in the end 
 it really is all about the minigames anyway, right? And they are definately good enough and plentiful 
 enough to keep players of all kinds and ages entertained for a good long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlameBoy911
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is the first Mario Party game to hit the Wii. This game is a giant library of minigames, 
 and much other stuff to do. You can buy minigames, sounds, voice tests, figurines, and other things 
 at the Extras Tent. You must play the story mode to unlock minigames, but you can also buy them 
 in the Extras Tent which requires carnival tickets, which leads you back to story mode. The story 
 mode is the same old board game, this time, IT'S WORSE. The boards are very simple, and have little 
 to none thought in extras hidden in the courses and such. But let's get back to the good stuff. 
 Mario Party 8 has a great selection of minigames, from aiming with the Wiimote and shooting Boos, 
 to flipping a chimp around a pole. This game has great multiplayer that family and friends will 
 enjoy. You will most likely only play this game with 2 to more players though. I recommend this 
 game if you enjoy playing minigames with friends, but don't recommend if you want a awesome story 
 mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angry_Man65
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is on of the best games for the Wii. In fact, it is my favorite game for the Wii. 
 A lot more playable characters, new boards, different mini-games, and so-on. Mario Party 8 is also 
 the best game in the Mario Party series.
  
  Gameplay (9) : The controls don't work for some mini-games, but they are great
  overall. Some 
 of the boards are too easy and some are too hard.
  
  Graphics (9) : Even though this is suposed to be a high definition game, I still
  find them to 
 be a little too colorful. Other than that, they're great.
  
  Sound (10) : This game may have the best music in the series and on the cube
  yet. The sound effects 
 are also great. I really like Daisy's voice in the game.
  She sounds a lot older.
  
  Value (10) : This is a must buy for any Mario Party or Regular Mario gamers. A
  true masterpiece.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (10)
  
  Overall Score: 9.6 (Superb) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BringTheBlood
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Everything and more that you could expect from Mario Party. A great game to just sit and play with 
 your friends, exciting, funny, and all around great. The mini games are awesome and the game play 
 is just as fun as you thought it would be. This is a game that anyone can pick and up and have 
 fun with it. The only real bad thing about it that that i could find is that its not something 
 you can play all night. Everything gets very repetitive and about an hour or two into it youll 
 start to get bored. its not a game that youll have as much fun playing alone as you would with 
 other people, so make sure you got a few friends with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8
  
  I really liked the Mario Party 6 but this one is really boring.
  There is a new guy that comes and tell you to come play at his fair. You got to get STARS (no kidding) 
 to win the game. And the winners has the honor to be on a stage with many people who applaud you. 
 You can buy things with the stars that you collected.
  There is new caracters in this one: a skeleton of a koopa, toadette and many other. Bowser is not 
 has ennoying that in Party 6.
  The only thing that is great in the game is Yoshi.
  Please don't buy this game, don't rent it. Just play it if somebody that you know have it.
  The 
 graphics are not has good than Party 6 and if you're Wii has been put to be in Widescreen there's 
 going to be two blue lines each side.
  
  Oh yeah, the controls are not good.
  
  Thanks for read! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sants412
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  I've finally gotten around to playing Mario Party 8. And to be honest with ya it's not something 
 that I would even consider spending my 50$ on. The mini games are fair, but most of them are extremely 
 basic. A lot of them deal with shaking a controller up and down as fast as you can. I mean wow 
 not really something I'd wanna do for mini games. At least in some previous Mario Parties we saw 
 some mini games that actually took skill.
  
  Now, here's what was really killing me in Mario Party 8. This game is almost entirely up to chance. 
 I was playing with someone who has a lot less skill than I do. (The only reason I said this is 
 because I probably won 20/25 mini games.) And lost badly to this person. The reason is because 
 of chance. It's all chance. I mean if you're into that kinda thing then this game is for you, but 
 if you're not then you're gonna hate it. The bonus stars completely kill the game. At the end of 
 the game players got bonus stars for collecting candy, shopping, and landing on RED spaces. Can 
 you believe that? RED spaces. C'mon Nintendo, what happend to the Coin Star, the Mini game star, 
 and the Happening space star?
  
  The bottom line is: This game deserves to flop and Nintendo should kill the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomheffernan
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 17, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  + How many minigames you win has started (if only slightly) to make a difference on the overall 
 outcome of the boards. There are a couple that you will need a lot of coins to compete with your 
 rivals and one of the best ways to do this is to win minigames
  +The same dinstinctively Mario style presentation
  +Scores higher than the other Mario Party 
 games because despite the trend that games like Rayman Raving Rabbids are trying to set on the 
 NEED to buy 4 Wii remotes and 4 Nunchucks to get to the full potential of the game, Mario Party 
 8 can only be played using the Wii Remote (bar one minigame that doesn't occur on the boards)
 
  
  - Minigames still don't have enough of an effect on the overall outcome of the boards
  - The presenter of the game is the series' most irritating yet. Nice for younger kids but can we 
 please have an option to turn him off
  
  OVERALL
  
  Don't be tricked by those adverts into thinking this is a wholly new experience but if you like 
 Mario Party or party games in general, this is a nice one to pick up. Although if you can find 
 it for a knock down price (&pound;30 or so - try the supermarkets) it'd be much better value for 
 money. When all said and done however, there are still some 80 minigames here and 6 very differently 
 styled boards.
  
  WORD OF WARNING: Do NOT under any circumstances buy the option to heckle your opponents on the 
 boards from the in-game shop... by far the most irritating thing about this game (just trust me) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d-ray12
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 14, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  I think this game is more suited for the little ones. I got this game expecting the fun of Mario 
 Party that i used to enjoy when i was playing the first game. But ever since the first game it 
 seems more and more childish. I like how it is a party game, but unless u have a party every time 
 u play it than it gets old real fast. This game mightve been better if they included online play, 
 but nintendo seems to only do that for the good games. Also this game doesnt have the full fledge 
 of characters i always used to enjoy, like Bowser, and Donkey Kong. Which is why I give this game 
 a 5.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llama1107
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 11, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  This game is entertaining, but it has its set backs. 1. The game play is fun, yet the mini-games 
 are way too easy. It was all based on luck with easy objectives and short lived reruns of old Mario 
 Party mini-games.
  2. The mini-games are just plain boring
  3. The levels are too linear. There is not enough variation or different routes to take, instead 
 its a single path where your choices and outcomes are all based on luck. However, Mario Party 8 
 has its redeeming qualities.
  1. The creativity and style of the levels as far as events and stops along the way.
  2. Great 
 use of the Wii-mote! The tilt is perfect.
  3. Fun with friends. I rate this game as 8.1 Rent it before you buy it Buy it when it goes down 
 to $35- range 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  First off, I would like to say that I have no idea why this game got rated so low, I love this 
 game. I think it's defintely up there with the others, and even better than some. The only thing 
 is that I though it was gonna use the nunchuk a lot, but it uses the wii remote. I love how the 
 motion-sensing ability works for this game, I always thought wasy back when that a game like mario 
 party would be a good match for a game like this. and I was right in my opinion. There are quite 
 a few mini-games in here too. I think its like 80 or something like that, with a few from the other 
 games coming into this game using motion-sensing ability. The graphics are pretty good for the 
 wii, but still looks somewhat like a gamecube game. The sound is good though. When it's yur characters 
 turn, they make a noise through the speaker on the wii remote. So in closing I would like to say 
 that if you own a wii, and loved the previous mario party games, than you should buy this game. 
 But maybe wait until the price goes down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenmachine05
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  I love the Mario Party series, so it was a must for me to get this game but to be honest, I feel 
 as though I wasted my money on it. Here's how I see this game.
  
  Gameplay: The biggest problem with this game for me was that it didn't feel like a Mario Party 
 game. It felt like a little amusing gadget put together by Nintendo to help pass the time while 
 waiting for other great games to come. In other words, it feels like a longer version of Wii Play. 
 The whole is largely based on chance as well, even more so than previous Mario Parties, which can 
 be frustrating. Imagine being in first place with 6 stars, then literally losing 5 of them by chance 
 and coming in fourth overall. Ya. The minigames all feel like they have been done before and the 
 boards... don't even get me started. The boards are so cheesy and unoriginal and its enbarrassing 
 to play them. Its even more embarassing having friends know you own it. Ugghhh... 5/10
  
  Graphics: A lot of games on the Wii so far have not had next-gen graphics like a lot of us expected, 
 but to have worse than pre-gen graphics is just sad. Unfortunately, this game has that. Sloppy 
 colors, unforgivable lag, and horrible frame rate are things that you would think would be changed 
 immediately on a next-gen game, but it doesnt happen here for some reason. And as for the lagging... 
 it's just not exceptable. 5/10
  
  Sound: Ok, this time around the party takes place in a carnival. Yet, I don; t here any recognizable 
 carnival music. No, I hear a generic elevator tune. And the boards have generic explosion and ching 
 and ding sounds. Nothing new here. You would be better off playing Monopoly to a Cher song. 3/10
 
  
  Value: The only value this game has is for a good chuckle with some buddies when boredom sets in. 
 A chuckle at how bad the game is for a next-gen console, that is. 3/10
  
  Overall, it's an eyesore in the Mario Party series. They should forget this one was ever made and 
 just call the next one Mario Party 8 and continue from there. Thnx for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 Review
  The Good: Highly improved graphics and great sound. One of the greatest Mario parties with minigames. 
 Excellent multiplayer. Many new ideas. Interesting controls.
  The Bad: Requires way too much luck. The One Player Mode and Party Mode sometimes revolves around 
 sheer luck, so they aren't as fun as they were in previous entries to the series. Some minigames 
 don't require any skill.
  Mario Party 8 is the most recent installment to an incredible long running series. In the past, 
 games have improved as new additions to the franchise came out. This game takes a big step up from 
 the Nintendo Gamecube to the Nintendo Wii. Is it good or not? Read on.
  Gameplay- For starters, Mario Party 8 takes great advantage of the unique motion sensitive controls 
 of the Wii. You use the Wiimote in different positions for various minigames. You even flick the 
 Wiimote to hit the dice block. For the most part, the motion sensitive controls are accurate and 
 eventually become fun to use. I like them better than the classic Gamecube controlled Mario parties. 
 There are different modes in Mario Party. Let's talk about Party Mode first. Party Mode is different. 
 Getting stars varies depending on the board. The problem is: most stars require luck to get. In 
 the Boo board, you have to find the star in one of many rooms. You'll need to perform a lot of 
 guesswork to earn a star. In the DK, Shy Guy, and Goomba boards, you need to roll high dice blocks 
 consistently. The stars are at the end of each board, so if you want to win, you need to get the 
 mostby getting high numbers. These four boards all require luck and I don't like it so much. Thankfully, 
 in the Koopa board, you have to spend coins on stars. To earn coins you need skill. Mostly, coins 
 can be achieved from minigames, and they take a lot of skill to win. Party Mode can be annoying, 
 particularly if you have dumbluck, but with multiple players, it can be amusing, even if you are 
 in last place. There's a little bit on Party Mode. Next comes Minigame Mode, where you go off and 
 play the minigames you unlocked. The minigames in this installment to the series are awesome. I 
 like most of them. They are all different, and some are improvements off of previous entries to 
 the series. Everyone will have a good time playing these addicting games. Some require you to use 
 the Wiimote to driveSimilar in the game Excite Truck Others require you to point and aim in some 
 shootersSimilar in the game Red Steel. Nintendo did a great job making the unique functions of 
 the controller present in Mario Party. Lastly, comes the Story Modeor whatever you'd like to call 
 it. This mode requires you to beat a computer opponent, and eventually defeat Bowser. Again, story 
 mode is all about luck. I do not like it at all. I play video games that force you to try and think 
 your way through things. In this game, it's all about how lucky you get. In my opinion, games requiring 
 a lot of luck are not fun. Luckily, Mario Party 8 has some backup to it. That's it on the modes. 
 There are also some unlockables and they are terrific. Graphics- Mario Party 8 has highly improved, 
 visually. It looks so much better than Mario Party 7. As far as games on the Nintendo Wii, this 
 one is one of the better games as far as image. This game is definitely great. The graphics aren't 
 very detailed but they are bright and cheery enough to score high.
  Sound- Sound is another great thing in Mario Party 8. It sounds exactly as you figure it'd sound: 
 like an exciting party. The music makes a great tribute to the game. The only problem is that is 
 often gets repetitiveOtherwise, sound is superb.
  Replay Value- Replay value varies in Mario Party 8If you have a bunch of friends, than this game 
 is highly replayablebut if it is just you looking for this game, I suggest looking out for other 
 Wii games such as Super Paper Mario. It's just a lot better playing with some of your neighbors, 
 work buddies, family, or classmates.
  Overall, Mario Party 8 is pretty good. I think these games can be great if they revolve more around 
 skill. Hopefully next time, Mario Party will be something to rave about. I hope you enjoyed the 
 review.
  -Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iplaydnd35
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Many of the mini games can be played with four people and are more fun with more human players, 
 but you can do them with just one human and the others as computer controlled players. The board 
 game aspect was a bit off setting at first, but you just have to use you candy wisely and hope 
 for good rolls on the blocks. This is good party game as everyone can do most of the mini games 
 with a little practice. One of the few things that i don't like is the cost of opening up new games 
 or new boards, the are kind of high if you ask me. You have to complete one whole series of games 
 to pen up one new board. Some of the things you can buy really don't seem to have any benefit to 
 the game so i would place them on the end of the list of buy items. it is a very fun game to play 
 and I would highly recommend it to any Mario fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainmakerrng
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  One would think that with 80 mini-games, board games with candies and dices, anyone will be flipping 
 over it, but don't be fool by the quantity. It's quality that matters, and Mario Party 8 is below 
 quality.
  
  There are varies different modes to pick from, 1 player, 2 players, 4 players and Mii players as 
 well. Sounds good right? In theory - yes it does. The actually mini-games and (again) the quality 
 of each mini game is just plain awfully. Also, they have very little important to the overall board. 
 The dice roll and candy are the main factors. After a while, the mini-games became more of a distraction.
 
  
  Why? How?
  
  The motion sensor is just poor (again) quality. Wii Sports and Wii Play have set pretty fair standards 
 as far as the quality of motion sensor goes, Mario Party is no where near it. The boards are fun 
 for a bit, but it's too slow given that the mini-games are all about time-events, races, shottings, 
 platforms, etc - all fast-pace games. It's just not a good mix.
  
  The Mii players options are slim to none, and the mini-games are so bad, it's not worth playing, 
 it may as well not exist. It's probably the biggest disappointment in the game for me, considering 
 how much people love their Mii players, there should have been more options, perhaps even the option 
 to select Mii players in the main modes.
  
  If you haven't played any of the Mario Party before, you're not missing anything, Wii Play and 
 Wii Sports is more fun. If you have and loved it, go pick it up, if you have and hate it - stay 
 away. There aren't anything new and wonderful to change your mind. If you felt possessed and must 
 pick up one, get a used copy from EB or Gamestop, chances are you'll be returning it before the 
 7 day return policy expires.
  
  I will just play Wii Play and Wii Sports until a real Wii title comes out, this port is not worth 
 the money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnnoyingKid
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 was a good game from he start, but not the best.
  
  The Good: The minigames are fun, and the graphics are okay. The sound is good. The gameplay is 
 great, but I expected more use of the Wii-mote's motion-sensing. It's replay value is the whole 
 point of the game (to play it over and over again) .
  
  The Bad: Most minigames have the same controls, which isn't fun. The single player sucks. The AI 
 mostly focus on making you lose.
  
  All in all, Mario Party 8 is a good game, and a great multiplayer experience with friends, but, 
 the series has lost some of it's luster over the years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario2295
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 7, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  This game was pretty dissapointing. The game doesnt have very many minigames, but the ones they 
 have are pretty fun. This game will last you... maybe a week alone, or longer if you want all of 
 the things you can buy with Carnival Cards . It's pretty fun when you play it with a freind over 
 and thats kinda when you have the most fun with the game. If for some reason you have no freinds...... well 
 mr. anti-social, dont buy this game because it was made for multiplayer. The single player campain 
 is pretty boring and the only reason to do it is to unlock this stupid stand thing where you can 
 spend more Carnival Cards . If you liked Mario Party 7 you most likely will like this game, have 
 alot of freinds on your block, or have alot of family members who like video games.-mario2295 xbl 
 gt-wario2295 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merch
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  u have friends u want a party get mario party 8 for the wii personaly i prefer wario ware smooth 
 moves but it works.
  if u have 4 wii motes and 4 people in ur family that play this game is a must buy for u but it 
 was overhyped.
  
  pros:
  Plenty of minigames lots of playability and replaybility but thats all its got
  also the innovative 
 controls of doing a laso or cutting something pretty much a wario ware copy lol no its still good.
 
  
  cons:
  heres the bad news the game looks bad the graphics looks like a gamecube game that came out a year 
 late for the wii.
  and that chance bastard is still in it meh its ok difficulty really really easy
  learning curve 
 0-30 mins
  time spent about 15 hours
  overated
  gameplay is ok
  graphics meh gamecube
  sound is ok value is in between 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan9
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  As a nice start of my vacation, I bought Mario Party 8. I had seen and heard rumours and screenshots, 
 but had no idea exactly what it was about. But as soon as I started the game I liked it.
  
  Graphics ( 8/10 )
  
  The graphics look ( for some perhaps disappointing ) not a lot better 
 then the GameCube graphics. Still, it looks brighter and colourful and not bad at all. In my opinion, 
 the graphics are very good. The boards are viewed from different perpectives ( some boards follow 
 the character from behind, some from the side, etc ) . Also, I like the new flashy special effects. 
 Gameplay ( 8/10 )
  
  The gameplay is, in some ways, better then the gameplay from the previous Mario Parties. The Wii 
 controller gives the series something new. Still, use of the nunchuk would have been better for 
 walking around in minigames. Maybe something to remember for Nintendo when they make Mario Party 
 9.
  
  Sound ( 9/10 )
  
  Some catchy new tunes there, Nintendo. You may not agree, but I think Nintendo always makes brilliant 
 music. There's variation in the music, too. The sounds are just fine- and to drive opponents double 
 mad, the taunting sounds also come from the Wii-remote. Also, good sounds with the special effects 
 and events.
  
  Value ( 7/10 )
  
  This game's value for single player is not so high. You can beat Star Battle in a few hours. Of 
 course, playing mini-games and boards with computers can be challenging and fun, but after a while 
 it does get boring, you know. However, it will give you many hours of fun when you play it with 
 your friends. Even one extra person can triple the fun! Remember that.
  
  Conclusion ( 8/10 )
  
  Mario Party 8 is a good buy and cannot be missed in your Mario Party 
 collection. It has given new things to the series. I can say with honesty that I am looking forward 
 to Mario Party 9... and 10... and so on and so forth. If Nintendo keeps throwing in new stuff like 
 they did in this game, the Mario Party series will go on for a long time! Of course some things 
 were missing that I would like to see later, like more use of the nunchuk and perhaps better graphics 
 ( though that is one of the lesser problems ) .
  
  Go, Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connell66
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  My summary says it all. Go buy another MP game, this one's not as good. It has technically unimpressive 
 graphics, even by Gamecube standards. Heck, even in 2001, I woulda disliked the graphics.
  
  It's way too kiddish. When people say family-friendly, they mean fun for the WHOLE family, 
 and this is clearly targeted for kids at a young age. Teens and adults simply won't have as much 
 enjoyment out of this game.
  
  The game has a very serious flaw in terms of originality. Not only does it feel like more Mario 
 Party, but it also doesn't do anything original with the Wii-mote. While some minigames are good, 
 most are luck based, which is MP8's biggest flaw.
  
  I'm not saying that there is nothing skill based, but there is too much luck involved in this installment. 
 The boards, while well designed, are really based on how lucky you get. The minigames oftentimes 
 function similarly, but even if you do win, it really depends on how lucky you get.
  
  All in all, this is another Mario Party that, while it has replay value, is too luck based and 
 unoriginal. If you're looking for a good party game for the Wii, while this is OK I would recommend 
 Warioware: Smooth Moves or Rayman Raving Rabbids. In fact, I don't even know if you should even 
 consider renting this, let alone make a purchase. It's probably best to just pass on it altogether. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XExPiReD08X
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Im going to be completely honest in this review. Ups:
  Mario Party 8 features many fun minigames. The Wii remote is very fun to use to play the game instead 
 of a gamecube controller. The game is fun to play with you friends. The minigames are great in 
 this game. The boards themselves all feature different ways of winning the match. 8 fun characters 
 to play as. Once agian, the wii remote is very fun to play with.
  
  Downs:
  Unfortunatley the game losses its intrest very quickly, well to me at least. The game is good, 
 but not as good in single player mode. I think that they should have added more minigames, more 
 characters, and more boards to play on. More special features could have been added like more special 
 minigames. Many people say that the graphics suck and that nintendo should have made them better 
 because the wii is capable for that, the graphics are fine the way they are. Recommendation:
  Wait untill the pirce drops for this game because, as much as i love nintendo and mario games, 
 this game isn't worth $50. In my opinion, you should look for one of the other great mario party 
 games if you want to buy one. But if you really want to try this game out, rent it first and invite 
 friends over to play it with, if you really like it, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THTsoldier
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of funnest games that i have played so far on the wii besides wii sports. Be 
 sure to have 4 players to get the full enjoyment of this game. You never know what can happen in 
 this game. The mini games are fun and exciting and the learning curb is about 5-10 min. Another 
 great addition to this game is the use of the candy. Candy are the power ups that range from getting 
 three dice to roll to stealing coins. Great Game and a must own for any one that like to live one 
 roll at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pumpkin-Head
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  - Mario Party 8 Review -
  By Pumpkin -- Head
  
  Mario Party 8 is a great Multi-Player Game, Its Basically Best if you had many Friend With you 
 to play, If you didn't well I don't recommend that you buy it. Lets Start with The Meat of the 
 review shall we,
  
  
  - GamePlay -
  
  : The Boards :
  
  Like Previous Mario Party Games, It contains Diffrent kinds of Boards, each Unique With Diffrent 
 Types of things that you have to do around Boards. Mario Party Fans will already know its based 
 on a little 'Luck' like The Game-Spot Review Said, But which game Doesn't Have Luck In It ?
  
  Think of Monopoly, Some of these Games might not need luck at all. At First I'd say that 'I 
 didn't Like it' because it seemed kinda slow somehow, but then you get used to it, Sure Some Boards 
 have awful graphics like the D. K stage, while others are really Candy Delicious Graphics.
  
  : Mini-Games :
  
  The New Mini-Games are all on The Wii-Remote this time instead of the 
 Classic or GameCube Controller. There are tons of Mini-Games that you will encounter that you will 
 really like, First you might not like the repetative gameplay (Like Same ways of playing some mini-games 
 by waving your wii-remote) You might get Bored on the first try, even if you were with a Friend, 
 I was like that at first, But everyone deserves a second chance, and I'm glad i did Since i got 
 used to the games And there were many other Mini-Games that I Really Liked and i think Everyone 
 needs to give it a second chance and I'm sure you will Find The Mini-Games Extreamly Enjoyable.
 
  
  This time, There are Tons of Duel Mini-Games unlike before. You might notice that some 4-Player 
 games were taken to the 1-Vs-1 Mini-Game (Duel battle) but used for Two only. Like That 'Bat Swinging' 
 game and other special ones aswell. The 3-vs1 and 4-Player has little Mini-Games now, if you checked 
 your Tent you might notice that each has only games from 8 to 15 Diffrent Mini-Games, and thats 
 not a bad things since Some Mini-Games have Great Replay Value.
  
  Some Special Mini-Games in the Extra's Zone are just like Games From Wii-Sports but with Mario 
 Characters and some twist, along with some great Games that require Nun-chucks for you to play 
 them alone or with your friends. You can Also Play with your own Mii along with Mario Party Characters, 
 Which makes Children Go Crazy And Love to play with 'em!
  
  -: To Sum Things Up :-
  
  So To sum things Up, Here is what we had some far, Just Like gamespot :
  
  : The Good :
  
 
  Tons of Enjoyable Mini-Games, Colourful Candy Graphics, Nice Extras, Great Multi-Player, Great selections 
 of Boards.
  
  : The Bad :
  
  The Story (Its A Mario Game, what did You Aspect, still nice though) , Single Player won't enjoy 
 this game much. Recycled Sounds, Repetative Mini-Game most of the times.
  
  Well, That was My Review For Mario Party 8, Hope you Enjoy ! ^_^
  Check out my site on : www. Freewebs. com/pumpkin -- head
 
  
  - End - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackspider101
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jul 1, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I rented this and when I first started it I liked it but now I don't. Mario Party 8 is a waste 
 of time if you play it by yourself. Also 50$! Just for stupid Mario Party 8! NO WAY. Rent this game 
 first! There are some good parts I got to say. Like the lava guys and the icebergs mini games. Also 
 I really like Mario tycoon. It is kinda like monopoly. And the sound is horrible. each time you shake 
 the wii remote or even move it on someone else turn they say an annoying line like 100 time for 
 1 
 
  wow lol. I had to turn of my sound. I give this game 20$ out of 50@. LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazycasey94
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is great it is fun to play with a lot of people, but poor by urself... so im saying buy 
 it if ur a very social person... if not save ur money
  
  it rox my sox off at parties and sleep overs but other wise i cant stand playing it or looking 
 at it... i love the interactive features of the Wii... they kick ass and will beat any other system 
 (besides Xbox 360) in my oppinion it has Mario Luigi and anyone else i can think of because i made 
 this all up ive never played this game in my life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame4lyf
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is a pretty good game, but not the best Mario Party... There's plenty of minigames, 
 and some fun boards too. If only the wiimote was used more... then this game would be alot better. 
 The jist of the game is just like is has been for the past... oh I dunno, five or sdix Mario Parties. 
 The main objective is to become the Superstar, just like always. There are no real big twists, 
 or anything really really suprising about the objective... You clear a few boards, voila, you're 
 the superstar. But for your efforts, you get a new character, which is a very nice bonus.
  
  Some boards are... somewhat uninspiresd, while others are amazingly fun. Like, there's one 
 board that all you do is go in a straight line to get a star, nothing to pay to get the star, nothing 
 like that. The twist is that the board is VERY long, and you can get sent back to the beginning 
 three or four spaces from the star... Once it took me 3 hours to get one star, and that was with 
 taking shortcuts. In another board, you bid on hotels, which give stars. For anyone who is really 
 good at mini games, winning this board is a snap. This is obviously an easy board.
  
  The mini games in this Mario Party are great, even with the limited use of the wiimote's capabilities. 
 There are some old mini games that are revitalized and are better than ever. This game is worth 
 a shot, but if you were less than impressed by the past Mario Parties, don't bother with this one. 
 If you did like the previous Parties though, you should get this one when you hasve some extra 
 cash on-hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan729
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Most are familiar with how Mario Party's board game component works, but here is a quick 
 overview. At the beginning of each game, each player hits a over-head rolling dice block (with 
 a flick of the Wiimote) to determine turn order. The game board consists of red spaces and blue 
 spaces, which determine what type of minigame is played (1v3, 2v2, FFA) . The board is also filled 
 with special spaces that trigger different events. Coins are used to purchase items, and also help 
 determine place order. A minigame wheel is spun after everyone's turn, and winning minigames is 
 the quickest way to accumulate coins. Most minigames utilize the Wiimote functionality in some 
 way, but a few stick to the traditional control scheme with the Wiimote turned on its side and 
 used like a NES controller. There are really three distinctive types of minigames here. One type 
 uses the Wiimote to point and shoot or to draw. Another type involves steering or controlling something 
 with the Wiimote. And the final type requires the player to shake or move the Wiimote quickly. 
 There are a few minigames that stray from these basic molds, and require several different movements 
 to win. For example, Blazing Lassos has you waving the Wiimote like a lasso, throwing it forward 
 to catch a barrel, and then flicking it back. Another fun one is Shake it Up; in which the players 
 must rapidly shake the Wiimote like a can to see who's soda spews the highest. Because of Wii controls, 
 Mario Party 8 has arguably the best minigames of the series. At the end of each minigame, the winning 
 player (s) are rewarded with coins. 20 coins will buy you a star, given you land on a star space, 
 and stars rank superior to coins in determining place order. Stars and coins can be taken away 
 through various circumstances, and awarded to another player. The Bowser spaces return, and often 
 lead to star snatching from the unfortunate player to land on them. However, these Bowser spaces 
 are now shared by new DK spaces, which often reward players with the chance for a free star. The 
 game also features new candy items. These pieces of candy are bought or received throughout the 
 game, and act as power-ups for the player. Vampire candy allows you to steal coins from multiple 
 opponents, while Thrice candy gives the player three dice blocks to roll during one turn. Games 
 are preset to 15 turns, and the winner is decided by the most stars. There are several different 
 modes in Mario Party 8. The single player story adventure is called Star Battle Arena. Here, the 
 player is pitted against one computer player on all five boards, and then must face Hammer Bro. 
 or Blooper on Bowser's game board. Star Battle is required to unlock Hammer Bro. and Blooper, Bowser's 
 game board, and to feel like you achieved beating the game. Minigame Tent allows player to play 
 any minigames that have been unlocked, and also offers game boards focusing strictly on minigame 
 play. Party Tent is where you can just play games on any of the six game boards, and is the place 
 for mulitplayer party play. There is also a Extras Zone that contains eight minigames in which 
 players' Miis can be used. Now to access some flaws in the Mario Party gameplay mechanics. First 
 off, the game board play moves are too slow a pace. Mario Party 8 adds the ability to skip minigames 
 involving CPU characters, and also allows you to speed-up text speed. Still, the board play seems 
 very slow. Second, the game relies too much on the luck factor over skill. Winning the game should 
 be more relied upon winning minigames than getting lucky with dice rolls. Third, there are too 
 many duel minigames and not enough FFA minigames (27- Duel, 18- FFA) . Don't ask me why, because 
 duel minigames don't happen nearly as often as FFA minigames. It even would have been easy for 
 the developers to incorporate the duel minigames into FFA minigames. My last complaint rests on 
 the familiarity of the franchise. Eight Mario Party games in 7 to 8 years! Too many, considering 
 how far the franchise has gone...
  
  Graphics:
  
  Mario Party games never have had great graphics, and they don't need to. Still, Mario Party 8 essentially 
 has Gamecube quality visuals. You really shouldn't be too disappointed in this though because the 
 Wii isn't exactly known for high-quality graphics. Character models like very polished, as always. 
 All of the game boards are decorative and creative. Game boards range from a speeding train to 
 a lively town where you must invest coins in banks to receive stars. Minigame graphics aren't bad, 
 but nothing special. Your Miis appear in the backgrounds of some of the minigames.
  
  Sound: There are no voice-overs in Mario Party 8, which is a minor disappointment. Sound effects 
 are ok, and the music tends to be repetitive. Value:
  
  Mario Party 8 is a game with pretty good value. Star Battle Arena will take some time to beat (5 
 hours?) . Most time will be spent playing Party Tent with other people, however. Mario Party 8 is 
 a game that most people will be familiar with considering the TV adds and the longevity of the 
 franchise. This is also, like many of Nintendo games, appeal to non-gamers. Once you unlock all 
 of the minigames, you aren't likely to play this game as much, but there is still lots of good 
 value for mulitplayer.
  
  Verdict:
  
  Mario Party 8 may be the best game of the franchise simply because of the intuitive Wii controls 
 for minigames. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gameslayer3
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  The only hard thing in this game is the last level of story mode. The host with the purple hat 
 is STUPID and a loser. I don't like this game much but the only good thing is........ o the 2 new 
 characters. they rock. this game is easy but has a few hard games NOT MANY. Theres realy only 1 
 good game board and thats the koopa one. I only spent less then 10 hours on it because of how bad 
 it is. if you want this game rent it because for how long your going to have it rented is how long 
 it will take you to hate the game.
  
  Gameplay: same old same old you hit the dice block walk around BUT most of the boards are different 
 this time and you have to complete them a certain way.
  
  Graphics: Gamecube but a TINY bit better
  
  Sound: Well its okay. you can hear stuff as much 
 as you need to but i wish the characters had voices...
  
  Value: Ya this is y i say rent it. NOT WORTH $50!
  
  Tilt: nothing to say
  
  If you have 
 any more questions feel free to PM me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m1k3m
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  To start I have to say that this is definitely one of the best Mario Party games. It's just a lot 
 of fun.
  
  Gameplay: Mario Party 8 has a lot of new gameplay enhancements over the older games. One thing 
 that I really like is that you have to jab the Wii remote upwards to smack your dice block. I know 
 it sounds gimmicky but I love it anyway. Of course a lot of minigames are motion controlled which 
 is very fun. Most of them are very fun. Only a few are duds that fall flat. Some of the minigames 
 also only use the control pad and 1 and 2 buttons on the Wii remote for a more old school approach. 
 I like these because it's nice to have games that don't use motion too. It's nice to have variety, 
 am I right? You point at the screen with the Wii remote to navigate through all of the menus. It 
 works better than using an analog stick so it is a nice addition. Miis are also used to represent 
 your game file. They appear in some minigames and you can play as them in the games that are in 
 the extras zone. Overall Mario Party 8's gameplay is great and helps this game succeed.
  Gameplay-9
  
  Graphics: Ehhh well these graphics aren't all that great. Mario Party 8's graphics 
 are nicer than the Gamecube Mario Party games though so it is a welcome improvement for the series.
 
  Graphics-6
  
  Sound: The sound is quite nice. You still have the little dinging noises when you step on a space 
 which I love. Each minigame's music also fits the feel of the game so the overall sound is very 
 solid.
  Sound-6
  
  Value: This was definitely worth all 49 dollars and 99 cents that I spent on it. It will last you 
 a long time and there are a lot of unlockables such as 2 more characters, figures, minigames, extras 
 zone minigames, and more. Don't be afraid to spend you money on this game.
  Value-8
  
  Tilt: I really enjoyed Mario Party 8. It's a lot of fun! Especially when you play with other people. 
 I don't think it will ever get old sooooooooo...
  Tilt-8
  
  Overall: Mario Party 8 is a very robust package of both single player and multiplayer gaming fun 
 so it packs a lot of bang for your buck. If you don't own this and you're looking for a little 
 Mario to spice up your life, than this is the game to get.
  Overall-8.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DuNN-
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Tons of Minigames, great for little kids
  Cons: Bad Graphics, bad minigames, bad single player
  
  I don't think a single thing went right 
 with me and this game, first I turn it on and guess what I get a purple guy making car honking 
 noises.
  Second this game needs a new esrb rating CO for children only i felt like i was back in kindergarten 
 while playing this game, i mean im sitting here pouring sugar onto a scale seeing if it would weigh 
 between 100-105. I give them credit for the smart boards nice ideas there. The gamecube looking 
 graphics really ruined it for me i was expecting a bit better than that.
  All the hype for this game and would you expect a bit better of a game, but no... The gameplay 
 for me was just plain boring i wish this game was never sent to me get lost in the mail huge waste 
 of my time played this game for 2 days then i was done with it. The single player in this game 
 was the worst part it is pretty much the same as playing a board game not many minigames only if 
 you land on the board pieces. Mario party just doesn't seem like its going to change and seems 
 like im playing the game over and over again just different mini games and boards. this game gets 
 a poor rating of 4.3.,... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_ObSeSsIoN
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is an amazingly fun game that will get you off of the couch and will get you going 
 because of its innovative mini games and its incredible use with the Wii Remote. This game is a 
 must buy that is definitely under rated by GameSpot. It is worth your time and money even if your 
 everyone hates you if you have this game they wont hate you... until they buy it themselves that 
 is. No one can even be mad around this game, it really is the funnest party game ever. I honestly 
 think it was the dumbest thing to do for Gamespot to give this game a 6.5, This game is definitely 
 worth the $50.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Best_yet22
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  I remember back when I was about 9 years old and I got the first Mario Party, for the first couple 
 of days I played by myself it gathered fun for me, it was not until later that weekend I got my 
 best friend over and played it with him. We played for hours and days and years (lol) .
  
  Fast forward to 2007 and we still play video games together. So here we are at Mario Party 8. Let 
 me say this first; I'm not the type of person to bug my friends I learn to play multi player games 
 my self that are meant for friends ( also I only have one Wii-mote lol)
  
  Ok the game is the same story all over play board games, take turns, get coins/stars, and win mini 
 games. The only thing different is the theme, you are at a Fair or Circus something of the sort. 
 You play mini games for I don't know what reason.... you just play.
  
  Characters: You get the usuals and then Nintendo focus on what seems to pick out the most generic 
 Mario Characters ever
  
  Mario
  Peach
  Luigi
  Wario
  Yoshi
  Toad
  Toadette
  
  And the real generics like
  Dry Bones
  Koopas
  and other meh characters
  
  Game play 
 :
  Were this game really shines and sets it apart from other MP games is the fact that it uses the 
 Wii's motion sensitivity you use it to turn levers, guide vehicles, shake soda cans until they 
 burst, and balance your character. But I cant help to feel that most of the games were light gun 
 rip-off games, most of the games your shoot something or just guiding a cursor for some reason.
 
  
  Graphics:
  There good not choppy at all, kiddish at the best, I'd say it could be done on the GCN . There 
 colorful but hey, aren't most Mario games? For wii they are good.
  
  Control:
  Great, the Wii uses Mario Party real well, the motion sensing is precision right and is not to 
 loose or too tight.
  
  Pros
  
  . Made the GCN to transition good
  . Is good looking
  . Fun by yourself, but better with friends
  . Uses motion sensing in all 
 most games
  
  Cons
  
  . Game Boards toooo simple and short
  . It is based on chance and when I say that I mean it's not as radomized it's almost seems set 
 for the A. I
  .Bad Mii integration, I want my Mii on the Game Boards not just in some left over Mini games.
 
  . Mii Mini games are terrible, but simple and also Wii Sports rip offs in some point, the bowling 
 game is awful and the Ping Pong is also, I didn't see how Nintendo made Wii Sports and then came 
 and made these crap side games on MP8, they made me take the game out and play some Wii-Sports.
 
  
  I loved it for the memories, great game in my eyes and even though I have my beefs it's one of 
 my favorite Wii games.
  
  8.9
  
  And I said 4 to more, for the hours because you will have to learn the different mini games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterShake06
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  I think this game offer many hours of good and clean fun, specially if you haven't played any game 
 of Mario Party.
  There are many critics about the game, but i believe that is just for botter other players. Jus 
 don't listen to them.
  
  The gameplay its exceptional, just moving the wii-mote around the room its very funny and sometimes 
 tired, but not enough to forget the game. May be there are some minigames that have been in other 
 Mario Partys, but its like it were new games. So, my recomendation, is that you taste it first 
 renting the game, because its worty qhen you have more friends playing with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pro_gamer12345
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  The game finally has arrived with it's 8th game in the series. But this time its for the WII. The 
 game works great with the WII. Such as either your piloting a plane through some obstacles or your 
 running from a guy thats throwing snowballs at you trying to make you fall from a rooftop. Gameplay: 
 Like every other Mario Party game you hit a block with a press of a button. But this time you move 
 your WII remote in a upward direction. Okay thats not it. The mini-games will make you hold your 
 wii remote sideways or just in a upward direction and just tilting it left and right. Sometimes 
 some buttons are used in the mini-games. There are also these new items that are candy. And each 
 candy affects your turn big time. Like the Thrice Candy makes you hit a dice block 3 times. Theres 
 the slowgo candy that slows downs your dice block 1-5 so you hit the number you want to hit. Story: 
 I got to say... that story actually makes sense. You duel it out with this one character in this 
 place called the Star Battle Arena. There are no mini-games unless someone lands on a VS space. 
 The VS space makes you fight your opponent in a mini-game and the winner throws a dart at the roulette 
 wheel WII style. And which number you land on you get that much of coins from your opponent. Well 
 back to the story... you play for a lifetime supply of candy.. yea well.. it will all make sense when 
 you pick this game up.
  
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't that good but i guess i see a little improvement between the WII 
 and the Gamecube versions.
  
  
  Sound: The music in this game fits perfectly with the boards and when the game loads onto the menu 
 screen.
  
  
  Replay Value: This game is worth every penny you pay for. If you got a couple of friends usually 
 hanging in your house or you got brothers or sisters you need to get this game. You could always 
 come back and play your favorite boards over and over again without ever getting bored!
  
  Weather your a Mario Party fan or not you need this game in your collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is alot better on the Wii, just because I think you can do so much more with thw Wiimote, 
 I like the fact that you mostly do everything with the Wiiimote.
  
  I would have to say the toughest board is the City where you by a hotel and get a star each time 
 you own a hotel, the easiest has to be the Goomba Pirate stage, and this is all in the one player 
 mode.
  
  My most favorite one player mini game has got to be the one where you are stamping your logo on 
 a piece of paper, and then you have to pass the piece of paper with the bowser logo, and I think 
 you need like 20 stamps to complete it.
  
  My most favorite Muiti-player is where you have to hit the mushrooms and not the goombas, and you 
 must get as many points as possably.
  
  All and all this is a perrt cool game and pretty fun too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucky-22
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  this game require at least 2 people to be fun
  once you master all the games, there's no point in playing anymore or playing with anyone else.
 
  everytime my friends come over, they all pick wii sports over mario party.
  it's fun when you first get it but it gets pretty boring after a while.
  then again... maybe 
 i'm too old for this kind of game.
  
  this game is great for children who arent old enough to play resident evil (and res evil is 20 
 bucks cheaper)
  replay value depends on how many friends would want to play it
  and how long it takes for you to get good at (when you do get good at the game, dump it)
  
 
  the only thing i'm complaining is that it's only fun with a group of people
  and how similar it is to all other mario parties 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voredor
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 22, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  Mario party 8 is as mario party 7 is almost the same the games but due to the wii mote its actually 
 more fun, lot of games and fun with your friends. I do not recommend playing alone, or play against 
 the computer with your friend. I tried to play with 2 of my friends with a com as the 4th player, 
 he was annoying kept getting extra coins and in some way i don't understand stole our coins, stars 
 and dignity. I would recomend this game for friends and family its alot of fun and never goes old. 
 (unless mario party 9 is out) . Graphics are a bit better to the one on the GC but you will notice 
 a difference. Sound in general is good and fits to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital_XTC
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Oh I would like to start by pointing out that I really dont understand why all the major review 
 sites out there give this game such awful reviews. Its like every time a new Mario Party game comes 
 out they tear it to pieces and complain that theres no inovation or major changes to the series. 
 I dont see this at all. Everytime a new MP game comes out the player love it. So whats wrong with 
 Gamespot and others alike? The biggest one as stated is they dont change the formula to much. Well 
 to me for a board game thats good. Take for instance Monopoly or yahtzee or any other long lived 
 board game out there. Theyve been doing the same game over and over again and still selling millions 
 every year. Anytime they have done drastic changes theyve always bombed. So why does no one realize 
 that changing a formula that works and is still fun is just plain stupid.
  
  Graphically this game is beutifull! Colors are bright, vibrant, and pop on the screen. Its actually 
 quite amazing the amount of objects and detail that has gone into it. Gameplay is fun and fast 
 pased, despite some people saying its too slow. Why would you want a party game to end quickly 
 anyways? Every turn you can expect 2-3 minigames per turn. Obviously theres always a group minigame 
 at the end of every turn. Most of the minigames are really great. Some are not so great.
  
  Sound is what you would expect. Nothing to write home about but at least all the music and sound 
 effect fit the game perfectly.
  
  On the bad side some of the things that do bother are as follows:
  Why do I still have to read 
 text? Couldnt they make that stupid hat character talk? I mean they start to in the begining then 
 oddly it turns into a bunch of stupid noises? Whats up with that?
  
  Why does it demand to tell me about the game and how to play it over and over again despite the 
 fact Ive already Ive read all the text the first time I saw it?
  
  Well thats my review. All in all I would definitly say this game is a buy. Just make sure youve 
 plenty of friends and wiimotes for everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjlthecreator5
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 21, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  If you've never played a Mario Party title before, the concept is very simple. Imagine taking a 
 board game, like Sorry! or Parcheesi and bringing it to a video game screen. Sounds simple enough, 
 right? Well, the Party franchise tends to do things a bit more complex than your average board 
 game. Winning isn't usually a matter of getting all your pieces to home or traversing the entire 
 board. Instead, players race around the circular boards, seeking Star Pieces from various sourcesMario 
 Party 8 brings a number of new stages to the mix. Set in locations ranging from Donkey Kong's jungle 
 to a mixed-up magical train run by Shy-Guys, these stages are fun and well designed. They have 
 you jumping, swinging and running around familiar Mario-inspired areas, and each is filled with 
 amusing little references and touches, including cameos by various Mario characters. Depending 
 on which game mode you play in, you can be running around the stage attempting to grab stars, impressing 
 a movie star or trying to turn a profit by investing in hotels. Unfortunately, while these ideas 
 are fun the first couple of times, they quickly wear out their welcome. Generally, you're either 
 collecting stars or collecting coins, and the various ways that this is done doesn't change the 
 fact that the main gameplay is basically the same. While there are some clear attempts to spice 
 up the formula, particularly in the hotel board, they just don't manage to overcome the overall 
 dull design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is all new and fresh. New minigames, new console and a couple new characters. Mario 
 party 8 is one of the best Mario Parties Ever! With Wii they managed to combine Wii motions and 
 just normal controlling. This game has many things to unlock and earn. Single player only lasted 
 me about five or six hours, but then the the shops opened. And in this game you can BUY minigames, 
 how cool is that? Party Mode is the best. The boards are incredible and creative. Not to mention 
 the characters are... well same... But still!
  
  Now to move on to the bad... The single player is too short the game characters seem to lag a bit, 
 or they seem like robots. The audience for single player looks stupid. The guy with the hat is 
 so dang annoying. I want to rip his hat off and throw it off a bridge then throw him off mount 
 everest
  
  Overall if you have people to play this with, buy it, if you don't go get some freinds, then buy 
 it. If you don't have a Wii you shouldn't even be reading this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoEnd
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This review is based on playing this as a party game, I wouldn't recommend Mario Party for a solo 
 gamespot staff reviewer type player.
  
  This game is more of what you had every other year and could have been over a 9.0 had some innovative 
 new feature beyond the controller been added. This installment is a little prettier in some spots 
 but not many noticeable differences visually. Now the games use the Wiimote and the sensing seems 
 to be spot on making for even more fun and excitement!
  
  If your a fan of Mario Party, there is no reason to pass on this installment with the new Wii controls, 
 you will have a blast.
  
  Gamespot is more focused on the spotty widescreen support and this is just a sad indication of 
 their inability to be in touch with what most people are playing games on in their house. WAKE 
 UP GAMESPOT no one cares if Mario Party has 4x anti-aliasing or widescreen support. You think you 
 would have learned this when you wrote articles with foreshadowing of Nintendo's doom for not having 
 HD supoort when the Wii came out. Nintendo was too busy moving into number one focusing on the 
 fun gameplay while gamespot staff wants purty pictures.
  
  I believe it is impossible for the anti-social people at Gamespot to truely enjoy a game like this. 
 Is it a fun game to play by yourself? I would guess not, I have never tried. Is it an excellent 
 game with opportunities for everyone to have fun when playing in groups? YES!!
  
  That is what makes Mario Party a game I look forward to every year. My girlfriend will play it, 
 her sister will play it, my nephew will play it, everyone will play it because the mechanics are 
 simple enough and the boardgame spaces random enough that everyone has a chance to win! I am more 
 of hardcore gamer, win most the minigames but lose about 1/3 of the time due to random luck. Who 
 cares!
  
  Gamepot gets worse and worse with their favoritism for well hyped games and the stubborn belief 
 that the prettier the picture somehow making the game mechanics enjoyable. They need to save up 
 all their high scores for the games with BIG MARKETING MONEY to spend like Halo 3 and Madden 2008. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party has been one of Nintendos biggest franchises since its first version was released 
 in 1999. The game was such an amazing and surprising success that Nintendo started creating new 
 versions annually and although many of those versions didnt see any positive feedback from the 
 gaming press it was still very a popular game.
  
  So 8 years and 3 different systems after the launch of the first instalment of the series, here 
 we are, Mario Party 8 features all the main characteristics that made the series a big success 
 and it doesnt actually bring many novelties.
  
  Mario Party 8 starts in pretty much the same way all its 7 predecessors did, Mario and his friends 
 arent doing anything special but they wind up in a huge competition which involves winning boards 
 to become the superstar. If you are not familiar with the series, do not worry the storyline isnt 
 important at all, the major point of Mario Party is to have lots of fun.
  
  The game is divided in 3 distinct game modes, the Single-Player, which as most people know is not 
 the biggest prowess of the series, the Battle Royal mode and the Mini-Game mode.
  
  The Battle Royal Mode is where all the fun is. You and 3 other friends or CPUs will battle on a 
 board on which your goal is to acquire lots of stars, to get those stars you will need coins that 
 you will gain on Mini-Games that happen after each player has hit the dice and walked some spaces.
 
  
  The boards, by the way, look really good, now you will be able to notice some nice details because 
 the camera is zoomed into the action, so you will watch what your characters do much closer.
  
  During the boards you can buy different items that will help on your way to the stars, they 
 can either get you coins, steal something from your enemies or make you hit two dice so you can 
 reach the star as fast as you can. The items add lots of strategy to the game as you will always 
 be able to think your way out of a bad situation or trying to get to the star by using different 
 methods, it is all up to you.
  
  The Mini-Game mode is where you can play only the mini-games which have always been the best part 
 of the series, without walking on any boards. I must say I was a little disappointed at some mini-games, 
 while half of them made an excellent use of the Wiimote others used the D-pad to control your characters, 
 I think Nintendo could have created some mini-games that would use the Wiimote with more creativity, 
 such as the mini-games from Wario Ware. The only reason you are playing the Single-Player is that 
 you will have to complete the six challenges in order to unlock some nice stuff such as characters 
 and a new board. On the single-player you will face different challenges that take place on 6 different 
 boards against a character. The goals may seem different but you will end up having to catch a 
 star or two on every single challenge.
  
  Unlockables aside, there isnt much to do in this mode, since you will exclusively rely on the 
 number you will get on the dice because differently from the Battle Royal mode, there arent any 
 mini-games when the turn finishes, so to get coins you will have to be really lucky. The single-player 
 can be often very frustrating because of that, as sometimes you will have to play through a challenge 
 more than 5 times because somehow the CPU managed to defeat you.
  
  The graphics are nice, they may seem similar to the ones from the GC version, but if look carefully 
 you will notice that they have been slightly improved, there are some nice effects, the characters 
 are really smooth and the boards look really cool with some great textures.
  
  The sound isn't remarkable, yet it works fine for a game like Mario Party that while playing with 
 your friends you won't be able to care about the songs as everybody will be screaming and laughing 
 about what's happening on the TV.
  
  Mario Party 8 doesn't bring anything new to the series, but it is another solid Mario Party game 
 that when played with friends will last for long hours, days, months and even an year, until the 
 next version comes out. The gameplay could have been better as some mini-games don't use the Wiimote 
 as smartly as they could.
  
  If you are not a fan of the series and has already played many versions of the game then stay away, 
 you will probably not be satisfied and will start complaining about how the game should have improved, 
 but if you are looking for a nice multiplayer experience and doens't own any of the previous version 
 then you definitely need to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1upMushroomX6
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  i just recently purchase mario party 8. its fun for about the first 4 hours, but after that the 
 games get repititive and boring. there some good minigames but there ,of course, are some preety 
 useless minigames. this game is a rental and also a good buy. (rent it first) . if you love mario 
 party games this is must get for this year... the graphics are good, beautiful game boards with 
 some nice effects. game boards make from luigi's mansion, super mario sunshine, and a board looking 
 like the town from earthbound but who cares its fun when you play it because you have to purchase 
 property (like a tycoon or monopoly) to get stars... but anyways the character choice is expanded 
 with some newcomers. limited gameplay maps and choices with some spin-offs from wiiplay and wii 
 sports... but if you have alot of company over and they are just itchin to play some wii... i would 
 recommend playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimBurber
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 17, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  The popular series has finally hit the Nintendo Wii. What other game with the nintendo logo slapped 
 on it is more suited for the transition to the wii? MP8 pulls off nicely on the wii as one should 
 excpect from this series. Nintendo knows how to utilize the Wiimote fluidly and unobtrusively in 
 the minigames. Typically using movements such as rowing, or hammering, or steering to play through 
 the games. However there are games the motions don't seem nearly as natural and you wonder why 
 oh why can't I just use the d pad or the a button?! Gameplay wise, typically you will be playing 
 battle royale against other players. The different boards in MP8 are more varied than they have 
 been in past versions of the game, so each map will play different and have distincly different 
 strategies involved. However some aspects seem to have taken a step backwards in relevance. Items 
 for instance, have become nearly pointless save for the fact that there are new bonus stars you 
 can get for purchasing them and/or using certain ones to move the most spaces. Battle games are 
 re-implemented once again, but you distinctly get the feeling that they are worthless after gaining 
 a meer five coins from your enemy after a randomized prize selection after prevailing over your 
 opponent. All in all, if you are a party game fan, a wii fan, or just somebody looking for fun 
 with some friends, it's a great game that can facilitate a jam packed fun filled evening for you 
 and your friends. In the off time, you can spend some time playing single player missions to unlock 
 new characters, a new map and several other cool features, such as the ability to taunt your opponents 
 annoyingly in battle royale mode! HOORAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick21989
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 16, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Being a Mario Party fan from the very first one I had high hopes for the series to start fresh 
 and new on the Wii. However I feel like the game didn't quick make the leap over. For the most 
 part the mini-games are way easy and simple. With such a great new system you thought they would 
 have taken advantage of the Wii and had some great new mini games. Most seemed like the old games 
 but now you just use different buttons or whatever. That was the first drawback. The second drawback 
 seems to be that this Mario Party is based on luck more than any other I've played yet. I swear 
 I've played at least 10 board games now and the luck system sucks! My friend who owns the game 
 noticed the same thing. It's just to hard to win and the game shouldn't be based on luck but more 
 skill and strategy. Some good things are the graphics are very nice looking.... though if you have 
 a wide screen TV it won't stretch the game and you get some nice looking sidebars so the game is 
 just in the center of your TV.... this SUCKS! Not a good way to go since more and more people are 
 getting these kinds of TV's. Time to update. The boards are pretty fun and unique compared to the 
 other boards in the series since these ones have straight paths instead of having things spread 
 across a huge board. A third draw back that comes to mind is that all/most of the characters got 
 new voices and they were not for the best at all! Many are very annoying and the phrases they say 
 are just lame. All in all the game is ok. About 50/50. Hopefully they will learn and Mario Party 
 9 will take advantage more of the Wii and less on luck and past ideas. While the game is fun for 
 a while... it's not really meant as a one player so get some friends over and try it out since playing 
 the one player mode is quite boring. 6/10 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party... uhmmm oh right! ..8.. another Mario Party... isn't that just great? No, no not really.
 
  
  Mario Party 1 on the Nintendo 64 started a magnificent new way of play and great games and a short 
 fun board. then we go on to the Gamecube. They go for a new approach by adding more people (like 
 it even matters) and more boards but the minigames are just like the others and the graphics may 
 be prettier but the gameplay is exacly the same in almost every way. Pretty covers and graphics 
 won't hide its bland and boring gameplay. Then they decide let's go to the Wii!! Thats sounds like 
 a great idea! Wii controls... new games... Well the truth is the games are nothing special even 
 with wii controls. Like the Wii needed another mini game game.
  
  The new controls are like any other wii game you could play and they get annoying sometimes... 
 This game is probobly fun for kids who don't know whats good and just like to use the Wii and play 
 mini games.
  
  The graphics are just Gamecube graphics don't be surprised when you think you mite of put Mario 
 Party 4 in insted.
  
  Anyways Mario Party really needs to stop now because everyone is done with it.
  
  It was fun 
 for the first 4 but after that... Ughh I don't even want to talk about this game anymore.
  
  Please don't buy this game enless you Rent it first 
  
  wow was i dissapointed hahaahhaa 
 =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyxp
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  With the addition of new mini games for the Wii, Mario Party 8 is a great addition for your Wii.... if 
 you have four remotes. Although the graphics aren't that great it has fun gameplay.
  
  The graphics look like GameCube, and don't look an better than the last mario party.
  
  The 
 sound doesn't differ much from the rest of the series. but fits the mood.
  
  Value is excellent... you can play this with other friends and still have a fun time playing it. 
 I would highly reccomend it to the younger game players, as the mini games are quite simple.
  
  Overall, it's a pretty good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMaster272
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  This game has some pretty good graphics, the new minigames are very good they range from easy-hard 
 at times. The minigames are very cool because you can use the wii remote and only on a few the 
 nun-chuck!!! THe charecter's are: Mario (of course) , Luigi, Peach, Daisy, Waluigi, Wario, Birdo, 
 Toadette, Toad, Yoshi, Dry Bones, Boo, Hammer Bro (unlockable) , Blooper (unlockable) !!! I think 
 it was a good idea to change different orb's from Mario Party 7 to different candies in Mario Party 
 8. Here is the different candies from Mario Party 8: Twice Candy, Thrie Candy, Slowgo Candy, Springo 
 Candy, Cashzap Candy, Vampire Candy, Bitsize Candy, Bloway Candy, Bowlo Candy, Weeglee Candy, Thwomp 
 Candy, Bullet Candy, Bowser Candy, and Duelo Candy!!! Also the game can go up to 4 player's!!
 
  I really recamend this game to anyone with a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiik23
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  I never used to like the Mario Party Series. Sure I played it at friends house once or twice. Never 
 liked it. When this came out, I had 50 bucks to waste. And that 50 bucks sure was wasted!
  
  Single Player is completely BORING! Multiplayer is also boring. Me and my friends quit after 
 the first 5 turns. The minigames aren't even that good. You just jump, shake a can of soda, cut 
 ropes, and do grafitti. Wow, so much fun.
  
  Graphics are probably the best thing in the game. Not wow graphics, but just meh graphics.
  
 
  The music and noises are terrible. I hate Yoshi's voice so much! The only way I can enjoy the 
 music is if my TV is on mute. I'll just get mt iPod when I play this game.
  
  All in all, this game SUCKS!. Don't buy. Waste of 50 bucks and a waste of life. This is why I hate 
 Mario Patry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perphection
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 15, 2007 12:38 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the most dissapointing follow up to any video game I have ever played. The 
 single played is more boring than watching the gospel channel with your grandmother. Multiplayer 
 does make the game slightly better but still lackes the fun found in previous Mario Parties. There 
 just arnt enough mini-game opprotunities, it has become mostly rolling dice and moving accross 
 the board with some flash. If I wanted to just roll some dice and move spaces across a board i 
 would have saved myself fifty dollars and dug my old monopoly board out of the closet. Unless you 
 have three friends with you when you play this game, its really not worth bothering with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f5lesnar2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party has become one of those series where if you've played one of them, you've played all 
 of them... fortunetly I haven't played them since the very first game back on the N64. Mario Party 
 8 for the Wii brings exactly what you would expect from the Party series to Wii. In the standard 
 format, you and some friends can compete against or with each other in a board game style game 
 filled with mini-games, stars, coins and everything Mario related. You have a variety of characters 
 to choose from, then you can select from a variety of different game styles. However the basic 
 concept of every game is the same, get more stars than everyone else. Along the way Mario Party 
 uses candy as items to gain for item &amp; coin stealing, gaining additional turns, etc. The party 
 has a ton of mini-games which traditionally occur at the end of every turn, from a free-for-all 
 to 2 on 2, to 1 on 3, Mario Party has it all. The Wii's unique control scheme has been carefully 
 implemented into these games and it works quite well. However there are only 4 or 5 basic control 
 set-ups and the responses seems a little stiff compared to that of Wii Sports. Graphics are pretty 
 decent, nothing like the upcoming Smash Bros. title, but definitley a top-notch GC quality. The 
 game uses plenty of the traditional Mario sound effects to full effect. There is plenty of unlockable; 
 from additional mini-games, to figurines, to sound effects and art work. Mario Party 8 is a great 
 game to play with friends, however like some other Nintendo 1st party software it relies too heavily 
 on whats been working for it and doesn't take too many risks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is the 8th game in a never ending series called Mario Party. Like previous Mario 
 Parties, this game involves moving around on a board by rolling a die. A minigame follows after 
 everyone has rolled. The goal is to collect as many stars as you can to beat the opposition. Depending 
 on the board, stars can come free or cost as much as 20 coins. The main way for collecting coins 
 is to win minigames, although blue spaces, along with a few other events, can also get you some 
 coins as well. There are five tents (modes) to choose from. The Party Tent is where you can play 
 against your friends, and is the mode I recommend playing with some friends. The other modes are 
 very lacking and can sometimes get quite frustrating, especially at the Star Battle Arena. A lucky 
 dice roll by the AI can have you grinding your teeth at the game, even if you beat the pulp out 
 of them skillfully in duel minigames. The graphics and sounds are also quite lacking, on par with 
 the GameCube Mario Party games. Certainly the Wii can do better than this! There's also no widescreen 
 support either, which can stir up those who own a widescreen TV. Most of the replay value depends 
 on how much you and your friends want to party. If you have no friends that are interested in this 
 game, I would avoid it at all costs, because the mulitplayer is where all the fun is at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macman1978
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  don't get me wrong, its not a great video game. this game just screams fun. if you have a wii and 
 you have at least one friend that likes to have fun do your self a favor a go get this game. you 
 and your friends play on a virtual board game to collect stars, the player with the most stars 
 wins. sounds easy, thats because it is but there is much more than that that goes into the game. 
 there of course the fan favorites of the series, the mini games. since this is the first mario 
 party to come out for the wii and its new controller scheme you can just imagine the possibilities 
 and the thing is they deliver, with some very fun and innovative games. also the boards you play 
 have there own unique spaces and layout to give each player fits and advantages to star glory and 
 bragging right over their friends. i personally would not consider this a video game but i would 
 consider it a very smart purchase. if you have kids they can pick up a controller and have a great 
 time. if you have a wife or girlfriend who doesn't play games, if you buy it they will play (trust 
 me dude i know from experience) . also its a great game for a couple of guys with alcohol (or anything 
 else) and nothing to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matrix8909
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Even though this is now #8 for the Mario Party series, the game is still up there as one of the 
 best multi-player games on any Nintendo console. From Party 1-3 on the Nintendo 64 and 4-7 on the 
 Gamecube, 8 is a perfect addition to the series, and the Wii.
  
  Even though the basic game play will never change, there are things in Party 8 that could have 
 been forgotten. Every board has it's own rules and way of obtaining stars, and that was introduced 
 in Party 7, and it should have stayed there.
  
  The overall single player aspect of the game is lacking, to say the least. Sure the Star Battle 
 Arena is a nice addition, but playing the same 6 boards over and over again, in the same order, 
 leaves little replay value. But since this is Mario Party, the aspect is in the multi-player. The 
 first board, DK's board (I forgot the title) is the only board that follows the traditional Party 
 rules of collecting coins and purchasing more starts then any other player. The other boards have 
 fun new rules, but nothing beats the classics.
  
  With the addition of 2 new characters, Blooper and Hammer Bros, the cast extends to 14 playable 
 characters now.
  
  Final word: If you've never played any of the Mario Party series, go and play 1-6 first before 
 playing 7 or 8. They've gone off of the traditional game play, but have introduced new ways to 
 make it fun, and overall, it still is a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeahdogg
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 11, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  2007.05.31
  
  'Mario Party 8' is the first Mario Party offering on the Wii. Considering I have nothing else (on 
 the Wii) to compare it to, all I can say is this is fun . The board game mechanic isn't as frustratingly 
 slow as in 'Mario Party 5' on the GameCube (my only other Mario Party experience) . And Mario Party 
 8 is definitely better than previous versions. Nothing about this Mario Party game is necessarily 
 new to Mario Party games other than the Wii controls, but everything that we naturally expect from 
 Mario Party games just seems to be... refined.
  
  Now in its eighth installment, Hudson (the development company) seems to have finally gotten some 
 things right. The mini-games in this installment are fast and fun. Control is simple and varied. 
 The graphics aren't spectacular, but you really don't need high resolution in these types of games. 
 I know this game hasn't received the most glowing reviews, but put that fact aside and just PLAY 
 IT. Heck, call me and I'll show you. This game is a lot more fun than the critics are giving it 
 credit for. I only got the game last night. I will play it much more in the coming days, but for 
 now I'm happy with my purchase.
  
  2007.06.01
  
  Ok, logged some more play time with 'Mario Party 8'. I'm beginning to enjoy it even more. The board 
 game seems to move quicker than I remember. (Which is a good thing.) The mini-games are fast and 
 fun. The controls are varied and easy to execute. One thing that I really like is right before 
 every mini-game there is a screen that allows you to see the rules, controls, etc. This 'quick 
 reference' is a great idea. If you remember everything, just hit 'A' and skip past it. If you'd 
 like a quick reminder of what you're supposed to be doing, it's right there with simple to understand 
 text and animation. For the past few nights I've mainly been playing the single player mode to 
 unlock more mini-games. After work I'm having some people over to really have fun with the multi-player 
 mini-games! With over 70 mini-games there is sure to be a great variety. (I think I've only seen 
 about 20 so far.)
  
  2007.06.04
  
  I've been playing 'Mario Party 8' every day since its release. It's fun. I've only played about 
 50-55 of the mini-games so far. Some of the Wiimote functionality is really easy, intuitive, and 
 fun! You have to love it when a mini-game requires ZERO buttons. (You just mimic real life movements 
 with the controller.) While this is definitely not the hardest game around, it's frustratingly 
 hard at times due to the dumb luck nature of dice-based board games. This isn't necessarily a negative 
 aspect of 'Mario Party 8', just board games in general. I've beaten the single player mode once 
 and I've acquired a few in-game collectibles. I intend on playing this game a lot in the future.
 
  
  2007.06.12
  
  I've been playing this game a lot since release and I personally love it. The game received somewhat 
 bad reviews for not bringing much new to the game this year, but that's really the only complaint 
 I can rationalize. The game is just fun. I enjoy it. What else can I say? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party started out on the Nintendo 64 back in 1999. Mario Party moved to the GameCube in 2002 
 with Mario Party 4. And now, Mario Party has moved to the Wii with Mario Party 8.
  
  Those who played the past Mario Party games should be familiar with it's boards, mini-games and 
 the stars. The addition of the Wiimote makes this game funner and makes up for the lack of the 
 microphone (which wasn't that great anyway) from Mario Party 6 and Mario Party 7. This game brings 
 in two new characters, Blooper and Hammer Bro. I wonder why they haven't made the normal Koopa 
 playable yet.
  
  The graphics could be a bit better. It's not much of an improvement from Mario Party 7, which was 
 a GameCube game. They are still pretty good though. This game also finally has new sound, which 
 is nice.
  
  So, overall, I'd say this the best Mario Party yet! Mostly for the Wiimote and everything. I'd 
 recommend this game to even those who are getting tired of Mario Party games, since this one is 
 quite innovative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 11, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party is back and unfortunately continues the trend of depriving quality of Mario Party games. 
 The game isnt really that fun; it is slow paced, and has little to no innovation. Mario Party 
 8 is a minigame collection on a platform already stuffed with minigame collections, not to mention 
 much better ones.
  
  MP8 is broke into 5 different sections. The first is the party tent which is where you play the 
 main game. Then there is the Star Battle Arena where you play a bunch of games to become a superstar. 
 Next is the Minigame tent where, you guessed it, play minigames youve played. And extras zone, 
 self explanatory. And the Fun Bazaar where you can buy new things like extra minigames, a very 
 hard mode and more.
  
  MP8 is like all the other Mario Party games. You play on a virtual game board to earn stars and 
 become the winner. There are six boards in MP8. Each one has its own theme based upon a certain 
 Mario character; such as DKs Treetop or King Boos Haunted Mansion. Each board has its own twist 
 on how you get the star to add some verity. For example Boos Haunted Mansion is packed with rooms 
 you need to roam through to find King Boo who will give you a star, for a fee of course. These 
 twists work great on some boards, but others are just plain dumb. In Goombas Booty Boardwalk all 
 it is; is a big straight line to the star, it can take nearly 25 minutes to get there. Then once 
 you get the star you go all the way back to start and have to do the entire process again, sounds 
 like fun to me What happened to the fun boards of the original Mario Parties on the N64? Since 
 Mario Party hit the GC they have gone down in quality, and it seems like it will continue on Wii.
 
  
  Okay, enough talk about the boards, lets talk about the minigames. Surely the big selection of 
 minigames make up for the boring boards, right? No, not at all. There are quite a few minigames 
 in MP8, but most of them are boring, or dont use the Wiimote at all. Thats right; some minigames 
 dont even use the Wiimote motion sensing or pointer at all. That was supposed to be the big draw 
 for this game; the motion sensing was going to save the franchise. Okay, what about the ones that 
 use motion sensing, are they fun? Once again, no. Most of them are boring and just tedious to do. 
 And dont get me started on the selection of games. There are only 18 free for all games. While 
 there are 47 duel games? Why are there so many duel minigames but not nearly as many free for all 
 games? Oh and have fun playing with that computer on your team. The AI in the game is horrible; 
 you could almost say the AI is mildly retarded. In minigames and on the boards they will do things 
 that just make no sense. You want to know the worst part about MP8? Just how unoriginal it is. 
 The boards lack creativity, since many of them are very similar to boards in earlier Mario Party 
 games. And many of the minigames have been done before. Many of them are minigames from past Mario 
 Party games with tacked on motion control. Then many have already been done in Rayman Raving Rabbits 
 or Wario Ware Smooth Moves, and those games did it better! Not only that, but the game relies on 
 luck too much to win. All Mario Party games had some luck involved and that was okay. But this 
 is too much. Someone could not win a single minigame and still win the overall game; its true 
 it really did happen.
  
  Lets go onto the graphics. Most of the game looks like a low quality Game Cube game. Nothing pops 
 out, nothing is impressive, it is all plain and boring. And this is all coming from a game that 
 doesnt support widescreen! A widescreen mode can be added to a game in a matter of days, in this 
 day in age no game should not have widescreen. It really is the final straw. This game sucks, it 
 is a rushed, quick cash in for Nintendo.
  
  Overall MP8 is a piece of crap rushed out so Nintendo can make a quick buck. MP8 is a slap in the 
 face for what Nintendo and Wii stand for. It has none of the quality Nintendo is known for, or 
 the uniqueness, innovation, or fun that Wii stands for. There are much better minigame collections 
 on Wii already like Rayman Raving Rabbits or Wario Ware. MP8 is the worst game Ive played on Wii, 
 yes worse then Red Steel. It is boring, unoriginal, lacking, and overall a mediocre game. You should 
 avoid this game at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bnwchbammer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 11, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  All right, lets get to it. Mario Party 8 for the Wii is great . theres a wide variety of minigames, 
 theres great control and really this game is just plain fun. You know what to expect from a Mario 
 Party game, and really thats all it is, its just fun. I'll break it down.
  
  Gameplay: You probably know the board game style of gameplay, which is pretty fun. Theres a little 
 more to it with the Wii, which isn't good or bad. The only reason I gave it an 8 is because the 
 single player kinda sucks. So if you don't at least have a brother or sister or if you don't have 
 two Wiimotes, then don't run out and get this right away.
  
  Graphics: What can I say. Not too much of an improvment since the last one, but whatever, it can 
 have an 8.
  
  Sound: The Bowser loop kinda gets annoying after a while. So.... I dunno...8
  
  Value: Waddya 
 expect its a new game
  
  Tilted it a little cause I felt it was underappreciated
  
  Hope you found this helpful in your buying experience. Later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midn8t
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  I am suprized they did have this game for on releasess date with WII.
  
  presonal I love Mario Party, I love table top game, I love trying to screw over my friends, I love 
 fact of the random ness in table top game, I love table top games like this.
  
  Only thing i have aginst Mario party is the lack of table top boards to play, only 4 come on the 
 N64 had around 20.
  
  they should at least have 8 at or 10 at time the table top part of the party game is the best part 
 of this game.
  
  mini games are fun and there neat to compete but there not main reason I play this game. so because 
 of lack of table top boards, fun great mini games gfxs are so so its but great game play in general 
 ill give it following.
  
  I am going to lower value becase of lack of options of boards to play on.
  
  only given 4 is 
 really silly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTUTCJ24
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 10, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 offers a great party experience for long time fans and new players. The large assortment 
 of mini-games will keep you interested for a long time, but they can get sort of repetitive. Some 
 of the maps are very fun while others are just straight forward. Koopa's Tycoon town is my personal 
 favorite, which is like a monopoly type board where investing hotels gets you stars. There are 
 only 6 maps though, which is a little dissapointing. There are plenty of characters to choose from 
 and two unlockables. The campain mode, or star battle arena, took me a total of 2 hours to beat (with 
 just one character) there might be other surprises if you beat it with all the characters, but 
 none the less, it was fun. The party mode should be played with more than one person because the 
 computer controlled characters can be either really stupid or really, really difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Henson112233
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  i've seen better. I thought the game was going to be a lot better than the rest of the Mario Party 
 games but i was kind of disappointed. For the most part it should have more mini games. Also where 
 is Donkey Kong why is he not a playable character? Overall I thought it was a good game.
  
  Graphic
  
  The graphics are kind of cool once you seen them but i thought it could be a little 
 better putting some hard work to it. Overall the graphics would be great for the wii.
  
  Game play
  
  The game play is good for the wii but there is a racing game that you have to 
 drive the car using the wii remote vertically. I kind of hate that. The game play is good for the 
 games so it's good.
  
  Sound The sounds are good but bowser sound so different in this game.
  
  Value i thought the 
 value of the game is bad. The game is too short in story mode. There should be more games. Also 
 there should be more extra things added to the game.
  
  Tilt
  
  The tilt is good i would not complain about the tilt.
  
  Overall The game is great for a Mario 
 Party game. If you thought it was a lot better than the rest of the MP games you are wrong some 
 of the MP games is better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_holic
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 8, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I bought my Mario Party 8 on the first day of its release. I was so excited so I played it right 
 after I got home. I quickly selected the solo mode and disappointment also followed. The game does 
 not support 16:9 widescreen, but it supports 480p. This is the only Nintendo game that doesn't 
 support widescreen so far I believe. Come on, even COOKING MAMA supports 16:9 widescreen. If you 
 really want to play widescreen then you have to go to your Wii setting and change your TV setting 
 to 4:3 then the game will run like a widescreen on your LCD TV. But it is annoying because you 
 need to switch back the setting to 16:9 if you want to play some other games.
  
  I would say the graphics are OK to me, they are like GameCube standard. But since no games out 
 there have yet optimized Wii's graphic capabilities so I have no idea how Wii graphics should look 
 like. The mini games are not very innovative. They are just like previous Mario Party mini games 
 but just that you have to use your wiimote. I think even Mario party 7 was more innovative than 
 Mario Party 8. I would suggest people rent it before they buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RidersDX
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 8, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  We all know what party games are. They're are video games where you sit down with some friends 
 and family members and play in a different number of mini games. People usually won't be able to 
 stop playing these games as long as they have friends. Party games aren't very good single player 
 adventures though. Mario Party 8 is a party game. Is it a good one?
  
  The first Mario Party was released on the Nintendo 64 and was one of the best multiplayer experiences 
 on the system. Then came number two. An even better game. Then number 3. That was good but not 
 as good as the first and second ones. Then Mario Party 4. The transfer to the gamecube. With the 
 exact same formula. Then numbers five and six got worst but number seven saved them a little. Now 
 on the WIi, will Mario Party 8 change the game's reputation to the way it was in the past?
  
  In the game, Mario Party 8 takes place on the Star Carnival. Theres this person called MC Ballyboo 
 and his partner, Hat, that run the carnival as the annoying host like the one in Fuzion Frenzy 
 2. It's a good thing this game doesn't use too many voices. Otherwise, you'll despise the guy. 
 People from all around the world come here to complete in the Star Battle to win the Star Rod and 
 a years supply of candy. Bowser is up to his plans again, as he plans to interrupt the tournament 
 and name himself the superstar. Dunno why, but he wants to. Let's just say he's stupid like always.
 
  
  The game is divided into five modes. Each with their own little sub options. The first mode and 
 the main attraction is the Party Tent. You select your characters, select your board and play a 
 normal game. You will find yourself playing this mode alot with your friends. The Star Battle Mode 
 is the game's little story mode where you complete for prizes like a year's supply of candy. There's 
 mini game tent as well where you play any mini games you want. It includes five modes where you 
 play through mini games and have to win by having the best skills. The Extra Zone has eight special 
 mini games you can play with your miis. World Bazaar is where you use carnival cards to buy items 
 for the game.
  
  The main game sets you on a party board and you have to have the most stars and coins by the end 
 of the game. There are six party boards with one waiting to be unlocked. They are pretty fun but 
 they're all too short and most of them lack originality. After the four turns, you play a mini 
 game. You would think the game would make heavy use of the WIi-Remote. You're kinda right. It does 
 make use of the Wii-Remote, but not alot of it. Alot of games feel like this game was gonna be 
 for the gamecube but they are all pretty fun.
  
  Graphics help prove even more this was gonna be a GC title. The graphics are something a GC is 
 capable of making. The Wii can do much more. Just looks at games like Sonic and the Secret Rings. 
 Hudson should've started the entire project over but instead, they keep everything and decide that 
 they don't care as long as we buy the game. It's sad. Knowing how stupid and lazy Hudson is known 
 for. The sound is nothing special.
  
  The game is overall a good game despite its flaws like graphics. If you have played all the Mario 
 Parties and are sick of the formula, you might wanna miss out. You defenently don't want to if 
 you're a new fan. Joining the party is your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rangel_19
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 8, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  The game could have had a little bit more flash put into it, but all in all it is a fun and joying 
 game to play. It was nice to see your Mii go up against the characters from Mario Party 8. I also 
 liked the fact that you can jump into multiplayer mode without having to go through the game in 
 the single player mode. This was great since most of us play games like these with a lot of people. 
 A game like Mario Party is always a must have any part game collection, some people where kind 
 of complaining about sound, graphics and game play. But that's how board games are, about luck. 
 But I do agree that Nintendo should have a better job with this game, after all this is Mario Party!
 
  
  If you have the money, go ahead and purchase it. But if you don't have the funds, just borrow from 
 a store or a friend to see if this something you want to add to your game collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiifan127
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 7, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  I've played it for about 7 hours, and I've only played it by myself. I can't wait to see how fun 
 it is with other people! There are 5 modes. Party mode, where you can play Battle Royale, Tag battle, 
 or Duel Battle. You have nine different turn choices as well. Remember the old days when you could 
 play 50 turns? Those days are back! You can play 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, or 50 turns!!! 
 You start out with 12 characters (Mario, Luigi, Peach, Daisy, Wario, Waluigi, Toad, Toadette, Dry 
 Bones, Birdo, Yoshi, and Boo) , and you can unlock Hammer Bro and Blooper. But no DK still. : ( 
 Then there is Star Battle arena (The Single player mode) , and Minigame Tent, where you can play 
 all the minigames you've played so far. There's the Extras zone where you can play as your Miis 
 against Mario Party characters. And there's the Fun Bazzar, where you can buy things with your 
 carnival cards, which you get for how much time you play a certain mode. You can buy any minigame 
 you haven't already unlocked, you can buy figurines, you can buy Extras Zone minigames (You start 
 with 4 Extras Zone minigames and you have to buy the other four. You can also buy another difficulty 
 mode and tons more!!!! This is a fun game!!! The graphics aren't great, though. The graphics in 
 the minigames tend to be better than anywhere else. So get this game if you're a fan of the series!!! 
 And Hudson, make DK a playable character and don't forget online play next time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aimers22
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 6, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is exactly what it promises. It's the next installment in the Mario Party World. 
 The standard board game style with single and multi player options are familiar and undifferentiated 
 from previous versions. It's definitely a fun game and a nice way to spend a coupe hours with a 
 group. Recommended for families or a double date, especially if the ladies aren't exceptionally 
 enthralled with the gaming universe. It has a short learning curve and is easily adjustable for 
 less skilled players such as children or non-gaming adults. It is also highly appropriate for children 
 with no rude language and minimal violence beyond some minor head bopping and cartoon kicking action. 
 The integration of the Wii remote adds a new dimension to the Mario Party universe that is predominantly 
 effective although some mini-games end up feeling a little awkward and counterintuitive. Overall, 
 it was an enjoyable game, but with little to offer beyond occasional multi-player entertainment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dpnfman01
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Now I mean who could play all eight of these games and still get a kick out of it, well pretty 
 much everyone. THey still can make a fun game. There are lots of new and challenging games in this 
 action packed boarded game. Its not as great playing by yourself but with other people and friends, 
 you could play this game for hours and not be bored. The only trouble I had where the mini games 
 its self, a little bit wierd and toughf but still a solid game. This is a must in anyones collection 
 especially when having your late night parties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teylewr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I'm sad that this game got a lower score than Rayman raving rabbids, simply because you actually 
 get to play with your friends! Its not a bunch of mini games that u sit back and watch ur friend 
 play for 4 minutes while you wait for your chance at a turn. Its awesome, everyone plays the games 
 against each other. Granted you have to wait while they hit the dice block and all that, but thats 
 fine, its basically an interactive board game! The fact that a lot of chance is involved I feel 
 is great since it allows me to play with all my friends, and no matter how good, and experienced 
 i am or they are, we all have a fairly equal chance of winning the full game. The mini games are 
 fun, they dont overly abuse the wii mote. Also the graphics have been enhanced since the gamecube 
 one, and teh game has been sped up since the last one quite nicely. It used to take hours and hours 
 to play a 20 turn game, but now its still long enough, but a lot of the movement and the bowser 
 time has been either eliminated or just hastend. The addition of not having to use the orbs on 
 the ground is an improvement since in short games they were for the most part useless, as well 
 as a waste of money most times in long games. The additional carnival games are sort of strange, 
 but thats not really what the game is about so i count them as a usesless sort of bonus that wont 
 hurt its score. The only thing that does bother me is the fact that the screen puts up the deviders 
 for widescreen, and it does it for my tv at my dads house even though it isnt a wide screen.... sort 
 of annoying..
  
  Other than that I think this is better than mario party 7, since its easier to get more of my friends, 
 to play sicne they are already semi used to the wii controller, and its not like rayman where they 
 will sit there and just get annoyed they arent playing. Im not sure why there were so many 5-7 
 score reviews on this game since it definitely should beat the rayman 8.0 score. And its definitely 
 a step up in mario party.
  
  If you bought this game to play alone, then okay its probably a 5, and you need some friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sevanti
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 5, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  When I went to the store to ask about a good party game with plenty of fun mini-games, everyone 
 I talked to said to get Mario Party 8, but they only play it by themselves. Does no one who works 
 for a video game store have any friends or do people really just not play multiplayer games anymore? 
 This game delivers exactly what all the other Wii multiplayer mini-game based games should have. 
 It has four player turn-based gameplay where everybody gets to play minigames. So the board game 
 design is farse with respect to winning minigames and the bonus stars are sometimes questionable 
 at best, so what. The idea is to have a good time. This is meant to be a party game not a cataclysmic 
 redefinition of the party-game genre. Grab some people, have a drink, and stand in a row acting 
 stupidly to try and row a boat to shore. It's great fun.
  
  The Mii minigames are terrible, though. Seriously, it looks like the Wii sports without the great 
 controls, which isn't saying much, so you know it isn't good here. Cool idea, though. Maybe if 
 you could import your Mii into the boardgames... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potterpipi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 5, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Well, we all know Mario Party games are fun, but Mario Party 8 is enough, atleast the formula is 
 getting pretty boring.
  
  Gameplay: As the same other MP games, you walk around a board, by hitting a block you choose how 
 much spaces you move. There are a total of 6 boards, but 2 of them are just plain short, really 
 little. The story mode depends on what you like, if you like to end the boards fast, then the story 
 mode is good for you, if you liked to play alot of minigames but wait alot, then it's bad, since 
 in Story Mode you just roll the dice and the only way for you to play minigames is by stepping 
 on a Challenge tile. As for the minigames, probably the best ones out there, they use motion alot 
 and that's very good, very fun. There is also a big variety of 'em. The downside of the game is 
 that if you can't play it with friends, then it's not worth buying, with friends it'll be tons 
 of fun, but alone you could clear it in easily 2 days and get bored in a week.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are GC like. So if your taste depends on graphics, then this sucks.
  
 
  Sound: As Mario games, there isn't much talking here, and the music, well, I guess it's ok, you 
 can unlock the game's music by winning carnival cards.
  
  Overral: The game is very fun and will make you happy if you can play with other people, it has 
 tons of minigames and let's you play Extra content. If can only play alone, then this game will 
 bore you in less than 2 weeks, if it's like this, then I recommend you just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romayo83
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 5, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Well starting off to me all mario parties feel the same wether motion sensers or buttons come to 
 play the mini-games still play the same way since mario party 1.
  
  Well the board games are simple and the CPU when set to hard can be challenging at times theres 
 no really skill in most cases... some games such as the one player challenges are more annoying 
 than a challenge.
  
  Graphics are what you'd expect for the Wii except for the widescreen idea with borders?? that was 
 pretty lame but no big deal. They do look almost identical to previous Gamecube MarioParty games.
 
  
  Overall multiplayer is fun with your friends or doing Duel mode for 2 players... playing with the 
 AI is boring and just not as fun. single player is bland and uneventfull so i reccomend this for 
 people who like to play agaist each other.
  
  Also another board or two would of been nice and 6 gameboards gets old quickly.
  
  All in all 
 i dont think its worth the full price and could of used alot of improvments 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danieljhughes
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 5, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 is a very good game. I bought it the first week of release. As the title of the game 
 describes it is the 8th in the series so it will be similar to the previous games. As stated in 
 the video review there is about 70 new mini-games and they are fun and challenging. The game series 
 has always been a Game board style. The play style will be like other board games that are based 
 on how you roll or in this case hit the dice. As far as being chanced based; board games have always 
 been like that. You actually can play a big part in the game if you win more of the mini-games 
 that are at the end of everyone's turn. There was a problem mentioned in the video review about 
 the wide-screen feature. They talked about how screen would have a border during the game-play. 
 If you don't have a wide-screen TV/Monitor then you have nothing to worry about. And as far as 
 the graphics are concerned, they are much improved from the previous titles. If you like how the 
 Mario Party series has been you will love this new title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_sauce
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 5, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  There is only six levels in this game. One is a beach, another a city, a bowser level and some 
 other monotonous, small and unimaginative levels. The minigames are fun, but mostly have nothing 
 to do with mario. On the board you eat candy, and throw darts. This game is not much if any of 
 an improvement from 7, wich wasn't any better than 2. The use of the wii remote makes the game 
 alot more fun then it would have been without it. Moving on. I think everyone can agree that the 
 first 4 mario games were the coolest with super mario 3 and super mario world standing out the 
 most. I think the next mario party game should have EIGHT levels (at least) , with the boards loosely 
 based on the world maps in mario 3. And the board items shouldn't be stupid candy, what the hell? 
 They should be actual MARIO items, like mushrooms, tanooki suits, leaves, feathers, hammer suits, 
 flowers, shells, P wings, stuff like that, the reason we all fell in love with that itallian. That 
 is probably part of the reason that super paper mario (great game) has seen way more success than 
 mario party 8, is because it utilizes classic themes, and also some 16 bit graphics as well, wich 
 is awesome. This game kind of disapointed me with the lameness of the boards. The stupid candy 
 eating carnival theme. It does have fun minigames and a couple new characters to unlock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captain_benno
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  When you play a board game, you know it's based on luck of the draw (dice) , but when you play a 
 game you want some skill involved. Well this game doesnt give you much of a chance to switch things 
 up, other than the candy pieces, other than that it's all luck. However, on it's good side, its 
 mini games make great use of the wii controller and are somewhat addicting. Get three of your friends 
 together and play this, you'll have fun with it for awhile, but after that it loses it's shine. 
 So this game is more of an Eh, rent it type. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falconsfan60
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  The mutiplayer on this game is probably one of the best around when it comes to overall fun with 
 friends or family. I love how there are tons of minigames to play when it comes to using the wii 
 remote. People who love wii sports will master the sporting minigames on here such as golf, tennis, 
 bowling, and many others. However, on the flip side, the single player doesent have much to offer. 
 All you really can do for that is play 6 boards and see what you have to do for that board. I really 
 wish they wouldve made it so its like the other mario partys where their are bigger boards and 
 more things to do, but i guess that wasnt the plan. Overall the gameplay is excellent. Graphics 
 are ok, nothing new than last year. Sound is pretty good especially in the beginning where they 
 have that carnival music, which puts it just right for the sound just like being in a regular carnival. 
 The game is well worth the money if your looking for something active to do while holding the wii 
 remote. So my final word is this: If you have friends or family that want to play something active 
 with you, or just want to have fun playing, get this game. If you have one remote or just dont 
 have people to play this game with, up to you, but it would probably be best for you to rent the 
 game in that situation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radmetalmonk
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 4, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Mario Party game I've had the pleasure of playing on a console I own, so I'm 
 not sure what the standards are. Keep that in mind.
  
  In a nutshell, you're simply moving your character around a board, collecting coins and candy, 
 both assist you in getting a star; the main treasure and winning item in the game, depending on 
 the rules. Depending on the mode, you play mini-games... which reward you with coins, or takes them 
 away.
  
  Single player mode will have you yelling at your favorite Mario characters, because chance plays 
 a role in everything... even after you win a mini-game you'll be forced to throw a dart at a spinning 
 target. You can have 100 coins, be oh so close to the star while your opponent has 3, and somehow 
 he'll land on a space that puts you in a terrible position. While still fun, the single player 
 game doesn't go through mini-games as much, so you have to rely on chance even more. However, I'm 
 sure you didn't buy or plan on buying this for the single player.
  
  Multi-player is heaps of fun. Even if you're losing, the random mini-games will have you entertained, 
 and the chance heavy game-play makes it so anyone can win or lose at anytime. A few mini-games 
 are the basically the same as others, but it's not that big of a deal. For best results, have an 
 actual party, get intoxicated, and you'll all be rolling on the floor with this game.
  
  Game-play 9/10 -
  Great mini-game goodness, easy to understand with convenient tips, practice, 
 and control before each game so even the stupidest/highest player can understand.
  Graphics 7/10 - Nothing really special here, they look pretty good especially in the effects and 
 particle department. Nothing spectacular though.
  Sound 6/10 - Sound effects get old very quickly... especially if you unlock taunting. Music sometimes 
 is remakes of classic songs, but generally they're not that great and quite annoying.
  Value 8/10 -
  Excluding the fact it's $50, you get a lot in this game. There's a good deal of 
 unlockables, tons of replay with all the games you can unlock, and difficult AI.
  Tilt - 7
  It's a great game, just keep in mind... the single player is only for unlocking things. Multi-player 
 is obviously the only real reason to buy this... (although there are other great multi-player wii 
 games) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherlock99
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  mp8 has the be the best game in the entire series there is so many different way to use the wiimote 
 its even better when you play with your friends i get a get a laugh seeing my 4-year nephew trying 
 to play i dont understand the bad rewiews from different game sites saying that this game is bad 
 i for one find mp8 very addictive i will play this game for hours at a time mp8 has a lot of replay 
 value great graphics and good music the only promblem with the game is there real no story and 
 not a lot of game boards other then that the game is awsome if you love to play mini games pick-up 
 mp8 its one of the best wii games to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrman43807
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party has always been a series thats better when played with multiple people. Mario Party 
 8 is no different. In fact, its only fun when playing with other people. While it is possible to 
 play by yourself, one would probably get bored very quickly and call up some friends to come over 
 and give it a try. If you are a fan of the series, pick it up.
  
  Gameplay- It seems to me that the Mario Party games are slowly becoming more and more luck based. 
 While your skills come into play during the minigames, the game boards are another story. The minigames 
 are fun, the game boards are not.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are not as good as I would expect with the Wii being out for some time now, 
 but they aren't bad either. They fit in with the graphics of the other games on the system.
  
  Sound- Either way, it didn't stand out to me as good or bad, its just there. I did like the 
 nice touch of taunts coming out of the speaker in the controller, but that was probably expected.
 
  
  Value- $50 is a little steep for this game, but then again, I think a lot of games are overpriced 
 these days. This game is getting played daily by me and my friends, so I think it was generally 
 worth it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- I hate how the Mario Party games have been getting poor reviews all over the place. 
 I think they are fun to play, but only with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tool_offer_tie
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  It's been quite a while since anything good has come from the Mario Party series (Number 2, to 
 be exact) . The graphics in my opinion are less than what they should be and the standard resolution 
 is quite annoying. The game play on the other hand is much better. The controls work exceptionally 
 well and are easy to learn, providing a fun time for a wide range of people. It's definitely a 
 must if you're a fan of the series. Although much of the original game is intact the Wii controls 
 spice things up enough to make a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I have only played the multiplayer mode so far, as I have three daughters, and we love to play 
 multiplayer games. My kids are all teen and preteen and they love MArio PArty 8. As an adult, I 
 think it is entertaining. I am not sure if I would play it myself in single player mode, but in 
 multiplayer mode it is a great game! There are a couple of complaints. It looks as if you can only 
 save 3 profiles. I checked the manual, but I did not see a way around this. We need at least two 
 more profiles in my family. Also, I think the 4 player games are too long. I do not mind if it 
 goes for about a 30 minutes. but over an hour on the same game... its just too much for the eyes, 
 and a Mini game every turn... its just too much. They should have done a mini game every 3 turns 
 to speed things up. Maybe there is options to change these, but I did not notice. Anyway, it is 
 still a worthwhile game. I am not going to comment on graphics because it is kind of pointless 
 in this type of a game ( Its not Soul Calibur or Baten KAtios... its a mario game... how realistic 
 does the graphics have to be?) The fun factor is way up there for the family guy. I am not sure 
 if this would stick with the college crowd (when I was in college Pacman was the biggest thing 
 since sliced bread... but I don't think any multiplayer games existed back then, at least not in 
 the Arcade,, and who was Mario???) but I would guess that those who grew up with Mario would find 
 a place for this game in their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahahaG
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 3, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  When i first picked this up I wasn't sure what to expect, but after trying it out i must say its 
 pretty good actually. The story mode i think is much better than in previous titles, and having 
 to do 1 on 1 battles is actually fun and challenging. If you have friends who like to come and 
 play Wii with you, this game would be perfect for multi-player action. There are plenty of mini 
 games to play, and the boards are a lot better put together than in previous titles. So I have 
 seen so many harsh reviews on this game, and it made me feel like this game was getting wrongly 
 rated. It may be only my opinion but this game is 1 of the best multi-player titles to come to 
 the Wii thus far, and I think that a fan of the series, or someone looking for fun, should buy 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightmoone23
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This game was alright I didn't expect it to be like that it is although there are some fun mini 
 games it just doesn't have as much put in to it like the Nintendo 64 versions in past years. This 
 game does come from a good company but it could've been better thats why i give Mario Party 8 a 
 7 out of 10 you guys have to agree this isn't that great of a game when you could be buying Zelda: 
 Twilight Princess or rather Super Paper Mario just rent it first and then you decide on whether 
 it is a good game or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultrashroom77
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  There is 6 boards and over 70 mini-games. The boards range from the classic chase after the star 
 space to investing in hotels, and much more. The boards all have a decent design to them, with 
 the Lucky Space being one of the most helpful or harmful event on each board. As usual the board 
 games are almost entirely of luck. Very often will a player get a candy that ruins your chance 
 of getting a star or landing on a lucky space to pull ahead a star at the end of the game. As for 
 the mini-games, There are a lot that require holding the Wiimote like an NES controller and tilting 
 it from side to side. While others don't even use the motion sensitivity at all. If you've been 
 a Mario Party fan than this is definitely a game to check out. However, if you haven't, rent it 
 first because the board games can become tedious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taytizzle
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The Mario Party franchise certainly has grown up. Instead of having the regular board 
 games where you just circled around a massive landscape saving up coins for the 20 coin star space 
 that the first game had, there are a variety of boards as well as playing styles to choose from. 
 Some of these levels are extraordinarily creative, such as my favorite level where you're on a 
 train, and the cars sometimes switch around and stuff, but others still suffer from that same-old, 
 boring original style. In addition to all of the creative levels, the game also provides many characters 
 to choose from. You could practically be any Mario character you wanted to. I personally like Blooper, 
 the squid. I would have liked to see maybe Baby Bowser as a playable character, but I'm fine with 
 the current selection. Mario Party 8 also introduces candy to the game. What is candy? Candy is 
 just items you can use against your opponents. The only thing I don't like about candy is that 
 some of them just feel cheap because they're so powerful. I'm looking at you Vampire Candy. In 
 regards to how chance plays a role in how the game lays out, who cares? Mario Party was originally 
 designed to be an electronic board game that you could play with your friends on your TV. Board 
 games rely a lot on chance, so if anything, chance makes the game more authentic and exciting, 
 but it destroys any chance of having a fun single-player experience. If your friends come to your 
 house often, this is the game for you. Another thing that the game is lacking is online which probably 
 would have sucked anyway because Nintendo blows at online, so I guess it doesn't matter all that 
 much.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Mario Party 8 are phenomenal. They're quite possibly the best graphics 
 in any Mario game thus far. The water which is in some of the levels looks awesome. An awesome 
 addition to the game is that there is stuff going on in the background of the board. Take the train 
 level for instance. The train is actually moving, so you see mountains and trees whizzing by in 
 the background. The passengers of the train move around and talk to each other. It's just really 
 cool. Also, the characters just look awesome, as do the minigames. They're very sharp, and the 
 colors are really bright.
  
  Sound: Do I have blood coming out of my ears? The music is so terrible it's not even funny. No, 
 it's not funny at all. It's annoying and chirpy. It sucks. The characters only have like 8 different 
 sound effects. Ugh...
  
  Value: This is an awesome multi-player game that will last you a long time, but how long can the 
 fun last with only 6 levels and about 100 mini-games?
  
  Here's a word of advice: wait until the price drops. It's good, but not $50 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MFCocca
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  When I first pre-ordered this game I was extremely excited to play it as me and my roommates have 
 had some very good, slightly intoxicated nights of playing Mario Party. The last Mario Party game 
 we played was the 2nd one. I figured I would step up to the plate and buy the next one and be the 
 provider of the fun.
  
  This game delivers as expected on the multi player fun. However, in order to unlock everything, 
 you have to play a single player version that is a bare bones version of a regular Mario Party 
 game.
  
  GRAPHICS - 7
  First off though we have the graphics. The graphics here are nothing spectacular. It does no however 
 affect the gameplay at all. Which is all I care about. It is a little discouraging though that 
 there aren't any games out that have harnessed more of the Wii's power yet so that the Sony and 
 PS3 fan boys will have less to talk about. Anyone who is playing this game is probably not hung 
 up that much about graphics, so enough on that haha.
  
  GAMEPLAY - 6
  Now let me defend myself here before you all blow up. If I had to break down the gameplay, I would 
 give the multi player a 10 and the single player a 2. So take it for what it's worth, if you want 
 a multiplayer game, consider this score a 10, if not, take it as a 2. The only reason why I have 
 to lump the single and multi player scores if because the game forces you to play the single player 
 in order to unlock many things throughout the game. This would not be a bad thing but the single 
 player is absolutely dreadful. Single player is simply put a bare bones version of a regular Mario 
 Party game. It's only a series of one on one games, and there are no mini games at the end of each 
 turn. This comes down to basically a game of luck. 90% of the game now depends on the dice, since 
 the minigames are basically out of the equation. This makes the single player very frustrating, 
 especially if you did not intend to play single player. I've played many single player games, which 
 by the way is called Star Battle where I played 1 mini game throughout the whole game, that's not 
 what Mario Party is supposed to be.
  
  The Wiimote controls are very fun and does make for a different gameplay experience that differs 
 from other Mario Parties. The only disappointing thing though is that there are many games that 
 only require you to use the wiimote as an NES controller instead of using its functionality. SOUND 
 - 7
  The sound in this game for the most part is very forgettable. Nothing really stand out here. One 
 thing that for some reason I get a kick out of is the hosts voice, that laugh he has gives me a 
 nice chuckle every time I hear it. Really nothing spectacular, which is not a bad thing at all, 
 just not a great thing. Again though, if you are interested in purchasing this game, chances are 
 you are not too hung up on the sound.
  
  VALUE - 8
  This game does as advertised. The only factor lowering this score is that there will be many times 
 where you will be frustrated to no end just getting through the single player. Join this party, 
 bring some friends, some brews (If you are of legal age of course) , and play the night away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecterX3
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Mario and his friends are back once again, this time bringing their minigame party to Wii. This 
 time Mario and crew will be competing for a year's worth of free candy at the Star Carnival. The 
 board and minigames are still here, but are there enough new features to warrant a purchase of 
 the latest extravaganza?
  
  Gameplay wise Mario Party is much better. The minigames are back, and they have never been better. 
 The minigames in Mario Party 8 are a perfect match for the Wii controller and have never been easier 
 to pick up and play. The boards also make a return as well. Although they are still the mostly 
 same as the last time, there are several Wii specific triggers in each. One of these is that now 
 to hit the die you must thrust the Wii controller up to make your character jump. it may not be 
 a big change, but it makes the game much more interactive in the long run. The boards are still 
 require a lot of luck, but a good performance in minigames and efficient use of the new items, 
 candy, will help you reach the top. The only thing that will keep you from losing even if you perform 
 well are the bonus stars which rely almost exclusively on luck. They can be turned off if they 
 become annoying though.
  
  There are five different ways you can play with these boards and games from the main menu. First 
 off is the Party Tent where you can play a traditional game of Mario Party with a four player free 
 for all. a tag battle, or a one on one match. The next is the single player game, the Star Battle 
 Arena. Here you will pick a character play across all six board of the games boards in one on one 
 duels leading to a final confrontation with Bowser. This mode is pretty much based on chance, as 
 you will not be playing minigames every turn. Due to this, you will probably only play this mode 
 to unlock the two new characters and other extras. The third tent is the Extras Zone. Here you 
 can play various minigames with your Miis or the Mario cast. These range from a 30 man moped race 
 to a bowling game similar to Wii Sports. Next comes the Minigame Tent. Here any minigames you have 
 unlocked and that's about it. Last is the Fun Bazaar. This is where you can spend carnival cards 
 earned in other modes on minigames, figures, music, and even a harder difficulty level.
  
  My only problem with Mario Party 8 is the presentation. Nintendo has said in the past that they 
 do not want to give voices to their characters because it would upset some people. The only problem 
 is they already have. Although the characters all have a few phrases they will say repeatedly, 
 there is no other voice acting to speak of. To top this off Mario Party 8 is also suffering in 
 the visual presentation. Although I wasn't expecting much in terms of graphics, the game can not 
 support true wide screen. Because of this it has a border on both sides of the screen which not 
 only looks ugly, but can also disrupt gameplay on some smaller screens. Nintendo has really dropped 
 the ball with the presentation, and although you will get used to it there is still no excuse for 
 this sloppy presentation.
  
  In the end, if you liked previous Mario Partys you will also like this one. It is still one of 
 the best party games around even though its presentation suffers in this entry. It is still a solid 
 game with minigames that will keep you hooked for awhile, even if the single player mode is lacking. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShraZ_Zy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I believe I played Mario Party 6 on GC and it was less fun than this one! The 6 lacked of minigames, 
 this one you have plenty to play on! I am still dissapointed that nintendo never does the voice, 
 instead of the textbox dialogue, which sometimes is irradating. Plenty of characters to choose 
 from. Great different location. I do not like the number of free candies on maps, way too much! 
 I've only played the board games for now, I haven't yet been to the different in-game stuff. The 
 graphics are good on the Wii. If you like Mario Party series you'll enjoy this one.
  
  
  Pros: Lots of minigames, fun family game, good maps. use of the wii remote.
  Cons: Too much free 
 candies. Caption text. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futchy_ly
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Mario bring's the Party to wii with Mario Party 8. A fun-filled party full of board's and mini-games. 
 This Mario Party (MP8) is fun but it come's with some flaws.
  
  Graphics
  It look's like Nintendo upgraded the graphic's but review's are saying that they toned down on 
 it. I really see some differnce's between the GC MP's and this MP. The Board's are more colorful. 
 Like DK's board. It has waterfall's in the backgrond and a nice little rainbow in front of it. 
 The graphic's have improved in my eyes. But the Ukiki's still look like they have Butt-cheek face's. 
 9/10
  
  Sounds
  The sound's are ok. Nothing to remember. But shy guy's train has some nice music to it. The charcter's 
 also have new winning talkings. Boo sound's really wierd now and Dasiy is more annoying. 7/10
 
  
  Gameplay
  This is where you were wating to see. You will only need to use the wii-remote and no nunchuks 
 are used. (Except for the Extra mini-games) to hit the dice block you just flick the wii-remote 
 up. So no jumping in the air for real. The mini-games are great and longer but there isn't enough. 
 The Duel mini-games are either toned-down from the other vs modes. For instance. There is a cake 
 mini-game where you decorate a cake in 2-vs-2 mini-game. But it also appears as a duel mini-game. 
 But there are other new duel mini-games. There is hardly any 1-vs3 mini games and just some more 
 4-player mini-games. The new item's here are called candies. Where if you have Vampire candy you 
 suck coin's from your enemys. But when they player use's the candy it take's arbout 3 second of 
 unnesscery transitioning. Plus if you don't have candy you hit the dice block right away. But if 
 you do have candy you have to click Dice Block to hit it. I would have rather have a press a button 
 to go aheaad and use candy so I don't have to waste time to use the dice block. Mini-games use 
 the wii-remote in a varity of ways. From a lasso to a jump rope. But we already ahve seen most 
 of these moves in Wario were and Super Monkey ball so nothing to really remember. If you remember 
 from MP7 about how not choosing what your prize was. Well it's here again. But at least there's 
 no dud . You thow this dart at a roullete just for money tho. I would like to take 99 coins frmo 
 my oppenet not jsut 20. the amounts are either 1,5,10, or 20. No star for beating your oppent. Which 
 really sucks. Overall 7/10
  
  Replay
  There is two cahrcter's to unlock which you have to play one of the other modes whch is Star Battle 
 Arena. There are alsso Figurne's againg but this time they don't do anything. There's the loveable 
 minigame mode. The Extra's zone where you can use your mii's to play some BIG mini-games. Sadly 
 there is only one 4-player mini-game which is a really bad redition of Bowling from wii sports. 
 The rest are either 1-2 or just one. You buy thing's with Star Cards for doing things. But there 
 are 6 boards and a ton of ting's to keep you coming back and playing. 9/10
  
  Overall MP8 is a rent and then buy. If you have no friends don't get it. If you have at least one 
 friends and some extra wii-remotes have fun then. Also there is no widescreen support. So if you 
 do widescreen they give you a border which look's distracting. But I use a regular TV that doesn't 
 suppor widescreen so i'm ok. But it doesn't really matter if the game supports Widescreen.
  
  My grade- 7.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradshoe
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 2, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Story: None
  
  Gameplay: The wii remote is used to add more fun to the minigames. Most of the games use it well 
 and the controls fit. The games that don't use the motion control (about 25-30% of them) are still 
 some of the best minigames in the series. The boards are easily the best in the series. Each board 
 has its own twist and the are balanced out perfectly. Everything works out very well. Some people 
 may not like the high luck factor on the boards but it only makes the game more fun.
  
  Graphics: Although it doesn't look great, it is an improvement from the GC which is good enough 
 for me. It really should have had widesrceen support though.
  
  Sound: This is the first time in the the Mario Party series that I enjoyed the music on a few levels. 
 Value: Although there are fewer minigames than I would have liked, there are still plenty and if 
 you have friends then you will enjoy this game for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lola162
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 2, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game a few days ago, and already, I'm hooked. My friends, my sister and I had always 
 enjoyed Mario Party 7 so I decided to give the Wii version a try. First, I played it with my sister 
 and since my sister is not an avid gamer and doesn't enjoy video games as much as I do, she wasn't 
 overly excited about this game, and her lack of a lot of enthusiasm gave me doubts. But just last 
 night, I invited two of my friends to sleep over, and we played a 15-turn game. I have to say that 
 all of us were wishing we had done more turns, because we were hooked. The minigames were so much 
 fun, and had us doubled over in laugher and we tried to mess each other up by grabbing each others' 
 Wiimotes and taunting one another for bad rolls on the boards. It was a blast, and we all ended 
 up teaming up on the only computer player even though we were all individual. We never got tired 
 of the fun minigames because we never once had to repeat one over. Now, all my doubts are gone 
 and I highly reccomend this game to anyone who's looking to have some fun with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cadester12
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 2, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  The Game - Mario Party 8 itself is very similar to the previous titles in that it has something 
 different to make it shine, but is tarnished by a few shortcomings. Multiplayer is really the best 
 way to play this game, much like it has been for other games in the series. The maps are average. 
 Some, like Koopa's Tycoon Town, are very fun, but some are very random and rely much too heavily 
 on chance, like King Boo's Hideaway. The Graphics - While the graphics aren't much better than 
 what a Gamecube could supply, most of the textures in the game are high quality.
  
  So... - If you like the Mario Party series, pick this one up. It's motion sensitive capabilities 
 add a new dimension to the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  The very good things about this game is the new party boards are amazing and are very good sized. 
 The wii-mote motion sensitive controls are really nice and it doesn't mess up as much as i thought. 
 In fact, there are only about 5 mini-games where the wii-mote motion sensitive controls mess up 
 on me. The new special space that takes you to a secret part of the board and you can get a free 
 star is a very nice addition. The new candy system is very good, my favorite is either the Duelo 
 candy or the Thrice candy. The Extras zone is where you can use your miis and play 8 different 
 mini-games, the bad part of it is in the Star Carnival Bowling, the wii-mote is too sensitive when 
 you want to spin the bowling ball. The 2 new characters (Blooper, and a Hammer bros,) are really 
 good thrown-in characters. The bad Parts of the game is that some of the mini-games could have 
 just used a simple d-pad movement instead of moving the wii-mote down and then up (which can mess 
 up the sensing on the sensor bar really easily) . Another bad part is that there aren't as much 
 mini-games as Mario party 7, nor Mario party 6. Another bad thing is that there is no online play. 
 The last bad thing about this game is that it just doesn't make a Mario party fun with just playing 
 by yourself (that includes all Mario Party games) . But overall, if you are a big fan of Mario Party, 
 this game is a very good game to add to the collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smileyryder34
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  Mario Party started back in the days of the Nintendo 64. Since then the party has continued on 
 a nearly annual basis. Mario Party 8 continues the trend, and it doesn't look to stop any time 
 soon. At it's heart Mario Party is a multiplayer game. Loads of minigames, and backstabbing friends 
 is the name of the game. If you've played Mario Party before then you know exactly what to expect. 
 The core of the game hasn't changed. You travel around a board, similar to a board game and you 
 collect stars. The player with the most stars at the end of the game wins. What this Mario Party 
 does differently though is how you gain those stars and the importance of the stars. EAch of the 
 games mini game boards is different. In one you race to the end of a boardwalk and when you reach 
 the end you gain a star and start the process over. You can pay for shortcuts to reach the end 
 faster than your opponents. In another you're traveling around a haunted house and you don't know 
 how the board looks until you've reached the spots. This board changes every time you play it so 
 you can't memorize the layout. In another you're investing coins in different hotels and whoever 
 has the most money invested in that building gains the star from that building. There are more 
 as well, but you'll have to play the game to find out what they are. The single player mode is 
 the same as this, but you're by yourself against 3 computer opponents. The variety of the boards 
 though makes the single player experience one that you would enjoy if you don't have any friends 
 over. The look of the game has improved as well. It looks better that the previous versions, but 
 not by much. Character models are a bit more crisp than in the past. The one thing I think looks 
 markedly better over previous versions is text. The sound is not changed much. It's still pretty 
 par for the course in terms of Mario games. The controls take advantage of the Wii Remote as you 
 would expect. Many of the mini games are controlled by motion control or using the controller similar 
 to FPS. Many of the games are also controlled holding the controller similar to game pads of the 
 past. Each game shows a diagram of how you'll hold the controller and you can also get instructions 
 on how to control the game. You'll find many of the games are pretty self explanatory and you won't 
 need to see the instructions more than once. All in all I would recommend this game if you're looking 
 for a solid multi-player experience. This game is still the standard for party games on the Wii 
 and I don't expect that to change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa6190
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 2, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  Mario party 8's multiplayer as always makes for some good fun with friends. they minigames are 
 (mostly) entertaining. they take advantage of the wii remote's capabilities very well. some, though 
 were just plain annoying and were late with the controls, like the monkey climbing minigame. the 
 single player though left me feeling frustrating, anger, and with buyer's remorse. multiple times 
 i have been ending up swearing at the t. v in a fit of rage. the clerk at a game store (game****) 
 said that this was a better game than warioware, and my father made me get another set of controllers 
 saying why get half a loaf a bread when you can get a full one, or something like that. either 
 way, if you want a game that is mostly for a party, then this is the game. otherwise, you could 
 get an ulcer from playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larumba
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  about the graphics i dont complain much because i know that the wii WILL NEVER HAVE AWSOME GRAPHICS 
 (please gamespot understand this because in that case every wii game will be rotten) compared to 
 the other consoles, and yes is very similar to the gamecube games. but im having a very good time. 
 (this is wy this thing sales more than others) the game needs more wario mini games stile so that 
 the real fun using the wii controls is really managed, but in few words i thing this game deserves 
 a better score, the major part of users and buyers think that, but sadly theres always a wii-graphics 
 comparison with the other consoles and not game play, and this will be a big issue wen gamespot 
 reviews a wii game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicrosoftISdumb
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 1, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Here's the deal. This game is not meant for 1 player. If you think a game called Mario Party is 
 a one player game you need to rethink about buying this game. This game would be so much better 
 if the one player was better. Most of the time your throwing dice and running around the board 
 more then playing mini-games. That's what takes away from the overall rating for me.
  
  If solely based on the multi player modes, then this game is golden! It's really fun when your 
 playing with other people. To me, the mini games are both innovative, they work well, and most 
 importantly they are fun! The multi player mode is so much different then the single player mode... 
 you play a lot of mini games.
  
  What ticked me off about gaming websites giving this game a bad rating was:
  
  1) They said 
 the graphics are bad... The graphics are actually good! Quit being graphics whores, this game is 
 Mario Party... it's not a realistic FPS shooter. The graphics are perfect.
  
  2) Wide screen doesn't work properly.... come on, that's a minority. Not everyone has a wide screen 
 TV. I don't so it shouldn't effect the game's score.
  
  3) To much luck is involved... get out of here! You know what these so called gamers are called? 
 Noobs . Sure, there is luck in Mario Party, but did you know a lot of the things that you think 
 involve luck (like throwing the darts at the spinning wheel) can actually be timed perfectly if 
 you focus hard enough? This is what you call skill, matter in fact to win a lot of coins your gonna 
 need to win mini games which take skill.
  
  I would recommend getting this game if you plan on playing it with friends and/or family. Don't 
 get it if you plan on playing single player all the time, because you might be disappointed.
  
  I've never heard of someone having a party all by themselves... play this game with friends 
 and make it a real party! Have fun my gaming friends! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ekiguchi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Many people out there is saying this game has horrible graphics, gamecube graphics. To me, the 
 graphics are fine, who really cares about graphics, its the gameplay. This is why you got a wii, 
 for the gameplay, not for xbox graphics.
  
  This game is very fun when it comes to 4 players, you need friends to have fun. I wish they had 
 a little bit more games but I guess this is fine. Some of these games are really fun to play and 
 some of the games are really lame.
  
  I also wish that you could get to CHOOSE what player your going to attack with candy instead of 
 random dart throwing. It ruins strategy.
  They did base this game on luck, but winning minigames effect your
  winning, and also items.
 
  
  in the end this game is super fun and should be played with friends.
  
  to sum it up:
  
  if you got friends, buy it
  if you don't, go play XBOX360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlebirdeggs
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 1, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I never played the gamecube Mario Parties, but if I did I probably wouldn't have 
 liked this one as much as I do. But even if you did play the other games, you'll enjoy this one.
 
  
  There are a lot of characters to choose from. They look pretty good and their voices are awesome. 
 They might annoy the people that aren't playing the game (for instance, mom or dad) but nobody 
 cares if they are annoyed, right? ;)
  
  The minigames are creative and fun to play over and over. Some are very easy and simple, but some 
 are more challenging. Either way, the minigames are fun if you play this game by yourself or with 
 friends.
  
  The only thing I can imagine people not liking about this game is that there is a lot of luck involved. 
 But you can't play this game if you are really competitive, because it just won't be fun for you 
 and you will probably get angry. But if you have don't care about losing 20 coins or getting sent 
 back to start then you'll have a fun time playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMAHAPYHIPPO
Rating: 7
Date: May 31, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Some of the minigames are fun. The hotel map is really fun, clearly made for epic four 
 player 50 turn games. Some cool uses of the Wiimote. The Bad: Those borders on the side of the 
 screen. The NES controller was cool, BUT THE DPAD IS NOT MEANT FOR 3D GAMES. Only 6 maps? WAY too 
 much text. Nothing's really changed since Mario Party 1. After 7 games, a developer should be able 
 to figure out it's game's vices and virtues. While the Mario Party games have always sold extremely 
 well (the Gamecube versions are nearly impossible to find and mark the higher-priced end of used 
 games) , nothing really pushed them over the edge to the status of must-have . Now we have a Mario 
 Party for the Wii. Nintendo's suceeded at a minigame based title named WarioWare, so when I first 
 heard about Mario Party 8 I was in heaven. Here I thought is the chance for them to really do something 
 special with the Wiimote. Mario Party exemplifies everything Nintendo represents from it's party 
 based gameplay (it has party in the title for christ's sake) to a chance for extremely interesting 
 and innovative uses of the Wii remote, but honestly, who wants to wander around (and try to balance 
 on platforms) in 3d with an incredibly small D-pad? NOBODY. So many minigames rely on 3d movement 
 with use of the D-pad. It's ackward, it's uncomfortable, and it's down right embarassing. There 
 are some pretty interesting minigames, but the lame ones out-do the interesting ones. The graphics 
 are so-so. I'm not one to complain about them, and everything looks pretty sharp, but what's with 
 the borders? They're lame, and also pretty irritating to look at. What's the point? Though the 
 maps are pretty interesting, there's only 6 of them. (One of them unlockable, and I'm NEVER playing 
 this game by myself, so we're stuck with 5) . But even if you don't like a few, you're stuck with 
 only a couple to use. Closing thoughts:
  Overall, Mario Party 8 feels like an extremely rushed and carelessly published title. While it's 
 decent, and any Mario Party fan will enjoy it for the change in gameplay using the Wii remote, 
 everyone who picks this up will end up feeling like this game had the potential to be so much more. 
 Poor effort Nintendo. Come on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grumsh
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 31, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Mario Party games are usually fun and enjoyable, but this time around it feels like a rushed game 
 to fill a early summer gap.
  
  To start its a typical Mario Party game for 1 - 4 players, and a solo career mode where you play 
 on multiplayer boards vs a single computer opponent with minor adjustments in win conditions. I 
 wont talk to much about the solo game because it's not the strength of the game and its only purpose 
 is to unlock in game extra's.
  
  For anyone who has played earlier Mario Party's the only thing new here will be some mini-games 
 that use the Wii-motes motion sensitivity, which can be hit (make the I dizzy) and miss (rowing 
 the boat) . Not all minigames use the Wii-mote motion sensitivity though and the ones that don't 
 are mostly standard D-pad + A and/or B button control schemes that have existed since the days 
 of the origional nintendo. Overall controls are not game breaking, but they are not exactly cutting 
 edge or spot on accurate at times either. you WILL lose mini-games due to remote issues occasionaly, 
 but it is rare.
  
  The in game graphics are nothing spectacular either, I would rate them as late first gen maybe early 
 second generation Gamecube graphics.... Which is unfortunate since the Wii is 2 Gamecubes duck 
 taped together.. Issues include terrible Anti-aliasiing, a game screen shrinking border on each 
 side of the screen that effectively shrinks your viewable image by up to 20%, and smaller on screen 
 characters in comparison to earlier Mario Party titles.
  
  Finally the mini games themselves seem to have a very strong been there done that feel, but now 
 instead of tapping A rappidly I am just shaking the Wii-mote.
  
  All of this adds up to a feeling that this was origionally a Gamecube game that got postponed while 
 some Motion sensitivity was tacked on to make it a Wii game.
  
  Overall if you are new to the Mario Party franchise and are looking for a good party game, get 
 Mario Party 7. If you are dead set on getting another Wii micro game based game, you could do worse 
 then Mario Party 8. It does have some redeeming party game features, I just think this one needed 
 another couple months to be put together.
  
  Final Grade 6.0
  If you have never played a Mario Party game before and are looking for a game to invite friends 
 over... Call it a 7.25. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  It has tons of mini games, graphics are decent for a wii game, Mario Party 8 is made by the same 
 people that made Fusion Frenzy 2. Hudson really loves there party games. This game is new to me 
 because I have never played a Mario Party game before this one. I traded in a couple old games 
 so I gave this a try as well as MK which I am loving. The gameplay is about the same for every 
 minigame. I don't know if I would pay 50 dollers if you are into party games. I am not a big party 
 fan but I liked it enough to give it a pretty good game. If I do not like this game in a week I 
 will change my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: none17256375947
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  We absolutely love this game! The best Mario Party played yet! I have a 5 y/o and we love playing 
 this game with daddy, mommy, and her, then when she go to bed, the wife and I jack up the difficulty 
 and have at it. Many professional review say the game is too repetitive from the prior games 
 I have to completely disagree! Granted we only played 2 games, and both on the same level, but 
 thing like, you no longer pay for stars, the destination is at the same place, YOU USE THE WII 
 REMOTE, are completely different the all other 7. I really think the professional reviews are quite 
 angry that the game is not in 16:9 format, and I have to agree, there is no excuse for that. But 
 if you can get past the little bars on the side, prepare for the BEST mairo party experience ever! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos12391
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  overall the games is just like al the other mario party games. go around on a board and collect 
 stars. it also has a VERY dull single player that you must complete to hammer bros. besides goomba's 
 board and hte boards are very good. boo's is my favorite, it's all luck. the one thing that bothers 
 me is that everyones says the graphics are poor and could have ben on the gamecube. I agree that 
 the graphic could have been better, but the games looks alot more clean and crisp. it's also nice 
 to see solid coins instead on PAPER ones. the mini-games also seem A LOT more kiddish and not as 
 fun as the older mario party games. I'm also surprised that no one has mentions that many of the 
 deul games are used as 4 player, 1vs3 etc. in the game again. that disappoints me. the game still 
 keeps it form which makes me happy and dissapointed. they need to jazz the gameplay up in the next 
 one to keep me playing it. I can't say how good the multiplayer is because the controler cost almost 
 as much as the game 40$. if your're a fan of the game buy it, if not rent it first. remeber it 
 is basically the same thing as the last one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihateoliver
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 31, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Unlike any other games on Wii, what departs MP8 from the other 4P possible games is its coherence 
 that surpasses the scope of merely being a compilation of minis. The multi-player experience of 
 the game is simple yet unpredictable and most importantly, complete.
  
  Each of the six themed boards provides a unique degree of fun, complexities and dare I say, strategical 
 challenges. And the cameo appearance of characters and props from past Nintendo games coated the 
 game with an extra layer of charm.
  
  My biggest complaint about MP8 is the COM puppet that are assigned to fill the absent position (s) 
 when less than 4 human players are available. Well, it is understandable that playing a party game 
 against computer programs isn't exactly an ideal situation, but the extremely predictable AI will 
 likely to cause some major frustrations. I have seen numerous times that the COM player win or 
 lose three times in a row and ruin the whole mood for the party. Actually, I am just about to go 
 get the fourth and final controller just to eliminate potential options to play against COM players 
 ever again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pieisgoodman
Rating: 6
Date: May 31, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I reserved a copy of this baby and got it in the morning. Man that was a waste of time. This is 
 basically a Mario Party 7 replica, with very little wiimote use. Gameplay - Senseless. The board 
 map is annoying, and so is the same old boring Mario Party 7 minigames. Like I said, VERY little 
 wiimote use at all, only as much as you use the wiimote in the GOOD game, Super Paper Mario. Graphics 
 - Same old Mario Party 7 graphics. Horrible, actually. Sound - Not much to hear in this senseless 
 game. Value - Super low Overall - Buy one of this stupid NeoPets games instead. Seriously, this 
 game is stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zetzuei
Rating: 7
Date: May 31, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is one game that i preordered about a week that it came out. I had thought that it would 
 be a good way to spend my money even though i didn't have enought to buy it when it came out but 
 i got the money from a friend. On the day of the 29th i went to go get it and i was kinda excited 
 but when i went to pick it up they said that they wouldn't have it until the next day which was 
 the 30th and it was suposed to come out on the 29th so i was pretty mad and so the next day i went 
 to get it. When i put it in to play it looked really fun but after about 15 minutes i started to 
 get really board. It was really boring me and i was expecting much more from it so i wouldn'
  t recomend that anyone buy this game unless you want to be really board playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: styphin
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 31, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  I'll keep it short.
  
  Nintendo sticks to their philosophy that a game doesn't need to look great to be enjoyable as they 
 bring their long lived Mario Party franchise to the Wii.
  
  If you've played Mario Party before, then you'll know that the basic gameplay is untouched with 
 just improvments and flourishes here and there. Obviously, the addition of the Wii-mote to the 
 gameplay is a very nice touch, especially with players who aren't so good at controller-based party 
 games, like, for example, girlfriends.
  
  The graphics are definitely a step up and, in my opinion, are being picked apart by some a little 
 too much. It doesn't look like a PS3 game or anything, but it looks just fine for what it needs 
 to convey. Bright colors and cute characters.
  
  Game boards are interesting and well designed, solid sound and music, and the pacing of the game 
 seems to have been (thankfully) sped up a bit.
  
  This game sucks if you're playing single-player, but the name of the game is Mario PARTY, and is 
 definitely a blast with 2 or more people. If you are the type of gamer who throws get togethers 
 often, or just love the Mario Party series, you won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xDarkSamusx72
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 31, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  Mario Party 8 would have to be a must have in a Wii owners games. The game may not have the best 
 single player, but bring a few frends, family members, or anyone to come and play with you, and 
 you will be unabl to put this game down. The graphics are as the standard Gamecube/Nintendo graphics, 
 but everyone makes it seem as if the graphics are extreemly poor. Must have for a Wii game collector, 
 controls will hook you bad, as with multiplayer. Only downside aside from single player is the 
 getting used-to of the game's controls and difficulty, but after a while of playing, it eases down. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucas830
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  It's the best Mario party with the ability of the wii remote. It have new characters, new boards, 
 new mini-games and more. If you like the previous Mario Party, you like this one too. I have a 
 tip for the gamers don't play the previous version of Mario Party, before each mini-games, you 
 can have a practice and it explain the controls and the games. I recommended this games for all 
 gamers would like to play a game with their friends and their families. On my own, it's the best 
 multi-player game, before th game Super Smash Brawl be on the games markets near of their home. 
 Try it or buy it!
  
  Sorry for the mistakes my both language is french, thanks for your comprehension. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMH74767
Rating: 5
Date: May 30, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  This is my 1st time playing a Mario Party game, and so far it seems to be pretty fun, I've been 
 playing the Solo game thus far, to try and unlock minigames, and it really seems to be going at 
 a snails pace, I just don't know if its right for me, I really want to see some cool minigames, 
 but I don't know if I have the patience to unlock them all, in terms of party games, I would have 
 to say that Wario Ware Smooth moves is better, but if you guys are itching to own this game, its 
 not going to matter what anybody says about this game because you'll buy it anyways, but honestly, 
 I don't think its a game to keep for awhile, rent it or buy it, then trade it in, its definately 
 better than Sonic Secret Rings, but I don't think its the best Wii game out there, in closing, 
 I do recommend playing it, just to see what its all about, otherwise, save your $$$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazy-lasagna
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 30, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  AH, mario party just never dies, am i right folks? first, there is 1 then 2 then 3,4,5,6,7 and 
 now 8! Final Fantasy went all the way to 12 and they are making 13 and they are all different in 
 some way. But mario party 8 is totally different from that because it is just the same thing over 
 and over again, just better graphics, well not really) same gameplay, different minigames and different 
 board games. That can get pretty boring... Anyways most of the minigames use the wiimote but some 
 of them are boring. well right now im too lazy to write anymore so that isthe end of my review. 
 i would give this game a 7.9 out of 10.
  
  Lazy-Lasagna 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stonetowerghost
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 30, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Youve got to start somewhere
  
  The Good: Improved Minigames; A big step up from the past...
  
  The Bad: Awful board game designs; 
 middling visuals and sound; hasn't been changed enough...
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Main Idea: Remove the suck from Mario Party, but still leave fans hungry.
  
  Visuals: It could have been done upon the GCs release... easily.
  
  Music and Sound: Im getting 
 tired of childish tunes, and the mediocre sound effects.
  
  Playability: The excellent minigames are held back by the painful board games.
  
  Satisfaction: 
 Youll like it much, MUCH
  , better than the GC games.
  
  Replay: Multiplayer is the only thing thatll keep gamers hooked.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Mario Party 8 is the 8th (Obviously) entry in the Mario Party Franchise. This is the 1st entry 
 for Nintendos revolutionary console - The Wii. While the series has sold well, gamers have never 
 had anything to truly sink their teeth into. Im happy to say that its gotten better, but theres 
 also some work to be done.
  
  Story: There really is no Story, but Mario and gang have gotten together to have a party and 
 determine whos the Superstar among them. Gameplay: This is where things get better, but slip at 
 the same time. Motion based controls are very well integrated into the game. There are several 
 innovative varieties of minigames and the luck over skill concept is almost completely gone. Unfortunately, 
 the boards are what ultimately hold Mario Party 8 back from greatness. They are interesting, but 
 nothing has changed enough to warrant a true revolution. Im still sitting through arbitrary waiting 
 times for my turn to come, and rolling the dice emphasizes luck over skill. Im also tired of having 
 to watch animation after animation when a character hits a ? Space. Although I CAN skip CP exclusive 
 Minigames, so thats nice.
  
  Graphics: Its nothing extraordinary, and nothing that couldnt have been done upon the GameCubes 
 release. Its not exactly ugly, though. Sound: Midis and Mario speak havent been evolved or changed 
 at all. Im still not feeling a revolution, which is what the Wii is all about!
  
  Value: Multiplayer has almost endless value, but I cant say the same for the boring single player 
 modes. Play with some friends.
  
  Tilt: Im glad to see some decent changes, but its just not enough. The MP series has definitely 
 gotten better, though. This game has given us the push. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laz3r15
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I purchased it yesterday and haven't even played half the minigames yet. I enjoy quite a large 
 number of them as they are all quite different one way or another. Not sure why you gamespot reviewers 
 are being so harsh on all of Nintendo's products because 6.5 is out of the question. Just because 
 you've played your PS3's and Xbox 360's should not mean this game deserves such a poor review.
 
  
  The ONLY thing I dislike about this game is the fact that you have those two annoying blue bars 
 on the left and right side of your screens throughout the entire game, including minigames and 
 everything else (other than menu's...) . Graphics are ok, but I think they could've improved it 
 a bit more either way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galaxybear
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 30, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Some of the gaming community, mostly the more hardcore, have had a grudge against Mario Party since 
 the original, because they can't stand losing unfairly. Since most reviewers are among this jaded, 
 hardcore, sect take their reviews with a grain of salt, or more. But life is full of luck, or lack 
 their of, deal with it... has anyone actually played a boardgame... ever? If you can tell me with 
 a straight-face that you have ever won Monopoly (or any other game) without lady luck on your side, 
 then I would love to hear that story. Meanwhile Mario Party IS a board game.
  
  Personally I love the luck-aspect, it allows my girlfriend to actually compete. My only complaint 
 of the series is that, well, there has been 8!!! But this is no obligatory sequel, its abrand new 
 game with brand new gameplay:
  
  Games are fresh (thanks to Wiimote) but nostalgic
  Graphics are good, best of its type on the Wii
  Sound delivers, but it is a boardgame
  and 
 most importantly the new conent is enough to keep pullingthis game off the shelf... unlike 2-7, 
 or any other minigame collection on the Wii yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mld316
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 29, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  don't buy the others you'll be playing this one all day. it has good motion control if you punch 
 in this game in a mini game you don't just shake the controller you punch make this one a pick- 
 up right away. when you go to a store if you bought another mario party game buy 7. or if you want 
 something with more humor get rayman raving rabbids. if you want somthing with the best of them 
 all buy wario ware. no matter what this is funner on multiplayer cause it mario party! this is 
 true all the others suck but with mothion control it is best in the series now that is my ok review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imranmotala
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  well its may 29th 8:30 pm about 5 hours ago i bought mario party 8 for the wii. alright I put it 
 in and start playin and i have no idea wat to do so i go into star battle arena and complete 2 
 stages unlock some mini games to tell the truth i was disapointed, i checked all the options and 
 finaly i reached party tent, and i was sooo happy its the old school party with amazing new school 
 stuff and i love it, i hated the past mario parties but this one is amazing. I played on and on 
 after that.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Not wat i expected for a wii game they look more gamecube but a little better to me.
  
  Gameplay: 
 10/10
  Ive unlocked about 25 mini games now and played around with all the options and i am impresed, 
 this game shows alot of replay value and will keep me entertained for awhile.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  missing one point for lack of wii mote speakers, sure it may use it a little like 
 when its your turn or in some mini games but i expected more. Other then that it has great music
 
  
  Value: 10/10
  Worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 29, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I remember the first mario party for n64. I was thrilled! Me and my friends always got together 
 to enjoy the fun minigames. Well as the years passed I noticed that the quality of the series went 
 downhill. The gamecube one's just didn't grab me... but now the next installment has arrived on 
 Nintendo's little white wonder. After playing a fair bit (along with a friend) , I think it's safe 
 to say that this is THE best Mario Party since the 2nd one!
  
  Anyone who's familiar with nintendo knows the deal in mario party. You go around a themed gameboard, 
 navigating through obstacles, and beating your opponents at minigames. Doing this will ultimately 
 land you the most stars, which makes you the winner. It's a simple formula that anyone can grasp, 
 and thanks to the innovation of the wiimote the gameplay is more accessible than ever! The dozens 
 and dozens of minigames creatively utilize the wiimote, making it varied and interesting. These 
 games range from teams, to duels and free-for-alls. Most of them are entertaining, like swinging 
 it around like a lasso. You earn carnival cards to spend them on items and other things to give 
 you an advantage in the game. The gameplay is absolutely solid, and so far it's the best multiplayer 
 game on wii.
  
  The story is.... not important. It's kidsy in every sense of the word. Mario and his pals are competing 
 in a carnival to win candy. Blooper and Hammer Bro have joined in the fun this time, bringing the 
 total character roster to 14. There's lots of extras, including a tent where you can use your miis 
 in several minigames! The graphics are clean and shiny... nothing spectacular, but good all around. 
 The sound is.... mario. It's pretty unimpressive, expect corny voices and zippy music.
  
  As I mentioned before, this is the best multiplayer experience on the wii, and if you have friends 
 you'll be playing it until the 9th one comes out (or at least until BRAWL :D) . Simply put, it's 
 a fun fun game. Maybe it's the wiimote or maybe it's because Nintendo put forth more effort, but 
 this is the best Mario Party I've played in a looooong time. So if you've got some friends &amp; 
 extra wiimotes, Mario can throw you a kickass party. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackice07
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  I got Mario Party 8 last night at Toys R Us, the idiots got their stock early and put it on the 
 shelf instead of waiting for today i guess to put it out, so yay for me i got it a day early. Here's 
 the goods, from the main menu you can pick from 5 different tents, one is a battle tent, it has 
 the basic game with all the boards 1-4 players, the next tent is the 1 player challenge mode, didn't 
 explore this one yet. then there is the mini-games tent, 1-4 players where you can play any mini-game 
 that you have encountered in the board game. Then there is a brazer tent where you can use cards 
 ( that you get at the end of a board game, i got 20 cards playing a 15 turn game and won) to buys 
 figures, mini-games, and other stuff. The last tent is a mini-game tent that houses extra mini-games 
 that you wont see on the actual game, here you can use your Mii characters as well as the Mario 
 party characters. The characters in this game are the usual + hammer Bros and Blooper, they are 
 greyed out at the start but you unlock them later others are Mario, Luigi, Peach, Daisy, Boo, Yoshi, 
 Wario, Waligi, Toad, and Dry Bones and others. I only played one board, it was the DK Jungle style 
 map, it was of good size, stars are randomly located across the map, The games master/announcer 
 is kind of annoying, he consists on a creepy floating guy and his talking hat Mr. big top anyways 
 typical 10 coin start, jerk you control up to punch the spinning dice block above you, you start 
 moving around the board, there are pieces of candy scattered around the map and as you pass by 
 them you can pick them up, you get the choose to use them before your turn for an added bonus, 
 example, i got one that turned me into a tornado and anyone you pass on the board will get sent 
 back to the start effects only last 1 turn. the map has a candy store on it to buy additional candy 
 from shy guy, it has a DK cannon that you pay 5 coins to get shot to a random location on the map, 
 a water slide short cut that you can take it you land on the proper green square and some Parana 
 pipes that could lead you to a secret section of the board. To the mini games, the controls work 
 excellent, not like in monkey ball where it was to sensitive and hard to work some games, Mario 
 party seems to have done a great job getting the controls right, we played a w few 3-1 games where 
 the goal was to stay away form the lone person and on game that the 3 shot at the one duck hunt 
 style to prevent him from climbing the tower, free for all was Good with punching the bowser statue 
 and shaking up the coke can in the lead, the 2 vs 2 games where good, we go skipping, a football 
 style game and a driving game where you had to burst all of you color balloons to win. overall 
 it was very impressive to play. At the end they handed out secret stars to the most coins won in 
 mini-games, who landed on the most red squares and who landed on the most green squares. after 
 it was finished i visited the section that you play extra mini-games and used my Mii to play some 
 carnival bowling, its a fast passed bowling game, it didn't seem as accurate as wii bowling probably 
 because it was and after thought to the real game, you have 10 seconds per ball to bowl and you 
 can play either 5 or 10 frames, i ended wit a 98 in 5 frames because I'm not great but it seemed 
 fun to play. Anyways it seemed worth the money and will be a great addition to the multi-player 
 library. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
