-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mario Strikers Charged
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/mariostrikerscharged/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Entertaining multiplayer, both offline and online.
 More sidekick characters to choose from, each with unique megastrike shots.
 Goaltending minigame during megastrike shots is pretty cool.
 Lots of different attacks and weapons to use.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay can get overly chaotic.
 Artificial intelligence tends to be either too easy, or overly cheap.
 Tackle function can be a bit overpowered.
 Somewhat bland presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 30, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.9, 61 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 3,379 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Next Level Games
Genre: Soccer
Date: Jul 30, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mario's soccer sequel is a markedly more enjoyable game than its predecessor, especially for those 
 who prefer the multiplayer arena. 

  Mario sports games are always crazy, but it could be said that the pudgy plumber's first foray 
 into the world of traditional football in 2005's Super Mario Strikers for the GameCube wasn't quite 
 crazy enough. As goofy a game as it was, the dearth of the true Mario brand of wacky was apparent, 
 and the game suffered for it. Mario Strikers Charged for the Wii is essentially a sequel to that 
 game, and its first and foremost goal seems to be to amp up the crazy factor. Developer Next Level 
 Games has certainly succeeded in this area, though the final product ultimately resembles less 
 the game of soccer and more some kind of psychotic episode of flaming balls, thunderous hits, and 
 flying shells coming from every which way. Sometimes this chaotic gameplay gets a bit messy, and 
 some of the gameplay elements, like tackles and the artificial intelligence in single-player, aren't 
 perfect. Still, if you can get a grip on the action, you'll find Charged to be an addictive multiplayer 
 game, especially if you plan to take it online.  

           Hey LA Galaxy, can David Beckham do this?      

  Much like the original Strikers, 
 players begin by selecting a team captain from primary Mario characters such as Luigi, Bowser, 
 Peach, Daisy, Wario, and, of course, Mario himself. There are 12 captains in all, each with unique 
 stats in movement, shooting, passing, and defense. Once you've got your captain, you then select 
 three teammates from the lexicon of lesser Mario characters (Shy Guy, Monty Mole, Birdo, and the 
 like) . For those who played the original Mario Strikers, you'll note that this is different from 
 the team selection in the last game, where you could only pick one type of teammate. Here, you 
 get to choose three different ones, and they're every bit as varied as the team captains. They 
 even get their own unique megastrike shots, the big power shots that goaltenders tend to have a 
 difficult time with, which you can pull off by holding down the B button.  

  Of course, they're not quite as powerful as the captains' shots. While someone like, say, Boo can 
 essentially go transparent and try to fly his way past the goaltender, and the Hammer Brothers 
 can toss a gaggle of hammers at the goalie before eventually kicking the ball, these shots are 
 not guaranteed to go in. But the captains' shots are a whole different ballgame. When you hold 
 down the B button long enough with a captain, a golf-swing meter pops up that begins by counting 
 up toward the number six. This actually determines how many balls you're going to fire at the goaltender 
 in rapid succession. The meter then swings backward, and depending on how well you time the button 
 press on that return swing, it'll be more or less difficult to stop the forthcoming shots. Once 
 all meters are set, your captain leaps into the air and starts firing off shots like some kind 
 of Dragon Ball Z castoff.  

  Against the artificial intelligence, you're practically guaranteed at least one goal out of the 
 proceedings (though you often end up landing more) , but when you're playing against another player, 
 or you're forced to stop one of these shots yourself, a little goaltending minigame pops up. You 
 simply point the Wii Remote at the screen, and as balls come flying, you aim the onscreen reticle 
 at each one and press A to try to stop all the shots. It can get pretty hectic, but it's actually 
 a fun and clever way to handle the perspective of the goaltender in these situations.  

  Of course, that pales in comparison to how hectic the action can get during normal gameplay. Knowing 
 how to do a megastrike shot and actually pulling one out are two entirely different things. If 
 it's not some random opponent running up behind you and shoulder-checking you into the pitch before 
 you can pull out the shot, it's a gigantic red shell or a chain chomp running amok across the field, 
 slamming into you and everything else. Weapon power-ups don't come constantly, thankfully, but 
 many of the different fields have their own pitfalls that lend toward even more chaos, like electric 
 bolts that move up and down the pitch, and huge balls of magma that lay waste to anything in their 
 path. Frankly, the game would be crazy enough if all you could do was check your opponents. All 
 you have to do to knock an opponent silly is quickly wag the remote back and forth while standing 
 near an opponent. It's the only significant bit of motion control in the game, and it works well -- perhaps 
 too well. You can usually get shots off against the weaker AI settings, but on higher settings, 
 and against live opponents, prepare to get checked, and checked often.  

  Even with that prospect in mind, Mario Strikers Charged is a game best played in multiplayer. The 
 single-player modes don't extend beyond a standard versus mode, a challenge mode where you're presented 
 with a series of different scenarios (making a comeback from a three-goal deficit, maintaining 
 a shutout, and so on) , and the road to the striker cup, where you choose a team and compete for 
 a variety of different cups in round-robin-style tournaments. The mode selection is solid, but 
 playing against the AI tends to be either too easy, or obnoxiously difficult, as catch-up AI tends 
 to be a big factor on the higher settings.  

  Not so in multiplayer matches, which is a big part of why the multiplayer is just inherently more 
 fun. Up to four players can play both offline and online. The online play is obviously the big 
 draw here, and we're pleased to say that it's pretty much what makes the game worth owning. Though 
 you still have to go through the silly song and dance of getting game-specific friend codes for 
 all your buddies if you want to play against them specifically, you can play in ranked matches 
 against random opponents and bypass all that nonsense. You can engage in four-player play online, 
 but it's with a limit of two players per console. There are also leaderboards that track daily 
 stats as well as cumulative records. Though lag popped up in spots during our time with the game, 
 practically every match we played with a good latency rating worked seamlessly. It's a shame there's 
 no communication options online, but that issue aside, the online works nicely.  

           Trying to keep track of all the on-field silliness is a bit flustering.      

  The 
 one area where Mario Strikers Charged still lacks is presentation. The in-game graphics are certainly 
 a step up from the original, with better-looking character models, far more crazy crap happening 
 onscreen, and a frame rate that stays steady throughout. But smaller details are decidedly lacking. 
 The megastrike shots, while neat-looking, also feel kind of generic, specifically the captains' 
 shots. Each captain has a unique personal flavor, but all the shots just kind of look like cheesy 
 anime fighting-game posing. Interestingly, the new shots for the sidekick players are arguably 
 a lot more interesting and unique than the captains' shots. Cutscenes are sharp looking, but not 
 much goes on in them. You get the same shot of one of the captains skydiving into the arena before 
 every match, and that whole sequence feels kind of silly and out of place to begin with. The menus 
 and the soundtrack are also pretty dull, and while there's a bit of voice acting from the various 
 on-field characters, as well as some amusing chants from the crowd, there's no announcer in this 
 game, so you don't get the bigGOOOOAAAAAALexclamation whenever you score.  

  Presentational quibbles and single-player opposition issues notwithstanding, anyone who enjoyed 
 the last Mario Strikers game will certainly find Strikers Charged to be an improvement, and those 
 who took issue with the previous game will find some of their complaints properly addressed here. 
 That this is the first Wii game to do online play  and  do it well is a huge bonus. Those looking 
 for a deep and consistently entertaining single-player experience won't necessarily find it here, 
 but anyone out for some good, solid multiplayer fun, either offline or online, would do well to 
 check out Mario Strikers Charged.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (339 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: acfjosh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 6:53 am PT
Review:  
  Mario and soccer
  Two very different things, two very famous things
  Mix together these two and
  SMACK, BANG, WALLOP
  Youre hit in the face with a hardcore soccer 
 game with the most famous game icons in the world replacing Becham and Ronaldo
  
  And What a game it makes.
  Hard, ambitous, funny, cool ,fun and downright enjoyable.
  Great 
 multiplayer
  Long, deep single player
  Also quick play
  online play
  challenges 
  trophies
  New players to unlock
  Wide teaming variety
  interesting gameplay
  Wide range 
 of passing, shooting, lobbing, sliding, damage, fun, items
  
  Now onto the wide single player tornament. Which is done in a classic advancing with points, knockout 
 stages and more.
  Beating people will unlock more and more and more things to do and other unlcokables
  
  Anyway 
 long story short this truly combines all the elements of a great football game and a great mario 
 game, You'll find this everywhere so pick it up whenever you can
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazekick2
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 7:33 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is the remake of Mario Super Strikers this time for the Wii. The funny thing 
 is, although it is a soccor game, the word soccor is never used! I dare you to find it!
  
  The game is pretty much like any Mario sport game, you enter tournaments, and compete for first. 
 The multiplayer like i said in the review deck is awsome, not to mention there is Wi-Fi Multiplayer 
 options too!
  
  However, it can be a little hard at times, and takes a little practice to get used too, but most 
 of the challenge is there. The power-up kicks are sleek and beautiful, not to mention insanely 
 awsome! 
  
  You also have the selection of team captains, and some reconizable teamates. You also have a healthy 
 supply of nice, destructive enviornments, equipped with electric fences, dust devils, and a lot 
 of oter crazy sights.
  
  Each character also gets their own special move on the field, such as Mushroom power ups, fireballs, 
 and even spiked fences! Items can also be used to make winning even harder for your opponent.
 
  
  Like I said, it can be a little hard, but dont let that discourage you to buy it! It is an awsome 
 sequel, and a nice multiplayer experience!
  
  I give Mario Strikers Charged, a 9.0/10
  
  or as I call it, a SEMI-EPIC WIN.
  
  -Blazekick2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Even4life
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2009 11:55 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is my favorite video game. There are many differences in this game than 
 the original game, Super Mario Strikers. You can choose any sidekick, sidekicks have special power-ups, 
 Bowser is a playable player, You can shoot 3-6 balls instead of one ball scoring two points, there 
 are new stadiums and some of the original staduims from the orginal game, and more power-ups. 
 
  
  One of my favorite features (also in Super Mario Strikers) is the instant replays when you score 
 a goal. I also like the theme songs of all the players, and the sound that comes up when you score 
 a goal. But, my favorite features is the top three plays at the end of each and how the megastrike 
 doesn't come up in the top three plays. 
  
  This game is so awesome. I can't wait to face Petey Piranha in the Strikers cup. I give this game 
 all 10 points out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jercioh
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2009 11:25 am PT
Review:  When my grandmother bought this for me on my birthday just after it was released. I was unsure 
 whether it would be great and good or and bad and average. When my grandmother bought this for me 
 on my birthday just after it was released. I was unsure whether it would be great and good or and 
 bad and average. When my grandmother bought this for me on my birthday just after it was released. 
 I was unsure whether it would be great and good or and bad and average. When my grandmother bought 
 this for me on my birthday just after it was released. I was unsure whether it would be great and 
 good or and bad and average. When my grandmother bought this for me on my birthday just after it 
 was released. I was unsure whether it would be great and good or and bad and average. When my grandmother 
 bought this for me on my birthday just after it was released. I was unsure whether it would be 
 great and good or and bad and average. When my grandmother bought this for me on my birthday just 
 after it was released. I was unsure whether it would be great and good or and bad and average. When 
 my grandmother bought this for me on my birthday just after it was released. I was unsure whether 
 it would be great and good or and bad and average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paper_Jellly
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 5:48 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let me say that when I rented this game it was because there were no other games 
 left. So I wasn't really hyped up about playing it - but after a game or two of crazy action I 
 had changed my attitude to the game. 
  
  Story
  ~~~~
  Story? What story? Ok, so Super Mario Strikers doesn't have much of a storyline - but Mario Sport 
 games aren't well known for their story lines are they? The... objective... of the game in "The 
 Road to Striker Cup" (which is what passes for the story mode) is that you are a budding captain. 
 You get to choose three team-mates to form your team. Each captain and each team-mate has a different 
 special ability which will be described more in...
  
  Gameplay
  ~~~~~~~~~
  This is where Strikers revels in - at least in multiplayer. The multiplayer is just so crazy with 
 a friend. Not to mention that when you complete some of the challenges, you'll gain "cheats", which 
 let you do even more zany things. So, each team-mate and captain has a special move which can easily 
 score a goal. Now that I mention it, scoring goals isn't too hard when you get the hang of it. 
 This means matches will have end results like 15 - 9 and the like. Balancing the team-mates and 
 captains skills will result in a highly competitive team. 
  
  The captain, however, has a sly trick up his/her sleeve. They can use an uber move called the Megastrike. 
 This is a game-changing ability which can easily give you up to 6 goals in a few seconds. What 
 happens is your captain, charges up and jumps into the air. They have a special cutscene (which 
 portrays them as demo-gods by the look of it) and then you shoot up to 6 balls at the goalie. When 
 you are on the receiving side of the Megastrike, you get to do a mini-game which is quite fun when 
 you get the hang of it. 
  
  The striker challenges that I mentioned earlier on are a collection of easy to extremely hard missions 
 that you must complete. From things like only having two team-mates to having to get 7 goals in 
 3 minutes. They get very, very hard near the end, but the rewards are well worth it.
  
  The Road to Striker Cup is pretty much a tournament in which you play the opposing teams and then 
 have a 3 game series against the champion (Bowser Jr, Diddy Kong and Petey Piranha Plant) . The 
 first two cups are easy, but the last cup is extremely hard.
  
  Graphics
  ~~~~~~~~
  The graphics are quite good, but there not really extra-ordinary, but Nintendo games usually don't 
 rely on graphics to get a game to its full potential.
  
  Sound
  ~~~~~~
  The sound in the game is quite good, especially seeing as though each character has it's unique 
 soundtrack. Also, when you score a goal and the horn blares, the horn is just enough to make your 
 friend shout at in rage when you get a kick-ass goal.
  
  Overall, it is a very good game. However, to get it's full potential, you really need to play the 
 multi player. That means you need a friend, and if you don't have one of them, then you should 
 probably rent this first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuryX-4
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is a game from the 1st Mario Strikers where there are no rules of soccer, 
 but play EXTREME!!! But the extreme doesn't last long, because this game has problem or flaws.
 
  
  To start off:
  
  You play as some characters that returned, or the characters that are new and you can pick your 
 sidekicks you want. You can play 2, 3, or 4 players.
  
  In the "Road to the Striker Cup", you play 3 cups: the Fire Cup, the Crystal Cup, and the Striker 
 Cup. There is a problem with the CPU from each cup and here's why:
  for Fire Cup, the CPU are easy. Crystal Cup, the CPU is hard, and for Striker Cup, THE CPU IS VERY 
 VERY VERY HARD. So I suggest you skip the cup, but if you can handle it, go ahead.
  
  The challenges are very tricky and hard, but it maybe just fine. You can unlock the cheats by beating 
 it so you can use it a t Domination.
  
  The graphics doesn't have any problem with it, so don't bother it.
  
  If you don't feel like 
 playing the cup or playing alone, I suggest that you play on the Nintendo Wi-Fi, this is where 
 you can play around the world.
  
  That's all I can explain. If your a fan of Mario Strikers and you like this game, I suggest you 
 rent it and buy it, but if your a fan and you don't like this, then don't spend on it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scootergogo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I can explain this game as overall amazing. 1. Easy to Play 2. Great Multiplayer 3. Great Wifi
 
  Easy to Play: The controls are easy to use. The story mode is not too hard. 
  Great Multiplayer: I love playing with friends and family. The wifi is great too. When my friends 
 come over we play all the time. We switch up the teams and we play cpus. It is always a favorite 
 and it never gets bored. 
  Great wifi: The wifi is very fun. If you beat the story mode then wifi is always there to give 
 you something to do. I love playing wifi to get a great challenge. The only thing is that because 
 this is one of the first wifi games for wii, it has some lag (it really depends on your connection 
 strength) . Otherwise is extremely fun!
  Some things you should know: There are three tournament cups which makes up the storymode. The 
 story should take you 2-6 hours depending on your skill. I would highly recommend this game. I 
 am sure you, your family and friends will think that this is a great game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioboy333
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Mario strikers has its sequel and what do o have to asy about it IT IS WAY GOOD. The charaters are 
 back and with better moves. This game is just pure awesome. the game is simpla to pick up and play. 
 Though some things u amy have to find out ur self. I like the mega srike idea. It makes the game 
 more intense. Also if u are losing by 10. Mega strikes can go up to 6 GOALS. THAT IS RIGHT 6 GOALS. 
 Though some might not go in it can still be worth doing it. The game has only one flaw sometimes 
 the game is to challenging. In Strikers cup. It is hard. u most lilely lose the cup 3 times. Any 
 way the music is good. I really like the music when u score a goal it is really fun to listen to. 
 Also this is a good/bad thing. There are lots of ways to cheat in this game. It got me to win the 
 strikers cup. Also if u go on wi fi there is an 80% chance the person u play is either a pro or 
 cheats to much. The modes are good. i like th missions. Well that is all for now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2009 10:29 am PT
Review:  Don't ever be too quick to judge - that's our motto in life. In the case of Mario Strikers Charged 
 Football it would be a particularly apt adage, simply because a quick glance at the game would 
 suggest little has changed since its predecessor, Mario Smash Football. And yet that couldn't be 
 further from the truth. Well, kind of. If you need something for comparison, it's like buying two 
 different models of the same car a couple of years apart. They might look relatively similar, but 
 it's under the bonnet amongst all the cogs and pistons that the changes have taken place. The same 
 principle goes for Next Level Games' latest effort.
  
  
  Granted, the fact that Strikers (as we'll call it for the sake of space) is based on a sport with 
 fixed concepts that can't be changed without distorting it utterly doesn't help 
  to give the impression of improvement. Keeping the game recognisable as 'football' in the loosest 
 possible sense requires the obvious: two goals, two keepers, and a ball chased by a number of players 
 trying to get their hands, or rather feet, on it. 
  
  Ch-Ch-Ch-Ch-Changes
  Having realised that it's never going to change the fundamentals of football, Next Level Games 
 has spent all its time reworking, revamping and, most importantly, revitalising many ideas from 
 the last Mario soccer title. The result? A game that, while familiar and easy to pick up, has so 
 much intricacy that you'll be discovering new tricks for months to come.
  
  Of course, how quickly you spot all of the improvements depends on how hard you choose to look. 
 Take the considerably enhanced visuals, for instance, that actually take some effort to notice 
 because they're all rather subtle. At a distance, it looks as though little has changed but once 
 you start picking up on the increased animation for each character, the enhanced player detail 
 and the various lighting effects, there's plenty to drool over. The stadiums have been polished 
 substantially, and whether you're playing one of the 'classic' pitches from the last game or any 
 of the new (and highly dangerous) arenas, everything looks better than it did last time out.
  
  Other changes, not surprisingly, are easier to notice. You want a refreshed line-up of team 
 captains to play as? Consider it done, with 12 characters available for selection, including the 
 new choice of Bowser and three unlockable captains: Diddy Kong, Bowser Jr and the rather bizarre 
 option of Petey Piranha. 
  
  
  
  Perhaps more important, however, are the improvements made to the sidekicks. Not only are there 
 twice as many of them as before (with the new faces including Dry Bones, Boo, Monty Mole and Shy 
 Guy) , but you can now pick which three sidekicks you have on your team. As each has their own stats 
 and abilities, the opportunity to tailor your team's skills to your own style of play is a huge 
 bonus.
  
  Power To The Players
  On the pitch, the refinement of the sidekick system continues with each one having their own unique 
 special moves, similar to the almighty Mega Strike that the captains can use. Adding some much 
 needed strategy to the action, as well as many more goal-scoring opportunities, this system works 
 really well. Whether you like taking out the goalkeeper then smashing the ball into the net on 
 the rebound, breaking into space before hammering the ball home or sneaking shots in when your 
 opponent least expects it, there's something for you. 
  
  Some moves feel slightly overpowered (Birdo's Egg Blast shot was hideously abused when we played 
 online) but they're all as stoppable as they are powerful - if you know what you're doing, that 
 is.
  
  Thankfully, getting to that stage of know-how isn't difficult due to the game's built-in tutorial 
 that lets you practise your skills rather than just telling you the controls. That's not to say 
 that becoming a master of the game is easy, though. Sure, you can try exploiting the power-ups 
 and special moves but that'll only get you so far. 
  
  There's actually an incredibly complex football game under all the showiness, which makes the action 
 all the more appealing. Throw in an emphasis on multiplayer action - both through online play and 
 the ability to have four people playing against the computer in the main career mode - and soon 
 all your friends will have enough skill to ensure each match is tense and action-packed, rather 
 than a special move free-for-all. And that's where the pleasure of Strikers really lies. Despite 
 appearing to be a fantastical take on Britain's favourite sport, the game offers much more than 
 just special moves and ridiculous scoring. 
  
  
  
  There's plenty to do when playing alone too. With a range of nine trophies to win, plus 12 scenario-based 
 matches that see you trying to complete objectives, like coming back from a five-goal deficit or 
 stopping any goals being scored against you, you'll be kept very busy. However, there's little 
 doubt that Strikers is a multiplayer experience above all else and one that offers fast-paced football 
 action unlike any other game that's out now. 
  
  The fact that the online mode works a treat with little in the way of lag - from what we tested, 
 anyway - is perhaps most important, although no doubt some gamers will see fit to complain about 
 the ranking and non-friend-based matches being region-specific. Personally, we see it as a necessary 
 sacrifice for the sake of keeping the game playable. And if ever there was a term that could describe 
 Mario Strikers: Charged Football, it's 'playable'. 'Immensely playable', if you want to be specific. 
 
  
  The Wii couldn't have asked for a better game to kick off (ahem) its online presence in Europe, 
 but it's also impressive to see Next Level Games improve so much on a formula that could have been 
 left as it was. Well done, chaps - have a Mexican wave on us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akriloth_2160
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  It is at this point in my life as a gamer that I truly realize how much I truly hate difficult 
 games. It's not that I'm a wimp, but by hard, I mean hard as in Mario Strikers Charged. It does 
 manage to show Mario and co. in a mature, beefy way a lot better than Shadow the Hedgehog (Not 
 that I hated that, mind) , it does manage to provide an experience that is easy to pick up and play 
 (Albiet one with a lot of spammable attacks) , and it is of course the first UK and US wii game 
 to use wi-fi (Although I'll get to that in a moment) . Unfortunately, the whole experience is marred 
 by a ridiculous difficulty curve which shoots skywards around the fire cup finals. Not to mention 
 that most of the striker challenges are almost nigh-on impossible. In multiplayer, it's a blast, 
 although the fast pace of the game means that playing multiplayer co-op is very awkward. There 
 is also an online vs mode, but sadly, it's marred by some hideous lag issues that make Brawl's 
 online mode look like Sonic. However, although this review may seem rather negative, that doesn't 
 mean that it isn't worth buying, but if you're planning on buying it for the wi-fi mode and single 
 player campaign, I really can't reccommend it. Sorry! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tamanta
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Stars: SO much better than the original, mega striker, stage gimmicks, more sidekicks, better captains, 
 customisation, special shots.
  
  Ztars: Classic stages, some profiles are too similar.
  
  Comments: After playing the original Mario Smash Football and hating it, I was a little sceptical 
 about this game. Thankfully it is miles better than its predecessor. The graphics are better, there 
 are loads more stadiums, better choice of captains and sidekicks, and you can have multiple sidekick 
 species on your team. All of which, the original lacked.
  The main good thing about this game is that it rectifies the main flaw of its predecessor in that 
 it actually plays like a Mario game. In the original, there were no gimmicks, every player was 
 exactly the same, and the weapons did little to compensate for it. You would begin to wonder why 
 Mario even showed up, as it may as well have been a Pro Evo or Fifa game for all that sets it apart 
 as a Mario game. This game has gimmicks, uniqueness of players, captain skills, skill shots from 
 sidekicks, mega strikes, and loads more that injects the Mario into Mario Strikers Charged. Also 
 in this game, you can have multiple races of sidekicks on the same team, and there are 8 to choose 
 from. Much better than the original, again. The only real flaw is that the profiles are not all 
 that unique. Each profile is used a few times on the captains, and twice for sidekicks, so a team, 
 although comprising of different players, may perform exactly the same.
  Overall though, this game is what its predecessor should have been, and rectifies every flaw present 
 in the original. This is a PROPER sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRFingers
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't rate the difficulty because it varies greatly on online play but overall this game is 
 much more complicated and fun than it appears to be. There must be at least 200 ways to score goals. 
 The only thing wrong with the game is a small glitch which lets the ball go through the goalie 
 but not many people use it so it doesn't take away from the game that much and even if the person 
 knows it, it doesn't always work.
  
  What makes this game so great is it complicated tactics to scoring and the incredibly intense and 
 competitive online game play. Trying to become the striker of the day, beating highly ranked players, 
 and finding new ways to score are just a few of the incredibly fun things to do in this game. The 
 game sucks you in and you can't stop playing it. The only way i stop is if I'm told to. All in 
 all, FANTASTIC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoNin360
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2009 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged was released a few years after the first one, Super Mario Strikers. Although 
 the looks and the way the game is played is different, I don't see an improvement besides online 
 play.
  
  Playing with the Wii remote and nunchuk can be a rather tough thing to figure out, but most people 
 would get the hang of it. There are many buttons to remember, but the most simple control is attacking 
 other players by flicking the remote.
  
  Multiplayer is the best way to play this game, but teamwork must be well involved. You can also 
 play through the cups with a buddy or by yourself. There's only a few of them but it's a very long 
 progress. And if you lose 1 game in the elimination or 2 in the best 2 outta 3, you gotta start 
 all the way over resulting in a waste of time (sometimes an hour or so depending on which cup you 
 are on.
  
  It's hard to enjoy this game if you aren't as good at it or just average. The simple GC controler 
 controls are taken away. And the worst new feature is the striker shots. This allows up to 6 shots 
 or so to be taken at the goal, and you gotta use your Wii remote to block them, which they can 
 all be easily missed if you get off tempo.
  
  The online play is pretty fun but it takes a while to get into a match now, and it is quite challenging. 
 My friend and I were about 5-17 or something when we played online for a long time. We are both 
 OK, but honestly this game takes a lot of cheap tricks to win.
  
  But overall this game can be enjoyed even though it is short, and is unfortunately the full price 
 of a Wii game, and it may be hard to decide whether it's worth it or not. But if you are a fan 
 of the previous game there is no reason you shouldn't check it out.
  
  Graphics: 8\10- some places look too dark
  
  Sound: 9\10
  
  gameplay: 7.5\10
  
  value: 
 6\10
  
  multiplayer: 8.5\10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_OmegaHunter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged
  
  Sound: the music in this game is probably one of the things I liked about it the most. The music 
 is nothing compared to Super Smash Bros Brawl of course, but there is still plenty of catchy tunes 
 to get your feet a-tapping and head a-bopping.
  
  Gameplay: this game is probably just as much a fighting game as it is a soccer game just because 
 there's so much tackling involved. The game can get really chaotic because there so much going 
 on, and Annoying unfair items don't help. There's not a whole lot to the soccer aspect of the game, 
 I found myself doing mega-strike after mega-strike because it's a lot easier then trying to get 
 one goal at a time, and because its almost impossible to get a goal any other way on the harder 
 difficulty settings. However there are lots of unique stadiums to play on and there are a few different 
 characters to unlock, I think there should have been more though. 
  
  Graphics: graphics in the game are alright not the best I've seen on the wii system but definitely 
 not the worst. The introduction video is beautiful and so are the short mega- strike cut scenes, 
 but they get repetitive and annoying quickly.
  
  Overall: this game would hugely benefit from more soccer and less craziness. If you're a Mario 
 fan and like all the confusion this game has to offer, it might be tolerable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam3231
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 18, 2009 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Well I don't know where to start other than right from the get go this game just feels wrong. The 
 menu screen is just ugly, good artwork and graphics don't make a game, but it certainly doesn't 
 hurt to have it. 
  
  If you were a big fan of the gc strikers gameplay, this gameplay just feels wrong. The ball moves 
 very slowly, and it just seems like a little too goofy. I mean the gc version was about things 
 like perfect passing, using items wisely, and occasionally getting a super strike in there. To 
 win in this game though, it seems the strategy is just to "deke" through the goalie, then once 
 your winning, maintain possession by running the ball back to your own goalie for the rest of the 
 game. This makes sense to abuse such a tactic under a mindset of "play to win" but if you're trying 
 to "play to have fun" this is not you're game. At least the gc version felt just like a soccer 
 arcade game, but strikers charged just is a slow paced soccer game that lacks intensity, strategy, 
 and unpredictability brought by good sports games.
  
  If you want to make the most of this bad game, I recommend sticking to multiplayer only, that's 
 where I found the little bit of light in the couple weeks I played this $50 release. If only games 
 would model the wifi demonstrated in this game, because it's actually very good and the game's 
 strongest point. You can be up playing smooth, low lag games in no time, even with a friend vs. 
 two others on a wii. But it won't be long before your wishing for that $50 dollars back. This shallow 
 soccer game will most likely keep you entertained for about a week, but wears off quickly. I'd 
 recommend not buying, renting, or picking it up from the bargain bin if you're soccer advocate, 
 but even then disappointment awaits.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivionownn
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Ah, where to begin. This is an extremely fun game where you battle it out to try and get a ball 
 into the net.
  
  The first note i would like to make, is the great training mode, it has excellent practice rules 
 for you to get started, but it probably wont help you one bit online.
  
  Then there is the tournament mode, a mode in which you play other teams to gain the top rank and 
 earn the striker cup trophy, and a few unlockables along with it.
  
  The first time i went online with it, i was amazed that they had a full leaderboard an a top player. 
 If you get the top rank you're mii will be posted in the lobby. The competition is extremely fun.
 
  
  But... every once in a while you'll find somebody that has found some kind of glitch in the game 
 that helps him cheat and score as many goals as he wants, and they arent using any cheat systems 
 at all.
  
  Other then the glitching, the game is seriously fun, and competetive. But this game is not a must 
 have at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shyguy1234
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Soccer! It is not my favorite sport, but I love soccer the mushroom kingdom way! 
  
  Graphics:9/10. Soccer never looked better! (Especially during a megestrike.)
  Gameplay:10/10. Sweetness! 
 The game plays extremely well. The pure chaos over the ball is a nice touch, as well as the new 
 move, entitled the megastrike!
  Music:9/10. I love the musical touches in soccer!
  (Actual) Difficulty:?/10. Sorry, but it really depends on what you choose!
  Replay value:10/10. 
 Yup, every single little detail is replayable.
  Boss/Enemy fights:10/10. Well they may not scream"I'm going to bite your freakin head off!", the 
 other soccer players are fun to play against, and put up a good match.
  Storyline:5/10. (Only bad part!) Well, all your main goal is to win the striker cup and have fun 
 with the game.
  That sums up one of the greatest mario sports games. This game is awesome alone, or you could have 
 so much fun with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashleyamk
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Strikers for the GCN was good, but was missing hype. Soccer's a little more intense 
 then that.
  
  Mario Strikers Charged is way more intense then its prequel, but difficulty was jacked up in the 
 process.
  
  The Good:
  
  There are 9 characters to play as, with 3 unlockables on the side. They are Mario, Luigi, Wario, 
 Waluigi, Daisy, Peach, Yoshi, DK, Bowser, Bowser Jr., Diddy Kong, and Petey Pirhana.
  
  Each character has a megastrike, a special move of some sort that is unleashed when holding down 
 the B button on the Wiimote. Once completed, a short cutscene plays as the character dramatically 
 splits the ball into different soccer balls, that rains down on the goalie.
  The graphics for these cinematics are amazing and has surprisingly good detail.
  
  There are 
 also 8 different sidekicks to help you during the match: Toad, Shy Guy, Dry Bones, Monty Mole, 
 Hammer Bro., Birdo, and Boo.
  
  The sidekicks also have special moves, except these are called Skillshots. Skillshots have different 
 effects depending on the sidekick used to unleash the Skillshot. Skillshots don't have their own 
 cutscenes, but they look good all the same!
  
  Also, if you can connect to the internet on your Wii, you can challenge opponents around the world!
 
  
  On top of that, new amazing stages are included, with electrocuting fences surrounding the arena! 
 Play soccer in a regular soccer field, a crystal arena, a junkyard, and even space! These features 
 combined with more than average graphics make multiplayer a blast!
  
  The Bad:
  
  The single-player modes are the entire downside to this game. There are three tournaments to compete 
 in, and the first is extremely easy. The second and third however, were one the hardest things 
 I have ever completed. The opponents get cheap and bowl you over to steal the ball, and they somehow 
 sneak past your goalie!
  
  The Ugly:
  
  The controls aren't too great, for they do not truly make it a Wii experience.
  
  As noted 
 before, AI players sneak past your goalie for a cheat goal.
  
  Most of the sidekicks are hard to control, so you're forced to pass the ball to another player.
 
  
  Overall, I would give it an 8, only because Multiplayer mode is so awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSonic20
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Goal! That's right, Super Mario Strikers, the Gamecube soccer success has arrived on the Nintendo 
 Wii! With brand new additions and updates, Next Level Games is looking to bring a previously successful 
 game to new life in this sequel. So, did they succeed, or did they let this chance at a goal get 
 a yellow card? Join me for an in-depth look at Mario's latest venture into the soccer world
  
  Mario Strikers Charged has the similar basics to that of the original. There are various modes 
 where you can play including VS Mode (exhibition matches) , Tournament mode, and a practice mode. 
 The games can last up to five minutes and have up to five different difficulties. There are also 
 various stages you can play on with different obstacles and then the classic stages from the past 
 game.
  
  The gameplay of Strikers Charged is much like that of its predecessor. There are a total of twelve 
 captains that will lead your team into the match. After you choose a captain, you will be able 
 to pick three teammates from other game characters. Each captain and character has specific attributes 
 that make them unique. Unlike the original Strikers, you will have the ability to choose your three 
 teammates from the array of characters. This gives you more power over your team, yet, if you're 
 not good at decision making, each captain has a preset team and a random feature.
  
  Another feature that goes with the captains and teammates are the Mega-strikes and Skill-shots. 
 To perform a Mega-Strike, you must power up your captains shot by holding the "B" button until 
 a swinging gauge appears. When the marker lands on a certain part of the gauge you press "A" and 
 it will determine the number of shots you will make (3 to 6) , then a second part of the gauge will 
 determine the speed of the balls. If you land in a green zone, the balls will go moderately fast, 
 in the orange zone, they will go really fast, and if the marker lands in the grey zone, they will 
 go slow.
  
  When a person uses a Mega-Strike on you, however, you will automatically become the goal keeper 
 and will need to block the shots thrown at you. You can do this by hovering over the shots and 
 pressing the "A" button on them. If you do this successfully, they will disappear; if you don'ta 
 beeping noise will let you know that the opposing team has scored.
  
  Skill-shots on the other hand are performed by the teammates. Each teammate has a different style 
 of Skill-shot that revolves around their personality. The Skill-shot is used in a similar fashion 
 to that of a Mega-Strike. To perform one, you hold the "B" button to power up and then the Skill-shot 
 is automatically performed. Examples include the Hammer Bros. where he throws a large amount of 
 hammers at the goal keeper while he shoots the ball. Another includes Boo using his ghost-like 
 traits to make him and the ball invisible while he dashes the ball into the goal.
  
  The controls are pretty easy to follow, as well. To pass, you simply use the "A" button and to 
 shoot you use the "B" button. The "Z" button is used to lob the ball into the air and the control-pad 
 is used to perform what is called a "deke". Each deke is unique to each character as well and is 
 used when a character needs to get out of a tight spot. It's a convenient little technique that 
 helps you when the odds seem against you and you need to make a quick move.
  
  Items can be used in-game by pressing the "C" button once obtained. Items can be attained by various 
 ways and come in handy. Some items include shells, banana peels, mushrooms, and of course, Chain 
 Chomps. Amongst other items include the powerful Super Ability Items. The Super Ability Items allows 
 your captain to perform a special tactic that affects a certain part of the playing field. For 
 example, Mario grows to a giant-like size and runs over the opposing team. These can be identified 
 by an icon in the item bar that resembles your character.
  
  Multi-player wise, the game is excellent. Whether it's playing with a friend or a family member, 
 multi-player calls for a good time for all to have. If you don't want to play with somebody close 
 to you, you can also use the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection to take on the world and try to make a name 
 for yourself in the world rankings. Multi-playing is truly the highlight of the game.
  
  The graphics in the game are slightly better than that of its predecessor and its only downfall. 
 In game, the characters are pretty small and sketchy and at times it could be hard to tell between 
 characters; especially Dry Bones and Yoshi. This could cause a lot of confusion especially in the 
 middle of the game and is the basic downfall of the graphics department.
  
  The cut-scenes also look a lot different. They are much sleeker and sharper than the ones in the 
 original game. The frame rate for the cut scenes is also much faster and it makes them look more 
 professional. Yet, the cut scenes got cut down (no pun intended) in the humor department where 
 they seem a lot more serious than the last game. This is a slight downfall, but doesn't really 
 play much of a part in the long run.
  
  Overall, Mario Strikers Charged is a great game and a great sequel. While the gameplay excels and 
 the graphics are average, it all balances it out in the end. If you are looking for a game that 
 is for your family, this is the game for you. Yet if you want some serious soccer gaming, I'd recommend 
 something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  In this game you can choose a captain and some defenders just like the first one.
  
  Charcters: Mario Luigi Wario Waluigi Peach Daisy Koopa Kid Bowser
  
  Defenders: Birdo Montey 
 Mole Koopas Hammer Bros
  
  In this game it is so unreal becuase the power that all the characters have to make goals. Some 
 of the places are so amazing that it is better then the first one.
  
  The good of this game is that there is better characters and places.
  
  The bad of this game 
 is that the controls and the gameplay is not the best.
  
  Overall I rate this game a 8.5 outta 10 I think you might want to get this  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Chraged is a Soccer Game with alot of great stuff in it, the best part about this 
 game is, it is fast paced action, just like any Soccer game you score by getting the ball past 
 the goalie, but the goal really needs to be tricked with poswer-up and such stuff, which are in 
 this game, so with that being said, how about we talk a little bit about what are a few of the 
 power-ups one of then is something that only the Captain can do and then there are tyhe ones the 
 the other team member can do.
  
  The captians are the ones who can shoot off multi- soccers balls form the sky, and then there are 
 the other Team members power-ups, one that is my most favorite is the Hammer Bros. power-up where 
 you throw hammers in the air andthey go at the Goalie, and then he kicks the ball, and then there 
 is also the power-up that Boo has where is you time it just right you will go right through the 
 goal and make a goaland then there is toad who just kicks the ball really hard and Fire comes out 
 the back of the Ball, and then there is Birdo where she has a shot that is just like Toads only 
 she, shoot the ball from her mouth, like she does like her eggs.
  
  Other then that and the other Team Members, that really is but I really do like this game alot 
 and Mario Strikers Chraged is really addictive so I will give it a 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pulpyoj28
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  The game is addictive and fun but also has a few flaws. Pro: The teams are now fully 
 customizable. You have a lot of captains who all have special item power-ups (ex. Mario= Grows 
 huge and runs everyone over) . You also have a choice of 3 sidekicks who all have a special juke 
 and when you fully charge a shot they do a skill shot (ex. Hammer bro.= Throws hammers at the goalie 
 then shots) . Pro: The ball is metal. METAL!!! Pro: Co-op is sooo much fun. 
 Get 2 friends or 4 friends and play, play, play. Hours and hours of multiplayer awesome. Pro: 
 The ball has to be charged by passing or shooting in order to do CrAzY shots! Pro: New Megastrikes 
 replace the old super shot. You charge the ball, pick a # of shots to shoot then try to hit the 
 fastest color. Then the other team gets to become the goalie and try to point at the balls and 
 block them, easy for some, hard for others. Con: The cups are a little less fun and not customizable 
 (ex. You can't turn power-ups off) . Con: No more milestone trophies Con: No more perfect 
 passes 
  All in all, this game is amazing. This is a must have for Wii. 
  ----10 ----
  
  Gameplay Stats for MARIO STRIKERS CHARGED
  
  -1 player cup mode (7.5/10)
 
  -multiplayer (10/10)
  -replay value (10/10, one of those games you will discover over and over)
  
  ***AWARDS***
 
  Best Sport Game
  SUPER Addictive 
  
  How this works:
  The gameplay stats show the stats of the 1 player, co-op, multiplayer (2-4) , and replay value.
 
  If a stat name has     before it it means that not all games are rated with this. It's a special 
 stat.
  
  The awards section is a place I give awards to games.
  
  I HOPE YOU ENJOYED READING!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brasilmichel
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit that the first time I'd played this game I thought it had bad controls, and a small 
 variety of options of play. First looks can be deceiving. After a while I started to get into the 
 game, the games got pretty better as long as I learned new tricks and improved my skills. 
  
  Different from the first Super Mario Strikers, in this one you can choose all the members of 
 your team, and each characterer have its own special hability, that increases strategic options 
 for you to create the team that suits you the most. This game has also gotten better musics than 
 the boring ones from the first game 
  
  This is the kind of game for anyone who likes to play with friends, and also for those who don't, 
 because SMSC has got a great online mode for you to play against anyone around the world. I think 
 it's way better to play against a person instead of computers, so i think that the online mode 
 have been a good addition to the game. You'll probably use this mode more than any othe. 
  
  I'll be direct: perfection doesn't exist, but Super Mario Stikers is worth the money spent, 
 so, if I were you, I'd have already bought this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bopie64
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  I loved this sequel to Super Mario Strikers. It didn't use that many motion controls, but it still 
 used the aiming at the screen to block shots and it was very creative in my opinion. I really enjoyed 
 this. The online is OK, but with friends is kind of pointless because it is almost impossible to 
 find a friend who happens to be online at the same time as you when you don't know him in real 
 life but it is fun to have a partner on your console and go against two others or just you versus 
 some random person. I always go back to this game for the offline multiplayer the most, though 
 because it is always exciting to play soccer with people from your console and even though teams 
 are more difficult than just one vs one, it is always fun with four people in my opinion. It is 
 a little difficult to learn, but very fun afterwards. Lots of strategy too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi420
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Strikers was an unexpected new sports addition to the Gamecube when it was released. 
 And for what it was, it was pretty good.
  
  Fast forward about a year and a half later, Mario Strikers Charged is released in North America. 
 Fans were ecstatic over the improvements, especially with Wi-Fi now.
  
  There were even added characters, such as captains Bowser, Petey Pirahna, Bowser Jr., Diddy Kong, 
 and sidekick characters like Shy Guy, Dry Bones, Boo, and Monty Mole. And in addition to Super 
 Mario Strikers' stadiums, they added ten new stadiums.
  
  There were some problems, however, like the online. It is so incredibly laggy more often than not 
 with random people, and it is annoying to do the Friend Code thing because it takes a while, because 
 you need the Wii Code and the game's online code, rather than just needing the online code.
  
  The difficulty can also be a bit much sometimes. For even just the second tournament, the Crystal 
 Cup, it can be frustratingly difficult.
  
  The game also gets repetitive and "deja vu" after a while. It can sometimes feel a bit like a chore 
 at times. 
  
  All in all though, Mario Strikers Charged is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyfreak611
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  mario strikers is a very addictive game from the feeling of scoring a goal
  to the feeling of rippling the mesh with 6 megastrke goals. I think the strong points of this game 
 would be good character differences and cool charged shots and pretty good graphics for a wii game. however 
 this game does have some disapointing downsides. for example i think the number one downside for 
 this game is that the characters have the cheapest moves ever and that leaves the door open for 
 spammers. if you go online most definetly every persons sidekicks are hammerhead, boo, and toad. another 
 downside is the difficulty. sometimes the com. are at a nice fun level and other times the game 
 ends 20-0. another crucial downside is that games
  singleplayer modes are just garbage. it gets pretty old just having the same team and play through 
 games upon games just t unlock like three more characters and a few levels!? I was so shocked to 
 turn on this game and discover that there really isnt much to unlock. but overall I love this game 
 for the over the top chaos and great multiplayer experience. but sometime in the future i think 
 that instead of mario strikers it would be so awesome to be nintendo strikers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killingspree303
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is a great multipalyer game. Up to 4 players can play at once, and then 
 it'll be a lot of fun. The game can be quite fun in the beginning, with cups, challenges and online 
 matches. But it gets boring very fast.
  
  In single-player you get to take on challenges and win cups. The cups takes long time to play through, 
 and it's quite fun in the beginning. But after playing cup after cup, you get tired. In the end 
 of the cups, are a special team you must beat. The most annoying here is that if you lose, you'll 
 have to do the whole cup again.
  The challenge mode is quite fun. Each challenge offers a lot of fun, and theres a lot of them to 
 do. 
  
  In matches, tackling other players is a bit overpowered, since you can whack down anyone anytime.
 
  
  Overall, the game is fun while it lasts, but it gets boring after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomguy15
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 21, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  I loved Super Mario strikers on GC, it kept me hooked for quite some time. So I was excited to 
 try out Mario Strikers Charged for the Wii and what did I think after I've played it for a while..... 
 where's all the excitment from the original? Don't get me wrong the game is extremely addicting 
 at first but then, after you obtain every trophy, every character, complete all the missions, and 
 complete all the practice activities the game gets old and fast. 
  
  You start the game with modes such as wi-fi (which I can't do yet.) training, competitions (where 
 you go against computers for trophies) , missions, and options. On the competitions you pick your 
 team captain such as mario, peach, DK, yoshi... ect. Then you pick three sidekicks which have their 
 own charged special shot, and your captain has a special charged move that can shoot up to 6 shots 
 at a time. When competing for the cups you go through rounds of computer matches and compete to 
 see who mcan get the most wins, and if you do you go against the cup defending champion. If you 
 win you may unlock a new character.
  
  The missions mode is my favorite of the modes, while you complete certain objectives with certain 
 characters. Not to mention the multiplayer mode is a blast as well. While your playing soccor matches 
 with anyone you can pass, shoot, charge shots, do acrbatic shots or passes, hit opponets by shaking 
 the wii remote. Another cool control scheme is blocking shots from the goalie by pointing the wii 
 remote at the screen and moving the cursor to a soccor ball and destroying it by pressing A. 
 
  
  So why Mario Strikers Charged gives an awesome short time experience, I wouldn't buy this game 
 I would just rent it once or twice. But I would definitly recommend it to a fan of the original, 
 or for someone looking for an enjoyable multiplayer experience and wi-fi players.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedre123
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  This is great it smooths out all of the flaws that the original had giving the online ability and 
 also gives more things to unlock and more reasons to play the game.
  in terms of graphics overall i find them very pleasing they are engaging and they give new vivid 
 ways to show the new maps they provide
  with sound to be honest i couldn't care less unless it is really really really bad but as far as 
 i can tell really this is high quality sound all the different people have different little voices 
 and the shots sound realistic and cool also the music is so so so good and funky i love it it makes 
 it so much better
  in terms of value this is average value it is a good game and the price i got it for was forty 
 five dollars used so i think it is definitely worth the money
  in terms of gameplay this has some of the best game play that i have played with and i really enjoy 
 it
  one small tidbit is that the artificial intelligence tends to be really cheap like amazingly good 
 or really amazingly easy also in the online i tend to play people who are obscenely good and i 
 get crushed but still it is very good another thing is that despite the fact that you have new 
 people to unlock there is nothing new about them you get petey who is identical to bowser and DK 
 also diddy kong who is the same as peach and lastly little bowser who is the same as wario so despite 
 the fact that you can get new people they are somewhat uninteresting and the only reason that they 
 are any more fun to play with than their identical counterparts is special moves 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stargui
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 8, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  If you liked the predecessor, you'll sure like Mario Strikers Charged, for the first month, of 
 course. The game is basically the same as it's predecessor, Super Mario Strikers, but now you have 
 the Megastrikes, that let you do 6 goals at the same time. This Sucks or it's great? It depends. 
 If you can defend against it and score without problems, then it's good, but if not, well, it goes 
 without saying.
  The difficulty of the Tournament mode has also changed, it begins easy and it ends hard. This is 
 the BEST addition from the predecessor.
  
  My rating: (Price is if it's worth buying it or not)
  
  Gameplay: 7/10 - Much like old game 
 series, few new things.
  
  Graphics: 6/10 - Much like predecessor, old-school.
  
  Audio: 7/10 - Again, much like predecessor.
  
  Value: 6/10 - Not much fun and it becomes boring 
 on the second week of play.
  
  Price: 7.5/10 - If you like this style of game...
  
  Total: 6.7 - Rent the game first to see if you like it. Gave 0.3 because of the hard-work of Nintendo.
 
  
  If you agree/disagree, message me at gamespot telling why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjgamefreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers charged brings soccer and Super Mario Brothers together, wich in my opinion is a 
 Awesome mixture. It's better than the first Mario strikers game. This game is highly addictive, 
 very fun, the controls are really good and for one of the first Wii games to come out, it has great 
 graphics. I have a problem with the difficulty though. Some times it's to easy but sometimes it's 
 much to hard. Thats the only bad thing I can say about this game. In the game you can choose the 
 Mario character you want, such as Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, Peach, etc. Any one who likes soccer and 
 Mario games should have this game. It's a great game with great game play. A die hard Nintendo 
 fan should get this game. 
  
  Overall game play 9.5. The only complaint I have for this game is the difficulty, which could have 
 been improved, but other than that, it's a fun, addictive game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megaman_Cid
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers: Charged is a sequel to the previous mario soccer game, but you don't need to get 
 the previous game to enjoy this one.
  The gameplay is great, although at times the computer difficulty levels are challenging. Which 
 could be a bad thing or good thing, you decide.
  Having the separte little animations for each playable character was engenious and adding minor 
 characters such as the Koopas and the Shy Guys was so great. 
  Finally we can get to use these people rather than having Mario jump on them. It's great how Nintendo 
 did this becuase we always seem to be forgetting about the little man, and the kids whose favorite 
 character is Dry Bones and never got to play him!
  The only thing I did't like about the game is that they tried to hard to add Wii interaction. Having 
 Mario soccer shouldn't involve a flick of a wrist. So in the beginning the controls are kinda hard 
 to get used to, but soon enough you'll get used to it.
  One the game's greatest features is the multiplayer action, which is really what this game should 
 be used for. Call over bunch of your buddies, "Hey dude wanna play some soccer on the wii?"
  "Fifa?"
  "Naw' we're taking it to the next level!"
  Also the games "charged" feature is particually 
 unqiue. Although if you're on the offense when using it, it's not that special except for the fact 
 it's almost a guarunteed goal, but the goalie interaction.
  Finally the goalie can get into the game and do something other than pass the ball back out.
 
  So it's priced at around $50+, big deal. You've gotta pay for quality and this game is quality. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sphere-
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 25, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  I played and enjoyed the first Mario Strikers on the GC and was happy when I heard that a sequel 
 was being made for the Nintendo Wii. While the game has its fun moments, it feels more like a brain 
 drain game that you could play and not have to concentrate on.
  The gameplay is pretty solid except for one major flaw. Every time you charge up a shot to max, 
 it goes to an annoying 5-10 second cutscene that has no business being shown right in the middle 
 of a sports game. Sure it is ok once or twice, but if you are playing with a friend and keep charging 
 up your shots then you will be annoyed and bored out of your skull. Other than that the gameplay 
 is pretty fun especially with checking and items. The running, passing, and ball movement are all 
 superb and very well done.
  Where the game really starts to hurt is in the graphics category, but it is not the games fault 
 it is the lacking power of the Nintendo Wii. This game feels like a last gen game due to is terrible 
 graphics with flat faced objects and terrible jagged edges. I also don't like how far the camera 
 is zoomed out. I have played around with the options and can't find a camera angle that suits me 
 well. With next gen graphics and better than 480p resolution the game would have been more enjoyable, 
 we are in the age of high definition not "enhanced definition of 480p; but that too is the fault 
 of the console and not the game.
  The controls for this game are solid but don't use the motion sensing too much other than to switch 
 items and to lay out a large check. The rest of the controls feel good and play good too. Nothing 
 to complain about here.
  Another issue with this game are the sounds. They are annoying and repetitive and sometimes sound 
 like "other things" that can make gamplay very awkward when a sudden image pops into your head. 
 I usually play with the sound off and my headphones in listening to other music.
  Replay value for this game is a major let down. While there are several cups that you can play 
 for, the game will get old fast and will be quite tedious to play especially when you have played 
 the previous one on the GC that feels quite similar. This game will only last for about a month 
 of on and off playing before you put it down forever.
  The multiplayer modes for this game are no better than the single player modes. Whilst there is 
 on-line play, it too gets old very quickly. Plus, the lack of voice chat takes some of the fun 
 out of the game especially when playing with people you know. One good thing that Nintendo did 
 with this game was include leader boards. At least that gives you something to play for other than 
 fun.
  Overall MSC is only an average game. I would suggest that you rent it before buying it to see if 
 you like it since it is one of those love it or hate it kind of games. 
  Final rating: 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruhdezee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Lets be frank, Mario has had a game about just about everything that sounds fun in a video game 
 (baseball, space travel, adn fighting an angry monkey throwing barrels) and yet each new game is 
 more addicting and improved from its predecessor . This is eth case with MARIO STRIKERS CHARGED 
 as well. The premis of using the usual cast of characters (Waluigi, Bowser, adn DK) to play in 
 various soccer leagues on insanely quirky fields may sound good but it actually is... well good. 
 
  
  The single player mechanic is good ( who doesnt enjoy beating the usual characters in tournaments) 
 and even after your first play through the league you can challenge it again on a harder difficulty 
 (which actually is hard) . Unlocking charters along the way also gives palyers a goal as they play 
 through the sometimes agonizingly long qualifying rounds. And yet the first time you lose you feel 
 the urge to reach throught the screen and throttle your opponent so you keep playing until you 
 can exact your soccer revenge. if you dont want to do the striker cup feature you can also just 
 play scrimages in domination mode.
  
  The online mechanic is what really sold me on the game. first you register your mii then your ready 
 to fight to the death (as well as you can with cleats and a soccer ball. As you play with others 
 and see their mii you start to feel a rivalry like passion for the game and want ot keep playing. 
 as you play you earn points for your profile you move up in your regional standing. this score 
 resets itself every week so you have a clean slate every 7 days. the single player soon gets boring 
 bc teh ai is awful so at htat point its time to turn to the online and the real meat ofthe game.
 
  
  All in all this game is a solid mario game and you should go get it especially if your have wifi 
 on your wii. MARIO STRIKERS CHARGED is a good mario game but an excellent online game so go find 
 at your local resailer now!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djburnzy1
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers is one of those games that you can pick up instantly as soon as you start playing. 
 Its basic and easy game play allows any person of any age to simply pick up a Wii controller and 
 numchuck and join in on the soccer action. Although Strikers doesn't have the game play depth that 
 the Fifa street series has it hands down has double the about of funness (if that's a word) that 
 Fifa would never achieve. It's mainly one of those games that you'd be bringing to parties to play 
 over and over again and laugh at your mates different 'tackling' strategy. 
  
  This game would have to be one of the stronger out of the Nintendo character series (By that i 
 mean like super smash, Mario kart, etc) . As good as strikers may sound it does have it's down points 
 such as the infamous overly chaotic 'mega strike' which honestly in my opinion defeats the purpose 
 of the game. I mean, winning 5-0 and then suddenly losing a mega strike with them winning 6-5 seems 
 kind of unfair don't you think? They shouldn't of made this move so easy to get. It seems that 
 playing online all it is is mega strike after mega strike with the end score being like 324325423-234234324. 
 If your going to have some special move stick to the simple stuff and just copy the fifa street 
 breaker were you can only get ONE goal. Not 6. 
  
  Overall this game is solid and is somewhat unappreciated for it's outstanding easy game play and 
 money value. One of those party games you won't get sick of! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabin55
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Very fun multi-player game when you have a group of friends around. Playing by yourself vs. the 
 computer is fun for a couple games, but where the game shines is the multiplayer aspect. Grab a 
 group of 4 and have fun for hours.
  Graphics are average and what you would come to expect on the Wii. There are different areans to 
 play in, all with thier own dangers.
  Online play is fun with a very diverse level of skill. Ranking system tracks your overall win/loss. 
 There can be lag however on-line but this is easier to avoid as you see a connection quality before 
 you accept a match.
  You dont have to even like soccer to enjoy this game as it is more just tackle the hell out of 
 whoever gets near you.
  Items and characters are balanced nicley in this game as well. With the right use of items any 
 character has an equal chance of winning. The teams are customizable as you pick not only yoru 
 captain but all of your side kicks as well.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: humantnt
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  Like Most mario games, you use items, specials and weird other add ons to make it a more fun gaming 
 experience, this is the most spasticated soccer match ever presented its action packed full of 
 characters, stages and challenges to try, the multiplayer is probably the most funnest part of the 
 game there is 4 pl ayer co-op 4 player vs or you can go online and fight random strangers to see 
 who is the best striker.
  
  unlike the first strikers, this one has a few new add-ons which make it a load more enjoyable but 
 also frustrating like the megastrikes they are fairly easy to stop but once they happen everything 
 stops just for that goal, but as i said it is a simple measure to stop.
  
  This game is quite unlike soccer in every way, it is more like a deathmatch then a soccer game, 
 u wave ur wiimote to whack the enemy then as u run with the ball they send a shell at you and knock 
 u down and take it back etc..
  
  when shooting u can either normal shot, special shot or megastrike the special is different for 
 each and every character which makes the game feel less repetitive and cloned and more worth its 
 money, strikers may not be for all people but just cause u may not like soccer wont turn you away 
 from strikers in any way it is truly fun and a amazing game at times
  
  This isnt a must buy for all wii owners, but it is surely close to that..
  
  
  Its a great 
 game to play with ya mates or family A great idea for the mario genre
  
  this will probably be the last strikers game, its definitly worth being the finisher of the series.
 
  
  real score 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiplor
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 2, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  To say this is a bad game is a bit heavy, but if i had my time again? i would not of baught it.
 
  Mario for me makes the unconvincing transition to football on the wii and i think it's a game 
 that the wii could of done without.
  The Gameplay is Tedious
  The Controls are weird and it cannot be played with a classic controler (to my knowlage...)
  
 The Scoring is unrealistic,
  The Onlineplay is ful of cheap tactics
  Im just finding it hard to come to terms with what is GOOD about the game.
  it's a bit of fun 
 here and there, storyline (although very much the same throughout the game) is fun enough, Graphically 
 it is pritty good, the challenges to unlock things are ok and the supergoal minigame (although 
 a cheap tactic) is very fun too.
  But, to me, it just doesn't seem like the team behind it has done a good enough job. All in all, 
 nintendo should of worked a bit more on this one to do justice to those which deserve it I. E. Mario, 
 the mario gang and Football 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  With the first game more on the bench than on the big gaming playing field, Mario Strikers Charged 
 Football came as a new game, with new capabilities but the same fun gameplay as the last.
  The greatest and biggest change is the wifi connection capabilities, that are quite good, they 
 involve a point system that is quite separating from the winner and the loser.
  The super team that was so very ultimate has been scrapped and replaced by Diddy Kong, Bowser Jr 
 and Petey Pihrana.
  Also, the new soccer ball slowly lights up as you pass it giving a greater chance of scoring, also 
 all the side players have special 'skill shots' such as toads flame shot or birdo's egg shot. These 
 shots can stun and immobilise the goalie. Another new gameplay feature is the alteration of the 
 mega strike, instead of the regular meter and 2 hit goal, a 3-6 shot chance and the speed can be 
 altered depending on your timing. Then when your defending against one, you move the cursor to 
 protect against the oncoming balls. 
  The challenges available and road to the striker cup are short yet enjoyable both with unlockables.
 
  The game has many new features that better the game further than its previous installment making 
 for a fun easily accessable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  this game is just plain fun with great graphic sounds and controls. it has a great variety of things 
 to from the menu. quick match, wifi, challenge and 1 player and therefore keeps you coming bac 
 for more. this game is even better when used at parties and when friends are over due to its 4 
 player mode. the wifi is another attrabute that it has it lags a bit but otherwise pretty good 
 but pitty you cant choose the rules. you dont have a huge character list to choose from but the 
 usuals. mario, luigi, peach, bowser, yoshi, dk and a few others. and there are a more side players 
 that make up the team of 5 including goaly. the playing field is also small making it even more 
 ensane with the all the items flying all over the place. and making even more fun getting your 
 characters to body slam the opponents team in to the side fences. overall a fantastic game that 
 i reckon is a must have for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_Rebel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is not a bad game, but it doesn't scream BEST GAME EVER!!!! Why this game is a very solid 
 game to play, when facing the computer the Ai is either EXTREMELY cheap or is a piece of crap. 
 The game doesn't give you any help unless you deserve it and earn its trust through demolishing 
 the AI. While this game does offer a good deal of excitement, when you play the computer it goes 
 away after awhile. The only one to beat a cheap computer is to be even cheaper, which is sometimes 
 hard to do. The computer either uses cheap tricks or does the meteor strike thing every time the 
 leader gets the ball. The Wi-Fi is what really makes this game shine, while I have not played Wi-Fi 
 with this game myself, it is the main thing this game was made for. The multiplayer is what makes 
 this game fun, playing against your friends and crushing them by using all the cheap tricks you 
 learned from the computer. Each leader has their own special power, which you can only use after 
 getting some special power-up. (I forgot what it was) Some are neat while others, are just sometimes 
 useless. Most of the stages are very creative and fun to play on with random things or serious 
 hazards popping out of no where. This game is fun, but will sometimes either drive you crazy from 
 the unforgiveness or drive you insane from the cheap AI. Unless you really get this game for multiplayer 
 then you won't play this game for a very long time. This is by no means a terrible game, it just 
 isn't one that you come to adore for probably very long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Strikers is a very good game and if you've played the last one and liked it or even had some issues 
 with it, you gonna like this one. Its not only fun but the graphics are really good for a Wii game 
 and the Wii controls fit perfectly into the game. Its definetly one of the best sellers and is 
 a must buy. Its not actually a soccer game at all. The rules aren't really soccer either, like 
 DK hits it with his hands and you can tackle people as you do in football or in hockey. It gets 
 annoying on the single player sometimes because the last cup, the striker cup, all the people do 
 is tackle you and it becomes a huge boxing tournament pretty much.
  
  Overall I would definetely give this game a solid 8.5. Its just a really good game. The sound, 
 graphics, and gameplay. Not only is it a good game to play with friends and family but also by 
 yourself online or you can do the missions to unlock cheats and other cool accesories. I personally 
 loved this game and should take the avg. gamer depending on how good you are no more than 20 hrs. 
 really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mack2D2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I need to pre-face this because I have a little personal trait that makes me review a little biased... 
 or un-bias, however you wanna say it... I don't like the single player experience of this game 
 because if you crank up the difficulty the computer cheats like a 13 year old with a code book. 
 Characters abilities reach further and act fast, your goalie gets worse, you name it... they do 
 it. Why couldn't they just crank the AI up and let the computer play smarter to up the difficulty 
 instead of cheat??
  
  With that out of the way, I want to say that this game is still really really fun when you get 
 to play with or against other people as opposed to the computer. If you can get your friends to 
 sit down and give this game a chance so that they can really get a handle on the controls, this 
 game stands the chance of being a huge hit at Wii Parties and just regular get togethers if there 
 is a Wii around. If you want to make it simpler for everybody, outlaw lob passes...
  
  The controls are pretty simple and intuitive and personally I can't think of anyway to improve 
 upon them for a game like this... and the special abilities of each particular character makes 
 for some great strategies. You can piece together a team of slow moving power hitters, speedy pass 
 happy playmakers, or a combination of both... and then be sure to use their special abilities to 
 capitalize on their attributes.
  
  The simplicity of this game is fraudulent, once you realize the potential to really dominate by 
 using your specials and charging up the ball by doing a few successful passes in a row... you'll 
 realize there is an Othello type of deep strategy to this game.
  
  Graphics are a pass... they work great for this game, but they aren't anything amazing to say the 
 least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  First off strikers is a realy great game, and if you like soccor and mario then this is probably 
 the game for you. But if you don't have wifi then don't bother with strikers because 90% of the 
 fun is playing online. The single player realy isn't much more then a way to get good so that you 
 can play good online. It's like training, but once you get good, all you are going to be doing is 
 playing online. Friend matches are always fun, but you can't communicate in any way at all. Not 
 even text. EVEN with friends. You can play with a friend at your house as you play to other random 
 players online also, as well as by yourself. If you liked the first strikers you will probably 
 be very happy with charged.
  
  good: Great controls.
  lots of tactics.
  great online/multi-player.
  addictive.
  
  bad: Your rankings only last a week then are erased.
 
  Other online users can't see your wins/losses.
  You can't ask random players to be your friend.
  Single player is extremely basic and not very 
 fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Wow! I actually really like this game! For the online not single player. If you don 't have online 
 then forget it . . . However the graphics are pleasant, so is the game play. It is just a fun game! 
 I would buy it if I were you. My brother got this for Christmas and I was all "wow mom did he want 
 that?" and he did thank god he did. I played it a ton. It is so much fun! and a lot of my friends 
 have it which is better online. I do agree with G S when they say it is too chaotic sometimes. 
 I lose track of myself every now and then but I get back on track. The single player is easy and 
 short but fun. The online really sucked me in. It is easy to find a match and it always works. 
 The leader boards are cool and It never lags for me. And the best part is, I hate sports games. 
 But I like this one! Because it mixes chaos, funny-ness, cartoon, and the rules of soccer. Overall, 
 good job the people who make this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V-Dunstan
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  I think this game is very enjoyable. Flaws: it has no story or intriguing single player (not to 
 say that it is'nt rewarding -- unlocking new charcters) it may boast to be one of the best multiplayer 
 games for wii, but i found that the owner of this game will absolutely crush another newish player 
 and it just is'nt fun for either of you, so i reccomend the online. And finally like most soccer 
 games, it can be incredibly frustrating. Pros: this game is very well presented, it has some of 
 the best graphics on wii. The gameplay itself is very in depthand offers a fair few options once 
 the challenges have been completed. It can be really funny to watch people just being destroyed 
 by a heavy punch. If you look forward to play the first online game and at that an enjoyable online 
 game, Look no further. But do not buy this game solely for the splitscreen multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeldafreakRS
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Do not buy this game unless you have years to waste playing the single player mode. That is the 
 bottom line. If you played the first game and had insane trouble beating the final cups, your experience 
 will be quite similar, only far more difficult. Unless you spend the rest of your life in your 
 mother's basement, it will be nearly impossible to beat. It's not that the AI itself is too hard, 
 it's that the game gives them a crazy advantage over any human. Where a regular player can control 
 only a single person at a time, the computer can control all four. 1   
  Fire Cup: Insanely Easy
  Crystal Cup: Insanely Hard
  Striker Cup: Rip your arms out and beat 
 yourself to death with them. Then you will understand the pain you will feel playing this cup. 
 
  
  Not only is this game beyond insanity, but it also does not resemble soccer in any form or fashion. 
 This video game is loosely based on a sport we know as soccer. It also vaguely includes some twisted 
 form of physics and reality. You might as well stick 8 people in a locked room, throw a piece of 
 meat in, and watch them fight to the death. At least it would make more sense than the Striker 
 Cup. Well, you might say, "Why don't you get 4 friends together and try to beat it?" Well, let 
 me tell you, it would be easier to pull your heart out with a spoon. Playing together with friends 
 is nearly impossible. Why? Because you friend doesn't know what you are thinking. This makes it 
 absolutely impossible to play efficiently on a team. The only thing that brings this game up to 
 a two is the fact that the mutiplayer with 2 vs. 2 is great. This is the one thing that could make 
 a person want to buy it. Other than that, you'd be better off spending $50 on a life-size butter 
 statue of Abraham Lincoln. I swear, this game could drive a person to become a serial killer. One 
 day, you are going to wake up and hear the following: "The creator of the game 'Super Mario Strikers 
 Charged' was found dead today. He was killed after being beat to death with his own arms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smasher24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  Production 
  
  Graphics 8 / 10 + effects, models, animations. - textures 
  Sound Effects 2 / 5 + kick, player 
 sounds. - mixing, crowd
  Music 10 / 10 + Great Techno/Battle music combo 
  Depth 15 / 20 + Online Multiplayer. - short single player
  Presentation 4 / 5 + artwork, style. 
 - simplistic layout
  
  Gameplay
  
  Fun 18 / 20 + Online, crazy gameplay. - frustrating
  Controls 10 / 10 + Balanced, Not too simplistic, 
 innovative.
  Difficulty 5 / 5 + Progressively tougher, Online is tough.
  Gameplay Design 9 / 10 + Megastrikes, items, specials. 
  Overall 4 / 5 + Balanced, competitive, 
 fun. - frustrating
  
  SCORE 85 / 100
  
  Final Note: Buy if you love hockey, soccer, or online competition. Other than that worth a try, 
 rent, or maybe buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windmaster42
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  strikers charged is awesome with all the new playable characters
  and sidekicks it makes it a great sports game. Wih the new way of using 
  the wii remote really 
 enhanses the interactivity. With tones of fields
  and iteem it ups the amout of fun by a hell of alot and the super strikes
  that are really cool 
 with the ability to score 6 goals at once. Plus the
  Wifi mode makes it double the fun because even if you lose it's fun,
  although the road to the 
 strikers cup mode (tournament mode)
  is very hard once you get to the crystal cup, but if your having trouble 
  unlocking Diddy kong 
 ,Petey Piranha or even Bowser Jr. just play on Wifi since all characters are automaticlly unlocked 
 on Wifi. I would recomend this game to anyone at all , you don't even need to be a fan of mario 
 you'll love scoring goals and smashing people into electric walls.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  It's easy to imagine why Mario Strikers came to be. There's a GameCube prequel for a start but 
 on a deeper level, we know that Japan loves football almost as much as Britain. Japan also loves 
 Mario and the combination is a match made in, well, Shigeru Miyamoto's liver spotted super brain. 
 But then this isn't a game made in Japan, it's made in Vancouver - a short drive away from FIFA 
 developers EA, where team FIFA are working on perfecting David Beckham's new hairdo and debating 
 on how much Wayne Rooney's bottom lip should wobble when things really kick off. Next Level Games 
 have no restrictions of realism to hold back Mario Strikers from becoming the strangest take on 
 the beautiful game we've ever seen. Forget ball physics, just ask yourself how do you make a save 
 while a giant turtle shell is heading towards your testicles. It's a question Barthez never had 
 to seriously consider outside of his surreal nightmares but here, it's all part of the fun and 
 strategy of playing football with the plumbers and the princess.
  
  On the face of it, Mario Strikers could be a simple football follow-up to Wii Sports. A FIFA Street 
 for the pre-school generation. In fact, for most casual observers it is exactly that. The thing 
 is, it's actually complex. Not complex like arranging the attack and defence pointy arrows in Pro 
 Evolution Soccer 6 but there's more strategy here than we're used to in Mario spin-offs. Yes, it 
 might feature the usual selection of Mario heroes and villains, but there's more to Mario Strikers 
 than waving the remote for five minutes and then passing it to someone much younger than you, along 
 with a jammy dodger and a glass of milk. 
  
  In a typically American NFL style, you can select who will make up your 'defence' and who will 
 be the 'playmaker'. The koopas and boos make good defenders, while Mario is the best all rounder 
 as usual. Other character traits are evident too - the Princess is good at running but rubbish 
 at masculine things like, er, hitting the ball really, really hard. The special attacks are what 
 makes Mario Strikers all the more tactical - boos can vanish and reappear perilously close to the 
 goal, while other characters can shock, dig and generally pummel the opposition. The captain can 
 unleash a Super Strike too, holding down the shoot button triggers a Super Smash Brothers style 
 screen spasm of light and a power barometer which needs to be stopped at the right time, just like 
 a golf game. If you play as Mario, a Super Strike will involve leaping 50 foot into the air, turning 
 the sky black and your eyes red before launching shots like hot rocks towards the keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lectro_007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  This game boasts the best of football i've seen in a game for years..... extra unlockable characters, 
 unique megastrikes and moves, and a pretty wide variety of sidekicks that u can use in infinate 
 combinations. it makes it more fun than the real sport. The online play is awesome, u can challenge 
 the striker of the day or choose from somone else who is online, or u can just go on multiplayer 
 and challenge your mates first hand. the fun never stops, in my opinion....... like all games, theres 
 the frustration of losing. epsecially when u are winning and the cpus on the other team decide 
 to start playing rough, which is highly annoying. But if u choose the right characters, with a decent 
 captain, you''l do fine....
  
  in conclusion, get mario strikers and get online, because there are loads of people who woulld 
 like a challenge and who are ready to beat u. not if you practice though.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiOhazardFAN90
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Most people would assume that Mario Strikers Charged is nothing but a clone of Mario Strikers with 
 a few perks. However, this new soccer game exclusively for the Nintendo Wii is by far one of the 
 Wii's grandest additions to its system since its release. The game contains all of the returning 
 captains from the original game; Mario, Luigi, Peach, Daisy, Yoshi, DK, Wario, and Waluigi. However 
 there is also four new captains which include; Bowser, Bowser Jr., Diddy Kong, and Petey Piranha. 
 All captains once again have their own special abilities whether it be ejecting players from the 
 game for a short period of time, growing three times their size, or even rolling over other players 
 as a giant egg.
  
  Along with new and returning captains comes the new and returning sidekicks with an all new drafting 
 system. No longer are your sidekicks chosen for you, but you get to choose your own with quite 
 a decent list of possible teammates. These sidekicks include; Toad, Hammer Bro, Birdo, Koopa, Dry 
 Bones, Monty Mole, Boo, and Shy Guy. You could still draft three of the same sidekicks but switching 
 up to get a variety of players is always good. These sidekicks all do their own special goal shot 
 as well. And of course Kritter returns as your goalie.
  
  The game play of this game is very similar to the other game with a few extra things added in. 
 I found the game to be a very addictive game especially when playing online. Which is by far what 
 sets this game in a league of its own in the Wii category. It is one of the only games that currently 
 supports online play on Wii and it doesn't disappoint. Anyone could spend an easy hour or two a 
 day playing Strikers online finding various opponents with different abilities which gives this 
 game an incredible replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is a very fun game but suffers from a few problems.
  
  The normal modes are Road to the Strikers Cup you play 6 matches at most and get a difficulty setting 
 of Normal or Extreme. Normal is it starts off easy but gets harder and Extreme means it's harder 
 from the beginning and is very difficult all the way through only play that mode if your a Pro. 
 There are other modes which help you learn the basics and online mode is probably where this game 
 really delivers.
  
  
  Online mode is good it has a leaderboard and Striker of the Day. You will play other members but 
 one thing online suffers from is you can't play against other players from like the US or Japan 
 which is a big letdown.
  
  You have to pick captains and sidekicks which are all from the Mario universe so you will have 
 Mario, Luigi, Peach, Bowser, Wario Yoshi and others. Sidekicks are chosen by you and they all have 
 different abilities. Hammer Bros, Dry Bones, Birdo, Toad, Monty Mole and they all have statistics from 
 passing shooting and speed and movement. They all have different abilites which help them score. 
 Power ups are difficult to use tatically in this but most of them are used from like Mario Kart 
 but they can also hit you.
  
  Your captains can do megastrikes which at most could get you six goals. Your Wii mote comes into 
 play here you have to stop them before they explode or the team scores a goal so don't sit back 
 on goal leads in this game.
  
  The sound and graphics are like from Mario games nice the graphics don't look too bad but very 
 colourful.
  
  Overall this game is good to play but can sometimes get frustaing with some of the games sometimes. 
 It can be difficult to score online and be frustrating overally now and again. It lacks from worldwide 
 play but it should last a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman-2k8
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Two teams battle for the possession of a metallic ball. Players with the ball pass using A and 
 shoot using B. Holding down B will allow the player to charge their shots. The color of the metallic 
 ball can change depending on how often it is passed. A charged white ball has a much greater chance 
 of going into the goal than a purple colored ball. Using the control pad will allow the player 
 to use a deke to fake out an opponent. The deke varies among the captains and sidekicks. Players 
 without the ball can shake the Wii Remote to tackle another player or press on the d-pad to slide 
 tackle. If opposing players are tackled without the ball, the player's opponent will get an item. 
 Pressing A will allow the player to switch between characters. Using the control pad without the 
 ball will allow the player to perform a slide tackle which can gain immediate possession of the 
 ball.
  
  Mega Strikes and Skillshots
  When the B (shoot) button is held, the shot is charged up. If it is charged long enough, the player 
 with the ball will execute a special shot. If the player is a sidekick, he will perform a skillshot. 
 Each sidekick has its own unique skillshot, but all have the ability to either disable or bypass 
 the goalie, making a score much more likely.
  
  If the player is a captain, the shot will be a Mega Strike. The Mega Strike is similar to the Super 
 Strike in Super Mario Strikers, but instead of one big shot worth 2 points, a Mega Strike splits 
 up into 3-6 individual shots which all fly toward the goal at a certain speed. The number of balls 
 and the speed of the balls depend on the timing of when the buttons are pressed. To defend against 
 the shots, the opposing player must target and block the balls with the goalie using the Wii Remote 
 by aiming it at the screen. For every shot the player successfully makes, a goal is awarded to 
 their side.
  
  Online features
  This is the second Wii game to use online Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection features (with Pokmon Battle 
 Revolution being the first) . In Europe, it is the first Wii game to use online Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection 
 features. The online modes feature ranked random matches and unranked friendly matches.
  
  Ranked matches puts players up against a random opponent and are restricted to players in the same 
 region in order to maintain connection stability. A billboard showing the player's Mii will be 
 shown along with the "Striker of the Day". The Striker of the Day is the player who earns the most 
 points in one day. Players earn 10 points for winning a match or 1 point for losing a match, and 
 also 1 point per goal scored, with a limit of 10 points extra earned for goals making a total limit 
 of 20 points. Disconnecting from a match will cause players to lose points. The ranked matches 
 do not use friend codes, are region specific, and support 1 vs. 1 and 2 vs. 2 player matches.
 
  
  Friendly matches are casual matches in which players can go up against their friends. Unlike the 
 ranked matches, the unranked matches use the friend code system and there is no point system involved 
 for winning or losing matches. While originally planned to support world-wide play, support for 
 friend-code matches was later restricted to local regions due to concerns about lag and playability. [6] 
 Players are able to import their Mii; each Mii has its own friend code so that each user can have 
 a separate friend list. [7] The unranked matches support 1 vs. 1, 2 vs. 1, 2 vs. 2, and 3 vs. 1 
 player matches.
  
  
  Characters
  There are a total of 12 captains and 8 sidekicks to choose from to form a five-player team, which 
 consists of a captain, three sidekicks, and a goalie. All characters, except for the goalies, are 
 separated into 5 categories: Balanced (balanced in all areas) , Playmaker or technical in Japanese 
 version (speedy with good passing ability) , Power (good shooting and defensive ability) , Offensive 
 (good shooting and passing ability) , and Defensive (speedy with good defensive ability) . Unlike 
 in the original Super Mario Strikers, a team may consist of any combination of different sidekicks 
 (e. g. 2 Koopa Troopas and a Shy Guy) . Captains and Sidekicks also have special moves, performed 
 with the D-pad while in possession of the ball, to stun, score goals or avoid players.
  
  The Kritters return from Super Mario Strikers as the goalkeepers.
  
  Captains
  
  Mario 
 - His special ability is to grow into Super Mario, allowing him to stomp around the field flattening 
 enemies and allies alike. The only way the opposing team can hurt him is when they slide tackle 
 him. When Super Mario tries to do a mega strike, he shrinks back to normal size, leaving him vulnerable. 
 His deke is to side-step. 
  Luigi - Similar to Mario, Luigi can grow into Super Luigi and stomp around the field, and the same 
 rules apply to Super Luigi as Super Mario. Likewise his deke is to side-step. 
  Princess Peach - Princess Peach's super ability allows her to take 'snapshots' of surrounding players, 
 freezing them in place. Her deke is to jump. 
  Princess Daisy - When Princess Daisy's superpower is activated, a ring of crystalline spikes explode 
 from the ground around her, disabling any opponents in range and knocking the ball into her control. 
 This attack can also be used when the goalkeeper has the ball, to make him drop it, and can allow 
 Daisy to get an easy goal. Her deke is to teleport according to the ball charge (more charge equals 
 more distance) . 
  Yoshi - Yoshi can encase himself in a giant egg and roll around the field to flatten opponents. 
 His deke a simple side-step. Yoshi's Big Hit (shaking the Wii remote) is unique: instead of a lunge, 
 he pokes his tongue at the opponent, giving greater range. 
  Donkey Kong - Donkey Kong jumps into the air before slamming his fists on the ground, flooring 
 all opponents in a large vicinity. His deke is to beat his chest, rebounding attacking players. 
 
  Diddy Kong - Diddy Kong summons a tractor beam that transports any nearby players off the field 
 and out of the match for a short period of time or until the next goal is scored. Diddy Kong can 
 also stand in his own tractor beam, and this can cause him to get a free mega strike, since if 
 any character tries to hit him, they will be caught in the beam, the only way to stop him is by 
 using an item. His deke is to jump (which can be used with precision to jump over the goalie) . 
 
  Wario - Any characters caught in a cloud of Wario's flatulence will have their controls reversed 
 until the effect wears off, and typically lose control of the ball if they have it. This item can 
 be used all at once, or sparingly, however, if Wario uses some of it, and a goal is scored, he 
 will not be able to use the rest of it. His deke is a self-proclaimed 'butt smash', knocking attackers 
 aside. 
  Waluigi - Waluigi gains a boost of speed, leaving behind him a vine-like wall that he can use to 
 trap enemies or cordon himself off before performing a Mega Strike. His deke is to teleport according 
 to the ball charge. 
  Bowser - Bowser can breathe fire, igniting enemies (even the goalie) and causing them to run around 
 in a panicked attempt to put out the flames. His deke is to hide in his shell, knocking away attacking 
 opponents. 
  Bowser Jr. - Bowser Jr. uses a sonic scream to shrink any enemies caught in the line of fire. His 
 deke is to jump up and slam his shell down, knocking away attackers. 
  Petey Piranha - Petey Piranha spits bullets of ooze-like mud to trip up enemy players and slow 
 them down. This item can be used all at once, or sparingly, however, if Petey uses spits some of 
 the mud, and a goal is scored, he will not be able to use the rest of it. His deke is shaking is 
 head knocking away enemies. 
  Sidekicks
  
  Toad - Toad's special shot envelopes the ball in flames, leaving the goalie unable to grab the 
 ball while his gloves are on fire (although he can still rebound it out to other players) . His 
 deke is to jump. This technique can be used with precision to jump over the goal keeper. 
  Boo - Boo's special shot renders itself and the ball intangible for a split second while he shoots; 
 if performed at close enough range, this sends the ball and Boo straight through the goalie and 
 into the goal. Its deke is to go invisible, with slightly increased speed and the ability to avoid 
 attacks for a short time. 
  Dry Bones - Dry Bones shoots an electrified ball at the goalie which then rebounds directly back, 
 allowing him an opportunity to score a header goal while the goalie is incapacitated. His deke 
 is to curl up and teleport a distance, depending on how much the ball is charged. This move can 
 be used to pass the keeper and score a goal. 
  Monty Mole - Monty Mole burrows under the ground towards the goal before emerging dolphin-like 
 to shoot the ball-if performed within a specific range from the goal, he will both knock the goalie 
 and the ball into the goal. His deke is to tunnel straight into the ground and bounce up again, 
 smacking players (and goalies) aside. 
  Koopa Troopa - Koopa Troopa shoots a giant shell towards the goalie, temporarily stunning him; 
 the ball then rebounds a random distance and direction. His deke is to dart into his shell and 
 move diagonally to avoid players. 
  Birdo - Birdo shoots a large egg containing the ball which sinks the goalie into the ground and 
 scores a point; this shot is a guaranteed goal unless it hits another player instead, shattering 
 on them and not affecting the goalie. Her deke is to pirouette, throwing attacking players aside. 
 
  Hammer Bros. - Hammer Bros. leaps into the air before throwing down a series of hammers and shooting 
 the ball-if performed close enough to the goal, this will smash the goalie into the ground and 
 smash the ball into the goal. His deke is to jump upwards and slam a giant hammer into the ground, 
 squishing anyone about to attack him. 
  Shy Guy - Shy Guy mounts a Bullet Bill and rides it towards the goal where it explodes, stunning 
 anyone, including Shy Guy, in the blast radius, and depositing the ball nearby. However, if Shy 
 Guy hits the ground (and not an electric fence) , he will always get up first, giving him time to 
 shoot the ball in. His deke is a side-step. 
  Goalies
  
  Kritter - Kritter cannot be controlled by the player except when he has the ball or is defending 
 against a Mega Strike. He is generally not affected by items (exceptions: Daisy's spikes affect 
 kritter, Bowser's fire affects Kritter) . Kritter does not run around uncontrollably when on fire, 
 although the fire prevents him from catching the ball with his hands. Players cannot move Kritter 
 outside the goalie box. However, the player is able to control Kritter when he has the ball in 
 his possesion. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Positive: - just as fun as the original - individual sidekicks can be selected, each with different 
 stats - excellent controls - very good multiplayer and online play -
  
  Negative: - brutally difficult - graphics aren't all that great - mega strikes make the game a 
 little unbalanced - a little too hectic sometimes -
  
  Mario Strikers Charged is a great game. It has improved over the original in every way possible 
 except for the undeniable fact that it's REALLY hard! It's fun, has more characters, great controls, 
 and excellent multiplayer which makes it a really good game.
  
  This game doesn't really have a story, you just play in the Road to the Striker Cup to become the 
 champion. The Road to the Striker Cup gets rediculously difficult pretty early on, which makes 
 you just want to give it up. The good thing is that you can play it on a 2 player co-op mode, which 
 can be pretty fun. There are also special missions to do, most of which are really hard. You have 
 to do things like come back from behind and win or win with a shutout to beat these missions. 
 
  
  The gameplay in this game is pretty similar to the original but feels very different at the same 
 time in the sense that it's almost all about pushing people and is overall pure craziness. It's 
 still great fun, but it can get very hectic at times. Before each game, the home captain flys down 
 from the sky for some reason, and I found that to be pretty stupid. The captains can do mega strikes 
 now (explained later) which makes the game a little unbalanced. The goalie blocking minigame that 
 ensues from a mega strike is a great addition to the game and is quite fun and interesting. The 
 controls are great in Charged as well. Button pushes do most things for you like shooting, passing, 
 and dodging, but a shake of the remote makes you push your opponent and a flick of the nunchuk 
 allows you to switch the item you are about to use. The captains have their own special items which 
 are really cool, such as Bowser's fire breath and Waluigi making a wall behind him.
  
  The character selection in Charged is much better than in the original. There are more captains 
 including Diddy Kong and Petey Piranha, but the main improvement is that you can choose three individual 
 sidekicks, each with different stats. A Hammer Bro. will bring the hurt on offense with powerful 
 shooting while a Dry Bones is fast and has a long slide tackle move. Each of these sidekicks has 
 a special shot as well, which is activated by holding A for a certain amount of time. Birdo will 
 shoot a giant egg that will go right through the goalie and a Toad will shoot a ball on fire, for 
 instance. These sidekicks are all so diverse that it allows for much more customization in your 
 team and allows you to work with your tastes more. The captains can all do a mega strike which 
 is also activated by holding A, but after you hold A for a second, a meter comes up with a bar 
 going across it and you have to stop it in the right spots to shoot up to six balls at different 
 speeds. These shots start a minigame (if they're done against you or anytime in multiplayer) in 
 which the balls appear on the screen and the player must point at the balls to stop them.
  
  The main strong point of Charged is easily its multiplayer. You can do up to four players on 
 regular multiplayer, and you can have multiple human players on one team. Playing with four players 
 is a blast, and although you don't always react to eachother as quickly as you react to yourself 
 (like with a shot you want to do off of a lob pass or something) it's still great fun. The online 
 multiplayer is easily Nintendo's best yet. You can play with friends or do a random match. You 
 can also play with two players on one console (your partner being on your team) which is a really 
 cool thing to do. There are also leaderboards, which is a first for Nintendo. Sometimes this game 
 can get pretty laggy online, which is very annoying, but you can see the connection quality before 
 you choose to play with the person you found, so you can get out of playing a laggy game easily.
 
  
  Overall, Mario Strikers Charged is a great game. It shines in the multiplayer section while being 
 brutally difficult on single player. It has great controls and is overall a very fun game. It's 
 very fun to play with a friend, but don't bother with it if you're just in it for the single player, 
 because you'll get rediculously frustrated with it if you're not incredibly good at the game. It's 
 definitely a good game to rent, especially since some people didn't like it very much. It has its 
 share of little faults, but the good definitely outweighs the bad by a lot. I find this game to 
 be worth playing, for sure! 
  
  Final Score: 8.4/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: General_Diablo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Wow I dont even know why I bought this game but when i did buy it and started playing i was immediatley 
 hooked. I have to say that is one of my favorite wii games. The single player campaign is challenging 
 and fun. Multiplayer is amazing. Missions are loads of fun. Unlockable cheats put a twist on the 
 game and make it extremely fun... But that is not the best part!!!! IT HAS ONLINE PLAY!!! Online 
 play is amazing, Seeing different moves, tactics, and team variations makes each game a surprise. 
 There is no better felling than watching your mii go up in the rankings for online play. Graphics 
 are great. Music is a little weak but the sounds are great. Crisp graphics and gameplay. Fun team 
 variations, unlockable character, different sidekicks, the fun never ends!!!! Even if you are not 
 really a sports gamer like me this game is sooooooooooo fun. I highly recommend this game, and 
 see you online!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerking9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  This game could be better than Super Mario Galaxy, but it is not because it has to much flare and 
 not enough bite. If it had better story mode than multiplayer it would almost grasp perfection, 
 but like my favorite basketball team [Valpo current (14-12) ] it wan't even close to perfection 
 that is probably because it is a sports game though so I guess I should cut it some slack about 
 story mode, but it stupid how you cannot go to the cup your on if you do not save it so basically 
 you cannot save the cup save file, but only how you are doing in that cup. This has amazing multiplayer 
 so it partly makes up for the bad story mode, but the places where electricity is and is not is 
 weird, and some stadium have stupid ways to sidetrack you from the goal. Overall though I reccomend 
 you getting this game even though I burned it pretty bad in this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezlatias
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  Tired of wasting time with penalties? Want to to blast multiple goals at once? What about bombing, 
 hitting, freezing and making your adversaries slip on banana peels? Sounds fun? Hell yeah. Mario 
 Strikers Charged is beyond fun. Besides of the exciting gameplay and the dazzling cups with challenging 
 opponents, Mario Strikers Charged offers the best of the multiplayer system. Team up with your 
 friends or play against them. A reasonable variety of captains and sidekicks, each one with their 
 own special item/power shot. Creating character combinations is far more than useful, it leads 
 you to victory if you. Use Dry Bones' electrical power shot to leave the opposing goalkeeper paralyzed, 
 then quickly pass it to another player and strike for the goal. Or just smash everything in front 
 of you with Birdo's powerful giant eggs. What? You prefer less violence? Just dodge everyone with 
 Toad, and jump above the goalkeeper to score the goal that takes you out of a draw. Fun enough 
 to make you laugh after scoring 6 goals at once with Megastrikes. 
  
  Addictive gameplay, dazzling multiplayer, high variability of characters. Want more? Connect to 
 the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection for even more challenging matches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stalkingshadows
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  From the get go Mario Strikers was never about technically accurate gameplay or stunning ball skills. 
 When this fact is kept in mind Mario Strikers becomes a fun game to play whether it's with a friend 
 offline or online against fellow gamers.
  The single player game lacks specific substance but is enjoyable none the less when played with 
 a friend. The AI is reasonably well implemented but suffers from the inability to deal with one 
 specific move and therefore prevents it from truly challenging a reasonably competent opponent.
 
  The online is generally solid with a large fan base which makes getting a game easy. One gripe 
 that the online throws up the fact you lose points on your ranking if your internet drops off and 
 you are disconnected from the game.
  
  The good:
  
  - Fun co-op play
  - Good for Nintendo's first online enabled game
  
  The bad:
  
  - AI feels unfinished
 
  - Sometimes online ranking system puts you against unfair opposition
  
  All in all this game is good start to the Nintendo online catalogue but doesn't quite tick all 
 the right areas to warrant it the "excellent" game title it could have had.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knorrie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  Mario strikers Charged is a fun game to play and if you have played it earlier version you will 
 see some new stuff. it is a funny and great game to play alone, with your friends against each other 
 or you can go on-line and play together in a team and defeat other couples. And all of the 
  characters have a different ability like Mario can come big and crush everyone and then do a Megastrike 
 shot. (it's a powerful shot that's difficult for a goalkeeper) And than you have the teammates there 
 are 8 kinds of characters i often use Dry Bones, Birdo and Hammer Bros because they have cool abilities. Like 
 dry bones can shoot the ball and gives it a electricity wave around it so when te goalkeeper touch 
 it he will be under electricity and when the ball comes back you can chip the ball over the goalkeeper.
 
  And Birdo can cover the ball in a egg and then shoot the egg. (a goalkeeper can't stop it) And then 
 we have Hammer Bros his special abbility is that if he shoot he jumps in the air and throws hammers 
 at the goalkeeper so the goalkeeper will be stuck at the ground and can't catch the ball (so that's 
 always a goal) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged in a great game. It has tons of captains, characters, terrains, items, and 
 twists too. However, I only reccomend this game if you have a sibling to play with, or a friend.
 
  
  This game get's a 10/10 on mulitplayer. Especially if you have more than 2 people. Being on the 
 same team as your friends is pretty fun and makes this game have a lot of value.
  
  The graphics and sounds in this game aren't too great. They certainly aren't bad, but could have 
 been improved in many ways which would have definitely given this game a higher score.
  
  Single player mode in this game isn't half bad. It is pretty fun and will keep you entertained. 
 But can be extremely frustrating becuase the computer jumps from too easy to too hard, and if you 
 lose, you have to start over.
  
  All in all, this game has pleanty of unlockables, and is all around a great game. I reccomend buying 
 it if you loved the first one, and/or if you have a bunch of people to play it with. Happy gaming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsycoFoot
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The game handling has perfect controls. With motion controls for tackling (thrusting forward with 
 the wii mote) , and switching up items (wiggling the num chuck) . Direction pad for slide tackling 
 and special abilities (when in possession of the ball) . A button for passing. B button for shooting, 
 skill shots, and mega strikes (depending on how long you hold it) . Z button calibration for trick 
 shots and speed. 
  
  On line game play is spectacular! adding friend codes and playing on ranked for 1 week seasons. 
 You can be in the top ten if you play enough, but dis-connectors can play a very annoying role.
 
  
  The road to the strikers cup is is not too hard unless you decide to play on extreme mode (for 
 advanced players) . Filled with fun stages with silly obstacles, and un-lockable characters and 
 cheats (for strikers 101)
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone that likes to play games that require quick thinking, strategy, 
 and skill. Skill does require a lot of practice, and practice always makes better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo-Gh0st
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:04 am PT
Review:  This game is the best mario spin-off game that has been released to date. The Captains are the 
 main mario characters , the captains you can choose from are ; Mario , Peach , DK , Waluigi , Luigi 
 , Wario , Daisy , Bowser , Bowser Jr , Petey , Diddy Kong and yoshi. The sidekicks in this game 
 are the mario characters that dont appear as often or dont play a big part in other mario games 
 , the sidekicks are ; Toad , Drybones , Hammer Bro , Birdo , Koopa , Monty Mole , Shy Guy , Boo 
 . 
  
  The Striker Cup is the main Single Player part to this game , and it can be completed very easily 
 if you have the correct team , which leaves the single player part of this game letting the game 
 down overall.
  
  The Wi-Fi part of the game , where you can play players all over the world ( it is limited as PAL 
 players cant play NTSC ) but even though you cant play people all over the world , there is still 
 alot of competition online which makes this game a must have for any mario loving wii owner. 
 
  
  Graphics - The graphics on this game are quite good , they are nice and smooth and not pixelated 
 at all , which shows that the wii can have a game with good graphics and still play it without 
 any difficulties.
  
  Music - The entrance music to all the captains is a realy nice part to the game aswell , but the 
 sidekicks also have a special theme tune that plays when they score , which adds a nice touch. 
 The Music everywhere else in the game ( loading screens etc ) is a nice effect to get you excited 
 about the game right from the get go.
  
  Gameplay - The most important part to any game is for it to have a fun and enjoyable gameplay , 
 and this game has it. The gameplay in the matches is really fun and online it does get really intense 
 when you play against a great player , this is one of the best games for gameplay values i have 
 played.
  
  Thanks for reading my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman1995
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Two teams battle for the possession of a metallic ball. Players with the ball pass using A and 
 shoot using B. Holding down B will allow the player to charge their shots. The color of the metallic 
 ball can change depending on how often it is passed. A charged white ball has a much greater chance 
 of going into the goal than a purple colored ball. Using the control pad will allow the player 
 to use a deke to fake out an opponent. The deke varies among the captains and sidekicks. Players 
 without the ball can shake the Wii Remote to tackle another player or press on the d-pad to slide 
 tackle. If opposing players are tackled without the ball, the player's opponent will get an item. 
 Pressing A will allow the player to switch between characters. Using the control pad without the 
 ball will allow the player to perform a slide tackle which can gain immediate possession of the 
 ball.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MMAKing623
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This is (in my opinion) the best game for Wii. It's fun. The controls are just how you'd think 
 of them to be. The game has good graphics, and pretty good online play. I think this is the most 
 underrated game on the Wii conosole! This game is so much fun. 
  In the game you pick a character from mario and build a team with the character you pick and three 
 other sub-characters. The main characters have their own special abilities and the sub-characters 
 have skillshots. You can compete for "cups" or just play a match. The online is fun.
  This game is a lot better than the original because I like the use of the skill shots. The mega 
 strike goals, {which for those who don't know is when you hold down B on the wiimote while using 
 the captain of your team and you have to press B at the right time to get more balls and higher 
 accuracy} are extremely fun because they can help you run up the score. The only thing I don't 
 like about this game's is the mega strike goals (which sounds funny because I just said I liked 
 them.) The bad thing about them is they can become frustrating. 
  Honestly, I can't find a major flaw in this game and I think anyone (whether the like soccer or 
 not) will like this. Personally I think soccer is the queerest sport on the face of the planet, 
 but this is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi487
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is basacally a follow up to the Gamecube's Super Mario Strikers, and Charged 
 is easily batter then the Gamecube version. While this game may be a soccer game it's nothing like 
 normal soccer at all, with items that can alter who wins the game and Megastrikes that can net 
 you up to six goals if the goalie doesn't block any of the balls, it's sure to be more frantical 
 then any soccer game before it. even though this is the first true online Wii game you will still 
 experience some lag, but you can forgive Nintendo for that since this was the first online Wii 
 game and all, besides you will be to interested in all the other modes in the game to even go online. 
 The modes in the game consist of a 2-player Domination mode where you and a friend (or a computer-controlled 
 character) can duke it out agaisn't each other in one of many smartly designed stages, the Road 
 to the Striker Cup is basically the career mode in the game where you select a captain and 3 sidekicks 
 to join you in trying to win 3 back-to-back tournaments, while the first 2 tournaments are easy 
 in the last tournament, the Striker Cup the computers are insanely difficult but beatable. The 
 Striker Challenges mode selects a team for you and you have to beat a certain challenge to unlock 
 a special cheat for the game, there are a total of 12 Strikere Challenges. The captains are your 
 normal suspects in any Mario Sports game they are
  
  1. Mario
  2. Luigi
  3. Peach
  4. The ever so HOT and SEXY Princess Daisy
  5. Wario
  6. Waluigi
  7. Dk
  8. Diddy Kong
 
  9. Bowser 
  10 Bowser Jr.
  11. Yoshi 
  12. Petey Piranha 
  
  
  The sidekicks are
  1. Hammer Bro
  2. Koopa 
  3. Dry Bones
  4. Shy Guy
  5. Birdo
  6. 
 Boo
  7. Monty Mole 
  8. Toad
  
  
  That about sums up this review, 
  
  In conclusion pick up Mario Strikers Charged you will not be dissapointed.
  
  You never want 
 to put this game down even after you've had it for a year.
  
  Sidekicks 1-3 are the sidekicks I use, you can propaly guess what captain I use, can't you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuck1234526
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  After playing Mario Strikers Charged, I don't think I will ever even consider buying games such 
 as Fifa or Winning Eleven. The only reason they call it Mario Strikers Charged is because you kick 
 a round object around a field, and try to shoot that round object into the net. That's where the 
 similarities end. 
  
  When I first played Mario Strikers Charged, I wondered how it was a sports game at all. More of 
 the game consists of throwing the opposing team's players in the dirt than actually passing and 
 shooting the ball. The game always starts with the challengers standing in the field, as if waiting 
 for something (which they actually are) and the home team captain falls from the sky. The ball 
 is set in the middle of the stadium, and the game begins. 
  
  In this "soccer" game, you don't kick a ball, but you kick a metal orb about the size of a soccer 
 ball that grows in energy as it is passed from one player to another. The more energy the orb has, 
 the more likely it is that the Kritter Keeper (goalie) won't save it. The captain can also perform 
 a special move called a "mega strike" in which the captain jumps into the air, and kicks the orb 
 so hard it splits in six. If you are playing against a friend, this will trigger a minigame for 
 the other team, where the player plays as the Kritter Keeper, using the Wii remote to keep balls 
 out. 
  
  The one big difference between this game and its Gamecube predecessor is Wi-Fi capability. You 
 go online, search for an opponent, and when one is found, you go into a frenzied 3-game tournament 
 of some good old (and deadly) soccer. You can even bring in a friend, and play online with two 
 people on a team, against another two. 
  
  This game is great for people who like games like Burnout, but if you're looking for a game where 
 you actually play soccer, look for something with "FIFA" or "Winning Eleven" in the title. Game 
 on!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakdude799
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Mario strikers charged is really fun. You can only have 4 players. In Mario strikers charged you 
 pick a captain, and 3 sidekicks. The captains have a super charge and so do the sidekicks. How 
 to use the super charges: All you have to do is hold down the B button on the back of the wii remote. 
 What to do when another teams captain does a super charge: You turn into the goally and move your 
 wii remote on the soccer ball and fast and then click A on the front of the wii remote while your 
 goally hands are on the soccer ball. In the world cup challenges the rounds ( games get harder 
 every round (games) ) . That is why you should get MARIO STRIKERS  
 This game is worth buying. You will most likely enjoy mario strikers charged for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innocent_J
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun little game. There should be enough things happening to keep you having fun. 
 When you play it, you don't even feel like you're playing soccer. It seems more like hockey, as 
 in you're constantly hitting people and almost always shooting at the net hoping it will go in. 
 
  
  There are alot of characters in the game which are the captains of each team. 1 thing i don't like 
 it that you can't have 2 of your favorite characters on the same team. For example, Mario and Luigi 
 can't be on the same team. They are both captains, so they each have their own teams. However, 
 you can change and modify who your other team members are. The other team members are called "sidekicks" 
 but they cant be other captains.
  
  I think there's enough in the game to keep you interested for a bit. The single and multiplayer 
 aspect of the game are good. Online is very good, considering it is the first online game for the 
 wii. They did a good job. 
  
  When playing for the cups, the matches start out easy but get increasingly difficult.
  
  Over 
 all I realli enjoy this game and I would recommend it to just about everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonisole
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  Let me point this out from the beginning. If you don't have internet on the wii don't buy this 
 game because is the online mode that makes it great. Oh and if you do have internet you must be 
 a really good player to play online because the other players are really good.
  
  This game doesn't play like your average soccer game. In this game you USE WEAPONS to hit your 
 opponent or run faster. Each stadium has got an attack in order to switch up the experience like 
 bolts of electricity hitting you or a flying cow takes you away from the stadium.
  
  A cool feature of this game is that when you charge the ball all the way up with a captain character 
 you can shoot 3-6 balls and the opponent must try to stop them. Another cool feature of this game 
 is that when you pass the ball more and more it will boost up its energy and you will have a more 
 powerful shot.
  
  Now lets talk about the online mode. In the online mode you can play with your friends if you know 
 their friend code or search for opponents. When you search for opponents you don't have the ability 
 to choose who you want to play. Another thing of the online play is that it can be punishingly 
 difficult when you play a very good player but who cares.
  
  In the end this is a fun, challenging and crazy game and I think its a must buy for any wii owner 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikotuck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a serious soccer game, why don't you go get something like fifa world cup, 
 because this game has you launching items, tackling shy guys and other characters, and slamming 
 special move shots into the goal. 
  I would say Mario strikers charged is much better than the first in the series, less tournaments 
 in this game, but in this game you can unlock player cards and cheats by doing player missions, 
 and in this game you can actually choose three different sidekicks, Example I pick Shy guy, dry 
 bones and birdo, in the first game you pick one sidekick and you have three of them. Also, in the 
 first game there were 4 sidekicks, in this one there are 7, (maybe more but I can't remember them) 
 This game has stages that actually interact with you, like spewing lava or lightning, this is sort 
 of amusing, but it can get pretty annoying in tournaments. Back to the characters, the are also 
 4 new captains (bowser, diddy kong, bowser jr. and petey piranha. The music selection is a little 
 weird, some of it sounds like elevator music .Also, The multiplayer is awesome.
  Overall, I'd say this game is pretty entertaining and really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 28, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  Whenever I first heard about Super Mario Strikers for the Gamecube, I thought it sounded like a 
 cool game and all but never got the chance to play it. So the sequel is coming out for the Wii 
 and I think to myself, "That's cool, I guess I'll give it a try and see what it's like". And so, 
 a couple of months after it came out I bought it to see what all the hype was about. 
  
  Unfortunately what I found left a lot to be desired. 
  
  In Mario Strikers Charged you play 
 fast-paced soccer as one of several characters from the Mushroom Kingdom and execute powerful 'Charge 
 Shots' to score several points at once. Obstacles randomly dart across the field to cause trouble 
 in renown Mario style, and some of them can be used as power-ups, such as the mushroom which makes 
 you grow to enormous size and stomp over anyone in your path. 
  
  Sounds like a cool idea, right? Yeah, it does sound that way, but there's a difference between 
 fantasy and reality, and that couldn't be more clear here, folks. What we have here is, quite simply, 
 a game with few redeeming qualities and little pay value. 
  
  To begin with, there are only about a dozen characters that really matter in this game, classified 
 as captains, who you will control almost 100% of the time during a game. Your other players are 
 called 'sidekicks', which couldn't be more true because their chances of scoring a goal are, well, 
 slim. Unless you choose Wario, all of the captains in this game are faster, stronger and all-around 
 better than the sidekicks, meaning you'll only use the sidekicks to pass the ball to and perform 
 steals and passes when the ball gets too far away from you. 
  
  Captains are the only characters than can use charge shots, unfairly powerful goal-shots that cause 
 a barrage of balls to careen into the net, which the other team's goalie must try to catch with 
 their wii remote's pointer. Usually, one or two balls will inevitably swoop into your goal, and 
 because performing charge shots is easy as pie, you will spend more time getting close to your 
 opponents' net and scoring goals this way than actually using teamwork and giving everyone a chance 
 to play. 
  
  Obstacles, like the above mentioned mushroom, are pretty much unavoidable and almost as annoying 
 as the charge shots. Waluigi, for some reason, seems to be able to score more shots on you than 
 any other character. And your goalies - you can't pick them - they are always kremlings from the 
 Donkey Kong Country games, always. 
  
  But overall, the game is just boring. You buy this game expecting it to be fun and something you 
 can whip out and play anytime, and it's not. Every time you put the game in the Wii you know exactly 
 what to expect - a primitive side-view soccer game where your only purpose is to charge-shot for 
 the win. 
  
  Sure it has some nice parts - there is a sort of challenge mode you can play through to try and 
 complete difficult tasks, and wi-fi play which I can't play, but on the whole that just isn't going 
 to do much for a game that's about as fun as Pong. Somehow I think the game would actually be more 
 fun if you only played as the sidekicks, since they each have obvious strengths and weaknesses 
 and are fun to play as, but then the only ones I ever really use are the Hammer Bro. and Toad. 
 
  
  The game's music, while much more 'urban' than the other tracks in their library, are not memorable, 
 and the characters are so small on the screen (like little ants) that the action is de-magnified 
 and made even more boring. There aren't any brilliant textures or effects here anyway, except for 
 the cutscenes right before the characters perform their charge shots, which get boring fast. 
 
  
  There's just so much sub-par about this game, I'm ashamed that Nintendo made it. I have more fun 
 playing Mario Party 8, which isn't a bad game but leaves much to be desired in its own right. That 
 said, this game is only for people who played the GCN version and liked that, I guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polo136
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is a fun, fast paced, escape from everything around you type of game. 
 
  
  If you want a game that you can play whenever you want without feeling as if you are repeating 
 the game again and again, look no further than Mario Strikers Charged Football. At first the graphics 
 don't seem anything special, but with a second glance you realise that the whole crowd is 3D and 
 exceptionally detailed. Some of the players reactions in cut scenes can be quite entertaining. 
 
  
  The game play is highly addictive, but the controls do not harness the power of the Wii-mote, the 
 only Wii-mote based controls are big hits (shake the Wii-mote) , putting off your opponent when 
 they are charging up a mega strike (shake the nunchuck) , saving mega strike goals and menu navigation. 
 
  'Road to the Strikers Cup' is the tournament mode, though it is not incredibly rewarding, I mean, 
 sure, unlocking Bowser Jr., Diddy-Kong and Petey Piranha is cool but I expected a bit more from 
 it. If you buy Mario Strikers Charged, you will not regret it (and if you do then I have nothing 
 to do with it) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: severndigital
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  We checked this game out because it is Wi-Fi enabled. Training is a must in this game. The tutorials 
 are really helpful, and almost required to really play this game well.
  
  One of the coolest features this game has to offer is the Hockey style checking. You have the ability 
 to throw a check and send your opponent flying through the air.
  
  The striker shots are a very original idea also. This game was over all a fun game to play.
  
 
  On to the depth... this game is really long. During the first tournament you play 6 games just 
 to determine your positioning in the playoffs. Winning all 6 games takes you straight to the finals. 
 Loosing a game or two will put you deeper into the bracket and you will have fight your way into 
 the finals.
  
  After beating the first tournament we made our way into the second tournament series. The difficulty 
 increase is pretty great, we are not novices at video game playing and found the second tournament 
 was quite challenging.
  
  At any rate we had a great time playing this one and it was really fun. I would recommend this 
 to anyone who like sports / arcade games.
  
  -C
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged Football is something that is extreme i mean it is hard but the game starts 
 easy and before you know your opponent is scoring 13 goals in less then 1 minute. If you remember 
 Sega Soccer Slam this is kind of like that but with Mario characters.
  This game looks ok and at times looks a little cheap but it can be fun the online mode is pretty 
 good though i could never spend all day on it that would get boring.
  
  The arenas look good and also looks like there is a lot of detail put into them and weapons on 
 the field are great for taking the person your versing. 
  
  The music is not bad but it is nothing special. I find the power shots annoying as your trying 
 to play then goes into graphics where the player jumps so high and power kick or with their hands. 
 Then the game puts you as the goalkeeper trying to save the ball is annoying because it puts you 
 right off the game.
  
  Other then this its an alright game i would never say it is the best game on the Wii because there 
 is far better games believe me. If you see this game under 19.99 then it is worth checking out. 
 I am disappointed how the reviews were so possessive and buying the game myself it just was not 
 all that great as people were making it out to be but thats what i think. Sega Soccer Slam i have 
 to say is a whole lot better then this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukiat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Some games are perfect for the consoles, but when you see Mario Strikers Chaged on a shop you say 
this is a waste of time" but then, you start to play the championships, and you leap like a idiot, 
 and more in the multiplayer, with some crazy powers, supershots, super goals, tricks, and a special 
 touch of the wii, in some cases insignificant, but that, combinated with the characters of mario, 
 like DK ,Wario, Peach, Yoshi, this game it's super smash bros brawl in soccer!.
  
  The gameplay it's something superb, just for the fact of the powers, the shots, the fun and the 
 adrenaline of a soccer game in your wii with the favourite characters of nintendo, in another side 
 something dissapointing of this it's the only wii action: the tacle, and that, for the potential 
 of this game.
  
  The grafics it's not for have shame, but it's really great, with the super character design and 
 the shiny graphics, with a bad bad animation on the supershots.
  
  The sound its good with a music in every screen on the game and a special use of the voices of 
 the character, it's really amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bball_playa010
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Soccer. This game is about soccer of course because of the title. This game is so addicting that 
 you probably will be playing it for hours! The striker's cup is fun because you get to go against 
 different characters to reach a certain cup. Some of the characters you will face are pretty easy, 
 but most of them are really hard. The Wi-Fi is great because you can play anyone, your friends 
 or other people online. There also challenges for you to face so you can unlock cheats.
  
  The bad things about the game that it is REALLY hard. When you are in the striker's cup, you might 
 get mad if you lose a lot of games because the characters are very hard to beat. If you lose in 
 the playoffs, you have to start all over again. If you constantly play this game, you might be 
 able to become a master at this game. It might stress you out, but you can always try it again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_Iic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I had played the predecessor to this game on the game cube and I was impressed with it. However 
 I had only played a short segment of the game so I don't know much about it. As stated by other 
 reviews; this game can get pretty chaotic in matches at some points. The levels can really get 
 in the way sometimes but still adds a good amount of distraction. The hitting in this game can 
 be a little cheap sometimes when you are trying to get a mega shot off and from 10 feet away comes 
 Peach doing a slide kick knocking you right out of it. The game play sort of revolves around getting 
 mega shots off. It is extremely difficult to get a normal one-point score. The goalie is way too 
 overpowered in his ability to know where you are shooting from making the game a little less fun 
 to play. 
  I give this game a 7.5 because of its inability to be fair and even with the AI and dissapointment 
 in actually making goals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_luigi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  First off, I would say that this game was well made, with responsive controls, and superior gameplay. 
 
  The story, is a series of cups, or tournaments and they can be frustratingly difficult. Luckily, 
 there are difficulty settings, with 5 options. As you progress in beating the cups, there are a 
 few unlockables, like diddy kong and petey pirahna. 
  Basically, in the game, there are 5 players on each team; there is a goalie, captain and 3 sidekicks. 
 Your objective is to score goals and to fill the ball with as much energy as you can. The ball 
 is metallic, so it really gives you the feel of heaviness. Power-ups have slighty changed since 
 the original, ranging from bananas, bombs and shells. 
  New additions such as special power ups will make your captain do an attack, or unleash havoc on 
 the field. With more added captains, sidekicks and stages, there is plenty of fun to be had. The 
 Megastrike lets you score up to 6 goals at once and requires skill to pull off. These can turn 
 around the game instantly.
  Wifi is one of the best modes because of the competetive action. Some people will have different 
 styles than others and the AI, which gives variety. It is 1 series, best of 3, giving a fair chance. 
 This game is a definite buy for wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hememi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  good parts -very fun to play no matter what games you like you just always want to get better and 
 better very mANY NICE MODES AND VERY NICE WI-FI WHICH WILL Always keep you busy
  bad parts- story mode could have more but not as hard
  all on -one of the best games i have ever 
 played so you should really get it if you have the wii its not misssing almost anything so it  
 truly good graphics great characters awesome arenas terrific tactics and every thing rules in it 
 so if you dont get it well your not the smartest pea in the pod 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theganjafarmer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is a game that may take you by suprise. It is a game that one might think 
 to be really lame becasue its soccer, and that is a horrible stereotype. Honestly, after a while 
 you forget that you are playing a soccer game. It turns into an action game, almost resembling 
 that of Mario Kart. The flying items and chaos make the game fun, although it can be overwhelming 
 at times (Just as Mario Kart did.) Online mode is very fun becasue it ranks you with people who 
 are about the same skill as you. Some downfalls are that sometimes people will start on a new mii, 
 and obviosuly they were extremely skilled at the game, and end up completely oblieterating you. 
 Its not fair, but every game has people like that. Other than that, the gameplay is extremely fun. 
 You can completely customize your team to adhere to your gameplay style. Each player had their 
 own traits, and there is a person for everybody. The sidekicks are fit in as well, and are very 
 fun. I would recommend this game to the hardcore mario fan. It is very fun and very playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmario123
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a soccer game that only follows the guidelines of soccer... in a good way! In my opinion, 
 there is only one bad thing about this game is the mirrored computer players. That means that however 
 hard you play againt the computer players, they will play just as hard. But dont let that keep 
 you from getting this SWEET game! To me, this is the perfect game to bust out at a party. The gaming 
 experience gets even crazier and funner with four people. Though there are only three charcters 
 to unlock and even more levels to unlock, this will keep you busy. This is because the farther 
 you get into the soccer league, the computer AI gets higher and higher. A new feature in this game 
 is the ability to go online with Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. This lets you play this game with people 
 all over the world... as long as you have plenty of friend codes. Overall: a nearly perfect game 
 to play at a party! (make sure you have enough wiimotes and nunchucks:) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atwixtor
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer is fun and very exciting, havent tried online yet but probably nice there too. Single 
 player was too easy in the first cup, i beat one of the teams 43-1 and it just felt like a waste 
 of my time. Then i get to the second cup, teams are somewhat harder more of a challenge, then half 
 way through the cup, i get matched up with a comp, and get destroyed couldnt even touch the ball 
 half the time losing 8-1. I play threw the cup again, same exact thing happens, and im thinking 
 well this is no fun at all. Then i go into the challenges to see if i can learn some of the tricks, 
 selected the skill shot challenge, and it just tells me make a skill shot, im like WTF, and how 
 would i do that. For the most part half of this game seems to be blind luck to me, i liked the 
 GC version but this game is all about the flare such as the super goals for each character, which 
 might i add is a poor poor system compared to the last one. Then music choice for the stages in 
 this game made no sense and didnt match for some of the stages. They had some good ideas, but with 
 the inconsistent ai system and poor application of some potentially good mechanics, they really 
 messed this game up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6411
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  This game has many fun game types to play and very good online play. I haven't really noticed any 
 lag when playing online which is very good news for the wii's future online games. It has a very 
 fun story mode and awesome missions you can do which very from different levels and can only be 
 acsessed when you beat certain missions. The controls can get frustrating at times but for the 
 most part they work well. The graphics for the game are very good and the sound is really good. 
 This game is very fun to play with or against friends. I recommend you get this game if you like 
 online play and playing with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkgamingdude
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  ...::The Good::...
   Enjoyable multiplayer, offline and online 
   Able to choose your own Side-Kicks 
   More special items
   Megastrike can now be saved via 
 a mini-game seeing you point at the screen to block the shots.
   Variety of Stages
  
  ...::The Bad::...
   A. I. starts off rather easy, then suddenly becomes overly cheap
   Tackling 
 can be tiring
   Main-game is rather short with only 3 Cups
  
  The plumber returns to the soccer pitch for more chaotic fun. With the addition of online multi-player, 
 those who can't get stuck in with Strikers Charged's Single-Player will find the online rather 
 addicting
  
  The controls work rather well. Press 'A' to pass the ball to team mates, and 'B' to take a shoot. 
 Holding down 'B' charges your shot which can lead to a more successful chance of scoring. Passing 
 the ball consecutively changes it's colour. The closer it gets to white, the higher your chances 
 of scoring. Tackling can be done in two ways: Pressing down on the D-Pad performs a slide-tackle 
 whcih will result in your character stealing the ball. Shaking the Wiimote will cause your character 
 to shoulder-charge the opposing team knocking them flying. The latter can be tiring and over-powerful 
 at times. 
  
  A new feature is the Mega-Strikes. Charging your shot when controlling your captain will bring 
 up a small bar above there head. Hold down 'B' until the bar reachs the left most side will determine 
 how many balls you shoot with, press 'B' once more and the gauge will speed to the right side; 
 pressing it at the right time will determine your success rate of the Strike.
  
  But unlike in the original, you know have the chance to block these Mega-Strikes. Once your opponent 
 shots a mini-game begins. You control the keepers hands by point at the screen and press 'A' to 
 block the balls that are being shot at you. This is a nice new feature as it can save your ass, 
 and can also be fun.
  
  Skipping back to before you start up a match, you can now select your own three side-kicks to help 
 your odds of victory. This side-kicks have their own stats and skillshots. Skillshots are like 
 dumbed-down Mega-Strikes that can stun the keeper for a few seconds giving you a scoring chance.
 
  
  The main-game is rather short with only 3 Cups to be won. But there is a Challenge mode that features 
 12 objectives for you to complete. Each increasing in difficulty. Speaking of difficulty, the main-game 
 starts off rather easily. But come the second cup, the difficulty makes a giant leep and soon becomes 
 overly cheap.
  
  Strikers Charged has a few nice Sound-Effects, but the main soundtracks playing aren't anything 
 spectacular like in previous Mario titles. Graphics-wise the game hasn't improved much from the 
 GameCube Strikers, but ins't the worse looking game on the console either.
  
  Finally the Wi-Fi mode. This really does make the game something awesome, especially since it's 
 the first Wii game to feature online. So those who find it hard to get into the SIngle-Player mode, 
 will find the online addictive, especially since you don't need Friend Codes, but they are there 
 also. Strikers Charged has Sesson Leaderbaords, and All-Time Leaderboards to keep you occuppied.
 
  
  8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onkz_94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Its really fun, and one of the best games I've ever played, The online play is awesome and It should 
 be in at least everyone's game collection. The career mode is fun aswell but it does get hard on 
 the Striker cup. One of the best games I've played. If you don't buy it, your abit silly, and if 
 you dont like it , its your personal view. This game does have quite a legacy and is one that will 
 never die. I actually played this for about 3 hours straight once, thats how much I like it. Finally 
 the graphics are pleasing and it has alot of fun factor and all different game modes are fun. I 
 really like the differnet captains because they each have their own specialities. Very fun, very 
 enjoyable and an instant classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palooka123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game one day after hearing that it was a good game and i plugged it in. I immediately 
 went to the story mode and started to play i figured out the game in a good 15 miniutes. I was 
 having a blast i called up some friends and they came over and we all played for hours. I really 
 had fun and my friend next door bought it the next day this was last summer and im still playing 
 and enjoying it. The online multiplayer is cool too all you have to do is hook up to a router and 
 your on the internet. It tells you what you are ranked in the world and you can add friend codes 
 and play them in special custom matches useing cheats you unlock and courses and it really is just 
 a lot of fun. I reccomend to rent it first because obviously it wasnt made for everyone. All in 
 all it is a really fun game that you will enjoy for a LONG time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeavisRules5
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game has many fun game types to play and very good online play. I haven't really noticed any 
 lag when playing online which is very good news for the wii's future online games. It has a very 
 fun story mode and awesome missions you can do which very from different levels and can only be 
 acsessed when you beat certain missions. The controls can get frustrating at times but for the 
 most part they work well. The graphics for the game are very good and the sound is really good. 
 This game is very fun to play with or against friends. I recommend you get this game if you like 
 online play and playing with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacuuuuu3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I loved this game, just because the wi-fi gets so competitive, even when you're a noob, the 
 games are really competitive:
  Multiplayer: This game has got great multiplayer, the best part of the game, and also of the GCN'S 
 Mario strikers, do you remember how games became so good, because in this series being good it's 
 not as important as in other, it's like a minigame collection, but even better:
  10/10
  Addiction: This game's Wi-Fi mode it's highly addictive, but with that it's actually sufficient, 
 because the game's best point is that one, I love Wi-Fi soccer game, but FIFA 08 (DS) and this are 
 the best:
  8/10
  Gameplay: After seeing FIFA 08's gameplay, this game it's a releif, because I didn't just wanted 
 this game just because I though gameplay was going to be as FIFA08's, but I was wrong, the gameplay 
 here it's based more on buttons, and more way easy:
  9.2/10
  Sound: Well the sound in this game it's just okay, it's not the kind of sound you love, but it's 
 not annoying:
  8/10
  Total:
  8.8/10
  Conclusion:
  You really have to play this game, the Wi-Fi elevates it's replay value a lot, so it's really recommendable.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polorapman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  It is a very fair game with all the features and good multiplayer. It is a good game to me cause 
 of all the unlockable characters, levels, trophies, and cheats (My Favorite) . Also the online play 
 you have to be a legendary player to accomplish, so I would wait if you are a new player. Also 
 the cheats are really hard to get with all the missions, and it should have more characters to 
 be even more busy on the game (Hopefully the next Mario Strikers game will have more) . The best 
 part of the game is where I can brag of my points to my friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelphar
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  This game is way better than the first! Now with 12 captains and 8 sidekicks! They've included 
 the stadiums from the first game, and have added 10 more like the Galactic Staduim, Thunder Island 
 and Sand Tomb. 
  
  The Gameplay never ceases to amaze me. You can go into the story mode, play challenging matches, 
 train yourself with cool teqniques (did I spell it wrong?) and play Online.
  
  From the challenges you can get cheats like the White Ball, Devasting Hits and Always Skill Shot! 
 Multiplayer is always the funnest, even if it's not online! 
  
  The game sometimes gets hectic, that's were some people say they don't like it. I prefer it that 
 way, it's fun tackling everbody while trying not to get electrocuted!
  
  It took me a while to beat the tourney, and I've found it's hard Solo, but easy 2 -4 player! This 
 game definetly made me happy I got the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedGuy93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is about soccer, is this even a soccer game? I mean, you deck people without fouls, there's 
 power-up, the goalies are beasts, yet it is a Mario game. I've never seen a cow on a soccer field, 
 but that's just me. I love this game, on the other hand. It's like a new sport inside of a sport. 
 The gameplay and interaction in Wi-fi is amazing. i love the characters in this game, especially 
 Boo, the playmaker, and Diddy Kong, the best character in the game. This is a good 1 player game, 
 and an even better multiplayer game. The skills of the goalies and players is just wonderful. Plus, 
 the special abilities the players have when they do a power shot is unstoppable. Action and destruction 
 would be in this. I mean, where else are you gonna win a buzzer beater when down by 5? This game 
 is an 8.5/10, a great rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincedtm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  
  -Gameplay-
  The gameplay is really awesome, It's really easy to understand and the training mode is very well 
 done. Almost anyone can perform some great move even if you're nor a die-hard gamer. On the negative 
 side, it's sometimes hard to keep up with what's going on because there is so much action going 
 up at the same time. All these specials moves and attack can get confusing.
  
  -Graphics-
  The graphics are really nice, didn't saw any bugs, Even if they're good there're 
 not a big improvement from the graphics of the Gamecube but it's not the graphics that makes a 
 game good anyway. 
  
  -Sound-
  The sounds and music are perfect, they really puts you into the game. Sadly they're kinda the same 
 over and over again.
  
  -Value-
  This is a awsome game to own if you plan on playing with you're friends and family. The game is 
 of course limited lifetime, but it's just plain fun that will makes comes back over and over again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B1kmatt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  I kind of liked the first Mario Strikers game so I deiced to check this one out and it was a great 
 follow up to the first. Now this one offers a better miltiplayer than the last with the addition 
 of online play, it has more captains and team mates to use, and there are more playing fields to 
 play on. Although I have mostly good things to say about this game there is something about this 
 game that I really hated and that is the campaign mode you play it for about 2 hours and in the 
 end if you lose you have to start all over again that drives me mad. This game the second time 
 around if much more satisfying with the new super strikes and the special items for the captains 
 to use. I could do without the pre game cinematics it was cool the first time and now its just 
 plan annoying, but all in all this is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rammaster2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is a fun, high-paced game. I didn't play the first one but this sequel is 
 a pretty good game. 
  
  You can choose which captain you want to play. You could either choose Mario, Princess Peach, Wario 
 and other Mario characters. Only bad thing about it there's only 3 unlockable character. You could 
 also choose 3 of your sidekicks. They can be all the same or different. There's a bunch of characters 
 to choose from. And levels are pretty good.
  
  There's different modes to play from Domination Mode, in which you can play with your friends or 
 against the CPU, The Road to the Strikers Cup, n which you play 3 cups until you win all of them, 
 and Challenge mode, in which you play a variaty of challenges to unlock cheat and other stuff.
 
  
  The gameplay is pretty good. Your goalkeeper is CPU and does a good job most of the time withthe 
 occasional messing up. Your Teammates does a pretty good job getting the ball if you pass it to 
 them. Each of your teammates have a skill shot, which transforms the ball into eggs or shells or 
 electric balls. It sometimes stuns the goalkeeper resulting in an open goal or trick the goalkeeper. 
 Your captains also have a Megashot which your captain unleashes his ball transforming into 3 or 
 6 balls. If your opponent does a megashot you go into the goalkeeper and try to block the balls.
 
  
  All in all, Mario Strikers Charged is a very good game and will keep you playing it all day long! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pianistkaida
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  I decided to get this game because i had heard some pretty good reviews on it. Now, I don't totally 
 suck at video games, in fact, i been told I'm pretty good, but this game is SO HARD!. I beat the 
 first cup pretty easily, but the 2nd sky rockets to like super hard and I can't even win ONE match. 
 
  What I really didn't like about this game was the rapid difficulty change. I was more frustrated 
 with the game than enjoyed it. It was fun for the first cup and pretty cool, but after that, if 
 you haven't played it before and are just learning about it, it will drive you nuts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Logolas0
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  The multiplay is fantastic.
  I have played over 40 hours just online and it is so addictive.
  The online is fantastic and 
 there is no better feeling to when you
  beat someone from a comeback from 6-3 down to win 7-6 in sudden 
  death. The in game gameplay 
 is perfect and has no room for improvement
  
  However, if you do not have online, do not buy this game
  you would be wasting your money. The 
 career is too short and when 
  you can constantly beat the pc on the highest level it gets boring.
  The challenges only take 
 about 1hr (if that) to complete and the career leaves a lot to be desired.
  This a suberb game with online and a must buy for wii owners great 
  game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvator
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is a great game to start off your Wii collection. It gives you endless hours 
 of fun. Even if you beat the career mode where you have to win the trophies, there is a Multiplayer 
 mode where you can verse people all around the world. The game is a very fun and easy game to play.
 
  
  The game has a very simple but helpful tutorial which you might need if you haven't played the 
 original game from Gamecube. You could start just a quickplay game without any knowledge of how 
 to play the game and still do alright but the tutorial is a great help. 
  
  The great thing about this game is that every player has its own super move or star power. This 
 helps you score in other ways than just shooting it. Also, this game includes many more players 
 as you can enjoy the powers of Bowser Jr. and some other great new characters. 
  
  This game is overall a fantastic game to play. If you have a Wii, you should get this game to add 
 to your collection no matter if you like soccer games or not. This is far beyond soccer games as 
 the innovative moves of these Mario characters give this game an awesome feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebisonx
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Strikers, the next outing for Mario on the soccer field, is one of those games for 
 Wii that you know should have probably seen release on the GameCube. Not that this makes the game 
 terrible, it's just so obvious that you can't help but feel somewhat ripped off.
  
  The controls are quite simple and nothing that couldn't have been done on the GameCube. The only 
 control that is there to remind you that you're playing the game on Wii is the waggle to do a body 
 check. Although the controls are uninspired, they do handle well.
  
  The visuals are nothing to show-off, either. Low-poly characters and blurry backgrounds make for 
 a rather bland visual experience. The menus and interface are dull, as well. If you can see the 
 game on 480p and 16x9, you will notice that the game looks sharper and the colours are brighter.
 
  
  The saving grace of Strikers is it's online mode. Obviously Friend Codes are in place, so that 
 takes away from it a bit, but really, it's so easy to set up a match with a stranger that you forget 
 about the Friend Codes. Matches are quick, the competition is great and it's so addicting that 
 you can play for hours and not know it. Great stuff.
  
  Super Mario Strikers is a GameCube game that had the fortunate luck to be shuffled over to the 
 Wii lineup during the middle of it's development. The only thing that separates what it was on 
 GameCube to what it is on Wii is it's online mode, and were it not for that mode, this game would 
 have been a complete failure. 
  
  If you have the ability to play this game online, rent it or buy it. Play it at least, because 
 it is a very fun game when played online. If you cannot play against other online, don't even bother. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATKisNeat
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off saying. This game was my second Wii game. I didn't know what to expect. I was 
 delighted to see one of my favorite sports with an "EPIC" character. 
  
  Controls, I rate them 8/10 seperatly. They are nice but you can just keep doing tackle and the 
 game gets repetitive if you do so. You can slide, power up, and pass/shoot. Pretty much a typical 
 soccer game. But every character has a special power up. Mario has a mushroom ( Makes him grow) , 
 Peach has GIANT PHOTOS fly from the sky to daze her foes. Graphics, 7/10, They are crisp but not 
 the best. Shadowing is not the greatest but still there. Game Play, 10/10, this game will keep 
 you occupied for hours and hours. 
  
  One downside is your arms start to get tired =P.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guidono123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This game has what a gamer needs: a good control. So charged does not go to complicated with its 
 control scheme, and the multiplayer works well. The online feature made this games replay value 
 go very high, and also becuase there is a rank, so it encouraged me 2 keep playing. Graphics are 
 ok, sound works gr8 ( best intro i hav seen in a game, seriously) , and the sidekick system is a 
 perfect addition. The Only complain i have is that its single player is weak, and sometimes really 
 hard.....
  
  
  - But still, if you have internet or some friends in the neighborhood, you should definetly but 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisgopher
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This was the first time I had ever played Strikers of any kind, and I'm glad I've got the game 
 now. It is a fast-paced action game that can be extremely challenging. The AI of the game tends 
 to be either very east or unbelievably hard, which can be frustrating to new players (yours truly) . 
 All in all, it's a good package if you like Mario, sports, good multiplayers, or just fast paced 
 action games.
  
  Single Player - You play solo in tournaments to win various cups, each cup increasing in difficulty. 
 As you play you unlock other characters and fields. The downside to this mode is that you only 
 have one game save at you're disposal, and you can't pick new sidekicks as you play matches. You 
 have to start the whole cup over again to change your roster. If you happen to get bored with the 
 tournaments, there is a challenge mode that has many difficult games you can try to beat. Challenges 
 such as win in a certain amount of time, or win the game by 10 goals. 
  
  Multiplayer - All the fast hitting action of the game, but with friends. Multiplayer mode is where 
 Strikers truly shines. There are also many in-game options and cheats that you can alter to make 
 each game different every time. 
  
  Online Mode - While impressive, online play is lacking in some aspects. As far as game play goes, 
 it's flawless. If you connect to an opponent with a good connection, the game play is the same 
 as if you were playing the computer off line. The real downer about online mode is the difficulty 
 to add friends and play with those friends. You need to swap code numbers between players the same 
 way you would swap Wii console numbers, however these numbers are not your console numbers, but 
 one created for each different Mii you use in online mode. Also, after you complete a match with 
 someone online, there is no option to add them directly to your friend list. 
  
  Graphics and sound - As far as graphics can be for Mario and his pals, they are top notch on this 
 title. Many of the character's sound effects can be repetitive at times, but by the time you've 
 played the game enough to find them annoying, you'll be used to it.
  
  In this brief review I only hit the tip of the goal post of this game. But aside from a smooth 
 but unfulfillable multiplayer mode, Mario Strikers is one Wii sports title that you should not 
 pass up. All I can say about this game is that you should definitely play it at least once. Who 
 knows, you may enjoy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  When I first bought the previous iteration of Mario's foray into the Soccer world, I was a bit 
 disappointed - The game's single player mode wasn't very extensive, and the game didn't have too 
 much going for it in the way of unlockables or depth (Though it had great multiplayer!) . I was 
 quite happy to find out that Next Level Games has addressed all these issues for the game's sequel. 
 The basics of Mario Strikers Charged are still practically unchanged from the previous game - Pick 
 a captain, pick sidekicks, play a game and try to win. All of these things have been polished up 
 from the previous game, though. First off, all captains and sidekicks now have their own statistics 
 - Some of them might excel at movement speed, while others are great at tackling. In the original 
 game, everybody was the same, which made the game feel similar to a Mario Party title. On top of 
 this, 4 captains and 4 sidekicks have been added to the roster, and you can now select 3 different 
 sidekicks - You don't have to have three of the same! New to the actual gameplay are the upgraded 
 and completely new moves. First off, the deke, a move that let you dodge incoming attacks quickly, 
 has been given a change, and, much like the varying character stats, is different for each character. 
 Characters like Hammer Bro or Monty Mole, for example, have a deke that knocks out nearby opponents, 
 while characters like Waluigi and Dry Bones can teleport forward short distances, which could be 
 used to fool the goalie. The Super Strike has been replaced by the new MegaStrike - While sort 
 of similar in concept, it is in fact completely different. If your captain charges a shot, he will, 
 after reaching max power, continue charging a MegaStrike. Timing is of the essence here to select 
 a number of balls (3 to 6) and shot speed. After this is done, your character will go into a short 
 cutscene and fire 3 to 6 balls at a slow/medium/high speed towards the opponent's goal. When this 
 has happened, the opponent gets to control a set of gloves with the Wii remote as balls fly towards 
 him, and he must point at each of them and press A to block them. In the original game, if a Super 
 Strike was executed perfectly, it was unstoppable. Now, however, those with fast eyes will find 
 MegaStrikes relatively easy to stop. This makes the gameplay much less cheap, and you will find 
 the game to be less about get into the corner, knock out opponents and shoot your Super Strike 
 like the original game was. New to the game are Skillshots - Sidekicks can now pull off mini-MegaStrikes 
 by charging their ball's power to the fullest. This will make them pull off a special move (Which 
 is, once again, different for each sidekick) which instantly scores, or at least makes it easier 
 to score. To make the game more balanced, the heavier, and thus slower, characters are the ones 
 that possess the instant goal Skillshots. As they are so slow, it is far less likely for them to 
 make it close to the goal and actually pull them off. Skillshots make your sidekicks a whole lot 
 more useful than they were in the original game. Another new thing is the inclusion of Super Abilities. 
 Each captain has his or her own Super Ability, which can be activated when you receive an item 
 shaped like your captain's head (Items are still received by being tackled when not having the 
 ball, or shooting a charged shot at the goal and missing) . These Super Abilities temporarily power 
 up your captain and usually let him/her knock down opponents with ease to create an opportunity 
 to score. These items are fairly rare, and as such, do not feel cheap at all. One other new gameplay 
 element is the titular charging of the ball. As the ball is passed around between your teammates, 
 the glow around it will begin to change colour. If this glow becomes white in colour, shooting 
 it will result in it instantly being shot at maximum strength and power. This is not a gamebreaking 
 element, but still something that could be used to your advantage. The final new thing is the overhaul 
 of the stadiums. There are 17 stadiums in this game - All 7 from the original game and 10 new ones. 
 8 of the new ones have stadium-specific features (The other 2 new ones and all 7 old ones are extremely 
 basic, not featuring anything special) . Thunder Island, for example, has no fences on the edges, 
 and storms are quite regular on it. When one occurs, wind will begin blowing characters (And fish, 
 cows and tractors!) around, and if they get blown (Or knocked!) off the edge, they take about 10 
 seconds to be launched back up to the field. Another stadium, The Dump, features a constant flow 
 of mud towards the center, meaning you have to keep moving or you'll be slowly moved around by 
 the stadium itself! If you've played the original game, the core gameplay and controls are practically 
 unchanged. All moves are still in the game, but, as the Wii remote and nunchuk do not have enough 
 buttons, their special functions have been given three uses. To tackle, you must flick the Wii 
 remote, to switch items (If you have multiple) you have to shake the nunchuk and to block MegaStrikes, 
 you have to use the remote's pointer. None of these moves feel tacked on and merge with the rest 
 of the controls well. So, how about game modes, then? Most old modes make a return in some form: 
 There's Road to the Striker Cup, which lets you pick a captain and team as they fight their way 
 through three consecutive cups in order to become the best player there is. There's Domination 
 Mode, where you can play a quick one on one (Or two on two, three on one or two on one if you've 
 got friends over) match. Then there's Strikers ABC, where you can learn the game's controls. New 
 modes? There's Striker Challenges, where you pick one of the game's 12 captains and try to beat 
 their unique challenge, which can range from extremely easy (Mario and Luigi's challenges) to completely 
 insane and seemingly impossible (Yoshi and Diddy Kong's challenges) . Beating a challenge will unlock 
 a new cheat and a Character Card which features a piece of artwork of that character. Striker Challenges 
 are simple, short, optional challenges, comparable to Mission Mode in Mario Kart DS, and, if you 
 choose to complete them, they should help to sharpen your skills considerably. By far the biggest 
 new mode in this game is Wi-Fi Connection Mode. Mario Strikers Charged is being touted as the first 
 Wi-Fi game on the Wii in Europe and Australia (The first online Wii game is Pok&eacute; mon Battle 
 Revolution elsewhere, Japan already having it as of this writing) , and it certainly puts Wi-Fi 
 to great use. You are able to select one of the Miis stored in your Wii as your avatar in the game, 
 and it will be seen whenever somebody connects to you. Once online, you can choose to play Friendly 
 or Ranked matches. Friendly games have no impact on your score. Ranked matches, however, do. But 
 as most of you have experienced in Mario Kart DS, what with those horrid snakers and all, is people 
 disconnecting, causing you not to gain points and the disconnecter to lose points. No worries though, 
 as Next Level Games have found a way to remedy this! If your opponent disconnects, they will lose 
 5 points. You, however, will still gain a point for each goal you scored (Unfortunately, no extra 
 10 points for winning, but you can't win 'em all!) , for a maximum of 10 goal points. If you're 
 so bad (Or your opponent's so good) that you end the game without scoring a single goal, you will 
 still receive a single pity point. So unless you disconnect like a sore loser, you will never lose 
 points! So, what are these points for? Well, the game features leaderboards which you can look 
 at between matches. These are divided into three categories: Friendly, Daily and Seasonal. On the 
 Friendly leaderboards, you can see how you stack up to friends. On the Daily leaderboards, you 
 can see how you compare to other people who have been playing that day. On the Seasonal leaderboards, 
 you can see how you match up to other players this season . A season lasts one week (Monday to 
 monday) and thus gives you plenty of time to battle to the top. After the day/season is over, the 
 Daily/Seasonal leaderboards will be reset, so you can attempt to get to the top again. Another 
 nifty feature is that the Daily leader is shown in the Wi-Fi lobby as the Striker of the Day , 
 complete with name and picture of their Mii! So if you're good enough, the whole world can see 
 you. Wi-Fi has a few tiny flaws, however. When not playing against friends (I'll get to those in 
 a bit) , you can only play against people of your own skill level. This means that once you're ridiculously 
 good, it is no longer possible to run into really bad players, and thus it is no longer possible 
 to rake up the goals against weaklings. Another thing is that you can only play against players 
 around your own region when playing against strangers. No American, Australian and Japanese players 
 if you live in Europe, and of course vice versa. When playing against friends, you can only play 
 a Friendly game - No points are awarded for crushing your friends with an ungodly difference in 
 goals. However, a neat feature when playing with friends is that you can customise the game. When 
 playing against strangers, you can not pick the stadium (It is picked randomly) , the time limit 
 (Always 3 minutes) , the goal limit (Impossible against strangers) , activated cheats (Impossible 
 against strangers) , and AI Intelligence (Always 1 against strangers) . When you're playing against 
 friends, however, you can! This makes playing against friends a whole lot more fun. Also, you can 
 play against friends from all over the world, unlike Friendly/Ranked games. If you've got a friend 
 playing the game with you (In real life) , you can also choose to hit Wi-Fi together. If another 
 group of two people (Strangers) are playing, then you can do a 2 on 2 match on Wi-Fi as well. If 
 you're playing against friends on Wi-Fi, then it is possible to do the same as in Domination Mode 
 - 2 on 2, 3 on 1 or 2 on 1. The only setback to playing against friends on Wi-Fi is that Nintendo 
 chose once again to use their Friend Code system, however, for this game, the code is assigned 
 to the Mii you select. This COULD mean that your Mii will keep this code for other games, however, 
 I don't know this for sure, so don't chase me with pitchforks and torches if it turns out otherwise. 
 What is neat about friends is that you can look at their records anytime, and you can see where 
 they are - Busy (In a game) , Available (Not in a game) , or Not Connected (Not online at all) . Overall, 
 Wi-Fi Mode in this game is very neat - Next Level Games did a very good job with it, and besides 
 a few minor flaws, it is practically perfect. Did I mention it's virtually lag-free? Before each 
 match, you see your opponent's connection quality. As long as this is relatively good (3 or 4 stars 
 out of 4) , then there is no lag AT ALL. Pretty awesome. So, as I'm nearing the end of the review, 
 I'll discuss some minor other things now. A very nice addition to the game is that, at practically 
 ANY TIME, music is playing. In the original, during gameplay, you could hear nothing but the cheering 
 of the crowd. Here, however, each of the new stadiums has it's own theme music (The old stadiums 
 have no music as to preserve the feel of the original game) , which makes for a much more enjoyable 
 playing experience. Also, each captain and sidekick has his or her very own theme song which plays 
 when they score, which can range from awesome (Bowser's rock theme) , to nostalgic (Boo's merry-go-round 
 theme from Big Boo's Haunt in Super Mario 64) , to downright insanely hilarious (Waluigi's hillbilly 
 banjo music) ! All these theme songs give the game just that bit of character it needs. A thing 
 fans of the original will be pleased to hear is that all characters that were in the original game 
 have kept all of their animations - Yes, that means Waluigi can still do a crotch chop (But now 
 with his hilarious banjo music playing with it!) - but they've also gained a whole slew of new, 
 hilarious ones, and the new captains got some pretty funny animations as well. I mean, come on, 
 who doesn't want to see Petey Piranha limbo dancing while his sidekicks cheer him on and tropical 
 music plays? Overall, I feel Mario Strikers Charged improves upon the original game in every single 
 way. Single player features, multiplayer features, music, moves, characters, the way you unlock 
 stuff and game modes have all been improved immensely and the cheapness has been toned down considerably. 
 As such, I feel that this game is very much worthy of a perfect score. So, Next Level Games, here's 
 a 10, please make another Mario Strikers. I'll certainly buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaza-for-wii
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  A QUICK OVERLOOK: A game great for parties and hordes of drunk partiers but without a friend the 
 game really feels half done.
  
  THE GOOD: -great fun to be had -wide cast of characters to choose from -great graphics as far as 
 the wii goes -great multiplayer -great controls consider the lack of button options from time to 
 time on the wii -Goalkeeping minigames add alot of fun
  
  THE B AD: -storyline is too short and too challlenging -Motion controls aren't as responsive as 
 you would like -not much fun to be had with singleplayer -A create-your-own tournament would be 
 much apreciated and fun -Online play although ,a good feature, can sometimes be complicating! Overall 
 Rating:7.2
  
  Mario strikers charged is one of the first games released for the Wii and the first for online 
 play. It is also one of the first mario games for the Wii. It suprisingly adds depth to the game 
 that most people woudnt see. However, the tournament mode feels short and goes from Easy-Hard too 
 fast.
  
  The gameplay is fast and action packed. Its more than shooting, passing and tackling. It all starts 
 before the whistle. You pick your captian, and based on his skills, pick 3 sidekicks. You could support 
 his prominient skill ith players of the same attribute or balance the team out with ones completly 
 different. Certain Sidekicks have their special skills and shots. Some shots, although weak, sedate 
 the keeper into stopping for an open goal. Some go and sneak past the keeper, whilse some are very 
 powerful and some are just downright wacky!
  
  The tournament starts with the fire cup and you being a black hose. As you progress, you get news 
 updates and points. At the end, the most goals are awarded with the golden boot, and the least conceded 
 with the brick wall. The overall winner of the table faces the holder for the cup. Once you beat 
 him, its on to the crystal cup and so on with 1 more cup. This is very short and shallow and feels 
 like it insists more towards multiplayerness. Then theres the challenges, with stipulations and 
 situations, like a dazy keeper or a cup on the line. these are fun but with 12 feel like this is 
 a soccer knock of Wii sports, with Mario included.
  
  Overall, this game is not bad, but buy only hen you have min.3 mario/soccer crazed friends! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowie1979
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  All your favourite Mario characters crammed into a Speeball violence orientated football game. 
 What more could you ask for?
  
  On the surface this game has all the cards it needs. The controls are great, with a variety of 
 moves and skill sets for the different characters. You'll soon be arguing as to which characters 
 make up the ultimate team. There's plenty of unlockables to keep you going, and its got the Wii's 
 first fully-fledged online multiplayer which works great with very little connectivity issues. 
 The graphics on the whole are good, though the camera defaults to a height at which the details 
 soon become lost.
  
  But, there are some major negatives. Firstly the learning curve. You'll whizz through the first 
 cup no problem, once you've got to grips with the controls. Then the second cup? Woah! Things suddenly 
 just got very, very hard. This I could live with if it weren't for the fact that if you lose in 
 the quarter finals, semi's etc, you have to go right back to the play-offs again. This is just 
 fustrating as before long you'll be aceing through the play-offs and then get trounced every time 
 by Diddy Kong in the final. It's not even like you can get the practice in against Diddy as its 
 such a chore to get back there again. There is a work around that you can do to get round this, 
 by using an SD card, which I eventually had to use to save throwing the game out of the window.
 
  
  Okay, but what about the multi-player? This is generally more fun, but as with every online game 
 the player base is dominated by those who abuse certain powers and spam them, just to get a win, 
 rather than actually play a decent fun game. You can always join them and do the same, but where's 
 the fun in that?
  
  All in all a decent Wii game, just keep an eye on your blood pressure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metaldan85
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  After playing Mario strikers, on single player and multiplayer, i would say its a pretty good game 
 to play, more with the multiplayer though, as player single player it can be interesting and challenging 
 at some point, you do get a little fed up after awhile, as your going through the same thing again 
 and again, but with multiplayer i say its to be honest, multiplayer am going to have to say, is 
 really good, online or all of you on one console, either way its sort of unpredictable, when theres 
 4 of you, 2 on 2 it can be pretty good, against each other kicking each others ass, but when its 
 all four of you on one side against the AI, it gets really good, for if you really love video games 
 and you really are a Gamer, then you will know what am talking about when i talk about the adrenaline 
 rush you get when on a game, meaning you really excited and having a right laugh, and that you 
 get when playing 4 of you against AI, on the hardest setting, it just gets really fun, he he look 
 at me just talking bout the game play and multiplayer, right enough about that as you already get 
 the point, anyway about the controls, there are actually quite basic, easy to learn as learning 
 curve would be probably 20 minutes if that, depending how you are with catching on, not saying 
 any of you are thick... well... some, anyway yea as I said controls are pretty basic, you just got 
 to watch you dont throw the remote in a tantrum and knock someone out or break something, if its 
 someone on the opposite team, then thats ok, advantage for you. if you hit one of your own.... 
 then hit one of theres too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tupaschoal
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is one of the best soccer games I've ever played. You never played with 
 fun characters like these, in a game that everything is allowed and is not that same soccer game 
 that only improve its graphics. Besides it's boring presentations at the beginning of the match, 
 when you play a 2 vs 2, online or at your house with friends, you enjoy, laugh too much, cause 
 it turns in a complete mess and you have to create tactics to make a single goal, or to do a megashot. 
 The best point of this games is that it don't get boring and you can play it in different ways. 
 The Bad point is that beating computer in first cup is easy, in second cup is much difficult and 
 in third cup, I don't know if it's beat able, by the way you can enjoy by playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TWD98
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is a good single player game but an excellent multiplayer game. It also 
 has wifi which allows you to play other people around the world. Its mission mode also offers great 
 challenges for more advanced players and its striker 101 mode offers challenges for beginners. 
 The game has over 15 stadiums to play in and 20 characters which includes 12 captains and 8 sidekicks. 
 The way to unlock these characters and stadiums is by playing in the tournament mode where you 
 have to win the Fire, Crystal, and Striker cup to become the champion. The 3:00 games make Mario 
 Strikers Charged more intense then ever where anything can happen at any time. I recommend this 
 game to everyone who has a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  The original Super Mario Strikers was one of my favourite Mario sports games of all time, but Mario 
 Strikers Charged manages to surpass the original by adding alot more things to do.
  
  While the basic gameplay is similar to the original, there are alot of new things to take into 
 consideration. First, alot of the gameplay revolves around passing the ball around to your teammates, 
 which charges up the ball, making it change colour and ultimately shoot faster at the opponent's 
 net giving you a higher chance to score. Also, you can now choose your teammates, and the choice 
 of them isn't purely visual as in the original. Instead, each teammate that you choose (you can 
 choose up to 3) has unique stats that help you customize your team to the way YOU like to play. 
 For example, some characters have high speed but can't shoot as well, others are better at tackling 
 enemies, some are better at shooting, etc... So whether you choose to make a balanced team or to 
 stack all speed is entirely up to you.
  
  Also, one of the key differences between the GCN and Wii versions is the controls. For the most 
 part, the controls work very well on the Wii. I really can't think of anything off the top of my 
 head that didn't work or was poorly done by the Wiimote. While I still prefer the GCN controls 
 over the Wii controls, the Wii's control scheme definitely surpasses my expectations and work really 
 well for the game.
  
  Now while the single player could be over with fairly quickly unless you decide to tackle it on 
 multiple difficulty levels (it took me roughly... 6-9 hours on the default difficulty I think) , 
 and while there are some other single player modes to try out which are pretty fun, the main attraction 
 to this game is its online multiplayer mode. And believe me - it's a blast! I feel like Nintendo 
 really nailed online with this one. There is a scoring system and weekly leaderboards that really 
 add a sense of competition to the game. My only gripe is that there is no all time leaderboard 
 or something along those lines, the leaderboards simply reset every week, which is a shame but 
 is still fun.
  
  In terms of visuals and audio, MSC features great production values. The visuals are definitely 
 an upgrade from the original, and the game is just in general a good looking game. The audio is 
 great as well and at times pretty hilarious as the characters scream after being hit with a bomb 
 or chain chomp. Great graphics and sound overall.
  
  So in conclusion, should you buy this game? I would say yes definitely if you've got access to 
 online. It really is a great game and shouldn't be passed off as simply another Mario sports game 
 . It's lots of fun and will keep you playing for a long time. If you don't have access to online 
 and don'thave alot of people to play multiplayer with, then a simple rental would do, but overall 
 I definitely think that you should play this game. It's a fun game with alot of personality and 
 I thought it was great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eponique
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  -Online boosts longetivity, with leaderboards to boot.
  -Great multiplayer
  -Great Sequel, most problems in Super Mario Strikers, are addressed.
  
  The Bad:
  -The AI 
 is either too easy, or a mind-reader.
  -The game might not last long, depends if you're a leaderboards freak (like me xD)
  
  Mario 
 Strikers: Charged (Football) is the sequel to sleeper hit Super Mario Strikers on the Gamecube. 
 General improvements were made (improved graphics, extra content, more characters, online) though 
 some problems such as cheap AI and weak singleplayer experience remained. The goal in Mario Strikers, 
 like in most soccer games, is obviously, to score the most goals. This can be done in a number 
 of ways. You can charge up the ball, by passing it frequently, or holding down the B button until 
 the ball turns white, where then you can kick into the goal, by letting go of the B button, or 
 passing the charged ball to another player (on your team) by pressing A. The more charged your 
 ball is (you know this if it the colour around the ball is brighter) the more likely you are to 
 kick the ball into the goal. But having the ball fully charged doesn't always guarantee you a goal. 
 And that's the simple guide, but it goes much deeper than that. There are also superstrikes, items, 
 and your captain/team members have attributes and special skills.
  
  Gameplay: 9-
  
  Good fun, in multiplayer. The game is neither deep, nor shallow, but the game is really competitive 
 when you meet certain players online. There's also co-op.
  
  Graphics: 8-
  
  While, they do look great, they're nothing to shout about. Nothing that will make you go OMGZ TEH 
 JAGGIES!!! or OMG!!! PRETTIEST GAME EVARR!! THIS&gt; CRYSIS 
  
  Sound: 7-
  
  Some of the music makes you wanna rip your ears out, you will hum others.
  
  Replayability: 
 8-
  
  Online boosts replayability a lot. Also, if you are crazy for leaderboards, this game is for you, 
 it's very competitive online, with different people with all different styles of playing.
  
  Content 8-
  
  It's got the triforce of content: Singleplayer, multiplayer and online. But 
 the singeplayer doesn't have anything worth mentioning, and the online is great, but it's only 
 regional, playing anyone outside your continent, and your game will be laggy to a point it may 
 be unplayable.
  
  -Real Score: 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteel13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Mario, Luigi, Wario, Yohi are back with there exciting gang tagling along. The thing that inspired 
 me to buy this game was it is Action game, has got Soccer in it and the Mario gang, i have given 
 a high rated score for this game and now i will tell you why. The graphics on this game is not all 
 that which let this game down but still cool for the Wii, the controls are very easy to use which 
 is good for young people and simple also it suits the game so much. The Game is quite easy to understand 
 all you have to do is win all of the matches untill the last match where you fight for the CUP, 
 so now you know why i have rated this game so high. i HOPE THAT MARIO STRIKER 2 COMES OUT AND SOON 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is an action packed, fun, and challenging game. It is the sequel to the 
 gamecube Strikers and it has surpassed it. This game has modes and levels for everyone. There is 
 a strikers cup where you play different teams and the last team standing gets the cup. The most 
 exciting of all (and the most challenging) is the online play. You are matched up from tons of 
 different people online and play them in a 3 round match. There is also an online leaderboard where 
 you are ranked out of everybody online. It's great fun. There really aren't any flaws with this 
 game. It supports 4 players at a time, it has online play, it never gets old, it has different 
 difficulties (so you are never wining all the time) , there is a great character list, and it has 
 a genuine mario feel. Two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiseWarrior101
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I don't really care for soccer, but I decided to take a chance by getting Super Mario Strikers. 
 It was tons of fun, and while I still don't like real soccer any more, I was very addicted to that 
 game. After hearing that Mario Strikers Charged would have WiFi, I knew that it would be a must 
 buy. Charged it a vast improvement over it predecessor with better graphics, gameplay, and lots 
 more fun. The first thing you'll probably want to do is jump online, but as I learned that isn't 
 a good idea. While I may be able to beat people like [wt] Bug on a consistant basis now, it takes 
 lots of practice before you should expect to be elite online. For players who are new, Mario Strikers 
 Charged offers a practice mode where you can master the basics of the game. After this it's a good 
 idea to go do the main 1 player mode-Road To The Striker Cup. The road is a lot more difficult 
 than in the first Strikers, so it'll really help you to brush up on your skills. Unfortunately, 
 it does not last that long, so if you don't have WiFi you miss out on a lot. Basically RTTSK has 
 a set number of games to each cup (Fire, Crystal and Striker) which you must play, and then the 
 top players to into a single elimination game which if you win you get to challenge to the cup 
 champ. Overall a lot of fun, but not to lengthy. Other than that, there are a few other modes which 
 might catch your interest. The trophy room, which holds your spoils of victory; Challenge Mode, 
 which has a task for each individual player, and a few more. MSC has not really taken a step up 
 for single player, so like I said before, if you don't have WiFi you miss out on a lot. As I've 
 said a lot, WiFi is the meat of this game, and it's very addictive. You have two choices when you 
 first connect-Friendly Match or Domination Draft, the first pits you against your friends which 
 you have registered via Friend Code, while the latter allows you to play people all over the world. 
 The matches here are random, so you could go against someone to houses away, or two countries away. 
 The online leaderboard-which shows the top players based on points- works very well, though you 
 sometimes see people with records like 52-41 ahead of people with 30-2 records simply because they've 
 played more. So a leaderboard based on wins would have been a nice addition. Now this is what makes 
 the game so fun-the many things you can do to play. You have 12 captains and 8 sidekicks, and can 
 choose any combination, unlike SMS, which you could only have three of one type. Each character 
 has unique stats and their own cool moves. To do good at this game you must fully utilize each 
 characters special talent. Charged also allows all kinds of tricks-such as the Belgium Waffle, 
 Serve-It-In, and many others, which while they can be difficult to pull off, are very rewarding. 
 Overall Mario Strikers Charged is a great game for the whole family to enjoy, with its great multi-player, 
 and fun modes. I highly suggest buying this gem. Scores: (Not an average) Gameplay: 9/10 WiFi: 
 9.5/10 Single Player: 7.5/10 Graphics: 8/10 Stadium Graphics: 8/10 Character Graphics: 8/10 Sound: 
 8.5/10 In-Game Music: 9/10 Menu Music: 6/10 Replayability: 10/10 WiFi, Multi-Player: 10/10 Single 
 Player: 8.5/10 Fun: 10/10 Overall: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendomania
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  When you first start up Mario Strikers Charged, you'll obviously notice this is no normal soccer 
 game. Chain Chomps, Bombs, flying cows, and fireballs are just some of the pandemonium going on 
 in this nonstop soccer match. You first start out by choosing a captain, each having their own 
 special abilities. Mario grows to an enormous size and flattens every other enemy, Donkey Kong 
 slams the ground sending enemys in the range of his attack flying, and wario well lets just say 
 he has gas... and it must be bad because it completely messes up everyone in range of the um toxic 
 smell. Besides the main characters you can choose sidekicks like shy guy, hammer bros., monty mole, 
 and many more. If you played the original you might notice that the sidekicks got a little upgrade 
 each having there own special shot. Shy guys special shot is him jumping on a bullet bill and flying 
 at the goalie and blowing up the goalie stunning him for a couple seconds. Besides the sidekicks 
 each captain can do a mega strike which if you time right will let you shoot up to six shots at 
 once. If your the defending team you'll go into first person view of the goalie and use your wii 
 remote to aim and stop the balls flying at you. Also besides one player you can take the game online 
 and battle around the world. The only hastle with this is you must do games out of three matches 
 and if you have friends, youll have to enter each others MARIO STRIKIERS CHARGED friend code not 
 the WII's which isn't a big hastle but still rather annoying. The online games are intense and 
 rarely will you ever have any lag making this game a must have for the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeisaniceguy
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 23, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  I was begging my mom to get this game for two weeks straight but once i got it and actually started 
 to play I started to think that this was the biggest disappointment in my whole entire life. Like 
 when I was through half of the way done when you have to defeat Diddy Kong it is almost impossible 
 to touch the ball because all your doing is tackling and using your little items which I think 
 don't make the game even better. I was so pissed off when I was winning most of it until gay little 
 Diddy Kong comes out of nowhere and scores like fifty goals. So over all I think this game was 
 a huge disappointment. And for all you soccer players out there this game has nothing to do with 
 soccer except for kicking the ball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darnydb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Mario, Luigi, Bowser, DK... they're all here. Hammer Brother, Dry Bones, Shy Guy, Boo, they're along 
 for the ride too! Soccer fans rejoice... Mario Strikers Charged is a fantastic soccer game for the 
 Wii.
  
  The best thing about this game is it's use of the Wii controls. I've tried about 30 wii games so 
 far and this one uses the wii remote sparingly, and perfectly, the best combination. Shake the 
 nunchuck to tackle. Block shots by pointing and clicking against the clock. The controls actually 
 work in this title, and the game by no means relies on intricate maneuvers that never seem to work.
 
  
  The mayhem is my second favorite thing about this game. From lava pools to tumbling cows, to shells 
 and bananas... they're always something crazy going on in the field! Each character has their own 
 special power ups and moves, and each field has its own quirks. I guess the only things that hold 
 this one back is its repetitiveness... I've only played it for about a few hours. I'm not bored 
 yet by any means, but I'm not sure how long this is going to last for me. I finished the fire cup 
 with ease, I hope it gets harder.
  
  AWESOME. BUY. NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSmashX_202
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged for Wii is a game you'll enjoy for a long time. Some say its great some 
 say it stinks. Personally this is one game that can't be judged because of its difficulty. Being 
 the second wi-fi game for wii and first spots wi-fi game it should have a better score. So get 
 on your armor and get ready for some impressive moves with Mario Strikers Charged.
  
  Mario Strikers Charged (MSC) is the sequel to the game cube game Super Mario Strikers. There's 
 new sidekicks, new captains, and new ways to play.
  The controls are easy to use but hard to master. A button to pass, B button to make a shot into 
 the goal, and just a shake of the wii remote to tackle. Sure these controls (and more) are easy 
 but when doing matches its hard to use all with great skill. Sidekicks also have changed. They 
 are able to use new abilities like jumping in the air (toad) and and to move players around ( hammer 
 bro) . Lets not forget about the power ups. These can be obtained by trying to make goals or if 
 you get hit by the other team . You still get the usual chain chop or star if your losing. Now 
 there a new power up which only affects captains. Each power makes the captains do different things 
 like grow big (Mario and Luigi) and even have uncontrollable gas! (Wario) . Captains and sidekick 
 shots to have been changed. Sidekicks can preform there special shots if you hold down the B button 
 long enough. Whats new for the captains is there new special shot called mega strike. This shot 
 allows the team to get up to 6 goals in one shot allowing the game to change very quickly. Game 
 modes like cups still play the same but there a lot more matches to do and if you in the elimination 
 rounds and you lose you have to start over again in the begging of the cup series. This is the 
 only dislike I have with Mario Strikers Charged.
  
  What really makes this game a great game is its multi player. You can do a match with your friend 
 or family member or go on Nintendo wi-fi connection and face anyone in your part of the world. 
 If your have a friend who lives far away and has wi-fi then add them to you friends list. Just 
 type in the friend code ( a set of numbers that protects little kids form adults) and as long your 
 friend has yours, you can go on wi-fi and fight anytime. If you don't got any friends you can always 
 battle anyone randomly. It keeps track for you wins and losses. It also has a ranking system. If 
 you keep on wining you can become striker of the day were your mii and name are posted though out 
 the day.
  
  All and all Mario Strikers Charged for wii is game with many great ways to play. It might have 
 a few bumps but that doesn't mean than its a bad game. Hard the game is, but with some practice 
 and some time your'll be playing this game for hours in no time. You might want to get some extra 
 armor pads because Mario Strikers Charged for wii is tougher thats it looks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raza3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  It's easy to imagine why Mario Strikers came to be. There's a GameCube prequel for a start but 
 on a deeper level, we know that Japan loves football almost as much as Britain. Japan also loves 
 Mario and the combination is a match made in, well, Shigeru Miyamoto's liver spotted super brain. 
 But then this isn't a game made in Japan, it's made in Vancouver - a short drive away from FIFA 
 developers EA, where team FIFA are working on perfecting David Beckham's new hairdo and debating 
 on how much Wayne Rooney's bottom lip should wobble when things really kick off. Next Level Games 
 have no restrictions of realism to hold back Mario Strikers from becoming the strangest take on 
 the beautiful game we've ever seen. Forget ball physics, just ask yourself how do you make a save 
 while a giant turtle shell is heading towards your testicles. It's a question Barthez never had 
 to seriously consider outside of his surreal nightmares but here, it's all part of the fun and 
 strategy of playing football with the plumbers and the princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dj-Dark-1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  Ok Mario Strikers Football is a good game iss you have never played it, it takes a while to get 
 used to the controls but otherwise very fun to play friends.
  Once you actually do the career on Mario Strikers this is where it starts to get annoying, You 
 Have to chose one main player and three sidekicks for your team. Then you compete in 3 Cups Fire 
 Cup , Crystal Cup , Striker Cup if you lose a cup then you have to start from the beginning of 
 that cup again. And if you do not like your team, you have to start all 3 cups over again.
  This is annoying because i got to the 3rd cup and wanted to changed my team and i had to start 
 over again
  Another Thing i hate about this game is the Difficulty, I Mean the first cup was easy then the 
 second one was very had it took me a couple of goes to beat it and the 3rd one is just to hard 
 i end up losing every game.
  Wi-Fi is a another feature of this game, it was the first wii game with it but the problem is you 
 never get a very good connection and the people on Wi-Fi are well too hard even for beginners,.
 
  Thanks For Reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Overall a reasonably fun game that you could probably whip out when a friend comes over, though 
 I don't see it being much fun as a singly player game; which consists of playing through a series 
 of cups in order to win El Cup Gigante or its equivalent. You may find that the first time that 
 the game cheaps out and makes you lose the cup after all those games (causing you to have to start 
 from the beginning) , might be its last. It was for me.
  
  It's a good thing then, that you can hop online and have a quick game if you feel like it, right? 
 Well, yea it would be... if you didn't have to go through the whole Friend Code process. I should 
 speak so quickly... you CAN opt to join a ranked game against a random opponent; I just hate friend 
 codes...
  
  Once you get online you'll find a slew of people who quit when they start losing, spam the same 
 cheap move over and over, or both. There really was nothing to the online multiplayer, it felt 
 as if it needed to be fleshed out further. Also, once you learn what the computer doesn't defend 
 properly against, the game just becomes a dance of doing the same moves over and over again.
  
  Basically you have the opportunity to customize your team with a list of players each with 
 pros and cons. Some have great power moves while others might have slick defensive ones. It boils 
 down to you picking your favorite, and then never playing anything different.
  
  You also of course get to choose our captain, which is most likely based on whichever special move 
 you like the most. Each captain's special goal scoring move is neat... the first time you see it.
 
  
  You have no control over your goalie other than when a caption does his super move... you then assume 
 the role of the goaltender and try and stop the barrage of balls from getting into your net, or 
 when he gets position and you get to pass it to whoever...
  
  The graphics are good, nothing spectacular but nothing ugly.
  
  The sound is annoying.
  
 
  The controls where pretty good, allowing you to shake your nunchuck to perform a hit on an opponent. 
 The gameplay is descent but lacks staying power... there just ins't anything to keep you interested 
 for an extended period of time. Ultimately it ends up feeling like this release could easily be 
 hockey or something similar instead; there is nothing that really screams soccer! about this game.
 
  
  So my suggestion is that if anything, you grab a pre owned copy or better yet,... rent it first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiwillstand
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is the sequel to the best-selling Gamecube game "Super Mario Strikers", 
 and it proves to be the superior.
  
  MSC takes advantage of the Wii controls in a number of ways. Flick your Wii Remote to tackle an 
 opponent. Wave the nunchuk to interfere with someone's Megastrike meter. Use the Wii Remote to 
 block Megastrike balls from entering your net. It's all here!
  
  There are a number of ways to play:
  
  Domination Draft: Play against the computer, or friends 
 and family in a fully customizable versus match (including unlockable cheats) .
  
  Road to the Striker Cup: Battle your way through three cups to earn the Striker Cup!
  
  Striker 
 Challenges: Complete multiple challenges to unlock cheats and character cards.
  
  Strikers 101: Learn the basics to Mario Strikers Charged!
  
  Wi-Fi Central: Battle Online in 
 Ranked, or Friendly Matches.
  
  MSC offers many Team Captains to choose from, along with a number of sidekicks. With skills shots, 
 dekes, and more, each character is unique in a certain way. You can play at 5 different difficulties, 
 and in multiple arenas. Mario Strikers Charged has it all!
  
  So whether you're a fan of soccer, Nintendo, or Mario, this game is for you! Mario Strikers Charged 
 is one game no gamer should miss out on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonboyohyeah
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  pros- well theres a lot of characters and has a really good fell to it.
  the game has an excelent online p; ay which you can move up ladder tables
  or just paly for pure 
 fun. alright graphics
  
  cons- it would be cool if it had charitors and sonic as well, a bit like the olympics from nintendo 
 and gaming greats
  with some leuge action as well to win. graphics could be improved
  could also have some mini games and more ways to play the game and you could have a lounge like 
 fifa.
  
  all in all not a bad idea and not a bad try but the game could be improved but a good game for 
 the wii no less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkatanWarrior
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  In a lot of games I've found myself blaming the AI for my losses, and calling them cheap . Strikers 
 charged is one of the only games where you can absolutely blame the AI for being cheap.
  
  The game goes from too easy, to ridiculously hard in one cup/challenge. To the point where you're 
 first scoring 15 goals against the opponent, and then having absolutely no chance at scoring whatsoever, 
 to the point that the game is no longer fun.
  
  I bought this game mainly because a lot of my friends had it, and wanted to play multiplayer, which 
 is just about all this game is good for. The single player cup, and challenges are bland, and cheap. 
 The graphics are nothing to shout about, the gameplay gets repetitive after about an hour, and 
 the AI makes the game frustrating beyond belief.
  
  Rent this game, play it for a few hours, try some multiplayer. DON'T BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanden626
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Well, all I can tell you is to NOT TRUST GAMESPOT!! They don't know what they're doing, giving 
 this game a 7.5! It's great! Okay, first off is single player. Now Nintendo probably could've gotten 
 away with just making a 1 on 1 Domination mode and a Wifi ability, but they didn't. They made a 
 Road to Striker Cup mode (really long) , Domination mode (whoever you want, whatever stage you want, 
 whatever rules you want) , Stiker Challenge Mode (helps you get better) and Wifi. All of this makes 
 this game worth every penny you spend on it. Also, this has to be clear: THIS ISN'T A SOCCER GAME. 
 There's two goals and a metal sphere, other than that this game is insane! There's Chain Chomps 
 running wild, players getting thrown into the electrified fences on the sidelines, and most every 
 stage has something special about it ( Lava bubbling out of the ground, cows flying across smashing 
 players off, electric storms, etc.) Sometimes it's hard to tell what's going on, but it's still 
 great. The main attraction is Wifi. Although there's occasionally lag, Wifi is insanely fun. It's 
 very satisfying to play human opponents even though you can't talk. It does suck when you play 
 someone who's played the game so much that they run circles around you. Also it kinda sucks that 
 you lose your points every week when the season's over. It's great though. Well, what are you waiting 
 for? Get off your butt, go to the store, pony up the cash for this game, and have fun! I'll see 
 you on the field. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Gingersnaps
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is the bomb!!! the single player is really fun but the mutiplayer it is one of the best 
 sports game mutiplayer ever. the game is simple attack people and then score. you can pick from 
 a number of mario characters including petey the plant thing. then you pick sidekicks rangeing 
 from shyguy to hammer bros. and every one has there special moves and shots. thyen there is the 
 megastrikes thats the down piont of the game. the team caption can do shots that score more then 
 one single piont it seames cool, but, it gets old fast then you want to strangle your little brother 
 if you have opne if you don't then your cat (i have had six different cats since i got it ,JK)
 
  The Ai is good but later in the game it cheats and scores impossible goals then you lose **** 
 You Donkey Kong!!! there are challenges that you do to unlock cheats to use in play now mode. Then 
 there is WiFi mode the best feature of all i works great then sometimes it gets very slow but overall 
 the games seem good. Well if you have a wii then go to wamart and get this game right this second 
 go ahead go. Run Forest Run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyguy101
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  It's multiplayer is perfect, and how you can choose to play to a certain amount of goals makes 
 it oh so better. Awesome online, that's all I can say. The only real problem is the screwed up 
 story mode. It's either WAY too easy, or so hard you get so pissed you wanna hit somebody. And 
 the fact you have to do EVERY tournament all over again if you want to use a new team is insane. 
 Overall, a great game that will just get you a lot of effort to beat the strikers cup. Oh ya, and 
 friend codes aren't as bad as they seem, it gives you hell a lot of privacy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged
  I've played the first one and it was really cool. The story could be play solo, multiplayer, no 
 online but the multiplayer mode was awesome.
  In this sequel, the story is still fun but cannot be play in multiplayer. The multiplayer mode 
 is better tahn the first and there's now a online mode.
  
  The story mode is fun because you get better and better but I think I've had more fun doing the 
 first Strikers story. You can still unlock more arenas and caracters (only three caracters but 
 lots of arenas) and it can only be play in solo. The versus mode and ONline mode are very cool. 
 It's in those modes that you'll have the most of fun in the game. In the online mode you'll have 
 to beat someone for having points. For having points you have to beat two ties on three your opponent 
 and the versus mode is quite the same than the first Strikers.
  Whats new in the game is that you can do some ''BIG'' shot. Bigger than the first one. WHen you 
 charge you ball, you'll have a mini-cutscene that shows you your leader (Mario, Luigi, etc.) and you'll 
 have a limited amount of shot and the other player must stop them by moving the wii remote. Each 
 leader has is own. You can know choose your teamates (Toad, Boo, etc. Even beavers!!!) . Each teamates 
 has there own ablities (defend, pass, shooting) .
  And each leader has there own special item that they can use for do a goal (ex: mario becomes Super 
 Mario, Luigi becomes Super Luigi.)
  
  So that's it! I hope you've enjoy my review and thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EndlessGame
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is yet another strong addition to the large roster of Mario sports games. 
 Wielding sharp visuals, and a very in-your-face attitude, the game presents itself very well. The 
 graphics are clean, immediately throwing some of the best it has at you in its opening cinematic, 
 an epic series of soccer matches shown in glorious detail via CG movie.
  
  While playing, the game moves fluidly, with no noticeable frame-rate issues or unwieldy visual 
 quirks. The controls take some getting used to, especially if youre accustomed to the traditional 
 gamepad, but once youve gotten the hang of it, they flow seamlessly. Every button on the Wii remote 
 serves some sort of purpose, and combinations between the multitudes of different functions can 
 result in a large range of playing styles.
  
  The games mechanics have improved greatly from its predecessor, with the items now playing a more 
 integrated role in playing and also the additions of new special shots for every character, including 
 sidekicks rather than the team captain-only specials of the previous game. The subtle usage of 
 the Wii remotes motion sensor makes use of the Wiis unique capabilities without interfering with 
 elements of the game itself.
  
  Mega-strikes, special shots on the goal that can only be performed by your team captain, are an 
 essential part of the game that have been changed greatly from the previous installment. Rather 
 than a single powerful shot towards the goalie, a series of shots are fired, varying in number 
 and speed depending on how well your b button combos went for setting up the strike. Yet another 
 of the Wii remotes capabilities is put into use here, where the defending goalie must catch incoming 
 shots on the goal via a pair of gloves projected onto the screen where the Wii remote is pointed.
 
  
  The seemingly complete abandonment of the traditional rules of soccer functions very well, especially 
 when compared to the other serious soccer simulators currently on the market. Being able to shoulder 
 ram your opponent into an electric fence just as you steal the ball, following that up with a red 
 turtle shell into their last defender, and finally a shot straight into the back of the net is 
 very satisfying.
  
  In the area of difficulty, Mario Strikers Charged hasnt fallen into the increasingly worrying 
 too easy level of a rather large number of Wii games lately. It is reasonably challenging, but 
 not overly-frustrating, maintaining a fair balance while at the same time making sure there is 
 a decent amount of skill involved in winning your way to the top.
  
  The soundtrack is a very fitting mix of music, and greatly adds to the immersive feeling of the 
 whole game. The various sorts of rock music, especially noticeable during the team captains entry 
 cinematics, are entertaining to listen to.
  
  The online mode, despite this being one of the Wiis first ever foray into the field, works very 
 well. The connections are rated before the match starts, and are given a score which reliably predicts 
 the quality of the match in terms of lag. Such a fast-paced game would be easily ruined by delays 
 through internet connections, but well-rated connections play perfectly with the small exception 
 of saving mega-strikes, which can be slightly thrown off target in online matches, causing some 
 rather frustrating points to be scored against you. However the lack of voice chat feels rather 
 restrictive if youre used to other online gaming interfaces.
  
  Overall a vast improvement over the original, and a very promising early online game for the Nintendo 
 Wii, hopefully heralding many more good things to come from internet-based gaming on Nintendos 
 console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - The shooting , passing , and specials all flow together nicley. Although you can use 
 your special that makes you watch a cutscene in the middle of the game : more than often - it makes 
 up for it with a mini game where you must block the balls yourself : aiming with the wii-mote. 
 Graphics - As a first party game it uses the classic gamecube polished/shiny look that still looks 
 great. Length - There actually is online multiplayer support for this game , although there is 
 no communication with the other player (i have not yet played the multiplayer so i'm not sure how 
 laggy it is) . Also , you can have up to 4 players on one Wii in a game. Good Tilt - one of the 
 few multiplayer games on wii (maybe the only?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- Awesome soccer with no penalties! Hit as much as ya want! Anyway the new features are 
 the fact you can charge the ball so it becomes more powerful thus making it easier to score.... but, 
 it seems the goalies defense has been turned up as well because it takes some crazy maneuvers to 
 score against those crocodiles. The new and improved Megastrike is here so you can get a max of 
 scoring 6 points at once, if your opponent doesn't stop them that is. They have also included that 
 some fields have special terrains that can knock your team out of commission or shock electrocute 
 them.
  
  Visuals- The opening cutscene is beautiful. The fire effects and when you do a super strike looks 
 amazing as well.
  
  Sound- One thing that can't be over looked is the some what mediocre soundtrack that is pleasing 
 but, it is forgiving on some playing fields
  
  Overall- If you can look past the insane difficulty later in the game, you can learn to love this 
 game 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giratina667
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  This game is quite possibly the most violent Mario game ever.
  
  Graphics: Clean and simple, there are a few nice touches in the stadium detail, like sewage flowing 
 into the game.
  
  Sound: Hilarious, the screams and smashes will keep you in stiches, and there's also thunder, explosions, slips 
 and the cheer of the crowd, definately one of the better components. Music however is nearly nonexistent 
 except for the snappy menu themes.
  
  Gameplay: the game's salvation and downfall, the game encourages you to play dirty and do whatever 
 it takes to get to the goal, which makes for interesting and surprisingly strategic matches. The 
 AI however is on to those tricks, and is brutal, which makes it frustrating unfortunately, you can 
 use dekes, items, tackles and the stadium itself to get the upper hand. The game uses a fairly traditional 
 control scheme save for doing tackles with the Wiimote. Overall it's fun but the difficulty will 
 frustrate many.
  
  Value: good as long as you have freinds.
  
  Overall the games strength outweighs it's weaknesses, a good multiplayer game to introduce your 
 freinds to to the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madmangamer364
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  In 2005, Nintendo and Next Level Games would release the last of the Mario sports games for the 
 Nintendo GameCube, Super Mario Strikers. While the soccer-based game would provide its moments, 
 it just seemed to lacked some of the elements that the Mushroom Kingdoms other sporting events 
 had in good supply. However, the game showed the same potential as the other games, and it was 
 only a matter of time before some of it was shown. That moment has come with Mario Strikers Charged 
 for the Nintendo Wii.
  
  First things first: Mario Strikers Charged, developed once again by Next Level Games, hardly feels 
 like a soccer game at all once you get into it. This is probably not the game youd want to pick 
 up for a more realistic experience on the pitch. However, you probably already knew that if youve 
 compared any of Marios sporting games with any realistic game based off the same sport. To be 
 honest, unless youre a hardcore fan of the real-life game (good luck finding one in the US) , chances 
 are that you wont care about this somewhat important nugget of information.
  
  Much like its predecessor, Mario Strikers Charged puts two teams with five players on each side 
 (that would include that goalie) against each other in a no-holds barred contest. However, its 
 important to know that this is about the only thing that the two games have completely in common 
 with each other. By comparison, even the chaos that can take place in the original Strikers (and 
 there was plenty of it in heated contests) has nothing to what Charged has in store for anyone 
 thinking they might have an advantage coming in. This is largely due to what Next Level Games have 
 done to make the game feel more Mario-like.
  
  In the original Strikers, while you had multiple characters to choose from, they all played very 
 much the same. This is not the case in Mario Strikers Charged, as more has been focused on making 
 sure each character specializes in certain aspects in the game. From a captain standpoint, not 
 only are the stats noticeably different, but each character now has a special item that only that 
 character can use on the field. From Yoshi turning every one to pancakes with a giant egg to Wario 
 passing gas on the field, it makes your decision to choose a captain more meaningful.
  
  Making just as much of an impact to the character developments, if not more, are the secondary 
 players that are involved in this game. In the first game, you were only able to have a group of 
 a certain character of choice. In Charged, youre now able to mix and match from a slightly larger 
 group of characters that have also been given specific stats and specialties. To add to this, even 
 these players have been given special shots and skills that only makes the experience more chaotic, 
 strategic, and enjoyable.
  
  As if making the players more unique wasnt enough, Mario Strikers Charged also decided to redecorate 
 the games various arenas. Much like the characters, the stages are now designed to be unique and 
 more active. In fact, some might say that a few of the fields are too active when you have to 
 consider that you do need to score to win a game. From being blown off of the stage because you 
 were hit by a flying cow to random lightning bolts shocking anyone that was near the ball, things 
 can get quite hectic at times in this game. Oh, and did I mention that the items from the last 
 game still exist?
  
  Last, but not least, is another gameplay change from the two games: The hit-or-miss 2 point Super 
 Strike has now been replaced by an even more dangerous scoring weapon. Only capable of being performed 
 by the captains, the Mega Strike now allows you to put three to six points on the board faster 
 than it takes to get popcorn in the stands. To counter this, the opposing player now has the power 
 to stop this assault. By pointing the Wii remote at the screen (wow... first time the controls 
 have even been mentioned for this Wii title) , you can try to stop the balls that fly by with the 
 goalies hands.
  
  From a depth standpoint, Mario Strikers Charged does offer a nice supply of modes to choose from. 
 The Vs. Mode offers players to jump right into a game or series of games, regardless of how many 
 people are playing. It seems as though Next Level Games designed this game with the idea that all 
 contests should be brief, so the longest a game can be is five minutes. Its not that big of a 
 deal, but being a person that enjoyed those 15 minute beatdowns in the original Strikers, it is 
 a bit of a bummer. If that wasnt enough, this is one of the Wiis first online titles, which means 
 theres a good deal of replay value (sadly, this review cant say too much about the online mode, 
 though) .
  
  In the single player department, Charged offers a couple of solid modes.
  The main single player mode has you creating a team trying to win the various cups. By doing so, 
 youll also unlock a few characters and stages. The only bad thing about this mode is the fact 
 that you cant change teams once you beat a cup, and considering that youll be playing a ton of 
 games before this is over, this is a bummer. The game also features a Challenge Mode that will 
 have you doing things from winning in sudden death to winning by a certain number of goals and 
 even shutting teams out. Its not easy, but taking on these tasks dont come without rewards.
 
  
  In terms of production values, MSC really doesnt take that much of a leap from the original. Thats 
 not to say the game looks or sounds bad (in fact, the game looks rather nice in 480p) , its not 
 the game youre looking for if you want to see what the Wii is capable of. Actually, the game has 
 recycled a lot of things from the original Strikers, including animations and taunts. Graphics 
 and sounds have to be given the benefit of the doubt, considering the fact the developer probably 
 wasnt in the best position to make such improvements at the time of development.
  
  As far as bang for the buck goes, Mario Strikers Charged is a decent, if not solid, package. Granted, 
 a few minigames could have given a few more things to do here and there, but it isnt as if there 
 arent enough minigame complications out there already to serve those needs. The main game alone 
 can be an absolute blast at times, especially with multiple people around to enjoy it. And while 
 it doesnt exactly match Mario Superstar Baseballs large roster, the nice variety of characters 
 mean that youll be mixing and matching for a good while, which will probably help when you take 
 the game online.
  
  Overall, Marios second outing on the pitch is worth a look, even if you thought the first game 
 could have been better. Those that loved the first Strikers and are looking for more Mario goodness 
 this time around should probably pick this game up really soon. As for everyone else, perhaps its 
 best to try and rent first before putting in such an investment. As of this moment, Mario Strikers 
 Charged is one of the better Wii titles available, particularly in the multiplayer department. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkthemaniac
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  There aren't many ways to describe Mario sports games. They're always zany, and always more addictive 
 than other sports games. This is no different with Mario Strikers: Charged, but this game, while 
 fun at times, has flaws that can't be unnoticed, and they take away from the entire game.
  
  Basically, the gameplay is something that I call "Sochey," which is pronounced "sockey." I 
 call it this since although the goal is large and there is a ball involved, the game resembles 
 hockey moreso than soccer: just as brutal and punishing. Your goal is to get the ball in the goal 
 (as with any other soccer or hockey game) . The catch is the variety of ways you can score and prevent 
 your enemies from scoring. Special skillshots and certain powerups are what make this game apart 
 from all other sports games. You can shoot a ball that is caught on fire, or shoot frozen shells 
 at the enemy to freeze them in place. It's all very wacky, but in a very good way. There's nothing 
 wrong here.
  
  While playing against the computer is where you may see the games initial flaw. Not only does your 
 goalie seem to be worse as the difficulty gets higher (which is pretty lame) , the enemy uses incredibly 
 cheap tactics to get the ball in the goal, which gets really aggravating, really fast. This problem 
 doesn't melt away in the online multiplayer, either. You're entire success relies upon how good 
 your goalie is. You may be able to outplay your goalie and win the game anyways, but it's rare. 
 Also, as time goes on the tactics of the online folks get cheaper and cheaper. However, when the 
 goalies are evenly good or evenly bad, and there's no cheap trickery afoot, the game is a blast 
 to play, and is possibly as good as the top dogs of the other systems (Gears of War and Rainbow 
 Six, and, more recently, Halo 3) . These games are rare, and a vast majority of the games you will 
 play are completely one-sided. Also, better matchmaking systems would have helped. You will play 
 against people much better than you alot of the time, and it's very hard to improve under such 
 conditions. 
  
  As far as single player goes, this one doesn't have alot, and while some games online will be a 
 blast to play, many aren't. However, those gems of online greatness make some of the most fun you 
 can have not only on Nintendo Wifi, but on all consoles. I recommend it to those who are interested 
 in a wacky take on soccer and have access to Wii online, and those who have a great deal of patience 
 for the really fun games. Others might want to rent it and see, but you may end up hating the game 
 very, very quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gardevoir_1993
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  The Good: WAAAY better gameplay, characters have their traits, captain power-ups, stadium quirks
 
  
  The Bad: Wii remote can complicate things, Megastrike game sucks
  
  Full Review: The game sounded so good, but so did its predecessor, but unlike its predecessor, 
 this game RULES!! the gameplay is WAAAY better. Well, it should have been anyway, but we shouldn't 
 dwell on that. The character traits are great, meaning you actually need to make competitive choices 
 rather than plumping for your favourite. The Stadiums have quirks so its not boring, realistic 
 football with Mario characters. However, the Wii Remote is unnecessary. This could have been GCN 
 controlled easily, and the Megastrike game SUCKS!!! But that aside, the game still ROCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged isn't that bad. It's one of the best sports games ever! The music is much 
 better than the original, as well as groundbreaking sound and additional features. The game-play 
 was solid! Bowser can play, anybody can play. You can even score up to six goals at once! if you've 
 played Mario before, you'd know this game too. Buy it, play it, and enjoy it, because it's an awesome 
 game for Mario fans alike! Charged is awesome, but it's also super! Just buy it and if you don't 
 like it, what are you in the peoples minds? You'd probably be playing Big rigs or another retarded 
 game nobody likes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tundrokai
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Mario steps onto the soccer field yet again in this recent installment of the Mario Strikers series. 
 Being a sequel to the enjoyable soccer slash brawler on the Game Cube this game definitely decided 
 to up the later. This installment has more weapons and more special shots than before, which creates 
 for an easy to pick up and interesting game. That being said thou this game can become quite hectic 
 at times with the insanely difficult AI and the copious amounts of shells being thrown around. 
 However if you can get past the crazy outer shell there is a really fun and competitive multiplayer 
 to be found. This game like its predecessor allows you to pick both captains and sidekicks. But 
 this time the captains are more diverse with individual specialties that rarely overlap and special 
 power ups that can really shake up the game. These powers range from Marios trademarked ability 
 to grow into a giant to Princess Peachs new ability to freeze nearly half the field and immobilize 
 her opponents as she prepares a Super Strike. These unique powers add a new level of craziness 
 as they obviously are trump cards in most situations as they allow you time to use your Super Strike. 
 The Super Strikes are pretty much the same except they now fire multiple balls at the goal and 
 at varying speeds depending upon your success in a mini game before you shoot. This leads into 
 another unique addition to the game, goal tending. This time around you get to use the Wii Remote 
 to take control and stop Super Strikes by pressing A while aiming at balls that shoot onto your 
 screen for a second or two. This is probably one of the most interesting parts of the game especially 
 in multiplayer. This is critical as Super Strikes are a game changing event and if you mess up 
 you can have a maximum of six goals scored on you in seconds. This time around sidekicks take a 
 step closer to the limelight as they now get their own special shots, individual abilities, and 
 unique dribbling moves. At the start of either your career mode or multiplayer game you are allowed 
 to choose your team mates from a large group of secondary Mario characters, unlike the first game 
 which gave you a set of only one kind of character. With the introduction of Sidekick special shots 
 the game gets even more hectic as each of the shots they have are useful in only certain situations. 
 Usually they involve the ball immobilizing the goalie in some way so that you can quickly shot 
 into an open net, however some shots are meant to go straight in, such as Boos shot which passes 
 straight through the goalie if launched close enough. These new sidekicks are a welcome change 
 in the game that adds depth and uniqueness to each match. The main event of this game is its massively 
 enjoyable multiplayer which can be done online or with four controllers at home, both are a great 
 experience. Playing with your friends this game allows for a whole lot of craziness and even more 
 laughing. However playing with four people means four individually controlled players, four people 
 shooting shells and four people abusing the overpowering tackle ability. For most of the game you 
 wind up just hitting your friends and occasionally getting the ball, but thats the great part 
 its still fun to just hit people in this game. Online though is a whole new world of serious players 
 who get pretty intense sometimes, which is also enjoyable on occasion. This game also has a career 
 mode which is basically a way to collect more captains and levels for multiplayer; it can also 
 serve as a great way to practice for the aforementioned multiplayer. This career mode consists 
 of ever increasing in difficulty and length tournament play, ending in a boss battle against the 
 current tournament champion. Once you beat the champion you get to play as that character in future 
 career modes and in multiplayer games. At the end of each tournament two awards are given out, 
 the brick wall, for least goals allowed, and the golden boot, most goals scored as a team. In general 
 you will win both if you frequently use Super Strikes and are decent at the goaltending mini game. 
 Overall this is just a distraction from the multiplayer that is enjoyable for some but not all. 
 The games graphics are certainly a step up from the Game Cube game as it looks smooth and has 
 plenty of textures in the cut scenes, however it still doesnt push the envelop as far as looks 
 are concerned. However the frame rate runs real smooth through out which is a godsend as it would 
 be hard to keep up with the action otherwise. As far as sound goes the game has both lost some 
 and gained some. The distinct announcer is gone from the previous game so no more yelling GOAL, 
 but the crowd get more involved and each of the character has their own music ranging from Marios 
 classic to Luigis Mariachi Band.
  
  In conclusion, this game has a lot of high points but also a few low ones. This game doesnt want 
 to push the graphics envelop or have an involving plot, it just you to get down and dirty with 
 your friends and beat the living crud out of your virtual selves. If you can get past the crazy 
 game play this game is really one of the most enjoyable games in the Wiis line up. -Tundrokai 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi286
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  It is nice to see a good online game for the wii, in fact that is what makes it stand out from 
 other wii games. the single player could use work, like with the change of difficulty. when you 
 start it will be very easy, then the difficulty jumps up a lot. I wish that they would add more 
 things to do with the single player. All of the characters are different in the own way, fitting 
 different peoples style.
  
  Good:
  online and multi-player rocks, lots of action
  
  bad:
  single player : ( , gets to crazy at times
  
  Buy it?
  yes, but only if you have wi-fi 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioManiac34
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  I usually don't care too much for sports games. There's just something about them that doesn't 
 appeal to me. However, I've always loved Mario's athletic outings. That's not because I'm a huge 
 fan of the guy either though I am (see my username) . It's that his sport games hardly seem like 
 sports games at all. They basically take a shell of the actual sport and add some Mushroom Kingdom 
 madness. Mario's soccer games probably follow this definition the closest. Close on the cleats 
 of 2005's Super Mario Strikers, Mario Strikers Charged is here to bring you more zany soccer-themed 
 antics.
  
  Mario Strikers Charged is truly a zany-game, as well. While the basic premise of soccer is there 
  try to kick the ball into your opponent's goal  MSC is more than a simple soccer game. Like 
 any good Mario sports game, there are items thrown into the mix that can help you to win. Most 
 of these items are pretty typical of a Mario game  bananas, shells, chain-chomps, etc. However, 
 each team captain also has an item that allows him or her to do a special move. This helps in adding 
 more depth to the gameplay, and also adds some small amount of strategy as to whom you choose for 
 a captain.
  
  Also adding to the depth and strategy of the game is that each sidekick (lesser known characters 
 - Koopa, Monty Mole, etc.) has a special shot called a SkillShot. These range from throwing hammers 
 at the goalie (Hammer Bro.) to launching a giant egg at goal (Birdo) .
  
  Back from the previous game are Super Strikes, though they are now called MegaStrikes. If your 
 team captain is in possession of the ball, and you are on your opponent's side of the field, pressing 
 and holding B will bring up a golf game-like meter. If you time your button presses correctly, 
 you'll be able to unleash up to six shots on goal.
  
  However, you haven't won the game yet. The Wii's motion controls are here to stop you! After you 
 launch a MegaStrike, your opponent can attempt to block the balls by shooting them with the remote. 
 This is very fun. It doesn't feel out of place and is quite addicting as you try to improve.
  
  Speaking of MegaStrikes, there is a nice, CG cut scene showing the shot. These are actually 
 pretty decent looking, though they can get repetitive. Also, some of them don't really fit the 
 characters. For example, Diddy turns into a crazy Egyptian monk (ey) on steroids for his. That is 
 really weird and crazy.
  
  Getting back to motion controls, they also come into play in another area of the game: tackling. 
 By giving the Wiimote a little waggle, your character will ram into the opposing player, thus knocking 
 the ball out from under their feat. This is also quite fun to do. It feels very natural and not 
 at all-tacked on.
  
  One thing that tackling shows you is that Mario Strikers Charged is not your typical cheerful, 
 happy Mario game. MSC has a much darker, tougher tone to it. One area that this shows through 
 is the graphics. They are not bright and colorful. However, they are not bland and boring, like 
 they were in the original game. Everything has a lot of detail, and there is also some nice looking 
 fire and particle effects. Another good aspect of the visuals are the menus. They have a very unique 
 look to them and are extremely stylized. Another aspect of Mario Strikers Charged that is stylized 
 is the audio. This game has probably the zaniest audio I have ever heard in a game. The soundtrack 
 itself is crazy because it is so varied. For example, the Wii Menu screen music sounds like something 
 you would hear at the annual hoedown at Uncle Billy's farm. Then, when you get into the opening 
 cut scene, the music becomes rockier. Finally, the rest of the music sounds like something you 
 would hear on a TV sports show.
  
  The sound effects are also very unique. There are so many different sounds in this game! First, 
 you have the blow of the whistle when a match starts. Next, there is a sizzle, as you or your opponent 
 gets smashed into the electrified fences surrounding the field. Finally, you'll hear the moo of 
 a cow, as one comes flying across the screen, attempting to knock players around.
  
  One of the biggest improvements of Mario Strikers Charged over the original Strikers is a bigger 
 selection of play modes. The single-player option is called Road to Striker Cup. While this is 
 fairly linear, it still provides some fun, and I like the fact that the developers incorporated 
 a newspaper that shows up in between some matches and informs you of your progress.
  
  A new mode in Mario Strikers Charged is called Striker Challenges. There are twelve different matches 
 that each give you a different goal to complete, like coming back and winning when you are already 
 down by three. While the challenges in this mode seem essentially like regular matches, they are 
 still enjoyable to do, and I like unlocking the different character artwork after beating each 
 one.
  
  The main reason why anyone should purchase Mario Strikers Charged is the multiplayer. It provides 
 terrific fun. However, only one of the two multiplayer modes (online and offline) is worth playing. 
 Which one, then, is not worth the attention? Sadly, it is the highly anticipated online option. 
 Initially, I was impressed with it. The set-up is nice, including a variety of different leaderboards, 
 such as daily ones and Season ones. The Season leaderboards show the top player for a given week. 
 This is nice because it gives everyone a chance to climb to the top.
  
  However, the online starts to suffer when you get to actually playing a match. There is just too 
 much lag. I'll admit, sometimes there will be a match with no lag at all. However, the majority 
 of the time there is at least some lag. This doesn't prevent the game from being enjoyable, but 
 it is still unwelcome. What is even more unwelcome is when the lag makes the game absolutely unplayable.
 
  
  While the lag is very annoying and dumb, the main reason that the online isn't very fun is because 
 you don't have any sort of human interaction. Offline multiplayer is a blast because you can laugh 
 at your opponent when he doesn't block six MegaStrikes in a row. It is a blast because you can 
 grin to no end as you smash your friends into the wall. Without this sort of human interaction, 
 the online play is basically like playing against a computer.
  
  However, despite the disappointing Nintendo Wi-Fi mode, Mario Strikers Charged is still a great 
 Wii game and an even greater sequel to its predecessor. It has more depth, more characters, more 
 fields, more everything. Also, the game shows how motion controls can work with traditional genres. 
 They all feel very natural and are not gimmicky at all. While the graphics suffer from being bland 
 and boring, the varied, zany audio is exactly the opposite. Also, MSC has lots of staying power 
 with its two single-player options and the offline multiplayer. Overall, Mario Strikers Charged 
 does not disappoint. If you liked the original, you will love this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oliwam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Multiplayer is still awesome (plus online play) ; Insanity makes the game interesting; 
 New strategy element added in the game
  
  The Bad: The single player mode is still critically lacking; Opponent AI tends to be either too 
 easy or too cheap
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Mario is an Italian plumber who's job is to constantly save the princess. However, he also has 
 to have some fun and play some sports. However, why did it take so long (until the Gamecube) before 
 they released a soccer/football game. Mario is supposedly Italian, yet he races karts, plays tennis 
 and golf before he kicks a ball? Something isn't right Nintendo. Though anyways, the GC Strikers 
 game was a whole lot of fun, but that's only if you had friends. The multiplayer was exceptional, 
 but the single player was seriously lacking. Though now they made another Strikers game for the 
 Wii, and improvements were clearly made. The multiplayer is still great (plus online play) , but 
 the single player is still severely lacking.
  
  The one thing that was apparent in the GC game, and carried over to here, is the fact that Mario 
 likes both American and European football. This game has the basic soccer mechanics. You kick a 
 ball into a large net. However, it's also the most brutal game of soccer you will ever see in your 
 life. You are able to body check your opponents, and the body checks aren't little kiddy ones either. 
 There is also and invisible electric fence around the edge of the field. That can provide some 
 rather shocking hits as well. Though how can this be a Mario game without items? So say Mario hits 
 Luigi from behind and Luigi didn't have the ball. Now Luigi would obviously be angry. So how does 
 he solve his problem? He simply sends the big Chain Chomp after Mario and his team. Then Luigi 
 takes the ball and blasts it into the net with a megastrike, getting six goals out of that. Even 
 the goalies (who are always Kritters) like to hit people. In fact, this looks more like a good 
 old Canadian hockey game (I'm Canadian, so I have no complaints) .
  
  In this game, one noticeable improvement is the stats and types. For example, there are balanced, 
 power, offensive, and defensive type players, each with their own stats. This adds a whole new 
 element. This applies for both the captains and the side-kicks. Also, this time, you can choose 
 three different side-kicks instead of having to only choose one. The strategy element added is 
 a real plus.
  
  Even though the goalies can knock down anybody the comes near them (and trust me, those Kritters 
 can hit hard) , but they have to take some shots as well. Imagine if you had to stop a large metallic 
 flamming ball coming at you at at least 80 mph. That's the life of the Kritters lead in this game, 
 day in and day out. It makes you sorry for them. The sidekicks this time have their own special 
 abilities and skillshots. For example, Dry Bones can either warp right through the goalie, or he 
 can electrocute him with his skillshot. Then comes the captains with their megastrikes. You do 
 a megastrike by simply holding the B button until a meter appears, ad with proper timing, you could 
 get 6 powerful shots on the goalie. Though if a megastrike is being shot at you, you take control 
 of your goalie and a little mini-game pops up where you simple have to use your Wiimote to block 
 the shots. This mini-game is actually a nice new addition to the game. Megastrikes against lower 
 difficulty opponents can be easy to execute well, but against higher difficulties, you would have 
 to be pretty lucky to get 6 shots in.
  
  This time, the terrain plays a more key role in the game. Some of the arenas are straightforward 
 (especially the classic ones) , but some of the arenas are seriously insane. In one, you have cows 
 and buses flying around, and it's actually possibly to get knocked off the stage. In another, there 
 are large pieces of magma flying around that could burn everybody one the field. On another, lightning 
 bolts strike anybody around the ball at random times. These crazy environments do add to the fun, 
 but sometimes it can get a little too hectic. Though that's just simply Mario for you.
  
  Now for the game modes. The first is Domination Mode, which is simply like an exhibition mode where 
 you can set up your own matches and play with friends if you got any. The next is the main mode 
 of single player called Road to the Strikers Cup. There are 3 cups in this mode to collect (including 
 the Strikers Cup) . The cups are more challenging and do take longer to do, but come on, only 3 
 cups is almost nothing. Then there is the Challenge mode where you are put in certain situations 
 and you must accomplish a certain task (score 3 goals, get a shutout, etc.) . This can be challenging 
 as well, but this doesn't take long to do either. That's pretty much it for the single player, 
 which is disappointing. There is a mode for beginners called Strikers 101 which is a training mode. 
 Then there is online play. There is noticeable lag in this mode, and you pretty much can only face 
 players from your region. Another disappointment is the moronic Friend Code system. Why can't you 
 just use the Wii system code? Seriously, typing in 12-digit codes is no fun at all (plus just using 
 the Wii system code would provide far more advantages) . Other than that, it's a good thing they 
 added online play. It does make up for the real disappointing single player.
  
  The controls are fairly smooth in this game and are easy to learn. A to pass, B to shoot, C to 
 use item, and Z to lob. To check players, you simply swing the Wiimote. As for the graphics, they 
 are clearly improved and do look nice (though they are sometimes bland) . The music is improved 
 as well, though nothing is really memorable. Overall, the mechanics work fine in this game.
  
  One problem with this game is the opponent AI. They tend to be either too easy or too cheap. 
 One match, you could win like 20-0, the next match, you could lose like 3-0. After going through 
 a whole cup, you could end up losing because the opponent is simply too cheap for you. It is a 
 real apparent fault, and it just makes everything annoying. Also, this can be apparent on online 
 play as well. You could be standing nowhere near the ball and get absolutely cranked. You might 
 get an item that might compensate for this, but you also might not. Without the items, this game 
 might not feel as much as a Mario game, but with them, it just feels far more annoying.
  
  Also, in addition to receiving items, you might instead receive a special ability for your captain. 
 Each have their own special ability (except Mario and Luigi have the same one... Well, they're 
 both pretty much equivalent) . Though some special attacks are just plain cheap, or are too superior. 
 For example, Diddy Kong's special attack actually removes opponents from the playing field until 
 a goal is scored. Meanwhile, Daisy's special attack just simply knocks down any surrounding players. 
 That is almost not even comparable, and the power or offensive players have dekes that pretty much 
 do the same thing. The special abilities or attacks are a nice new crazy addition, but just like 
 items, they can get really annoying and cheap.
  
  Overall, this is a really fun game, especially if you got some friends (either in your neighbourhood 
 or your region with the online play) , but the single player is lacking and is cheap. This game 
 is seriously improved from the first one, but adding more to the single player would've helped 
 a lot more. The new strategy elements, the megastrikes, the skillshots, and the online play are 
 all great additions. Though as well, the items, the new special attacks and abilities, and the 
 tougher enemy AI make the game seem annoying. The mechanics all work well though. I would recommend 
 buying this game as long as if you got friends nearby or friends in your region with the game, 
 cause then it will be a lot of fun. Though if you don't, then this game does make a nice rental 
 to try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brazenhead
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Having never been a fan of sports games, having hated football since I knew what it was, and having 
 never played the original Mario Strikers on Gamecube, I was more than aware of the huge risk I 
 was taking upon purchasing Mario Strikers Charged on the Wii; thankfully, with the right friends, 
 Mario Strikers Charged is an absolute blast to play - it's just when you play the single player 
 mode that the game's few yet glaring problems will hinder your enjoyment.
  But still, I'm getting too far ahead of myself - Mario Strikers Charged, for the most part, hits 
 all the right notes and contains all the staples one would expect from a Mario-based multiplayer 
 game, and Strikers throws so many curveballs and insane ideas at you that the football (or soccer, 
 for you Americans!) tends to take a backseat to the chaos.
  In true Mario multiplayer fashion, your team captain is one of the main characters in the Mario 
 universe -so you can expect the usual Mario, Luigi, Koopa and so forth - plus 3 other team members 
 such as Hammer Brothers, Shy Guys and even Dry Bones. Each captain, and their chosen characters, 
 have their own special moves and abilities, which already takes the game's depth far beyond that 
 of most other football games. You'll have to learn each individual character type's strengths and 
 weaknesses, as well as their special moves (which are always satisfying to pull off) . You'll find 
 with repeated plays that you'll find your dream team and once you have, you'll very rarely change 
 it as you become so accustomed to the characters you've chosen.
  Better still, the options just continue from there - you can choose your stadium (each of which 
 has it's own unique traps and traits) and partake in skill challenges that unlock further cheats 
 that allow you to customise your game.
  The game itself makes very little use of the wii remote's functions, although it's hard to see 
 just what use adding the motion sensing would be to a game that handles near flawlessly. The Wii 
 remote's pointer mechanic does come into play during matches, however - both you and your opponent 
 are able to pull off Megastrikes which send multiple balls towards your goalie, while your hapless 
 competitor wards them off by knocking them away with the wii remote. It's a fun addtion to the 
 game and although it's the only real use of the wii remote's abilities, you never really feel like 
 you'll need any more, simply because the game itself is a blast - the ball wizzes across the field 
 like a stray pinball, powerups are flying across the pitch knocking both you and your opponents 
 about, your defenders are blocking your opponents with bullets, giant hammers or firebreath - it's 
 all wonderfully hectic gaming that, with a few friends, provides hours of entertainment that will 
 have you rubbing your victim's defeat in their faces all night long. Add to that the game's online 
 component, which lets you play against friends via a friend code or other strangers currently connected 
 nearby, and there's hours of enjoyable, social gaming to be had.
  But that's the biggest problem - the game is an absolute RIOT with friends but loses so much in 
 the single player due to it's woefully uneven learning curve. You'll blitz through the first cup 
 only to hit a brick wall in the second cup once the computer's intelligence multiplies by a ludicrous 
 amount. It'll attack you flawlessly with it's special moves, will very rarely miss a goal, and 
 in one instance, the computer scored a goal the split second the whistle blew from the midfield 
 point - losing is one thing, but losing to an unavoidable cheap shot like that is unforgivable. 
 Couple this with the fact that later stages will, thanks to the pitch's many obstacles, knock your 
 opponents clean off the screen and you'll find that the game is just completely unfair.
  Other problems are less intrusive however - the graphic aren't bad at all but you'll find frame 
 rate dips very often. This isn't as bad as it sounds however - the frame rate dips only occur during 
 action replays or in-game cinematics, while the gameplay stays at a silky smooth rate throughout. 
 Also, the game has a fairly rushed presentation, and connecting to Wi-Fi could have been simplified.
 
  On the whole, however, Mario Strikers has been marketed as the first real multiplayer game for 
 the Wii, thanks mostly to it's online capabilities and wonderful multiplayer modes - and it fits 
 the bill perfectly. It's just a shame that everything outside the game's multiplayer domain is 
 so broken and uneven that it's fairly discouraging to play. A recommended buy most certainly - 
 but only if you plan to play with friends.
  
  Seven out of Ten 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that this game made me throw my Wii remote so much the first couple of days I played 
 it because the computer AI was intentionally programed to give lots and lots of cheap shots to 
 you. The way to combat that is to play like that, you have to be very aggressive and always have 
 the mentality of wanting the ball more than your opponent to win at this game. It gets really difficult 
 once you get into the second and third cups made worse by the chaos going on in the field when 
 power ups are used sometimes you won't be able to know what the hell is going on. Online play is 
 great and the character animations are done real well making the game have a lot of personality. 
 This is not a soccer game, but its a sport mixed with football, hockey, handball and soccer itself; 
 could be turned into a real sport one day, seems an interesting concept if you like ruthless aggression. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P-Roo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  When you hear the title Mario Strikers you think, what another cash-in as Nintendo's poster boy 
 tries his hand at another sport and brings his friends along. You hear it has wi-fi and you keep 
 your eye on it, 'some good on-line could be a great edition to my collection'. The reviews are 
 mixed and you decide to leave it. That is a mistake.
  
  This game deserves to be played!!! Manic action sees you suddenly reevaluate the fat Italians chances 
 against a hedgehog that can break the sound barrier. as you race up and down the pitch sliding 
 in all directions, throwing hammers at people, shooting with 5 balls at once, you are having fun. 
 That is what games should be about fun. As you flip over your friends head you pause only to think 
 'where's the ref as you take a cheeky shot behind the goalie.
  
  The controls are simple to get to grips with. The moves are difficult to master, but when you do 
 master them chipping the ball down the side of the pitch and rolling into the goal will seam natural.
 
  
  Although the game lacks an actual story there are some fun cups which will have you spread your 
 toes out in anxiety as you hope the final boss won't score one more goal. Striker challenges help 
 add long-levity to the game but what you are actually buying is a multi-player game. On-line is 
 good with region locked helping to effectively cut lag but making it harder to find a game, this 
 problem will only get worse in a year when the game has been forgotten. However you can always 
 play with friends and I've got to say seeing your friend crushed is a lot more fun than a faceless 
 opponent.
  
  In all this game is good and if you like sports games or Mario's spin-off then it is worth the 
 money but even if your normally against the likes it's worth a look and a play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion1197
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This game just plain rocks, It just does not get any easier than this.
  
  Sure there is strategy involved were you want to kick and throw the globe, but that is half the 
 fun.
  
  I have to rate this right up there with the EA sports titles of yesterday FIFA soccer they were 
 well done with a lot of really great animated moves and sound effects plus lots of action.
  
  The Multiplayer mode just cant be beat because if your sitting all alone and you want someone 
 to play with you there they are in another area of the world ready to kick around the globe.
  
  Do yourself a favor and go get this title you will not regret it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paper_skillz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 3:02 am PT
Review:  There's no question about it. Nintendo have done a great job. If your like me, and haven't played 
 the first Mario Striker Game, then you wouldn't know a thing about this one. You would think it 
 would take awhile for you to get to know the series etc. But thats where your wrong. In this review 
 i will explain, briefly, the pros and few cons this game has. So strap yourselves in! Enjoy the 
 ride.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  The gameplay was great. It was smooth, and enjoyable. The characters were entertaining, the sidekicks 
 were also cool. The movement of the characters is also smooth. Its nothing compared to the online 
 play, but it is an alternative. There are many things you can do in the game with characters. You 
 can charge the ball up by passing the ball around. As soon as the ball turns white, you pass it 
 to a power player or a shooter and 60% of the time its a goal. There are also things like a Megastrike. 
 Where, when you captain has the ball, hold down the B button until the small round bar thing appears 
 beside your captain. This appears because here you have a chance of shooting upto 1-6 balls at 
 your opponents goalie. And it also determines at what speed that the balls go to your opponents 
 goalie. The faster the better. There are also skillshots which your trusty sidekicks can do. So 
 really, there is a lot to this games gameplay other than being a Soccer game. You can also you 
 items in the matches which you can gain. There are stuff like banana's, Mushrooms, stars, shells, 
 chain chomps and more!
  
  Graphics 9/10
  I also give this a 9 because i feel that this game lived up to my expectations. I didn't really 
 expect a game that looked real with all that detail in the grass etc, but i also didn't want a 
 game that was 1D ( If there's anything called 1D =P) . But this game, to me, fell right in the middle 
 of both. It wasn't that good, but it wasn't that bad either. I really liked this games graphics.
 
  
  Music 9/10
  Yup, you guessed it, another 9. This games music is worth the 9 i gave it. The music in this game 
 is just awesome! It fits the scene your in. Like when luigi or mario are on the screen, it plays 
 that original Italian kind of music. Or when Peach is in the spotlight, it plays that glamorous 
 music. Its really cool, this games music.
  
  Controls 9/10
  This games controls were alright. They were reasonable. You move with the nunchuck, you pass with 
 the Z button etc. Pretty standard. but i did like it.
  
  Online 9/10
  This games online gameplay is just utterly awesome! It really is great. It feels good playing other 
 people in your region. It is literally the same as the normal, in-game game play. But this time 
 its against other people! So you can actually test out your skills with actual people other than 
 the computer. I must warn you though there is sometimes lag, thats why Nintendo show you how good 
 your connection is with your opponent. If it is a 4 star connection, it means you wont have much 
 problem. If its a 1 star connection it means you better get ready for a truckload of lag! But, 
 the connection changes in the match, so if its a 1 star connection at the start of the match, it 
 could be a 4 star connection towards the middle. Thats about it for the online gameplay. Its the 
 same as regular, except online!
  
  Replay Value 10/10
  Yup i have to give this game's replay value a 10. This games replay value is just never ending. 
 When you've finished the striker cup with one captain, there's another 5-8 captains you have to 
 do it with. After that, there's online. You'll never get bored of online. Its endless fun. There's 
 a leader board. You can play Ranked matches against random people in your region and get ranked 
 for it. The point of ranked is to become Striker of the Day . You can also play Friendly matches, 
 where you exchange friend codes with other people and verse them! This games replay value is awesome!
 
  
  Overall 9/10
  Overall this game is great. Its got great graphics, replay value, game play, online game play and 
 more! It is, and will be one of the best Wii games to be released. I Highly recommend you get a 
 copy of this game. If you have Wi-Fi or not, its totally worth it. But it would be better if you 
 had Wi-Fi. I also don't recommend you rent this game. Because you'll be so addicted to this game, 
 you might forget to return it! Well this is the end of my review. I hope i've informed you about 
 this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blakkfire
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  Ok. Please let me take a moment to go over my review system. Think of this review as a combination 
 of Gamespot, Ign, and the Wiire (you probabbly havent heard of it) . At the beginning of the review, 
 i will point out the positives and the negatives (AKA good and bad) . I will go over the review 
 system (which is right now) , and then I go over the review of the game. At the end, I will do a 
 simiilar ending that Ign does, rate every quality of the game. Gameplay, Graphics, Sound, Controls, 
 and Lasting Appeal. NOW ON WITH THE REVIEW!
  
  The Good: The new charging tactic makes scoring more enjoyable and not just by luck. Chaotic Gameplay 
 will make anything possible on the field. Stages are now interactive. Superb multiplayer game. 
 Wi-fi is a good move for Nintendo. The Bad: Computers can get boring to play with. Wi-Fi cheaters 
 are EXTREMELY annoying. Mega Strikes can get really easy to block.
  
  Mario Strikers Charged... its the first Wii mario sports installment on the way. And to me, it 
 will probabbly stay the best long after the end of the Wii generation. This has literally 5X as 
 much chaos as before. That means 5X more explosions, more crazy impossible shots, and a hell of 
 a lotta mega strikes!!! If you liked the old Super Mario Strikers and want more... Mario Strikers 
 has all of that covered.
  
  Ok. Lets go over the new aspects of the game. 1) Mega Strikes are now blockable which is now fairer.
 
  
  2) Sidekicks now get skill shots, pretty much a super strike that scores one point. for example, 
 the hammer bros throw hammers at the goal, distracting him enough to make a goal.
  
  3) Sidekicks also get their own deke, Hammer Bros now throw hammers at the ground when some1 attacks 
 you.
  
  4) This is the most important aspect that has changed. You can now charge the ball.
  
  What 
 is charging the ball Exactly??? Charging the ball makes goals faster and stronger, makes some of 
 your dekes better, and also gives a nice glow. If you plan on making some goals, you better charge. 
 To charge it, you pass, charge a shot, or do a power run. The best way is to do a combination of 
 everything altogether. Depending on how much you charge the ball, it will glow purple, red, yellow, 
 and white. Purple at the weakest, white at the strongest. And with dry bones, the more charged 
 it is, the farther and more he can teleport. If you are really good, you can teleport past the 
 goalie!!! All in All, charging the ball is very important.
  
  Another thing about the game is that there are some shots past a skill shot that you can do with 
 certain characters. Dry bones teleporting past the goalie, toad jumping over the goalie, and the 
 oh so unskilled way of useing hammer bros smashing everyone the gets near you to use the almost 
 100% scoring chance of his skill shot. The computers wont hurt you with these cheap shots, but 
 people on wifi are! This almost always prevent you from having an enjoyable match.
  
  But! if you have some friends that are fair, loves chaotic games. This game is definitely for you. 
 9.0 Gameplay: This is a very addicting game, considering all of it faults, this game is an enjoyable 
 time playing it.
  
  8.5 Graphics: The graphics are pretty clean and average for wii. They are Ok for a game that contains 
 so much action.
  
  7.5 Controls: This is the games somewhat weakness. The controls have a somewhat steep learning 
 curve. It feels a little off touch, but doesnt affect the game so much
  
  8.5 Sound: Great techno soundtrack, blends well with the gameplay and its not annoying.
  
  
 10: Lasting Appeal: This game will keep you busy trying to master into. And After maybe a month 
 or two, you will be wanting more and more.
  
  Additional Note: I wanted to give it a 8.9, but gamespots review system is getting worse aand worse. 
 This is easily one of the must haves on wii. I dont know how it got a 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord239
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  You playing soccer, about to score a goal, then suddenly out of nowhere you get hit by a shell. 
 Moments like this happen all the time in strikers, and makes it a very fun game. Strikers is the 
 second game in the Mario soccer games, and out of the two it is the best one yet. It is better 
 then the second one, in terms of gameplay. It will take you a couple of games to get used to the 
 controls, and don't recommend you take the game online until you are able the beat the striker 
 cup mode of the game, as there are some really good people online. Speaking of online this is one 
 of the first games to be online for the wii, but its nothing groundbreaking. The only matches you 
 can have are series, best of three, and either fight randomly or against one of your friends. It 
 did experince some problems with the online protion of the game, as sometimes the game would freeze 
 up and matches would run very slow, and I've had a lot of disconnections, but thats probably just 
 my internet connection. Overall Mario Strikers is a fun game in the end, but it probably won't 
 be a truly great game until the third one, as there is still room for improvment in this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is a unique soccer game that offers a lot of fun. the controls work great, 
 and the overall game mechanics work very well. Each character has their own unique moves which 
 make it fun to check out the whole roster, and once you find your favourite character, its fun 
 to try and find the perfect team for him which can include toads, dry bones, koopas, boos, and 
 many other characters from the mushroom kingdom. The mutliplayer in this game is great. It is very 
 fun to play against your friends, and whats even better is the online play. You can play against 
 people from around the world, and can even have a friend join your own team. Overall this game 
 is a great game, thats worth checking out for fans of mario games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyzwain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 2:39 am PT
Review:  Yes it's another Mario sports game being released, and with the tradition this game is actually 
 far better then expected.
  
  MSCF is based on the original Mario Football game released on the Gamecube. It has very similiar 
 controls to the GC version, as well as similiar gameplay. However, this is not simply an expansion 
 of the first game. The differences between the game are noticeable when you play it.
  
  The first is the gameplay. It differs with the fact that each character can now have items to change 
 the game to their favour. Not only that but each Captain has a special move, which is more powerful. 
 The pitch itself isn't normal, as each pitch can be muddy, on a volcano, in a desert, in high winds, 
 during a thunderstorm etc. This makes it one of the most interesting and thrill riding game, with 
 every second counting and the belief that you haven't won until that final whistle.
  
  The controls have been adapted for the Wii itself. A swing of the wiimote means you tackle someone, 
 and you make use of the nunchuck to move your person around. With Megashots from opposing Captains, 
 you take control of Kritter the Keeper and aim the Wiimote to save the shots. These make it an 
 amazing game itself.
  
  Not only does this game look and feel fantastic but you can also play it online. It was first online 
 in Europe, and then the rest of the world as the first Wii online game took the world by storm. 
 This added multiplayer depth means that you'll never be short of fun anytime soon.
  
  Overall the game is great. The graphics are slick, gameplay is hard but rewarding and the online 
 features ensure that the world of MSCF will last a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viictoriio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Pretty hard actually, to get used to all the possible actions in the game with the few characters 
 to choose in your team. Since the games are pretty hectic you need to play smart and be very fast 
 in handling certain situations.
  
  The cup matches against the computer turn out to be very hard. Didn't really get into them, bet 
 hey... why play the computer when you can beat your friends?
  
  The online play is better than expected! Solid network and good ranking system. Funny how you play 
 different people all the time. Get beaten with 0-16... walk over with them with 6-0... ahum... 
 oh well, I need to practice more...
  
  Great game with a lot of potential! More online games please!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pumpkin-Head
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  - Mario Strikers Charged ( Mario Strikers Charged Football : Europe ) -
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  After hearing that the game has Online Play, I decided to purchase the game, And I'm Glad I Did. 
 Surely now we know that Pokemon wasn't the First online game for the Wii.
  
  At the start you see the openning intro which shows afew Abilities of each player like : Bowser 
 breathing fire, Toad using his Special Moves and Peach using her Skill Shots along with others..
 
  
  Then you will be taken to the Main Menu, About 6 options are avilable :
  - Versus
  - Striker Cup
  - Options
  - Challenge
  - Trainning
  - Wi-Fi Battle ( Online )
  
  The 
 Menu is very simple for anyone can choose from easily.
  The Graphics aren't that great for those who are int graphics that much but its Mario, So its gotta 
 be like this a little bit cartoony and it actually looks Great. As for those who complain about 
 the players being so small in some reviews, that can be changed By going to the option setting 
 on the Main Menu or during gameplay. You can choose between 5 Camera settings.
  
  The gameplay is Easy to pick, and very simple to understand in less than Half and Hour with nearly 
 Flawless controls which are very good and shows how the Wii-Mote can be played at best, but the 
 tackles sometimes wont be in the correct direction which could effect your gameplay
  . The game titled 'Charged' is also something important in the game, where the players can charge 
 up their hit in order to get Goals easily by charging up. If you charged up just enough you can 
 Also make 'Skill Shots' which are more effective and could score easily, and they also differ from 
 each character to character.
  
  There are about 10 diffrent captains for you to choose from, each has their weakness and some strong 
 points, for example : Mario is balanced between passing and shooting While Bowser has a High Shooting 
 points and low passing points, they are also some Side-Kicks you can choose for your Team, you 
 can only choose three, each one could be 'balanced', 'offensive','defensive' or 'playmaker' and 
 choosing diffrent ones everytime could make a stratergy for you to win in matchs easily.
  
  There are also items that you can get during the matchs, but that can be turned off if you want, 
 to determine which player is the best in the game, but its actually part of the fun. And Now the 
 Wi-Fi Battle, if your lucky and have a Wireless, Then your Lucky, Because the Game could be Played 
 online really great. first you have to choose a Mii to make an account for yourself, the Mii will 
 be your user picture, the you will have to login and go to the Main menu of the Wi-Fi, here you 
 will find yourself on the Left and under your picture will show the total amount of Points you 
 got and The times you won and lost in matchs, Each day there will be a Player of the Day right 
 next to your picture for the one who collected most points and wins of the day. in the main menu 
 you can add some of your friends if they have the game, it will ask you to give the specific 12 
 Digit code of your Friends account, after you add them you can battle them anytime they log in, 
 fight for ranking or without if you want. but if you dont have anyone you know, you can battle 
 any random person with the same ranking as yours in Domination mode ( which you could also player 
 with a friend of yours on the same team with you) after you connect with somebody there will be 
 some starts on screen. The Total amount of Stars are 5 stars, eachstar resembles the quality of 
 the connection, Two stars cannot be played very well while Three can be okay, as for 4 or 5 they 
 will be the best settings you will have. the gameplay will be better if you have 4 to 5 stars, 
 And it will play normally like any other game and its really fun to fight another person rather 
 than the computer. Well, Thats the End of the Review, Hope You Enjoyed,
  Cheers,
  Pumpkin-Head
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  if you wanna add, first PM me : khalidat223@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 11, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  I have bought this game a couple of months ago. In the beginning I have played it a lot, especially 
 the multiplayer option. Singleplayer was fun, but only for a short while. After weeks of online 
 gaming, I became bored, too. The gameplay is pretty repetitive and sometimes matches become unclear. 
 A lot of times i didn't know what I was doing or where the ball was. Also the game relies for a 
 great deal on luck.
  The graphics are not impressive either, they could fit on a Gamecube. The sound effects are funny 
 though.
  Overall this is an OK game, but could have been so much better if the multiplayer had more options, 
 like special tournaments, one-year-period tournaments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgs_maniac
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  If you havent been to the previous Mario stikers You should read this. This Game is really great. I 
 m not into Football Gaming But this game is great. You select your team (positions and players) And 
 your leader. Then you start the tournament beating other teams with leaders. Every Player has his 
 own ability when the shooting button is pressed for a time. Stats:
  
  Graphics: Not the best but good graphics that keeps you interested
  Gameplay: The best part Of 
 the Game. Awesome Is the word to describe it
  Value: Can Keep you interested with The singe And Especially with the online Gameplay
  Sound: Good 
 sound but it doesnt matter
  
  Overall: Great game with much to do!!! XD
  
  But its reaally easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitar_Hero321
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is a chaotic soccer game on the Wii. If you are used to the controls of 
 the first Strikers then the learning curve will be awkward for the first match or so. Along with 
 a fun single player, the mulitplayer is great with few connection problems.
  
  The single player is fun and exiting, with a few different options to keep you coming back, theres 
 The Road To The Striker Cup and theres also new skill challenges that can earn you player cards 
 if you beat the players challenge. The Road To The Striker Cup is basically a long road of Qualifying 
 tournaments so if you keep winning you keep getting closer to the Striker Cup.
  
  The Skill Challenges are basically you choose someone, such as Mario or Peach in the Challenge 
 section of the menu, Then you accept there challenge and are thrown into a game where you must 
 do different things such as win by 4 or make a comeback to win when your losing 2-0.
  
  The Mulitiplayer is what makes this game so great, you essentially go online and the computer randomly 
 selects an opponent for you to play against. You play the other person in a best 2-3 match and 
 win points for winning the game or scoring goals. There is a VERY accurate stat tracker that updates 
 quickly.
  
  Overall if you own a Wii and are looking for a game to keep you occupied and wipe the dust off 
 your Wii then Mario Strikers Charged Should be a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefly06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  The first game to use the online features of the wii has done it proud. Once you have the hang 
 of the game it is very fun and the online play is addictive. As is a given in the Mario franchise, 
 this game is crazy and random. At any one time you may have spiked shell bouncing around the field 
 as a giant Italian plumber stomps around on a field exploding into pits of lava. As I said, it 
 can take some getting used to. Some of the character moves, when mastered can put some teams at 
 unfair advantages, but things like skillshots and megastrikes add an awesome level to the gameplay. 
 The game doesn't use much of the wiimotes capabilities, but it is used to block the megastrike, 
 which is awesome fun. The online play is very addictive, as the more games you play online helps 
 you heighten your rank. After 2 hours a day for a solid week, I was able to get myself up to rank 
 8 and it is awesome to see yourself in the 'Striker of the Day' box. If you like soccer games, 
 or any fun, easy to pick up games, this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom4567
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  If you love Super Mario Strikers for the Gamecube, I can assure you that you'll love Mario Strikers 
 Charged even more! Although they made some pretty drastic changes in the game that it doesn't feel 
 like your playing a soccer game, its more like a hockey/fighting kind of game to me, which its 
 fun eitherway. Good news is that there are more sidekicks and captains to choose, also unlockables! But 
 I won't spoil it... Another sort of bad news is that they took off the ''GOOOOOOOOOOOOOOAAAAL'' 
 sound, when you score a goal.
  
  Even if you played the first game, I advise that you go to Strikers 101 before you start playing 
 in the cups, it will take you a little while to get use to the controllers, so you better train 
 first. The first Cup wil seem fun to you at first, but when you go to the second and third one, 
 you'll get pissed.... a LOT! Trust me, I've been there, it gets way too hard when your in the last 
 matches, but give it some time and it'll feel like a breeze.
  
  About the WI-FI online feature, it stinks that is by FCs only, also there are ''some'' people who 
 always make the goals the easy way instead of playing right, thats also frustrating, but even with 
 all of the frustrating situations, its still fun cause in this game, the multiplayer is awesome.
 
  
  If you love Mario games, or a fan of Nintendo, Mario Strikers Charged is certaintly worth buying. 
 Its online, a good reason to buy it lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  OK! I wont lie to you, the game does indeed lack many points of soccer due to its cartoonish mario 
 style for example tackling... And no fouls???!!! Well with this being said, its great sense of 
 fun makes up for the real world sense lack. Fortunately for us, new modes, players, sidekicks, 
 tournaments, fields, multiplayer options galore have all been mixed into the mario recipe. This 
 time around you can expect to see an even better than usual game here, and you know how good the 
 mario franchis is don't you? Whether you're a mario fan, soccer fan, nintendo fan, child, adult, 
 teen, wii fan or other, there is a 99.9% chance you will like it... And if you dont, well, uh... 
 you really don't deserve that good taste emblem after all... Mario strikers for the wii gets 10/10 
 for its great sense of creativity and fun flowing in every pressed button or moved analog stick 
 across the world! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged can be fun, hectic, and frustrating simultaneously. There's some apparent 
 rationale to its difficulty in that it's somewhat a short game. There's 5 modes of play to take 
 part in, plus a Hall of Fame. -Domination- Allows you to freely select characters, levels, and 
 so on.
  -Nintendo Wifi Connection- Lets you battle online
  -Road to the Striker Cup- Main mode of the game, play through tournaments
  -Strikers Challenges- 
 Specific, pre-determined, challenges
  -Strikers 101- Basic Training for the game (in-game manual if you will)
  -Hall of Fame- Check 
 out rewards obtained from various modes
  
  Despite the list of modes there's really only two modes that involved any sense of progression 
 and they are the Road to the Striker Cup and the Striker Challenges.
  
  In the Road to the Striker Cup you pick one captain and a team of 3 sidekicks (goalie is preset 
 to Mr. Aligator and you don't interact with him much) and proceed through roughly 10 playoff rounds 
 and then a tournament. What's difficult here is that even if you light up the playoffs (Even losing 
 one or two games wont kill you or take you out) one loss in the tournament and you have to start 
 over completely from the beginning of the playoffs. This lengthens the game but can be viewed at 
 best as kind of cheap and annoying. This mode is arranged in 3 levels and fortunately when you 
 beat one you get to stay in the next one even if you lose the tournament.
  
  The Strikers challenges are enjoyable but ask for specific goals that are usually stacked against 
 you in favor of the CPU team. These, however, are shorter. There are 12 total that increase in 
 difficulty but can be played in any order.
  
  The rewards? The Hall of Fame offers trophies from the Striker Cup and portraits/cards of characters 
 obtained from winning challenges. Not a lot but you can always check your progress in the game 
 by going to the Hall of Fame. The trophies are nothing special but it's better than nothing.
  
  The gameplay is frantic. You can tackle your opponents, intercept the ball, and use items to 
 agitate your opponents. It can be a lot of fun but unfortunately your teammates do little to nothing. 
 In order to get anything done you have to switch between your teammates. This isn't necessarily 
 all bad depending on what you want but it would have been nice to have the ability to adjust it 
 so that your teammates could actually participate without you physically controlling them. The 
 controller is well implemented. The most frustrating aspect of this game is the difficulty. Things 
 happen at such a frantic pace, yet the CPU seems to always be in total control. What's really puzzling 
 is the inconsistency of the difficulty. One game you're blowing the CPU away and the next your 
 trying your best just get the ball long enough to even take a shot.
  
  What makes this game worth it though is its mutliplayer. You can have a friend, play nearly everything 
 with you cooperatively. That's something that usually isn't implemented and it almost makes up 
 for the frustratingly inconsistent difficulty. You can even play online over Wifi with a guest 
 player as well. This makes Mario Strikers a great game for those who want something that they can 
 play with a friend. Unfortunately by yourself this game is not very compelling.
  
  I suggest if you want this game so you can have something to play with a friend or relative then 
 go for it. If you're looking for something entertaining for yourself I would suggest another game 
 such as Metroid Prime 3, Resident Evil 4, or The Legend of Zelda The Twilight Princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMacRio
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  It's not classic soccer: no rules, no fouls, but some special objects (as the ones in Mario Kart) . 
 You makes a foul, your opponent gains a special object. There're shells, banana skins, mushrooms 
 and others. Captains can do megastrike shots and all teammates have their own special shot.
  
  It's fun, but the absence of fouls makes the game often chaotic. At the highest
  level of 
 difficulty the computer it's hard to defeat. The controls isn't perfect (lack the option of game 
 cube/classic controller) , except for the goalkeeper minigame (when your opponent made a mega strike, 
 you control the goalkeeper's hands whit the wii mote) .
  On line multi player had some problem at the beginning (often not working, too slow) , but now it's 
 acceptable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdlee05
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Total letdown, let me clarify that statement. Total letdown for the online multiplayer. It is an 
 okay game to play by yourself or with your friends at home. But, the online experience is another 
 story. You will either find yourself extremely aggravated or questioning your morals as a cheater 
 while you are playing. The reason is because of a built in trait that certain characters possess 
 the ability to teleport past the goalie into the goal allowing them to score with incredible ease 
 (somebody in game development missed that) . I understand that this is built into the game but COME 
 ON! Why do you have to play with charachters that are so cheap it changes it from being a fun soccer 
 game to a button mashing crapfest? I know, this review is more of a rant and an opinion so take 
 it as you will. But, if Nintendo offered a download that fixed those glaring, game changing, aggravating 
 glitches, the game would be great. As is though, it is fun at home for a while, but the novelty 
 wears off without a great online experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1001001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is the sequel to the 2005 Super Mario Strikers. This one pretty much continues 
 right off the gameplay of it's preceder while adding some new features. Some examples are the Megastrikes. 
 These can only be performed by the captain of each team. The way it works is by holding the B button 
 and then pressing it again after the meter shows. Depending on how far the color is, you will make 
 an extra Megastrike. Though it may sound like something that will make your game cheap, you also 
 are able to stop the balls from the opposing team. You point at the screen pressing the A button 
 on the balls.
  
  The controls are fairly simple:
  
  A- pass the ball
  B-shoot the ball (holding B will allow you to charge and make a Megastrike)
  C-use an item
  
 Holding Z while pressing A- allows you to lob a pass to another teammate
  Holding Z while pressing B- allows you to shoot just when the ball's headed for you
  D-Pad without 
 a ball- tackle an opponent
  D-Pad with ball- depending on which character you have, they will do a move to either avoid another 
 player or defend offensively.
  Shaking the Nunchuck- shakes the Megastrike charge meter to distract your opponent
  
  One improvement 
 in this game is the graphics. They make Mario and everyone else look better on the Wii and some 
 effects look more real like ground smashs. Another thing added to this game are things that will 
 try to get in your way during your games. Some examples would be lava that jumps out of the ground 
 and Thwomps that will try to crush you. Try to avoid those fields when playing in multiplayer.
 
  
  There are a total of 12 characters to choose from. You start out with 9 but you get to unlock one 
 in each cup you beat for Domination Mode. Each cup has more rounds and gets harder as you progress. 
 A problem in this game is the AI. You start the game with fair AI, but as you progress into the 
 Crystal Cup, the AI becomes way too cheap and the Crystal Field is unbelievably cheap. The cheapness 
 of some fields is what made me lower the score of this game.
  
  What makes this game really great though is the Wi-Fi. You can choose to play with either your 
 friends or ranked people. There is an online leaderboard that resets itself each new season. They 
 also show the Striker of the Day which is the person that got the most points in Mario Strikers 
 on that day. Wi-Fi makes this game really competitive and what makes this game really great. This 
 is actually the best Wi-Fi game on the Wii so far.
  
  If you have a Wii, try picking this game up. Though think about it first as you might not like 
 games that will most likely make you swear at your T. V. at difficult times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tag2011
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Though there are only two modes for the cups that are either really easy or hard with cheap tatics, 
 the game is still very fun in single player mode. Online is also very awesome. The connection is 
 usually good, the looks of the wi fi menus and stuff are cool, and i like how it keeps your record. 
 I do have one criticism....... They need headsets to talk to thier oppenents. I think this would 
 be easy to update and a very fast solution. Over all the game is great! The online is awesome and 
 provides hours on end of crazy mario soccer fun and the cups provides good practise for online 
 and is lots of fun! Enjoy the game everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SegaFan_Ssk
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Mario and pals take to the football field (not American football) once again in Mario Strikers 
 Charged. As well as being the first Wii installment of the long running Mario Sports games, it 
 is also one of the first Wii games to take it's multiplayer modes online through the Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 Connection. As I found from playing this game the past few weeks; the game has top notch multiplayer 
 action, as well as some good single player challenges to keep you busy for a good while.
  
  The game will consist of you creating a team using one of the 12 captains, as well as three of 
 the eight sidekicks as teammates. Once you get onto the pitch it's your basic soccer game; pass 
 the ball around a lot, and try to make scoring opportunities for your team as much as you can. 
 The Mario touch to this includes the use of items like koopa shells, banana peels and bob-ombs 
 to stop your opponent dead, and the different environmental hazards that litter the field such 
 as thwomps or lightning. The new aspects include Super Abilities and Skillshots; special powers 
 that captains and sidekicks can use to make for better chances to score goals, and Megastrikes 
 where the captain will leap into the air and fire a barrage of up to six balls that the opposing 
 goalie must use their Wii-mote skills to block the incoming shots. All in all the game itself can 
 get really chaotic at times, and it's a blast to play. One thing that did catch my eye was the 
 overall lack of motion controls you used, aside from the goalie's Megastrike minigame all you really 
 had was waving the Wii-mote to smash into nearby opponents. The online mode was the big reason 
 gamers bought this, while it is a good addition you can't help but notice the large amount of lag 
 that can come up during a match, there's also the thing about opponents who wil quit partway through 
 a match b/c they're losing (no win for you) but that is in just about every game.
  
  The cutscenes in the game overall looked fantastic, the one where your captain fell from the sky 
 to begin the match while his/her fanfare played in the background was the definition of awesome. 
 Unfortunately, the gameplay itself doesn't look that good; it is good by Wii standards, but many 
 will think that they could have made them a bit better. The music in this game was pretty sweet 
 as well; as I mentioned before each captain and sidekick have been given their own fanfare that 
 plays when they score a goal or (in the captain's case) when you win the game. I just love scoring 
 goals even more just to hear the various music my team has to offer (my team is usually Bowser, 
 Boo, Dry Bones, Hammer Bro) , and even if you get scored on it's still nice to hear the music that 
 your opponent plays in celebration.
  
  Overall, Mario Strikers Charged is an excellent addition to any Wii owner's library. Even though 
 the single player experience is short-lived, the multiplayer and online modes will continue to 
 give you hours and hours of non-stop action for a long time to come. The online still has a few 
 issues with lag but in the long run it was a great addition to the game, and the aspect of taking 
 your game to opponents across the world and making a name for yourself on the world stage. If you 
 are looking to give your Wi-Fi USB connector/wireless router a good workout, then Mario Strikers 
 Charged is right up your alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knuckleball93
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  Mario Stikers Charged (MSC) is a sequel to the Gamecube game Super Mario Strikers. This game is 
 exrtremely fun for 2 players or online play. Do not get this if you like one player games or if 
 you are a loner. The ssingle player is lacking. Apart from that though, the game will keep you 
 and your friends or siblings entertrained for hours on end. Graphics: 8 A good framerate that has 
 never dipped for me, no jaggies, but this is beacause everyone is far away while playing.
  Gameplay:9
  Amazing and entertainingly chaotic Value: 7
  Games tend to be overpriced these 
 days, this one's $50
  Music: 7
  Gameplay music is pretty boring and repetitve, though sudden death mode has a good track
  Tilt: 
 9
  This game gives you the best multiplayer experience out there for the Wii.
  Lasting appeal: 9
  It will keep you coming back to it for a long time.
  
  Overall: 8
  a 
 great must own game for Mario and multiplayer fans. If you like old fashioned soccer, this is not 
 your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanunknown
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  Most sport games don't go for Nintendo, they go for Microsoft and Sony instead and that is because 
 Nintendo games are designed to be fun ( you can obviously tell just by the consoles, Wii with the 
 remote and the DS with the touch screen ) while Microsoft and Sony compete to have the best graphical 
 quality. So I didn't think how Mario Strikers: Charged Footall could use that much of the Wii and 
 it's remote's functions and I was right. The only thing you use the remote for is for tackling 
 by shaking it and for saving an amazing type of shot called a Mega-Strike where you point it at 
 the screen. But even though it doesn't use the Wii's capabilities like some other games ( Zelda: 
 The Twilight Princess for one ) it is quite good and can be fun to play though it can be very frustrating 
 when you can't win a certain match and you have to keep re-tying tournaments again and again. The 
 challenges are again fun at first but you can get frustrated at times when you can't do one. The 
 online multiplayer is excellent if you have a good connection to the internet. I would say buy 
 this game but beware of the frustration it may cause. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun in all but has one big problem. The central focus to winning is USE ABILITYS. 
 There is no scoring regularly. And when you use these its impossible for your goaly to block.
 
  
  -The good:
  Its fun
  Theres a lot of arenas
  Lot of characters
  Its the first good online wii game :)
  The graphics are pretty good
  The arenas are very different 
 like some are flying ships some are arenas some are sand dunes some are in space. Very fun fluid 
 action
  Competative
  
  -The bad:
  The thing seems alittle to childish at points like luigish plane thing kind of made me go WTF.
 
  It gets repetative
  The biggest problem is that your pretty much only using abilitys. Theres no regular scoring. And 
 if you use the abilitys its an automatic goal!!!. Which can get kind of lame and fusterting
  
  All in all its the first good online wii game and I highly recommend it to all wii owners for 
 its competative fun, fluid, online action. But it could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 1, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged- as chaotic and addicting as it is just is not worth 50 bucks. The first 
 game was fun and this one sticks with its roots, which is good, and it even has Wifi. So you're 
 thinking, what is wrong with it? I've compiled some answers. Read this review to look at my opinions 
 on the latest port of the Mario Sporting Franchise.
  As far as soccer games go, Mario Strikers is unanimously known to be the most hectic and probably 
 one of the more violent to the sport. Charged proves to be more frantic and chaotic than its predecessor, 
 and it remains to be just as violent. Players are checked into electric fences and they get shocked 
 for a few seconds. After hearing them yelp in pain, the players jump back into the action. It's 
 hilarious in that sense and it reminds me of some kind of cartoon- even the graphics look suitable 
 for a cartoon series. To add to more comical humor, items varying from bombs, shells of different 
 kinds, and so on can be activated to cause more problems in the field.
  The game itself works alright. The controls in the game are fairly simplistic and for games on 
 the Wii, control is accurate and very manageable. Naturally, the Analog stick is used to navigate 
 your designated player. Personally, I found the GC controller to work much better with this game, 
 but that is just my opinion. Motion Sensitive control, being one of the Wiis remarkable and most 
 well known features, is used. Overall, I liked the controls, but I was hoping you could use a Wii 
 classic controller or even a GC controller- like in Resident Evil 4.
  As for a story line or plotBeing a sport game, there is no major plot which is not a big problem, 
 but there are tournaments which you need to beat if you want to unlock the three secret captains. 
 After completing three tournaments, you can play more to unlock some nice cheats in the game, which 
 is a cool idea, and was used in the previous entry to this series- Super Mario Strikers. While 
 the tournaments are fun, most of the games brilliance is the multiplayer mode. Sometimes tournaments 
 can become frustrating and they can be unforgiving and cause players to simply turn away from the 
 whole game mode and focus in on the Wi-fi. As mentioned, multiplayer is the overall beauty of the 
 game. You can play CPUs on difficulty levels and select any type of team you want. This game improves 
 from the original with its character selection, which I will explain in a bit. You can play a friend 
 in a match as well, but Wi-fi is the most enjoyable thing about this game. If you do not have Nintendo 
 Wi-fi on your Wii, I highly suggest staying away from this game and renting it at the most. If 
 you choose to purchase it with not Internet connection to your Wii, this game will be quite the 
 bore and youll put it on the shelf in a day or two. While it is addicting, there is not enough 
 stuff to hold in you for very long.
  Characters are simply awesome. Each character has his or her own statistics. For example, one player 
 may be fast and good on defense, but his or her passing and shooting may be mediocre. It is up 
 to you to balance out your team and become a champion. You can choose a wide selection of characters- 
 most of them known as side kicks, and you can also have as many of the same one as you want on 
 your team. Your goalie is Kritter, just like old times. Captains are usually better than the side 
 kicks- particularly for their special shots in which one can score up to six goals. However, their 
 stats average out to be the same as any ordinary side kicks.
  The captains can execute shots known as mega strikes. Each one has their own unique fired up shot 
 and boy is it deadly. The visuals although a bit dramatic, intimidate opponents. Your captain springs 
 high up in the air and then blasts the soccer ball in some cool way. The player who is blocking 
 the shot takes control of the keeper and a mini game then follows up. Depending on how many shots 
 you managed to execute and how quick the balls will come are set up before you successfully perform 
 a mega strike. The mini game has the other player use the Motion Sensitive control to block the 
 shots before they are counted as individual goals. Although I am not fond or good at describing 
 things, I hope this helped you understand what goes on during the process of a Mega Strike. If 
 performed correctly, you should expect to see some interesting results.
  The only other difference from a captain to any other player in the game is their unique set of 
 items. Thats right, each one has some sort of power up to activate. Mario, for example, momentarily 
 turns enormous which enables him to score and get the ball easier. Wario gets bad gas which is 
 used to confuse other players- including those on his team. While the items of the captains are 
 original, some are better than others and that adds on to how to balance out a well devised team.
 
  In Mario Strikers Charged, every player has a deke. A deke is a certain type of dodge which is 
 different depending on who youre using. If you are in possession of the ball and you are about 
 to be tackled, activating the deke will allow you to get around that player in some sort of way. 
 Some dekes are incredibly cheap and set up some really annoying strategies. I will explain one. 
 Toads deke enables him to jump over players. Occasionally, he can jump over the goalie and score 
 an easy goal. This becomes annoying and you can expect to see it happening on Wi-fi quite a lot.
 
  The last bit I will discuss on the game play of Charged other than some of its flaws is the Wi-fi. 
 Here is a simple way to put things: Online play is great if your Internet connection is good. If 
 not, games will be canceled halfway through and things go very slow. Anyways, online is much more 
 competitive and you have your own little record. Youll be seeing some cheap moves being used, 
 but it is up to you to have good judgment and hopefully you can take down some tough foes. An army 
 of Hammer Bros is a common team, as is a team of Toads. While I do hate all of these cheap team 
 assemblies, it is still an overall fun time that no gamer can resist.
  The visuals in this game are pretty good, at least as far as what the game aims for. The graphics 
 are simplistic and improved from the original game. The visuals do not push the Wii to its limit. 
 You can expect to see better in games such as Resident Evil 4 and The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess. Graphics may not be that important but some players love to see nice visuals. For those 
 of that kind of taste, know that Charged is not the best and is probably only average as far as 
 next generation visual appeals. The crowd still looks strange to me.
  Next comes the sound to the game. This game is nowhere near as good in sound as games such as Super 
 Mario World is. You wont hum the tunes in your sleep like before, in fact, you will hardly remember 
 the song at all. The music was not slapped on at the last minute, but in my opinion, Nintendo could 
 have done a much better job with it. The items and hollers of players have already been used, but 
 thankfully they are not overused. Besides, Mario sounds are classic and have shown no age in the 
 long run.
  Now it is time for me to list some of the flaws in the game. I have probably listed few already, 
 but I will say some more anyway. The game is not a one player worthy game. If you have no friends 
 or lousy internet connection, rent this game at the most. Hard core gamers will not have much to 
 complete in Mario Strikers Charged. The game is also way too chaotic. This sounds like a dumb complaint, 
 but you will often be frustrated by the over the top chaos during the game. The graphics and sounds 
 are not great either. I have not found either category to be superior remotely. Lastly, this game 
 often gets old. Within a month at the most, you will be done with this game for good. It is replayable, 
 but not significantly replayable. I have seen better in the Mario sports genre.
  Overall, Charged is a unique experience almost solely for its multiplayer. It is not fifty dollars 
 worth, but I highly recommend giving it a shot: go to a friends house or rent it. I is good, but 
 there are way too many titles out there now, and there are an abundant supply to all the next generation 
 consoles yet to come.
  -Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saltyspam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is just a good game for the Wii. It has a pretty lame single player but 
 the fun in this game is the multi-player.
  
  Graphics and Sound
  
  They are pretty decent for the Wii nothing special. Good animation and the game runs very smoothly. 
 Only time the game lags up is if your playing someone with a bad connection. The animations are 
 good but every time you start a match they keep using the same intro to each character. Once is 
 enough but playing around 50 multi-player matches they get REALLY annoying Decent sound each Character 
 has their own special soundtrack during their intros, but again they get repetitive. Got good gameplay 
 music with decent voice acting.
  
  Game play
  
  Very frantic and fun. My first online Wii game which i was excited about. Just get the ball into 
 the goal is the main goal of this game. There are many ways to get a goal. You can use the regular 
 method and just kick it in or use your sidekicks special powers. These include shots that stun 
 the goalie and then you can shoot it in for a easy goal or theres a few instant goal specials. 
 These though, take a few seconds to charge up before you can shoot it in. Then there are the mega-shots 
 where you take your chosen player and charge up his hit to shoot 3-6 balls. then your opponent's 
 uses the Wii remote to block those goals. The only problem I had with this game play is the computer 
 is REALLY tough. When they start to lose they will start scoring like crazy. The tackle move makes 
 the game a little cheap and not that much fun if your playing some one who tackles non-stop. The 
 ranked matches also sometimes put you with someone too easy or too hard. The characters also have 
 some very cheap moves and some of them are too underpowered. Not a bad way to start off the Wii 
 online. With a great but flawed online match making system this game is great to play against other 
 players. If only the Wii had a headset of some sort it would have made the game a lot better for 
 trash talking. Might want to rent it first because it gets old after dominating too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentay0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Alright here are the reasons you should get this game...
  
  Good:
  1-AWESOME multiplayer. 2-ONLINE PLAY ZOMG!!!!!! 3-It's like soccer (or football depending on where 
 you live) gone crazy.
  4- Items, explosions, Flames, Lava, Awesome Looking Megastrikes.
  5-Challenging. 6-Cooperative and competitive play. Bad:
  1-Higher difficulty levels WILL beat 
 you many times over.
  2-You have to have a moderately good internet connection because lag will kill you.
  3-You can't 
 immediately choose which cup you want to start on, meaning if you want to start over or change 
 your team you have to go through all the tournaments again.
  
  Overall: BUY THIS GAME NOW YOU OWE IT TO YOURSELF, unless you don't have Wi-Fi play then i'd consider 
 renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abzddon
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Never got into the hype to play the game, it looked boring in the adverts. When i first played 
 the game it was fun for 20 mins, and then it got really boring, the constant fouling, items being 
 used and unable to score gets annoying. The game had nothing to do with football, and pitch felt 
 a little too small. The second time i played it was fun again for 20 mins and same with the third 
 time.
  But playing the third time round everyone had completely understood how the game works (1 hours 
 worth of play) , which made it so boring it was unbearable, i suggest you rent the game first, cause 
 its only fun for a total of an hours play, and then you feel like why you wasted money on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteSoxBud
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is SUPER DUPER MEGA ULTRA hard. Let me start off by its good and bad qualities.
 
  
  GOOD
  I HATE soccer SOOOO much! Yet, when I saw this game it looked very fun. You do not have to be a 
 soccer fan, or a Mario fan to like this game. I mean, if you actually enjoy this game. Many stadiums 
 and I think every stadium from the last Strikers returns.
  
  BAD!!!!!
  If you like the kind of games that are so f***ing hard and every time you loose you see Princess 
 Peach laughing at while you thing, I thought I finally got it this time, I did every thing she 
 did and more and she still won? Well then this is you game. But it's not mine. Like I said it's 
 very difficult and when you loose after awhile you get the feelings like, Nintendo hates me, lifes 
 not worth living, I HATE THIS GAME!!! Also you can study all you want how to become good but still 
 they will just get better. And then the wifi. Some how, some people actually learn how to play 
 well. You can tell they never play Striker Cup, they learned from playing Wifi. THEY ARE AMAZING!!! 
 There are no bad players on Wifi and if you have played Wifi and played a bad player, that just 
 means you're one of the pros I talked about. The first 30 minutes you play it's fun, but then you 
 learn the word DEFEAT.
  
  You may not agree with the 1.0 rating, yes I'm serious, but you gotta admit it's hard and frustrating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiigamer1147
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is just another awesome Wii game. The best part of the whole game i think 
 is the multiplayer. With Bashing, Shooting and Megastrikers against your friend feels so good. 
 The levels are also really cool. The only part of the game i didn't like is that sometimes the 
 game just gets a little bit too much. The game has a lot of things you can unlock. I did find the 
 Campaign mode just a little bit hard with the computers. But once you unlock everything, you will 
 have a great time playing.
  
  This game is one to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grafkhun
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Strikers (SMS) for the Gamecube was a Marios first soccer/football game, and it was 
 pretty good. Mario Strikers Charged (MSC) improves upon the arcade style of SMS in almost every 
 way. Nothing drastically has changed between SMS and MSC, but MSC is far superior to SMS. There 
 is no story, basically for some reason characters in the Mushroom Kingdom are playing soccer/football 
 against each other just for kicks I am guessing. Anyways, the campaign in MSC is broken up into 
 cups; these are your regular tournaments that you would expect in any sports game.
  
  
  Beating the cups rewards you with more stuff, like characters and stages. Campaign will last you 
 quite a while as well but MSC isnt designed as a single player game. Local multiplayer is done 
 in Domination mode, which is essentially versus mode. Here you can choose and tweak all the options 
 for a match, making matchs with numerous games and each game # minutes long or first to # goals 
 wins. Also the CPU difficulty can be changed, there are 5 levels. The first 2, Rookie and Professional 
 are easy, Superstar and Legend are the best choices and Megastriker is difficult. You can also 
 unlock cheats to turn off or on various things, for example, you can get a cheat that lets you 
 play matches without items. These cheats only work in Domination mode however; so wi-fi mode online 
 wont be able to be tweaked. Wi-fi mode is always a 3-minute game with everything else turned on. 
 While the lack of online tweaking is a shame it is still lots of fun, in fact MSC is a great deal 
 of fun in any multiplayer mode.
  
  
  There is another mode with several challenges, like winning a game when youre behind 2 points 
 or playing a game with a weak goalie. These net you more bonuses and goodies. A tutorial mode is 
 available as well and brings you through the basics nice and simply. Then there is an options and 
 hall of fame mode where you can twiddle with settings and look at the goodies you received.
  
  
  MSC is all about violent checking and frenzied pandemonium ensuing on the field. You can 
 slide tackle or check your opponents, this naturally knocks them away for a while letting you get 
 at the ball. Checking players without the ball will give them items however. The player with the 
 ball can use a move called deke, defensive dodges, these are character specific and the only defense 
 you have against items, checking and obstacles on the field. The electrified borders and on stage 
 obstacles when added to the stew of chaos that is MSC, makes for one fun, crazy and silly game 
 of soccer/football.
  
  
  Your team is composed of a captain, 3 sidekicks and a goalie. Each captain is a character from 
 the Mario universe and they all have varying stats unlike in SMS. Stats are broken up into movement, 
 shooting, passing and defensive ability. Pretty self-explanatory, your going to want to test-drive 
 each character to get a feel for which one accentuates your style most. Sidekicks each have their 
 own stats as well, but dont load your whole team with the characters with the best shooting ability, 
 because most likely they will have poor movement, which will leave you with a crippled defense. 
 So a balanced team will take some time to find, but there is a team that suits your style. The 
 goalies are CPU controlled, but if the goalie has the ball you control them. Also you choose each 
 sidekick you want and their position on the field, unlike in SMS.
  
  
  Besides the new team stats feature, MSC introduces the megastrike. In SMS there was a captain only 
 move called the superstrike, which is simply replaced by the megastrike. The megastrike baseball 
 power meter (activated by holding down the shoot button long enough) first presents you with a 
 meter that when you press it, it determines how many shots you will take. Then is comes back around 
 and determines the power of the shots. You can get up to 6 goals, if you shoot six balls and get 
 the meter into the sweet spot. However, the goalie has a little mini-game where they block the 
 oncoming shots light gun style. The megastrike is a welcome replacement for the superstike, which 
 could only get one goal and boiled down to luck if it would be blocked.
  
  
  Items and onstage obstacles are also present in MSC. Items are gained by doing charge shots or 
 if someone is checked without the ball their team gets an item. You can hold 2 items at a time, 
 also captains have their own special item only they can use. Without items the game is at the perfect 
 level of mayhem, because checking and on stage obstacles are already on and those two are enough 
 already. On stage obstacles are a new addition to MSC. Some stages tilt, some have meteors that 
 impact and some have lighting that snakes through the field. In SMS the on stage obstacle was that 
 Bowser would occasionally drop down to the field and run amok, now he is playable as a captain.
 
  
  
  While some thing in MSC dont make sense, like your characters jump down from a platform high up 
 in the sky before a match onto the field, it all is in good fun and after a while you just take 
 it as it is and accept the weirdness. In the end when all the elements are added up, red card hits, 
 dekes, electric borders, obstacles, items, megastkikes it can be declared that there is no soccer/football 
 game quite like MSC out there. So if you want a realistic soccer game get FIFA or something else, 
 but MSC is a fun arcade soccer/football game that almost anyone can enjoy. The game has a low-medium 
 learning level, after a few matches anyone can learn the gist of the game. On words MSC is hard 
 to describe, but once you play the game everything starts to come together more. The tutorial mode 
 is also helpful for newbies. MSC allows you to play with 2 people on one team, so you can have 
 2 versus 2 or 3 versus 1 locally in addition to the 1 versus 1. Online you can bring a guest with 
 you so online its 1 v 1 and 2 v 2. Online also has leaderboards.
  
  
  
  Controls.
  
  Z- lob, if you hold Z as you pass or shoot it will become lob pass or a lob shot.
  
  C- 
 use items.
  
  Analog stick- move.
  
  Moving nunchuk- switch items.
  
  B- shoot, hold to charge up the ball and unleash more powerful shots/passes.
  
  A- pass, use 
 in tandem with analog stick to determine whom you pass it to. Without ball possession it switches 
 your character.
  
  1- pause.
  
  D-pad- slide tackle, if you have the ball it dekes.
  
  Moving remote- checking.
  
  
  When you hold down B, you character will charge the ball, 
 charging the ball is important in MSC. In SMS doing a perfect pass was the thing to get easy 
 goals, in MSC you must either charge the ball or pass it a lot to charge it up. When the ball is 
 charged it will glow white and if you shoot with a white glowing ball it will be much more powerful 
 than a normal shot. Also before a character receives the ball from a pass, you can press A or B 
 to do a 1 touch pass or shot. Essentially you pass/shoot the moment you get the ball, one touch 
 shooting is very effective. For example, you get the ball charged up, then if you pass it to someone 
 and you hold B down as the ball is coming towards that character he/she will shoot it the moment 
 they come into contact and it will be more surprising for the goalie than if you were to simply 
 receive the pass the shoot it. Pros- - Great local multiplayer.
  
  - Online multiplayer works well, a great foray into online by Nintendo.
  
  - Everything is 
 more in MSC than SMS, more stages, characters, cups and bonuses.
  
  - Checking people into the electrified fences on the boundaries never gets old.
  
  - Arcade 
 style soccer/football is fun to just play by yourself.
  
  
  Cons-
  
  - Single player has a good amount of appeal, but not that much.
  
  - The friend code system 
 for online gets annoying, but works well nonetheless.
  
  - The chaos on the field can get too chaotic at times.
  
  
  Difficulty- Variable, you choose 
 it.
  
  
  Learning curve- 1 touch moves, megstrikes and lob passes are pretty confusing at first. About 1/2 
 an hour to learn MSC.
  
  
  Value- MSC is worth the 50 dollars if you have someone to play with locally or enjoy online play. 
 The online has no communication methods at all as well, but it still is great. The campaign/single 
 player is not worth the 50 dollars, so I would wait for the price drop if you cant play online 
 and dont have someone to play locally with. MSC is definitely worth a rent at least; some people 
 will really enjoy the arcade style and superb gameplay, while others may not like it as much.
 
  
  
  Mario Strikers Charged is a worthy addition to the Mario sports universe and a great arcade soccer/football 
 game all around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: use_da_schwartz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Before we begin, I have one thing to say. People, if you can't accept defeat honorably, and in 
 a VIDEO GAME, then you've truly lost. I'll explain what that means after this review. Some will 
 probably figure it out before then, I imagine. But for those who don't, read past the review.
 
  
  Gameplay: 24/30. What can I say? Yes, basically every mode is the same. But you know what? They're 
 all fun. And best of all. Everything is multiplayer. The things that should be single player like 
 the challenges and the road to the striker cup are multiplayer. It makes it like Tales of Symphonia. 
 Also, there is no out of bounds, there's action at all times, and it's just unbelieveable. Major 
 problem is that with not much else to do and the online multiplayer being ridiculously restricted, 
 points for gameplay tend to go down.
  
  Graphics: 10.5/15. They're decent. Visuals are nice, and stadiums with audiences have audiences 
 that look almost as good as the players, but not quite. In-game graphics are fine. However, when 
 it goes to the replays and the in-between-goals scenes, the graphics can get choppy.
  
  Sound: 10/10. Love the music. I watch the intro just to listen to the best track.
  
  Value: 
 12/15. The gameplay is fun. Always moving fast, action-packed. Just one problem: The lack of variety 
 and other things to do in general. Online play helps, but there are only a few ways to play online: 
 By yourself in a best of 3 series, with a guest in a best of 3 series, and with a friend. I haven't 
 tested that one out because my friend list is currently empty (because of the ridiculously stupid 
 friend code system) so I'm not sure whether or not you can play that one with a guest or not. But 
 anyway, at least in domination mode you could set the matches up the way you wanted them. Online 
 play is fun, and it definitely makes the game better, but it's just too basic. It's not like Halo 
 2 where there were 10 or more different ways to play online.
  
  Tilt: 27/30. This is a game that could've been perfect if there were just some minor improvements. 
 It's mainly the graphics and lack of variety that brought the game down oh so very little, but 
 there could've been more ways to play as  
 music is still awesome.
  
  Overall: 83.5/100=8.35/10= 8.5/10
  
  P. S. Now we get to why I said what I said before. People, I know how hard it is to accept losing. 
 I can get pretty furious when I lose. But what I don't do is turn of the system just before a game 
 ends when I'm about to lose like half of the people have done to me so that we lose our connection 
 . I will be about 5 seconds away from victory and then conveniently, the connection is lost. I'm 
 not saying that I'm the (Insert name of awesome Soccer player here) of Mario Strikers Charged, 
 but I think now you know what I'm getting at so I leave you with this: It's a videogame. You don't 
 always have to be the best. And if you have the best record because you've been shutting down the 
 system when you're about to lose, well then, try the people with legitamately awesome records. 
 Not everyone has fake 50-5 records. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osbassgordo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is truly one of the best multi-player games on the Wii. The Road to the 
 Striker Cup is a decent but very hard single player game when comes to the crystal cup and strikers 
 cup. Also an added bonus mode is the Striker Challenges which will make this game's playtime a 
 bit longer. Where this game really shines is in it's multi-player! The multi-player is near perfect 
 in which you can have up to 4 players. What I really love about this game is that every single 
 mode of the game has a multi-player/ co-op feature. That means everything you do, someone can just 
 drop in at anytime! One last feature is the online WiFi connection mode. You can either exchange 
 friend codes with each others or play ranked games in which the system will match you up with a 
 compatible player that is at your skill level. Seasons are as long as 3 months and all the stats 
 are reset at the end of each season. With it's near perfect arcadey style controls, nice online 
 competition and hectic game-play this game will gaurantee many hours of some good, fun-loving, 
 hectic, smack-talking fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dese1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Strikers charged is probably one of the top 3 games out for the wii as of right now. this game 
 has some quirks that would never alow a 10 but seriously it deserves much more credit.
  
  first of all this game wasnt meant to be a single player epic. this is definatley for the multiplayer 
 gamer. if you dont have anyone to play with, thats what online is for. its like playing someone 
 new everytime.
  
  I love the gameplay is overly-choatic mabey in some aspect but really it all comes down to control. 
 They obviously didnt play this game long enough to
  really learn how to play well before they rated it
  
  I agree AI is too easy or too hard but 
 once again, not a single player epic!
  
  tackle fuction overpowered? HUH???? what game were they playing, they seperate tackles pretty damn 
 fairly if you ask me
  
  bland presentation...? didnt they make a point of saying overly chaotic....? BUT WAIT... bland 
 too????? ahaha these guys are a joke
  
  on the bad side ill say, graphics could be better but hey i didnt buy the wii for its revolutionary 
 graphics lol
  
  less fun online without a headset
  
  megastrikes online (with lag) tend to ruin a game
  
  overall i would say i loved it and wouldnt 
 sell it which cannot be said for almost the rest of my wii games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giovanni848
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  the game itself isnt super exciteing, its fun and tough to beat fully but if you buy this game, 
 make sure you have internet connection cuz the online battles are WHERE ITS AT!
  
  the online battles will show you actually how good you are, you'll either be one of those people 
 that owns your friends at home but online you'll be either just as good, with a few challanges, 
 or you'll be really quite bad . The point is you will find out, Just how Good you actually are.
 
  
  Now the online battles can be quite frustrating as somepeople know some sort of secret method or 
 hopefuly not a cheat but they score pretty much on every shot and thats VERY frustrateing. But 
 its always great fun, and the way the Wii remote is with the game, useing a shake of the Wii-Mote 
 and bam, you throw a check, and when your trying to spot a mega strike (up to 6 balls are shot 
 at you with a minimum of 3) you simply point at the oncomeing ball, then click 'A' and stop the 
 balls and hopefuly, Kriters (the goalie) will get a MegaStrike Shutout There is also barely and 
 lagg while playing as well so the game goes by crisply and without glitches
  
  either way its a great game and if you have internet, TOTALY WORTH THE MONEY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Well, it finally came... the Wii game that has launched an addiction that won't drag me away. Sure 
 I've played Zelda too the point of boredom (didn't take long.. Zelda isn't fast paced enough for 
 me.) , Trauma Center, Call of Duty 3, Mortal Kombat... but this... this is gold!
  
  Soccer has never been so much fun, and I dont' think it could get much better. Pretty much you 
 pick your mario flavored captain from a few major characters, and then use minor characters to 
 fill in your team.
  
  Your treated to three 'cup's much like the popular Mario Kart series (why Kart is being released 
 after Strikers makes little sense to me... I always though Kart was a bigger franchise) and much 
 like the Kart series, you get extreemly easy... frustratingly difficult, but not impossible... and 
 then where the hell did I put my pistol suicidingly difficult thrid cup... only this time I'm sure 
 it's impossible.
  
  The animations are awesome, the sounds amazing, and the graphics definatly show that the 'old' 
 graphics processor has a lot more tricks up it; s sleeve than stereotypically thought. Each character, 
 major and minor has their own victory dances, which are quite amusing... they even have their own 
 losing dances! Theres a lot of variety there, but you would think they could put more variety into 
 the 'mega shot' animations that YOU CANNOT SKIP, and can get quite boring after the third or fourth 
 time you see it. I wish tye would have more than one annimation per character... The music is pretty 
 good, ripped from previous decades and redone for the game, but it lends a nice hand. Aside from 
 the comical styling of the characters... the game seems to be pretty dark. There seem to be more 
 'evil' or 'dark' styled arenas than the happy go-lucky versions one might usually think would acompany 
 a Mario title. Even the 'menu' music can be dark at times when it's not the up-beat stuff that 
 it plays when you start the game.
  
  Overall, a very good game, and a welcome addition to my collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan12_2004
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers: Charged is a realy fun game to play. As far as single player goes it's fun but 
 is nothing I would boast about. This makes a really good wi-fi start for the Wii. There is one 
 thing I will warn you about with this game: the AI is either really easy, or just too freakin hard. 
 There are 3 different cups you play in the Strikers Cup mode (Fire, Crystal, and Stikers) Fire 
 is way too easy and Stikers is too hard. You will more than likely find yourself tossing your wii-remote 
 across the room. Good thing you were wearing your wii-strap! (or were you?!?) The multi-player 
 is much better than single player. The wi-fi is also really fun but the first few times you play 
 it you'll probably lose connection, or at least I did. but it doesn't lose connection as much as 
 it did before. It also has a leaderboard that keeps up with your rank and number of points you 
 have earned. You get one point for just playing, an additional point for each goal you score and 
 10 extra points if you win the game. Unforunately, if you want to play with a friend you have to 
 swap friend codes... where have I heard that before? Overall the game is really fun and you should 
 definatley check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melefty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  This game is a great improvement on the last Game. It has Excellent multi-player both at home with 
 your friends, and online against people who you don't know. This game has controls that are easy 
 to work with, and easy to remember. The variety of captains is better, along with the new ability 
 to use different team-mates. There are a few things that just dont belong, for example. the computer 
 AI, it is just plain annoying, I was playing in a single player tourney, and i went undefeated 
 through the tourney (and un-scored upon) and then i get to the championship and i got massacred 
 loosing both games in the series. I understand games are supposed to be hard, but that is just 
 ridiculous. Another thing that some people find cool, and others find horrible is the fact that 
 you can score up to 6 goals with one shot. I dont like that at all, it is way to cheap, you can 
 be up 5-0 with 30 seconds left in the game, and then 5 seconds later you find out your loosing 
 5-6 and you just can get those last goals for the win...... very annoying. Those were my major complaints 
 about the game.
  The game does have its pro though, for example, i like how crazy the game can get with tons of 
 items flying around the field, it makes for a more interesting game. Another great feature to the 
 game would be it online multi-player, which worked very well, as long as you dont play on a connection 
 any worse than 3 stars you're in good shape. but there is some unavoidable problems while playing 
 online, like annoying dis connectors, people who turn their game off when they start losing. Yes 
 we've all seen em' if you've played online for about a week, or so. And there is nothing you can 
 do to stop them, so it get horribly annoying. But after taking a very broad look at the whole game 
 it is a great game that nobody with a wii and the ability to go on-line should ever pass up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is an awesome game though the single player mode is pretty shallow. Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi makes it 500X better, excep when ppl get mad and quit while you are winning so you don't 
 get the win. All in all, it is an awesome game. I don't know how people could hate it, unless if 
 they hate hard, yet fun, games. I know that Battle Revolution was the first Wi-Fi game in NA, but 
 this game really hit it off. I will admit that sometimes I have quit because of people jumping 
 over my goalie, or Dry Bones doing his invisible summersalt when the ball is charged. It really 
 makes me a hypocrit because I love it when I can pull that stuff of on other people. Well that 
 about wraps it up.
  
  PS. If you own a Wii, BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anrke99
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is a game you want to rent first; that's for sure. The game play elements 
 are all there. It's fast paced, if not too chaotic, and the AI is decent at best. At times, it 
 seems incredibly too easy, and at other times, it seems just about right. The graphics are OK. 
 The cut scenes look good, but during play, the graphics are mediocre. It's hard to tell which character 
 is which, and to sometimes score a goal, you'll need your team's captain. Unfortunately, using 
 a captain and his or her charged-up attack is the easiest - and cheapest - way to score goals. 
 This feature is way overpowered and makes the single player campaign mode for MSC too easy on a 
 whole. The online multiplayer is good. It can be fun to go head to head with someone other than 
 the computer, whether it be online or right beside you, but the multiplayer wasn't enough to keep 
 me hooked. I suggest a rent. If you like it a lot, then you may want to buy it for its replay value 
 online, but you probably won't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged launches into the pile of mediocricy that is the seleciton of Wii games 
 and comes out as an impressive Mario sports game.
  Mario Strikers is as far from an accurate soccer sim as humanly possible, feeling more like a quick 
 paced hockey game, a la NHL Hitz. Having said that, it is a blast, and the use of the controller 
 is nice, both to check (thrust the controller) or to save a MegaShot (point your cursor at the 
 screen and block the incoming balls) . The prime area of disappointment in this game is the lack 
 of variety in single player. The tournaments end up being very long affairs, and apart from the 
 usual rush to unlock characters and maps, it feels a little repetitive and boring to play 16 matches 
 against your opponents before winning really becomes important.
  One thing to be said about the game is that it has extremely fun multiplayer. Few games I've played 
 have lived up to the intense atmosphere that multiplayer brings, especially when you pack in a 
 2v2 game. The games are short, and that keeps the action quick and intense. While you are rewarded 
 (i. e. given an item) if you are checked without the ball, the penalty seems a little small, given 
 that the checks can severly hamper your ability to use your gained item. Another awesome thing 
 I've found in multiplayer is the action and the scores are rarely the same, and the maps are so 
 wacky that it is always different to play. Other that this small quirk, the game plays very quickly 
 and is a blast for groups, especially if you like to play tournaments.
  Overall, I'll give the game a 8.0, simply for the fact that the amazing multiplayer gameplay revives 
 the repetitive nature of the single player mode. With the knowledge that the Wii is primarily a 
 multiplayer system, I think the 8.0 is a good spot for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karlkapelsky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is almost a duplicate of the original Super Mario Strikers for the Gamecube, 
 but it has many improvements. The graphics are spectacular, awesome sound, the gameplay is much 
 tougher than the first game, and it has online play which I, and thousands of other people across 
 the world will enjoy. the learning curve for this game takes maybe 10-30 minutes depending if u 
 have played the first game. This is also the most addictive game i've played from the makers of 
 Nintendo other than Super Smash Bros. Melee, which is my second favorite game. I give this game 
 a 9.5 because of its really fun and intense online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chunkypuff3000
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  the games learning curve is pretty fast, and u can get used to the game controls in 30 minutes 
 or so. The strikers cup and the challenges can get very challenging in the end. well its so challenging 
 its annoying sometimes. the game is fast paced and chaotic, which may be trouble for some people, 
 but that is the way I like it. multiplayer is very addicting in this game, local play, or online. 
 Online can get laggy sometimes, but most of the time it gives very clean game play it was amaizing. 
 The only problem i can think of online is that a lot of people disconnect if they are losing, but 
 u get used to it. I would recommend this game to any mario/sports fan, or just any gamers looking 
 for fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  I held off on buying this game cause many reviews and people complaining about it either being 
 too difficult or boring... However, i took the plung and smacked down some $$$ to buy this crazy 
 game. I remember playing the original Gamecube version at a local retail store and loved it, but 
 it just wasn't worth $50 without online. But im glad i held off and bought this version... The gameplay 
 is downright crazy and fun as hell. This game definitely takes the concept easy to pick up, tough 
 to master to a whole different level. The amount of depth and combination of skills this game requires 
 is fresh and addictive... Think of ICE HOCKEY from NES (can be purchased on for VC) but crazy, and 
 not on ice... although this game is more like hockey than soccer. The visuals are pretty good, sound 
 is ok... (Wa-Wa-Waluigi!... hehe) but the gameplay surpasses all. It's an incredible experience and 
 easily the best Mario sports title EVER! It's definitely the most rewarding Wii game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElweArnutuile
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged was a disappointment. When looking for something innovative, something amazing, 
 or something charged with so much fury, a Wii fanatic may be left tired out when trying to have 
 fun and not finding too much. Fortunately, there are a couple good pluses that would earn its title 
 Mario Strikers Charged 
  
  Charged had a cool, sports-like feel to it. When you scored a goal, the character's specialty song 
 would sound over the audio and a faraway-shot replay would play as the video. The character choice 
 was quite satisfying. All were random enemies and allies in games such as Super Mario Bros., and 
 they had their own special shots and had varying stats.
  
  What was unfortunate, though, was the repetitiveness. Mario Strikers Charged was game after game 
 after game. There was nothing else you could do, except play till your eyes dried out, your fingers 
 become tired to the bone, and your brain become mashed mushroom soup. There wasn't enough components 
 to the game. You just had some practice sessions, that were too short, and once your finished them, 
 it would be too boring to play again. Then there was the Cup games. You can play to win the Fire 
 Cup, the Crystal Cup, and whatever. You could compete to win new features, such as new characters, 
 and... well that's about it.
  
  Luckily, there is more to Charged. Yes, the whole game is entirely just games, but Vs. and Online 
 mode could kick almost every video games' multiplayer/online mode's ass. This feature was a fantastic 
 plus to the repetitive and, to an extent, dull Strikers Charged. You could fight head to head with 
 your friends, or go online with the top gamers from around the globe. Charged could not be thrown 
 away without playing these awesome modes. The usual tackling, kicking, stealing, item using, and 
 running around became fun again Those days playing by yourself would become recharged, after playing 
 with others.
  
  Mario Strikers Charged was an awesome, sporty game. But after a while things would become repetitive 
 and, to an extent, boring. Fortunately, there is two features that it could not live without; Gamers 
 should make sure to have an online connection and/or a couple of friends nearby if looking to buy 
 Mario Strikers Charged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fizzlegloop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  I recently got Mario strikers charged for the wii. Let me tell you its a really good game. I think 
 that game spot was very harsh on the score that they gave this game. I think that this is the best 
 game for the wii yet. The only thing that I dont like about this game is when you go online during 
 the peak hours of the day which is for me like 11 am to 11 pm at night the game is kind of laggy. 
 I have a descent Internet connection. I get about 165kb a second when downloading something. My 
 wi-fi is also very good. I have perfect connection. However no matter how good your connection 
 is and how good your opponents connection is youre going to lag a little. What I mean by lag is 
 like a delay time not like the game breaking up. If your opponent has a bad connection then thats 
 what happens. Anyways I think that playing the computer isnt as bad as everyone says it is. If 
 the computer fights cheap against you then fight cheap back. There are plenty of ways to get back 
 at the computer. Anyways anyone who wants to get this game I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8IbodI8
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  The last few months, we have seen a lull in the release of great Wii games. In the upcoming months, 
 we look forward to many new releases, but what is there to tide Wii gamers over until then? It 
 turns out that Mario Strikers Charged, which may at first seem simply like a fancy-looking soccer/football 
 game, is actually a very entertaining game, especially to play with friends or online, and a great 
 game to tide Wii gamers over to until more titles are released.
  
  At its core, Mario Strikers Charged is a footie/soccer game. At the beginning of each match, you 
 choose a team captain (with choices such as Mario, Wario, DK, Bowser, etc.) and then you pick characters 
 for the rest of your team (e. g. Birdo, Dry Bones, Toad, etc.) . Each character has a different skill 
 level is Passing, Defense, Shooting, and Movement and it's up to you to choose a well-balanced 
 and effective team. On the field, you have to successfully pass the ball towards the opposing goalie 
 and shoot, hopefully scoring. Simple enough, right?
  
  Well, Strikers gets slightly more complicated. Once you start a match, you will immediately notice 
 that this game is pretty crazy, not just in terms of gameplay, but also because of the loony animations 
 you're going to see while playing (e. g. Wario trying to kill himself with a bomb b/c the other 
 team scored) . In addition to these crazy animations, there are a few extra gameplay elements that 
 set this game apart from other soccer/football games. First of all, there are special power-ups 
 you can get while on the field that will allow you to shoot turtle shells at opponents or turn 
 your captain into a giant for a short period of time. These power-ups are especially useful when 
 you are in a tough spot, perhaps losing. But the power-ups are not the only add-ons to the soccer 
 formula. Each captain is capable of performing a Mega Strike, which is basically a very effective 
 way of shooting in which the team captain flies into the air and shoots down anywhere from 3 to 
 6 balls, which the opposing goalie (controlled by the other player) must deflect. Although it's 
 very difficult to pull these moves off, they're very rewarding and definitely add to the experience.
 
  
  However, good gameplay elements aren't the only positive aspects of this game. Technically, Strikers 
 Charged is very impressive, considering that it's on the Wii. The graphics are very good when compared 
 to other Wii games and the opening movie may actually make your jaw drop, simply because something 
 so pretty hasn't been seen on the Wii before. In the audio department, Strikers succeeds as well, 
 although not with as many flying colors. A lot of the dialog spoken during each match is pretty 
 amusing and certainly adds to the enjoyment. Unfortunately, a lot of the music is indeed very cheesy 
 and actually takes away from the amusement. But keep in mind that this is a minor flaw.
  
  Online, Strikers Charged falters a bit, not because the multiplayer isn't fun, quite the contrary. 
 Strikers Charged has very fun multiplayer, but, unfortunately, the online modes are very iffy in 
 that they will rarely work (at least in my experience) . This is a shame since playing online could 
 be so much fun.
  
  Despite these flaws, Mario Strikers Charged is still a very fun game to play at home with a friend 
 or online, if you're lucky enough to get it to work. This is definitely a worthy Mario title and 
 satisfactory enough to tide Wii gamers over until more outstanding games are released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stilesman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Mario strikers charged is a great game. It has some of the best graphics seen on the wii. The single 
 player is ok but hte cpu isn't that fun to play against considering it's either to hard or to easy. 
 The main reason to buy this game is for its online mode. Online mode is awesome, it keeps track 
 of your record, has leaderboards, ranked matches and everything. The only bad thing about online 
 mode is cheaters who pull the cheapest crap off. Even if you don't like soccer I would still strongly 
 suggest this game. The bottom line is if you are able to access online mode it's a definite buy 
 if not it's still worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain_ager
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged has incredible graphics compared to the original one. The control scheme 
 on the wii is great with the movements. Most of the game is pretty much passing and shooting. The 
 items have gotten much better and much more effective. The blue shells that freeze you will freeze 
 more than one person if they're in the way. You can have a big blue, red, or green shell as one 
 item, and 3 small shells that you can fire. only the red shells can hone in on people. The Online 
 multiplayer is incredible! Most people I play will be beaten with a 2-1 series or a 2-0 series. 
 If you score a point you get a point, if you win, you get 10 points at the end of each game. but 
 if you lose, you only get 1 point. If anyone plays a mii named Thomas (He has really wide eyes and 
 a small smile with freckles) , that is me. I personally think that the online multiplayer is more 
 fun than the offline players with your friends. Another great feature is the option where you can 
 play with a guest (2 people can play on the same wii) , or just by yourself. If you play with a guest, 
 the matchmaker will match you up with another team that also has a guest. But if you just play 
 by yourself, you will only get another person playing by themselves. You can't get people that 
 have guests and you don't. Overall, This game is definitely worth buying for your wii. No matter 
 what, you must get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddevil68
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I was so excited about it. But when I got it a couple of days 
 ago and started playing it , it really started to get on my nerves. You will have to spend hours 
 working the controls to make them perfect. Nintendo should have put a warning label on it that 
 said Warning: Players may use innapropriate language during this game . What I mean is that you 
 put so much time into working the controls right that you could get frustrated alot. Also the difficulty 
 is hard. On the second championship you work your ass off trying to get a goal. That is how hard 
 it is. If you compare this game with the first one, I think the first one is the better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burn1n6t00th
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  WOOOHOO!!! Yeah this game is fun fun fun. The controls are really nice and the graphics are pretty 
 good. The only thing i found disappointing about this game is that you cant play it too long without 
 getting bored. The wifi ranking system is good because it resets every week and you have a chance 
 to be the best unlike other games where once your down low you cant get up. The variety of captains 
 is greater and same with sidekicks and now sidekicks can actually do something cuz of there skillshots 
 so they arent completely for just dribbling and passing. This game is just so cool. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  The Mario Sports series has always been known for transforming some sports into thrilling games 
 with crazy mechanics and frantic pace by incorporating many of the Mushroom Kingdoms most famous 
 characters, scenarios and even items. During the last gen Super Mario Strikers was released and 
 it was up to this day the most insane game in this sports seriesBut just up to this day, because 
 its sequel has been released and you had better be ready for some more insanity.
  
  Super Mario Strikers, despite being an awesome game, had some serious flaws such as lack of deepness 
 in the gameplay, some serious frame-rate problems and lack of characters to be picked, Next Level 
 Games, smartly, noticed all those flaws and corrected them for this sequel.
  
  Mario Strikers Charged presents the classic setup of arcade soccer, four players to each side, 
 a small stadium on which there is action during the whole match and a fast paced gameplay.
  
  Before the start of each game you need to pick a captain which is a character that will lead 
 your team, the captain is always the most important character in your team. There are 12 of them 
 for you to choose, among the captains are Mario, Luigi, Peach, Daisy, Wario, Waluigi and a few 
 other famous guys.
  
  After picking the captain you will now need to choose the three sidekicks, thats when things start 
 to differ from the previous game. On Super Mario Strikers all of your sidekicks would be exactly 
 the same, but this time around you have got the chance to choose different characters, one will 
 stay on the defensive end of the field while the other two will play on the left and right wings.
 
  
  Both the captains and the sidekicks have their own stats divided in, Defense, Movement, Shooting 
 and Passing, so that one is completely different from another, while some are balanced, other focus 
 on defense. This allows you to create many different strategies, adding many options during the 
 matches.
  
  They also have their own special shots, while captains fire Mega-Strikes, which are powerful shots 
 that can give you up to six goals on the same play, the sidekicks have some super shots.
  
  To perform them you have to hold the B button for as long as possible. All of the the Mega-Strikes 
 work pretty much in the same way, but the super shots are different. Dry Bones, for example, sends 
 a electric ball towards the Goalie that will paralyse him for a while and Shy Guy uses a Bullet 
 Bill to explode everybody who is near him. The sidekicks also have other special abilities. They 
 can perform dekes, Dry Bones teleports himself, Toad jumps while Koopa Troopa hides in his shell.
 
  
  Besides all those options you can also use items, this category hasnt changed much, the items 
 are exactly the same that you have been familiar with, Blue Shells, Red Shells, Bananas and etc. 
 But as all sequel needs improvements and changes, Mario Strikers Charged has some surprises here 
 too, as each one of the captains have their own special items.
  
  Scoring goals in this game is not a task as easy as it was in its predecessor because this time 
 you will have to charge the ball before you shoot it. When the game starts the ball will be red, 
 but as you pass it from one player to another it will start to change its color once it gets to 
 white is the perfect time for you to shoot it, the lighter the ball is the easier it is to score 
 a goal.
  
  The game has four different main modes. The first one is the Road To The Strikers Cup which is 
 your average soccer Cup during which you play some qualifying games before you start the knockout 
 rounds. Although you will only find three Cups here it will take you a while to finish it all because 
 the AI is really brutal, instead of always playing in the same level during a championship, it 
 changes completely.
  
  You can easily beat one team by a six-goal margin in one game just to be owned in the next one 
 by a super tough team, this happens really often so you had better be ready to be frustrated. Another 
 annoying point at this mode is that if you lose during a knockout game you will have to play the 
 whole Cup again, some players may think that is completely correct but others may just want to 
 smash their Wiimotes when they lose in the final game.
  
  The multiplayer mode is awesome, this is probably the best multiplayer game on the Wii so far, 
 it is so funny to play with friends and laugh at them every time you tackle one of their characters 
 or when a bomb suddenly explodes during the game. The Wi-Fi mode is definitely the highlight of 
 the whole game, the online experience is pretty smooth, you can find someone to play with within 
 30 seconds and once the match starts there is almost no possibility that you will encounter some 
 lag, it eventually happens but it is very rare.
  
  Winning via Wi-Fi will get you ten points, losing just gives you one, but you will also get a point 
 per goal scored during a match, those points are all summed and you enter the leaderboars which 
 are sadly reseted every week which means that your record and your points will be completely erased. 
 Your total record will be kept with your Mii, but it wont be shown while you are online but your 
 points will be gone forever by the end of the week.
  
  There is also the Challenge mode that puts you in different situations during games and you have 
 to find a way around them.
  
  The game has seventeen different stadiums, some of them are unlockables, some stadiums from the 
 past version of the game have been kept while other gimmicky ones have been created. The old stadiums 
 lack a little bit of that Mario feeling you look for on every game that carries his name, but the 
 new ones sure have that style.
  
  The old stadiums design have been improved, you can easily noticed some big differences when comparing 
 them to their version on the previous game and the new ones are really astonishing, the textures 
 used are great and everything is smooth. The characters havent improved a lot since the GC version, 
 they actually seem to be the same exact models, the replays and different animations have been 
 clearly improved, though.
  
  The soundtrack is very strong, each Captain has their own song that will start playing whenever 
 they enter the stadium or score a goal, and some of those themes are really remarkable. The stadiums 
 also have beautiful songs that help to keep the game pace so fast and exciting.
  
  Getting confused with the controls at first can happen to many people, especially those who havent 
 tried Super Mario Strikers, but after a while everything works perfectly and you wont have more 
 problems. Just keep in mind that this game has a huge learning curve and that you will always be 
 learning a new trick or a better way to use something, so dont get desperate if you arent able 
 to perform certain things you see another player do.
  
  The replay value is just spectacular as it was on the previous game, but now with the addition 
 of an online mode it has skyrocketed, you will be playing this game for many weeks. Even though 
 you will be really mad at it sometimes, and you will end up promising you will never play it again, 
 believe me you will come back.
  
  To sum it up, Mario Strikers Charged has taken the series to another level, while we have been 
 seeing many Wii titles who look, play and feel like GC ports, Charged was very carefully produced, 
 the flaws were fixed and Next Level Games has given us a game that is as good as anything else 
 out there, a game that is worthy playing.
  
  To sum it up, Mario Strikers Charged has taken the series to another level, while we have been 
 seeing many Wii titles who look, play and feel like GC ports, Charged was very carefully produced, 
 the flaws were fixed and Next Level Games has given us a game that is as good as anyhting else 
 out there, a game that is worthy playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 2:26 am PT
Review:  I don't have Super Mario Strikers for the Gamecube, but I was able to sample the game, it was pretty 
 good, for a Mario Sports game. I then saw the sequel for the Wii, I had a Wii and I liked the previous 
 game, so I bought it duh.
  
  2 out of 5
  Story: There is mode called the Road to the Striker Cup, but there isn't really a story that goes 
 around it. You gather a team, pick a captain, win a bunch of matches to face the champion, face 
 the champion, grab your trophy, and repeat the process until you get the Striker Cup Trophy. There's 
 a story in here somewhere............
  
  4 out of 5
  Gameplay: Mario and soccer mixes well perfectly. From the special moves, to the mega strikes everything 
 is well done. You get a nice feeling of satisfaction when you see the other team whining after 
 you score a goal, sweet. You are also able to select your Sidekicks which gives the game a sense 
 of strategy. The only problem is that the computers can be very cheap, or too easy. Cheap as in 
 they can summon a ray of light that can take away your partners, and too easy as if they let you 
 score mega strikes without getting near you. Computer A. I. is too unpredictable, for the good or 
 bad. The game is best spent playing others then by yourself, even if its online. The game just 
 isn't satisfying when you're alone on a soccer field kicking a ball around. It gets tiring.
  
  3 out of 5
  Graphics: For a next-gen system it still has last-gen graphics. Period.
  
 
  3 out of 5
  Sound: There really is no music during a soccer match, well if you include the mega striker music, 
 power up music, sudden death music, and victory music, then its different. Mario Strikers Charged 
 doesn't do the best in sound, but it does somethings good. Some victory songs after you score is 
 quite catchy.
  
  Overall: If you are able to look past Mario Strikers Charged flaws, you will find yourself enjoying 
 a great multi player game. Not to mention this is finally Nintendo's first good online game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Solid graphical presentation; really crazy moves and style; fantastic multiplayer.
  
  The Bad: CPU characters are overly cheap, reacting to your every move flawlessly; music can 
 get a bit overbearing; online mode is a little too restricting; inherant randomness makes for a 
 much less skill-based experience.
  
  Mario Strikers Charged makes a great first impression. Right when you boot up the game, there is 
 an excellently done, full-throttle CG sequence that shows off the characters and really gets you 
 pepped up for the game. Then, there's the awesome menu and solid tutorials that really get you 
 into the game. You start up the single player Road to the Striker Cup mode and pick your captain 
 and teammates. The matches start, and it's true to its name: fully charged and crazy-fun. But you 
 get the Fire Cup, and then it gets impossible.
  
  The enemy AI in MSC is, unfortunately, really cheap. Enemies react to your every move in ways human 
 players could only dream about. The moment you press the button to unleash an airstrike of Bob-ombs, 
 the enemy player passes the ball perfectly to an open ally, who in turn pulls off a flawless shot 
 straight into your goal, which your goalkeeper misses for no apparent reason. When you have the 
 ball, the entire enemy team swarms around you and takes it from you. In the rare chance that you 
 get a MegaStrike off, the enemy goalie blocks nearly every shot. It's ridiculous. It's so infuriating 
 at times, in fact, that you're bound to throw the controller at the wall, which, if you've been 
 following directions, will be tied to your wrist and won't go anywhere. (So, there IS a good reason 
 for the wrist strap!)
  
  Besides the absolutely irritating computer enemies, the game really is a blast with friends. The 
 different teammates you can choose from each have really neat abilities, and each is useful in 
 his own way. The captains all have their own strengths and weaknesses, and each field is interesting 
 in its own way. Online play works rather well, though it requires separate friend codes for playing 
 with people you know. (Isn't that what the Wii Number is for? Come on, Nintendo!!)
  
  Mario Strikers Charged is a solidly made game, though it is often too frustrating for its own good. 
 It is much better than its predecessor, but it still is not perfect. Hopefully, Super Smash Bros. 
 Brawl will be the epitome of both single- and multiplayer gaming on the Wii. Until then, MSC makes 
 a solid rental, although unless you have a lot of friends to play with, don't bother buying it. 
 It's just too annoying to play alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthony9000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  mario strikers charged has overall great gameplay although isn't perfect. ther is a tutorial (quite 
 a long but extensive tutorial) , domination mode (kind've like a random match named in other games- 
 lots of options like change AI, map, etc.) , striker cup mode (lead ur team to the stirker cup- 
 can be challenging at times and unlocks cheats for domination mode and new characters/maps too) , 
 and WI-FI (multiplayer with and without the friend codes) .
  
  Gameplay's Pros and Cons
  
  PROS
  -variety of maps/characters
  -can make ur own team
  -domination mode has ALOT of 
 options compared to other soccer video games
  -WI-FI makes a huge amount of replay value (ppl still online)
  -striker cup is a nice added feature
 
  
  CONS
  -very different rules than real soccer
  -WI-FI has alot of spammer noobs
  -lags in some parts of the game (very small)
  
  Graphics
  
  the graphics are very colourful 
 and doesn't have that many bugs in it i'd say overall. Nothing else is much to say bout the graphics 
 other tha its good special effects and its O. K. physics.
  
  PROS
  -colourful
  -not than many graphical bugs in it
  -good special effects
  -fun to watch goals
  -compared 
 to ther wii games, this is a pretty good looking one
  
  CONS
  -the game could still look better for the wii's capabilities
  -characters are sometimes to small 
 on the the map to even see
  -physics sometimes seem a bit unrealistic when scoring
  
  Replay Value
  
  Replay value is great in this game, i still play the game alot ever since its 
 release. Online may have flaws but ppl are always online and its just great to see other ppl's teams 
 and create a really good kickass one of ur own. =)
  
  PROS
  -WI-FI
  -DOMINATION MODE
  -4 player multiplayer is great too if u dont wanna go against someone online
  
  CONS
  -spammers 
 can be found easily online
  -very easy to get to the top of the ranks (Canada)
  -Domination mode's AI is either too easy or too hard
  
  RENT OR BUY?
  
  BUY if u enjoy 
 these gamplay elements and love online play.
  RENT if u only like singleplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy1978
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  Its been quite some time since I played the last Mario soccer game. And with this game I am quite 
 impressed. The mechanics have been tuned up and since its on the next gen system so have the graphics.
 
  
  I love the idea that there are powerups in the stage and that there are more characters to select 
 from. But my greatest gripe is that there seems to be too much chaos in the matches. The body checking 
 move seems real prevalent in the course of the game and if you play with a few friends, the game 
 just turns to be a body check match instead of soccer.
  
  The soundtrack is decent and unlike real soccer I dont find the game boring. Overall its a decent 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B14z3n_F3fnir
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  This game is sweet. Great Graphics, solid Gameplay, and excellent sound. What else is there in 
 a game? Wi-Fi.
  
  You can play the story in the game. Go through the cups, and achieve the title of Ultimate Striker. 
 But just doing that wouldn't be enough. You've only played half of the game. To receive the full 
 potential of the game, you have to use the Wi-Fi option on this game.
  
  Playing against other people is great. It challenges you to keep trying to beat the best that are 
 out there. It is really hard because there are some really good strikers out there.
  
  If you are going to get this game, you must have Wi-Fi to have the best time out of this game. 
 Other than that, the game really brings out what the Wii has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedikevin2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  Ok I had some good hopes for this game but had some disapointments. Graphically the game resembles 
 the game on gamecube which was pretty good. On the wii the controls worked pretty well for the 
 system. The problems I had though were in the gameplay. Ok when it comes to picking your team I 
 noticed that there is very big unbalanced players. The system works on defensive character, balance 
 and offensive players. Each character setup has 3-4 character that correspond to that kinda character. 
 One problem i had is that you can put as many one one kinda sidekick on your team you want. some 
 of the characters are just nto as good as the others. Example of this is the bone crusher. The 
 character has max movement and passing but bad shooting but when you get in game you will notice 
 its shooting is one of the best shooting in the game. I noticed if i charged up the bone crushed 
 shot to max and shot the blue lightning shot and kept tacking the shoot button he would do a jumping 
 head butt to the ball after hitting the goalie with the lighting shot and get a score. as long 
 as he wasn't hit after his first initial shot. Another major major problem is the blocking. At 
 first as i learned the controls i found i needed to press the down directional pad button to do 
 a sliding tackle. The game played pretty well until i realized by just shaking the wii remote my 
 character would a do a signature tackle. The problem that seems to happen now is that it just becomes 
 a tackle fest with people trying to dodge or defend the ball with there defensive button and people 
 just shaking the controller around to do blocks on people. Another character that has a weird glitch 
 cheat is wario. If you get to the top middle court line and shoot a normal semi powered shot there 
 is a 90% chance of getting a goal do to the hook he puts on the ball with his bowling technique. 
 Evne with max AI the goalie always seems to miss if he is in this spot or at the bottom portion 
 of the mid line of the field. The problem me and my friends found were since we could have any 
 number of one one character on our team besides the captains we all just got bone crushers since 
 they have a very cheap power attack. We found ourselves just running around blocking and getting 
 hit by tackles until one person charged his power up enough to shoot a lighting bolt at the goalie 
 then just mash on the shoot button as the ball shocks and disables the goalies and ricochets off 
 him back toward the bone shooter who shot it who then precedes to do a midair head butt shot that 
 can be very hard to stop since you tend to try to tackle him on the ground and he has now jumped 
 over you to perform the head butt. The captain specials were fun to do if you ever got to do one 
 against a human opponent which became very rare since it became really simple to tackle the character. 
 Their many maps to choose from which tend to have some random events happen like flying cows hitting 
 everyone on map etc lol
  if your looking for a good group sport game thats not trying to be realistic and don't mind characters 
 being unbalanced and a mediocre AI its a good game. don't get me on the online mode which can be 
 really bad with people stacking up teams with bone crushers etc lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mic_Raki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  I only really bought this game so i could play with my friends but i started to play online and 
 found it very enjoyable and addictive. It isnt really football with all the stuff flyin at you 
 and a chaotic mass of characters trying to get the ball by slamming into each other but all that 
 really just add's to the fun. The game uses the analogue stick on the nunchuck to move, with the 
 Wii remote itself being used to tackle by gesturing in the appropriate direction. Theres no such 
 thing as a foul in this game so not only do you take possession via a range of painful looking 
 barges but you can also try and push an opposing player off the side of the pitch and into an electrified 
 fence. Other elements not usually featured in normall football include mega strike, which is a 
 special move unique to each captain and which creates an automatic shot on goal which the other 
 player has to save with the Wii remote. With football games becoming ever more serious and complicated 
 this should please both sports fans and those simply looking for the next big multiplayer hit. the 
 road to the striker cup is challanging, it takes a while to complete and isnt all that satisfying. 
 Although the multiplayer and online play makes up for this as the opportunity to play with friends 
 and against other people is very attractive for people just looking for a sports game or a great 
 multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zachdragon
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for one soul purpose for the online because I craved it so much and so far it 
 hasn't let me down. The multiplayer is really intense with turtle shells flying everywhere and 
 bombs and all the special moves eachy side kick can do. This is no realistic soccer game by any 
 means. All the sidekicks have special attack to perform on the goalie for ex. Birdo can shoot the 
 ball while it is protected by an egg right into the goal its hard to block and can be done. These 
 moves add a exciting elment to the gameplay all the captains have their special attacks For ex. 
 Wario's is when he farts gas that cause the players to go crazy when they run into it. Every Captain 
 can perform a Megastrike which is when they take the ball in the air and send it flying at the 
 goalie and they tend to send a couple balls at a different speed everytime it puts you the shoes 
 of the goalieand give you a chance to block them. thats all I have to say for the Multiplayer as 
 for the singleplayer its not amazing and ranges from incredibly easy to almost impossible to overcome. 
 Its a greatgame if you have internet or friends to come over and play and if you can deal with 
 the annoying Friend code system if you own a Wii try not to pass this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is the first REAL online game for the wii. This game is almost the exact 
 same as the one for the gamecube with different controls. In this game, you can choose from capains 
 like Mario , Luigi, Wario, Waluigi, Yoshi, DK, diddy kong, Bowser, Bowser Jr, Peach and Daisy. 
 Along with sidekicks like shyguy, dry bones, koopa, boo, birdo, hammer bros, monty mole and toad. 
 Each character has his or her own special move and each side kick has his own special charged shot. 
 The goally is the gator ( like the gamecube version) . You can get items by shooting a charged shot 
 or if you get hit if you don't have the ball. If you charge the ball long enough with the captain 
 you can attempt a megastrike. If you shoot a megashot you can shoot up to six balls at once. The 
 amount of balls and the speed is determined by the length and speed you charge the ball. This game 
 has fun online multi-player, fun non-online multi-player, and fun single player. You can play in 
 tournaments or exhibition matches and even complete striker challenges.
  
  The Good: Online Wi-Fi, a really fun game with good single or multi-player, with okay graphics, 
 plenty of stages and characters to unlock.
  
  The Bad: The gameplay can be frantic and confusing but hey it's a mario Sports game what do you 
 expect.
  
  Overall: The best mario sports game yet with online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skelly7483
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers is a game that needs two review scores. One for multiplayer and one for the single 
 player game. While the game is entertaining online, it is boring as a single player game. This 
 happens to be the case with most WII games. This game ( like others ) ends up being a party game. 
 Lets start with the single player mode. The campain consists of a series of events that you play 
 against other teams for different cups. You can select your team captain from the vast array of 
 Mario characters. Each character has his own unique ability. The abilities are balanced, but not 
 varied enough to make a large difference. The next screen lets you pick three team mates. The team 
 mates have a lot of variation so you can choose them to pick your playing style. The game itself 
 is controlled with the Wii mote and nunchuck. Moving around is controlled by the nunchuck, while 
 shooting is don by pressin the B ( trigger) button. Passing is done with the A button. The main 
 characters ( and sidekicks ) have special shots by holding down the B button. When the team captain 
 does this a long animation ( that you see a hundred times ) comes on and he shoots the ball. Then 
 a minigame pops up to block the shots. While this is a neat little minigame, its repetitive and 
 ultimately a pain. The only motion control in the game is shaking the controller to hit opponents, 
 while this works well you find yourself doing this alll the time. One major problem overall is 
 the pace of the game. You loose track of which character has the ball, if you have the ball, if 
 your teamates on the board.... etc. They could have slowed down the pace a hair or made a setting 
 for it. I would give the single player a solid 6.0 with no replay value at all. You will get bored 
 fast as the AI is easy. Now where Mario Strikers shines is the multiplayer. Setting up online play 
 up is easy and effortless. Playing against other players is fun and frantic especially when you 
 have 2 on 2. I found myself high fiving the guy next to me when we scored and even dancing around 
 the room. You do have to practice and there is some strategy involved, but you get much more out 
 of the game this way. There is no way to talk or communicate to other players, but this can be 
 good and bad. If my son and I, or him and a friend want to play, I don't have to worry about any 
 bad language. This keeps it in line with a family system. If you want to play your friends, then 
 call em up and get a code. This is a small gripe, but Nintendo should really consider some kind 
 of gamertags. As far as lag, only once did I experience it, and it made the game unplayable. The 
 fast action requires 100% connection or you just can't keep up with it. I would give multiplayer 
 an 8.5 based on ease of use and fun factor. The graphics are done well, but it still looks like 
 a Gamecube game. The animations are nice, but since you constantly have to sit through the opening 
 scenes and celebrations it gets old fast. The sound is about what you would expect. The best sound 
 the game has is when you click on it in the Wii menu. Why the sound could not be more like that, 
 I have no idea. If you want a fast paced, online party game then this is right down your alley. 
 If not, rent it first for a few days and see if you get bored. All in all i would have to say I 
 am half happy I bought the game, the multiplayer half. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave2187124
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 13, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  the game is pretty basic when dealing with the graphics, i've seen cut scenes of game in development 
 that let you play first person point of views i wish this game had that feature. all the extras 
 in this game are great and the controls are easy to remember. the variety of characters that you 
 can be are nice, but the thing that makes the game re-playable is the wi-fi function with out that 
 the game would quickly become repetitive. another great aspect of the game is the many different 
 fields that you can play on with hazards that effect both teams playing. over all this game is 
 one of the best games fr the wii right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Hey! That's hand ball, DK! What the heck, Waluigi, you can't teleport into my net!
  What the... Mario just stomped over all my teammates! Referee! Do something!
  
  If there were 
 ever a referee in Mario Strikers Charged, the game would lose everything that makes it great. Mario 
 Strikers Charged really takes soccer and makes it crazy fun, emphasis on the crazy. Its pretty 
 easy to pick up and play, although I do advise going through the Strikers 101 training sessions 
 before playing some serious soccer. The controls are simple and effective: you press A to pass, 
 B to shoot and you can hold Z for a lob-shot variation of either. Shake the Wiimote to tackle, 
 and press C to use any powerup you might've acquired.
  
  Charged looks pretty impressive as well, with Mario and the gang all sporting some stylin soccer 
 gear and looking as good as they ever have, graphics wise.
  The fields are well detailed and impressive to look at, each having their own unique flavor. They're 
 often lit up (quite literally, I might add) by Bob-ombs, fireballs, lightning bolts, and much, 
 much more.
  
  It all sounds great too. Explosions, more explosions, tackles so hard they might as well sound 
 like explosions, and the cries of agony of the players as they get hit by a tackle or explosion 
 really add to the game. It's oh-so-satisfying to shove Daisy into that electric fence after she 
 scores on you and runs back shouting Oh yeah! Daisy! Revenge sounds sweet.
  
  The A. I., however, could use a little bit of work I think. You can go from dominating Waluigi 18 
 - 0 from the same skillshot over and over again to losing 6-1 to Wario because he wouldn't even 
 let you get a shot off. The A. I. is generally well done, but the increments of difficulty are either 
 not noticable or insane jumps from easy to extremely hard.
  
  And it goes online too! Playing against people from around the world is excellent fun, even more 
 so than against the computers. So however you choose to play, just make sure you play Mario Strikers 
 Charged. It's a good time to be had by all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 11, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets get right to the point of this review this game is based on soccer with mario characters 
 with a swist of shells, explosions, bombs and other crazy stuff. Right there it already shows a great 
 game to play with your friends. The game lacks however a good single player. It offers only 3 cups 
 with massivly hard difficulty change making it very tough in most cases. This game offers some 
 short challange matches, but only 12 so its not long lived. The game for single player is short 
 and hard, but for friends and with the bonus wi-fi you can get right to it if you like to challange 
 in that area. This game has solid graphics, with nice music and sound effects. The games value 
 all depends on how much you plan to use this game, if its just for single player then not so much. 
 The controls are preety basic not using much of the wii-motes functions except for tackle you shake 
 the wii mote. All the others you press A to pass B to shoot and C for specials and items and yah 
 preety basic control sceme. This game I would recommand for a party type game if you don't like 
 those mini games like mario party and raving rabbits and the such. You don't need to like sports 
 to play this game, so its a nice mix of crazy and sports combined. Overall its a decent game, but 
 I wouldn't recommand it, if your looking for a good single player experience, but multiplayer is 
 a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 11, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game is a lot of fun!!!
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay won't make you swaet or feel silly like other Wii games, but it still use 
 a bit of motion sensing. Basically you go through a bunch of tourneys with your custom made team (Captain 
 and 3 sidekicks) to reach the striker cup.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are practically the same as the gamecube game so i tcould have been a lot 
 better.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is fantastic. Each character and sidekick has there own amazing theme 
 which is really nice to listen to. The background music, the pause menu, the loading screen are 
 all forgotten because fo there own individual fantastic song.
  
  Value: The single player will mainly be there to unlock fields for the multi-player. The wifi and 
 regular multi-player is really fun to play and will keep you addicted. You can do co-op and agaisnt 
 other people on wifi and regular multiplayer for up to four players.
  
  Tilt: Overall I highly reccomend this game. Nintendo has almost perfected it's wifi in this game. 
 All they have to do is get rid of friend codes, put in headsets. and make fun games like this and 
 they would have perfected the wifi.
  
  This is one of the must buy games for the wii along with TP and RE4: WE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinister6972
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 11, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This game may have it all (for the meantime) . Ever since the Wii came out, fans everywhere are anxiously 
 waiting for the big hit on the Wii. With Metroid coming in the next coming weeks, Mario Strikers 
 will keep you entertained for the meantime. I will say with sincerity that this game (Mario Strikers) 
 is fun until Metroid makes it's triumphant return.
  
  One of the biggest fun factors in the game is the upgraded version of this game. The original Mario 
 Strikers is as fun as ever but the new one out challenge the competition. There are more items, 
 stages and characters (just a couple or so) . And not to mention the multi-player aspect of the game, 
 which is arguably the best in the game. So not only you can challenge yourself against Wario or 
 Luigi but you can also play with four friends to ante up the competition. But that's not all...... you 
 can also go Wi-Fi to challenge players on-line (which I think Wii owners are looking forward too) . 
 So, not only this game is challenging enough but entertaining as well.
  
  One of the discrepancies in the game is the AI (Artificial Intelligence) . The AI can be challenging 
 at times. There are about five levels of difficulty that can help you improve your game. If you're 
 a veteran in the Mario Strikers game (s) then a little challenge can help you accelerate your game. 
 But if you're a rookie or a newcomer into the series, then nothing is wrong with taking it slow (by 
 the way, there is a tutorial that explains the buttons and functions of the game) . So it doesn't 
 matter if you're new or not, Mario Strikers is easy to pick up. But there is another aspect of 
 the game that can make you scratch your head.
  
  The last aspect of the game can be the fun factor. There is no doubt that Mario Strikers is fun 
 but it can lack many factors in the game. For example, there can be too many items or your teammates (if 
 you're playing one player) can't play sluggish at times. You will constantly have to switch characters 
 to pick up a guy or stop them from making a goal (which can be frustrating at times) . That is why 
 if you have a couple of friends over then the fun factor can be very interesting. But overall, 
 with a little practice and skill, you can have more fun.
  
  Mario Strikers may not be the one but it certainly lives to expectation. It really is a game that 
 you and your friends (and family) can enjoy. It is not to realistic but animated so any age group 
 can enjoy it (whether you're 6 or 26) . It's intuitive and is not complicated at all. With Wii fans 
 anxiously and patiently await the release of Metroid (like me) there is no doubt that Mario Strikers 
 can keep you entertained for the meantime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maskedgamer1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is a great game and shows that the Wii can have a pretty good online service. 
 The controls fit perfectly with the game. There is a little bit of motion control, but it doesn't 
 overload the game. There is a 1-player mode where you compete in tournements and eventually be 
 the best soccer team in the Mario world. This mode is okay if you're by yourself, but the multiplayer 
 is a lot better. A great feature of Charged is that there can be mulitple humans on one team in 
 1 player. So say a friend comes over and wants to play, they can just pick up a controller and 
 be part of your team. There is also a Challenge Mode, when you are put in a soccer game with a 
 certain team and have to complete a challenge. The best part of this game though, is it's multiplayer, 
 both online and off. Each team picks a captin (Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, Bowser, Peach, Daisy, Bowser 
 Jr., Wario, Walugi, Petey Parahna, Donkey Kong, and Diddy Kong.) and then 3 sidekick players. (Toad, 
 Hammer Bro, Koopa, Boo, Dry Bones, Birdo, Monty Mole, and Shy Guy.) Each player has their own unique 
 stats and powers. Sidekick players have their own dashes and charged shots, each does something 
 different. For example, Dry Bones shockes anyone it hits. Captins also have their own dashes, but 
 also MegaStrike Shots and powers. If you hold down B for long enough with a captin, a bar appears, 
 where you have to stop a line in a certian area of the bar. Then the captin flies into the air 
 and shoots mulitple balls at the goalie (depending on how close to the middle of the bar you get.) 
 A member of the opposting team then points their remote at the screen and has to click on the balls 
 as they appear. Captians can use their powers when they do something good like slidetakle someone 
 or score a goal. Each power does something different. Wario's sends out a fart that sends opponents 
 running in circles, while Mario turns into Super Mario and tramples oppising players. Items like 
 koopa shells, mushroom, and bomb-ombs also play into the mix making the gameplay absolutely frantic. 
 The online mode is in my opinion the best part of this game. It hardly ever lags, and runs really 
 smooth. The loads aren't that long either. There is a player of the day, and leaderboards. In online 
 mode, you can play randomly against someone from your region or someone you have exchanged friend 
 codes with in a best-of-three match game. Like the other modes, multiple players can play on one 
 team at a time, so no one is left out. Overall this game looks good. It isn't outstanding, but 
 everything is really clear. The music is decent, but is so quiet you can barely hear it, especially 
 when there are bomb-ombs exploding in the backround. Overall this is a great game, but only get 
 it if you are sure you will play it in multiplayer, either online or off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prattfactor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  Wow let Me Just Say i love this Game.. Me and my Friends Cant get enough strikers Action... The multyplayer 
 is amazing... And thw wifi is just awesome aswell.... The single player edition is alitle boring 
 and easy, but you need to play it if you want to unlock 3 extra characters.,..... Theres not to 
 much you can say about strikers... Theres singlePlayer Multiplayer optons, And WiFi... Theres more 
 Stages in this Game and There so much Better... Great on Game Effects..... Every Person Has on On 
 Field Speacil And a Super Strike move.... And when the opponet Sends a Super Striker move you must 
 use the wii Mote to Catch the Balls Sent At You... Strikers Charged is a good game and if you have 
 a Wii you should check it out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkDSpro63
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 10, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is the sequel to its GCN predecessor and it's fairly better than the original, 
 but my enjoyment for this game lasted only a couple days. Honestly, I didn't think I would dislike 
 this game so much. The overly enhanced AI and the cheap online that still lacks in content taints 
 the game's enjoyable elements that made Mario Strikers a great multiplayer bash.
  
  Even so, the multiplayer is by far fantastic. With new elements in the game such as new and more 
 sidekicks, new cups, new challenges and online, along with old elements such as the mega strike 
 (enhanced) and tournament mode make the game seem irrestible at the moment. What I am extremely 
 not fond of the game is its ridiculous difficulty. There are many moments where AI controlled opponents 
 make very cheap shots and tactics to win. In other words, this game is definently not noob-friendly. 
 In order to really enjoy the game, you would have to be really skilled and active, especially for 
 online. Online is also what I was disappointed in strikers charged. I thought the leaderboards 
 and ranking points would make the online a bit more immersive, but I thought wrong. For me, it 
 still lacked content. And the match-ups made it even worse. A majority of the players are pros 
 and it takes a hell of a lot to beat them.
  
  Overall, though Mario Strikers Charged was a decent game from the beginning, it still ran outta 
 gas fast in the end for me. If Nintendo only toned down the difficulty only slightly, I would've 
 been one happy camper. But unfortunately, Charged ruined my entire perspective of the game and 
 I won't be seeing it for a while. Sure, if I would've spent a lot more time on it than just a couple 
 days, I would've been super good and had decent fun with it. But with all these other good games 
 coming out, I don't see that happening. One actual positive comment I would like to say about this 
 game is that the online is 10 times better than Pokemon Battle Revolution^^. No matter what I say, 
 many people state that this game is very addictive. And if you're interested, I would suggest renting 
 it first. Trust me. I guarentee you will get very frustrated in the beginning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidRswii
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 10, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Well not really much to say besides this is a great game and I will explain some stuff. Well the 
 AI tends to be Too Easy or just Way too hard. Gameplay never gets boring alays trying to make shots. Some 
 shots that the AI or your friends make for goals tend to be a bunch Bull****. The goalies tend to 
 be very weak they close up to the ball thuse leaving the goal which wil make u say WTF. Graphices 
 are good a little beeter looking then the other games out there. Te online play I can't explain 
 cause I don't have Wireless internet but I've tried it and its works really well.50 bucks for this 
 game seems worth it so I say u buy it if u have alot of friends or Wireless internet but if ur 
 a loner with no internet at all or wireless then u should rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diabeeteez14
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 10, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  To begin if you're looking for a realistic true soccer video game Mario Strikers: Charged is not 
 for you. This game is, like the majority of the Mario sports games, just a fun, power-up -filled, 
 Mario multi-player that kind of vaguely resembles the actual sport. The single-player mode offers 
 some entertainment value in that you can go through some classes, complete challenges to unlock 
 special bonus goodies, and of course rise through the ranks to win the Fire, Crystal, and Strikers 
 cups. This is all well and good and should took me around 10 hours to complete. However, the game's 
 real potential is in the multi-player modes. As expected you can invite friends over and play against 
 up to four of them locally assuming you have 4 Wii Remotes and 4 Nunchuks. But now you can go on 
 the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection and battle random people from around the US in ranked matches without 
 needing friend codes. You can battle against specific people if you add them and their friend code 
 to your friends list. This is the part of the game that really pushes it from being a good sequel 
 to a good game to a great sequel to a game you can't even remember anymore because this one's so 
 awesome. One last thing, anyone, like myself, who does own Super Mario Strikers must know that 
 this game is a whole other animal not only because of the online play but also because of new abilities, 
 sidekicks, and fields in which to play. All in all this is a great game that I recommend to anyone 
 who's looking for a great multi-player game or anyone who likes Mario but if you want a great single 
 player experience I'd consider another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoshiMustDie
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 10, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  Overall I enjoy the game immensely. The controller functions are easy to learn, and it's very nice 
 to be able to customize your team with the different supporting characters. Plus its nice to see 
 the Kritters from Donkey Kong Country. Bowser looks so fierce with his huge metal brass knuckle 
 claws.
  
  Gameplay - solid just keep track of where your characters are.
  Graphics - good for the Wii.
  Sound - I give a 10. The music in the game is just perfect for 
 it.
  Value - I bought it the first day, and I don't regret spending the 50 bucks.
  
  Only things I dont like about the game:
  
  -Toad can jump right over the goalie and even walk 
 into the goal.
  -If you don't have 100Mbps dedicated WiFi the internet gaming seems to lag.
  
  Game Motto:
 
  Pass, pass, pass, kick it down field, SHOOT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waximizer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  I'll make this quick, easy, and simple.
  
  The good: Great single player challenge, superb graphics, exquisit maniability, awesome multiplayer 
 fun, up to 4 players...
  
  The bad: Somewhat repetitive gameplay, after many hours :)
  
  This is definitely a game for 2 or more players... nor only will it be a better idea to grab 
 along a second controller when you'll buy this game, but don't forget to grab a friend, too, if 
 you have one. Oh and it might also be a good thing to think about sleeping a few hours if you ever 
 get to put away the Wii at some time of the night.
  
  Overall excellent choice for any Mario series fan may I add? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ereyes104
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 9, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is a very fun game to play. It is an improvement from its original on the 
 Gamecube. Many things that they added had added to the fun of the original Mario Strikers. It is 
 very fun and the newly added Wi-Fi connectivity makes you want to play more and more.
  
  There are some negatives to the game however. The single player is fairly short which is alright 
 i guess. Also the AI (Artificial Intelligence) of the cpu's seem to rise very high entering into 
 the end of the Crystal Cup. Also throughout the Strikers Cup it is very difficult.
  
  The good side about gameplay is the fact that you have a choice between the alright selection of 
 captains. Each having their own skills and megastrikes. It is also nice that they added some of 
 the original stadiums from the first game. What is also good is the fact that you can select from 
 different sidekicks each having their own unique abilites and skills.
  
  A very positive thing that they have added in the game however, mentioned before, is the Wi-Fi. 
 This makes the game a lot more fun. It also helps to play on Wi-Fi before starting the story mode. 
 Especially when you get the Striker Cup and it becomes very difficult. However, if you don't have 
 Wi-Fi the game becomes kind of short and repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7Xfan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 9, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  AN arcade game that feels finely tuned. You can make your own strategy, figure out how and when 
 you use power-ups, and adjust to the opposition. That last one is actually a big factor. You play 
 a 3 game series when you play online and in case you don't notice during the match you take a quick 
 look at a few important stats between matches. Namely % of the time you controlled the ball, steals, 
 hits, skill shots (your sidekicks shots) , and Mega Strikes (captains shots.) .
  If you see your opponent has 15 hits and 2 steals there's two things I do to adjust my strategy. 
 1-I make sure I use my items fast (hitting a guy on the other team who doesn't have the ball gives 
 their team an item.) . So if they're hitting you a lot it's likely many of those times you were 
 hit you didn't have the ball. And seeing as you can only carry two items at once it would be in 
 your best interest to use your power ups quick so you can get more of them to use to your advantage. 
 2-pass a lot and lure them into hitting you to gain more items.
  
  So that's just one of many of the little things you look out for.
  
  What else feels balanced 
 about the game play? There's a counter for everything if you take the time to learn the counters. 
 At first it seems that there's no other way to look at it, the Hammer Bros. sidekick is a cheap 
 advantage... But if you have someone on your team who can slide tackle and know how and when yo 
 use it the Hammer Bros won't be scoring much. (I personally prefer Birdo over the Hammer Bros. 
 because so long as there's a clear line between Birdo and the goal you'll score. however that doesn't 
 necessarily happen every game.) You can always use your evade move to dodge slide tackles and hits, 
 but again you leave yourself vulnerable the for a split second after you do it and a good defensive 
 player will fake you out as if trying to steal the ball then only after you've tried your evade 
 move will it take it away. A good balance and mind game there.
  
  So you get the idea there's a lot to like and you can form your own personal way to play. Again 
 personally I'm a Waluigi player I'm the only one I know but most people I encounter play someone 
 different.
  
  So the one area where this game somewhat falters is the goalies. There's about one shot every other 
 game that is questionable as to whether or not it should have been in and you or the other player 
 gets a goal for it but on the plus side its not something large because megastrikes are all manual 
 and skill shots are earned. Also don't expect to score no matter how well you set up a play, unless 
 you have the ball glowing yellow or white.
  
  Presentation is decent music and sound effects won't necessarily get in your way but you are forced 
 to watch most cutscenes... I don't know why they would make you watch them all. The chaos is all 
 over the pitch in this game at all times, but you'll almost always know exactly what you're doing, 
 Obstacles that get in your way won't make you angry necessarily, you just gotta find ways around 
 them even if you lose one player for a couple seconds.
  Totally serviceable just not outstanding.
  
  Finally for content there's enough of it here 
 to warrant a purchase. The Striker Cup won't take more than 5 or 6 hours to beat on both difficulties 
 (if you have some experience with this game coming in.) It might take you less, but then there's 
 a series of challenges which unlock cheats which are really just modifiers that spice up the games 
 you play against friends. Things like no skillshots or megashots .
  
  The real fun in this game of course lies in online, and so far there's been some lag but its not 
 a problem to play through at all. and the competition is good too. Unfortuneately the quitters 
 can frustrate you if only because I was beating a guy 20-something to 2 and he quit with less than 
 2 seconds left. Yea not great.
  The last thing of mention here is that when playing online you get 1 point per goal, 1 point for 
 losses, and 10 points for wins. (The matches are 3 minutes long.)
  And so each week is considered a season and there's leaderboards. There's leader boards for you 
 and your friends to compare against each other, where you stack up daily, who the daily leaders 
 are, where you stack up for the season, and who the season leaders are.
  
  With this game I finally am starting to feel a sense of community amongst Wii users. There's finally 
 good interaction to be had with each other and it works great and is entirely wireless. Along with 
 Wii Sports and Wario Ware THIS GAME DESERVES SERIOUS MULTIPLAYER ATTENTION. (this single player 
 though is rewarding and fun) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ucanimurself
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  I personally think the online isn't bad reason being, people online can be sore losers. I versed 
 two people yesterday and the online connection was a four star rating. THe person quit at the last 
 10 seconds of the match and i was about to win. Not by a ton either just one point. I think this 
 game would be really cool if the ranked system wasn't just a number but also the quality of the 
 players skills. A person can keep going up in the rank by shutting off their system. I also agree 
 with others when they say this game is more of a completion of the first Mario strikers. Other 
 then that I think this game can be entertaining but i don't see myself obsessed with this game, 
 which is why I gave it a 7.5. But I still believe this game will be one of the best on the Wii 
 for online game play for a while. Hope this helps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasafetch
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 9, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game and played through the campaign I was pretty disappointed and planned 
 to never to play it again. thankfully, the multiplayer is a whole different story. This game is 
 the best when it comes to playing with a group of friends. granted, it takes some time for them 
 to learn the controls and how the game works, but one all is said and done the fun really begins 
 to shine. I played this with a kid at the day camp I work at and we got into a 30 minute match. 
 The game was so intense that everyone in the room had set up chairs to watch the match and cheer. 
 Not to mention, this game has the best graphic son the Wii so far. The gameplay is top notch and 
 ridiculously addicting. it does get repetitive after a while but I mean hey.... it's soccer. How 
 can it not be repetitive? Bottom line, if you're the type that loves to have group gatherings, 
 then this the game for you. Otherwise, you should rent it before you ponder about purchasing it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metaknight36
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  Mario strikers charged is much better than the first game im addicted to it ill play along time 
 and not get bored! the online is just amazing unless you get a laggy game theres some things you 
 might find annoying hammer spammers with thier deke but once you learn how to counter it its easy 
 to win. then you have disconnecters they are afraid of losing so when your about to win bam! they 
 disconnect. the single player is ridicuosly easy at first then it becomes ridicusly hard. there 
 are 16 stages and 12 characters mario luigi peach daisy wario waluigi yoshi bowser bowser junior 
 petey diddy and donkey kong. 8 sidekicks toad boo koopa monty mole dry bones hammer bro and shy 
 guy. 3 cups fire crystal and striker. this game is amazing you can do mega strikes blay online 
 single player challenge mode pick this game up and it rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wazzo_Wisto_2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 8, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Well it's a great game with a good game play and the super strikers or whatever they're called 
 are even better than the Gamecube version also the online play is awesome, I was amazed and shocked 
 because I didnt knew when it was going to be released so when I saw 30 July I almost pooped my 
 pants . the graphics are like every nintendo game always getting better and I must say every character 
 looks great it just doesnt need to be in high definition . The thing I still don't like is that 
 the cups are way too boring but the online play makes that be just crap.
  
  it's definitely a must-buy so if you don't have it start to save money bcause it is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowX718
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 10, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  The Good..
  $Multi player is awesome , especially online makes you feel good when you win :]
  $ More sidekick 
 characters to choose from each with a different super shot $ Blocking mega-strikes is a cool little 
 mini game $ Lots weapons to use.
  $ Much better than the first
  $ Lots of things to do to keep you busy, like challenges, Wi-fi online, 3 Cups
  $ Great Graphics
 
  
  Now the ugly...
  * One Player mode can be very frustrating, because of the difficulty rising rapidly each cup you 
 play
  * If you lose to the Champion Or Finals you have to go allll the way back to start which is really 
 a pain in the ass
  * Tackling Function is so overpowered
  * Computers can control all players at once instead of switching * Cheap shots from computers can 
 really piss you off too while you do the same but get blocked...
  
  In Spite of that its a real good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 8, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  While Europe has been playing strikers Charged for some time now the United States had to play 
 the terrible Pokemon Battle Revolution.. Its not that the game was all that bad it jsut never gave 
 you your money's worth and there was little options if you did not own D/P.. that was the first 
 online game that America had and a few players bought into it but most were feeling something empty 
 and wanting more in both the online and offline play.. now that Mario Strikers finally came to 
 the States we get to try out the first Real multiplayer online game that is so fun!
  
  lets talk about the Offline game for staters.. when you first play the game you are welcomed with 
 a beautiful opening cut scene. Then you get to the actual game.. You have Strikers 101 that shows 
 you how to play when you first start.. then there is a mission mode where you complete task like 
 one being with Diddy Kong where you need to score 7 goals to become the youngest player to score 
 100 goals.. stuff like that it makes you try different players and sidekicks that you never thought 
 of doing before.. another new thing is the sidekicks.. in the first one you could not pick em.. 
 now this one you have many different sidekicks to choose from all having strengths and weakness.. 
 so it you can pick what kinds of sidkicks fit on your team. Also they each have there speical shot 
 like Hammer Bros. where he throws hammers at the nearest person/s and shoots.. usally if you do 
 it right its an automatic goal.. then the Captains have there shots too only theres are a bit different.. 
 you charge up how many balls are comming towards the goalie. The Goalie has to block the balls 
 using the wii remote this is one of the few motion scenser parts of the game besides shaking your 
 wrist to tackle.. Its pretty easy to block but it you aim it right it can be hard to block them 
 all.. these shots can really change the outcome of a match. Then there is the Stanard Cup mode 
 where you beat players in the road for cups and trophies.. this is very shallow and seemed to be 
 an after thought.. plus the computer ai is mean hard and with one game elimination it can get frusteration 
 when you get all the way to the finals loose 2 games (finals best out of 3) and have to start agian 
 for the beggining.. but its the only way to unlock players so you can play em offline.. then there 
 is multiplayer mode where you can play with the guy next to you.. of cource its fun because this 
 game is a great multiplayer game! where jsut about anyone can pick it up and have fun with it..
 
  
  Now we get to the online part.. Online is something we have all wanted for a long time for the 
 wii now we get to play it! the computer gets you a random match with a random player and you play 
 a best of 3 series.. its fun and you really find out how many ways you can play this game.. i have 
 yet to meet someone online who did the same techniques as another person.. simular perhaps but 
 they all have something different.. There is also online leaderboard and rankings that is also 
 very very cool.. also you get to use your mii's as your on screen avatars.. you can also play 4 
 players where you team up! so you have different options online..
  
  The game is Crazy.. there are powerups, items, dodge moves, Stages that have cows comming in or 
 lazers blasting away teamates.. it can get confusing... sometimes fate descides who wins not you 
 : ( craziness can change a game..
  
  Overall if you don't have Wi Fi or any multiplayer then this game might be shallow and lame for 
 you unless you like playing the computer.. but since this game improved a lot from its Gamecube 
 Mario Strikers game and With the first Real online game you have to pick this up for the enjoyment 
 of playing with anyone!
  
  Gameplay: its Crazy.. but fun everything in Mario as far as items and super shots are here! Plus 
 online is lag free for the most part
  Graphics: Great Looking Wii game and a great opening scene but its nothing too too Special and 
 still could use improvements
  Sound: Each Player has there own music and sound effects are really cartoony and enjoyable
  Value: 
 With online play i could see this game lasting a long time plus with 3 cups and various challenges 
 it will last you for a little bit
  Overall: its a fun Mario Sports game but a better single player mode and maybe cut down a little 
 on the craziness would have made this game better.. but the fact that true online game is finally 
 here gets a special place and will be remembered for a long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shanerfin
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 8, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  This game had great potential but is not really good. The computers are my biggest complaint. They 
 are either really easy or overly cheap. I think nintendo has trouble with their difficulty settings 
 but thats beside the point. Overall if you have friends to play with and like online you should 
 consider this game. If you want a good fun single player skip this and buy mp3. If you are debating 
 strikers I highly reccomend you rent it first. I really did'nt enjoy this game as much as I thought 
 i would just because it was from nintendo. Nintendo has not really dissapointed me lately until 
 this. Lets hope the futures brighter. Thank you for your time and go ahead and give this game a 
 rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llama1107
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Caution, before reading my review know that I have only received the chance to play the multiplayer 
 section of his game. IT WAS AWESOME! This game is great. The sounds are perfect, the view is great, 
 the game is fun, and it keeps you and your friends entertained. Note: I said sounds, the music 
 plain old sucks, a lot, until you reach sudden death (when time runs out and the score is even) .
 
  
  The good: awesome multiplayer; good choice of characters; creative and fun; great controls, taking 
 advantage of the Wii remote and nunchuk; good gameplay including cool shots and abilities; perfect 
 difficulty; great graphics; perfect amount of chaos; relies on skill and luck; great design of 
 fields, player positions, and events
  
  The Bad: music sucks, really; not enough diversity in stats of characters; could be more diverse 
 as far as how many players on the field and more abilities
  
  This game could be improved upon, but for the most part, its really fun.
  
  --Replay Ability: 
 like Gamecube's Mario Kart (8/10 replay value... sometimes gets old, but usually, your up for it)
 
  --Fun Level: like N64's original Super Smash Bros. (10/10 fun... twists and turns and all fun)
 
  
  All games I review, I like to give a dollar value to, I think Mario Stikers Charged should be unquestionably 
 bought from $40- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PecansAreNuts
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 7, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Mario Strikers Charged, I was a bit skeptical. I had never really enjoyed the 
 first game of the Strikers series, and wondered if this experience would be any different, but 
 I was thrilled and surprised when I got through my first match. Everything was exciting and over 
 the top, and reminded what a Mario sports game is all about, and that is re-inventing the wheel. 
 You see, when I played Super Mario Strikers, the first edition of the soccer series, I didn't find 
 anything particularly wrong with it, but just the fact that it used more of a traditional soccer 
 game formula, and not the zany, wacky, experience that The Mario Factory was so famous for cranking 
 out of the assembly line every six months. I could get the same gameplay from a FIFA game, which 
 is another series I enjoy, but not one I expect to have an ape and princess dueling it out in. 
 Charged dared to be innovative and the result is arguably my favorite Wii game since Twilight Princess.
 
  
  Strikers gameplay does not heavily rely on the motion-sensors for movement, but instead uses the 
 Wii's Nunchuk attachment to control most of the running. I find this completely natural, and enjoy 
 brutally tackling players with a simple flick of the Wiimote. As I mentioned earlier, I loved the 
 new features in this games including the skillshot and mega-strike. They make the game feel fast-paced 
 and intense, and along with the games surprisingly hard difficulty, it proves that Nintendo really 
 can go balls-to-the-wall. Graphics and sound are fairly solid. The one thing I do have a problem 
 with do is the repetitive noises and background music. But then again this is Nintendo I'm talking 
 about. Lets face it, they are never going to include a real soundtrack with real artists, and I 
 don't think I would like that anyway, but a bit more instrumental, funky music would be nice, just 
 a little. Still I'm perfectly happy with what I've got.
  
  My favorite feature of all in this game is Wi-Fi. Seriously, why didn't Nintendo do this early? 
 And when they did why did they put in some crappy Pokemon game? Questions like these may never 
 be answered, but what is certain is they nailed it perfectly in Charged. Playing with people around 
 the world for top spots makes the replay value infinite. And along with everything else thats seems 
 so damn long to write but so fast to read, the game is great and exceeds expectations, just like 
 good games have done for so long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: studwig
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 7, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  If your wii isn't online i might think twice about getting this one but if it is online this game 
 is a must have. The single player mode against the computer is either really easy or ridiculously 
 hard. The online play is awesome especially if you know a lot of people with wii online and can 
 use the friend codes. Even if you don't the ranked play where you play random people is fun too. 
 The charachters all have their own unique moves and stats that make them fit your style of play. 
 For example Bowser has a mean shot but is slower than sin while Mario is faster but has a weaker 
 shot. The sidekicks also have unique styles and shots to help you win that striker cup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 7, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is the sequel to the Gamecube soccer based Mario game. Like its predecessor, 
 Charged is also a soccer game, but really only in concept.
  As you start out the game, you'll first notice that the controls are incredibly easy to get a handle 
 on. Within a couple of minutes, you'll find yourself progressively getting better and better at 
 the game. You move with the nunchuk's analog stick, shoot with B, and pass with A. Simplicity takes 
 priority in Mario Strikers Charged, because if you are looking for a true soccer game, this isn't 
 it.
  Before you start any game you are given the option of picking out a team captain (one of twelve, 
 four being unlockable) , and three sidekicks of your choice, each of which has their own special 
 attributes. Picking a team that suits your own skills is often what makes this game so enjoyable, 
 because while you may utterly stink with one team, you could have extraordinary skills with another. 
 Once gameplay begins, the fast paced action begins. From the moment the game starts to its finish, 
 you won't dare drop your controller. Your eyes need to be permanently glued to the television screen 
 for the duration of the game to be able to win a match. The ball is constantly being passed around 
 the stage, shots at the goal being taken left and right, and madness occuring everywhere you look. 
 Turtle shells will go flying and characters will be smacking each other everywhere you look. If 
 it weren't for Mario's usual E rating, I would say that this were more of a blood sport than a 
 friendly game of soccer. You'll find that you'll be smacking people with your characters more than 
 shooting the goal, which is done by slightly shaking the remote. Believe it or not, this small 
 use of the remote actually adds to the experience, as having to reach for another button so frequently 
 would probably be very strenuous. In reality, the remote's motion sensing function is used very 
 little in Mario Strikers Charged. The only other use of the remote in the game is the goalie blocking 
 mini-game, which will be initiated when a team captain fires their megastrike shot, which essentially 
 is a super powered kick by your captain. The mini-game also adds a nice touch to the game, and 
 adds more to the experience than you would think.
  To sum up what Mario Strikers is about, it's more about taking down your opponent while they're 
 not looking and THEN shooting a goal. Most games you will find that only one or two goals are scored, 
 because frankly in the midst of all the action hardly anyone will have the oppurtunity to score 
 a goal. Mario Strikers Charged features four different modes, a Versus mode for local multiplayer, 
 a single player mode that is setup in Cups , similar to Mario Kart, a Challenge mode, and of course 
 a Wi-Fi mode. If nothing else, Mario Strikers Charged is a great multiplayer game. Sure, you'll 
 still have a lot of fun playing against the A. I., but the multiplayer is what makes this game worth 
 its retail price. Local multiplayer of course is here, for up to four players (two on a team) , 
 but more noticeable is the online multiplayer. While Mario Strikers Charged is certainly a better 
 take on online multiplayer than Pokemon Battle Revolution, it still has its share of issues. Most 
 of the time you'll get a good connection and have a nice relatively lag free game, but other times 
 you'll see that the connection is horribly laggy or disconnects frequently. Why this goes in spurts, 
 I do not know, but it is an issue that Nintendo needs to fix. Luckily, Wi-Fi consists of a ranked, 
 random match up system for Wi-Fi, as well as friend codes. A leaderboard is also included in the 
 Wi-Fi setup to add some extra replay value to the game as well.
  In addition to all of these great gameplay aspects, the audio and visuals are worth mentioning 
 as well. The graphics are very flashy, and, in a word, shiny. Some of the character models look 
 a little jagged, but the stages are pretty creative and the textures are great in the fire themed 
 stages... and elsewhere too, of course. The audio on the other hand isn't quite as nice. It isn't 
 bad, but it isn't good either. Some of the music unfortunately sounds reminiscent of elevator music, 
 intentional or not I do not know, and some of the character's themes are very unbalanced. Since 
 when does Luigi have mexican music play as his theme? Since when does Waluigi have a banjo playing 
 for his theme music? Ah well, maybe next time.
  Overall, Mario Strikers Charged is a great game, especially for those looking for a game to break 
 up the long summer drought. It is a great multiplayer game, and offers a lot of replay value with 
 its many modes. While sometimes the A. I. is a little ridiculous, and some of the characters are 
 very uneven in skill, Mario Strikers Charged ultimately offers a fun arcade style soccer experience 
 that almost anyone can enjoy, sports fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suker009
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 6, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  I'll separate this in 3 categories, Comaprision to original, offline, online. I bought this game 
 on release date and had many excpectations. As many of you already know this is the sequel to Super 
 Mario Strikers for NIntendo Gamecube.
  
  I would like to start out with comparing this game to the old one. Before I even bought this game 
 I thought it would be very similiar to the original with a couple of add ons, DEFINITLEY NOT. The 
 game has improved so much, from sidekicks to stages. First of all the games uses the new intuitive 
 Wii remote and sensoring capabailities and it feels comfortable. All new controls and diffrent 
 ways of scoring. Super strikes to mega strikes, instead of a guaranteed 2 goals from the original 
 it is possible to score 3-6 goals from one mega-strike. Mega-strikes can only be performed by the 
 team captain. When a player charges the shoot long enough with their captain the will perform a 
 Mega-strike, now what makes this game use the wii remote, the player who is on the recieveing end 
 of the mega-strike will be able to block some if not all of the shots taken. Team selection is 
 very strategic in charged compared to the original. Each sidekick has different strebghts and weakneses 
 and not only that each sidekick also has ver unique shots and tackles. As for captains, each captain 
 has their own special power-up and also srenghts and weakneses. There are 7 new stages ( if I am 
 not mistaken ) and plus the originals from the gamecube version. There are some new captains and 
 sidekicks and I will not ruin it for anybody but expect fun. Overall it is definitley better than 
 the original.
  
  Online: This game is a blast online even though it might take some time to get full jist of it. 
 When online you can play friends and see who's better or can play ranked matches which gives you 
 points on the season charts. You even get points if you lose. The games are three minute best of 
 3 series. You select your captain and sidekicks and the stage is chosen randomly. If you win a 
 game you get 10 points plus an additional point for every goal you score. If you lose you get a 
 point plus an additional point for every goal you score. The seasons are short and sweet. Season 
 are a week long and the player who has the most points wins. The ranks completely reset at the 
 end of each season the players get a chance for the top spot every week. One bad thing onine is 
 what people call spamming. Spamming is excesive use of a move or play. I want to TELL everybody 
 right now every single move or deke is 100% counterable. I have heard many people say its impossible 
 to win online and get anywhere because of spamming. Its possible and very easy to counter once 
 you get the hang of it. Another online problem that I've heard of and expirienced is Dis-connecting. 
 Dis-Connectors are people who turn of their wii's when they are losing, when you dis-connect you 
 lose points and it still counts as a lose for them. This is the only possible way in the game to 
 LOSE points. This people may get annoying but remember they lose points. Now for battling friends 
 online, you and friends exchange codes and play when both of you are connected. When play in friend 
 mode you chose the settings unlike ranked mode. To conclude this paragraph you are able to play 
 this game 2 player online from one wii. So you and a friend can verse other couples also.
  
  Offline: LIke the original this game is fun when you have a couple of friends over. I would 
 still recommend this game offline but only multiplayer with friends and family. This is exciting 
 and very enjoyable with other people offline. If you are gonna play with yourself offline this 
 game will last two weeks. There are cups and new challenges but will not be that fun offline with 
 your lone some. So I do not recommend this one player offline.
  
  My overall expirience with this game is very satisfied and I have only had this game for 6 days. 
 I hope i have inspired someone to go out and buy this game.
  
  suker009 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 6, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  The original Mario Strikers game was a sleeper hit and fans saw the potential in the game and demanded 
 more. Well now, we got it in a game that is better than the original in every way possible. Right 
 off the bat you see that the presentation like the menues are looking much better than in the original, 
 you can also see that there is more stuff to do in single player when compared to the orignal game. 
 The gameplay is greatly improved as well. With each captain and sidekick having it's own abilities 
 and so many great items, the game can be very hectic and you never feel like you played the same 
 game over and over. There are also little tweaks like charging the ball while passing to make a 
 more powerful and fast strike. The game is very addictive especially with the addition of online 
 play. The game has ranked matches, leaderboards, and 4 player multiplayer. This is one of the best 
 showcases of Wii's online so far and is a good sign of online Wii games to come. It's very easy 
 to find a match and lag rarely occurs.
  
  The graphics are more detailed than in the original, the crowd and levels look better each with 
 its own enviromental hazard. There are nice effects all over the place. The music was a little 
 dissapointing to me, the music is kind of bland even though each character has it's own music theme. 
 Besides that the game is awesome and should be played by anyone that has a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 6, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged will forever be known as Nintendo's first true online multiplayer game.
 
  
  But its single-player campaigns are decent, thankfully with much more depth than the previous game, 
 Super Mario Strikers for the GameCube.
  
  Playable characters can be unlocked by winning tournaments, and cheats can be unlocked as well 
 for scoring and defensive milestones.
  
  There are many new stadiums, as well as all the venues from the previous game.
  
  The best 
 part of Mario Strikers Charged is its multiplayer. Nintendo really pulled it off. It's easy to 
 connect online, find an opponent and play a best-of-three.
  
  It's immensely entertaining to know that you're competing against a real human online in this hilarious, 
 over-the-top soccer game.
  
  The controls can be frustrating at first, and very physically intensive. But it's a lot of fun, 
 and the game looks and sounds great, too.
  
  Mario Strikers Charged is a must-buy for Wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BVP16
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is one of the funnest games I've ever played. The game is basically the 
 same as the last game Story wise. I would say that the Game Play is Tripled, but i never played 
 the first one.
  
  One of Wii's first online titles also turns out Really well. The Ranking system is Pretty good. 
 For those who hate Disconnecter's You still do not gain point for there Disconnecting, but they 
 lose 5 points. But make sure you're Internet Connection is good, Because if you lose Connection, 
 You lose points. Yes, somewhat frustrating if you have a bad Connection. but make sure you have 
 a good one cause other wise it's a hell of a fun time playing online.
  
  Graphics are Great, Characters and Visuals and so on look Great. 480p and 16:9 make it all the 
 better.
  
  Sound is so so, Different little Genres for each player, Little Rock riffs, bongos, trumpets, so 
 on.
  
  Once again, This game is one of the Funnest Wii games out there. The Online play is Great, and 
 Multi player Online or Offline is Awesome.
  
  Tons of Unlockables, many Challenges, and a Nice Single player that gets harder and harder as you 
 get farther.
  
  If you have a Wii this game is a must buy. This is one of the Funnest games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timinator18
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 5, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario strikers charged is the first game on Wii to do online right. there are still the annoying 
 friend codes, but with online leader boards, point systems, lag-free multiplayer, and 4 player 
 matches its easy enough to forgive. the game features a pretty good single player experience, but 
 if thats the reason you bought this game, then you're out of luck. the game truly shines when you 
 go online and face against human competition. the computer is very passive, and wont go on an all 
 out attack. When you go online, there are so many people flying around, bombs going off, shots 
 being fired at the net that it can be overwhelming. this game can easily suck up hours of your 
 time in one sitting if you go on a winning streak. The game manages to stay fresh compared to its 
 predecessor. The game adds some strategy with sidekicks. You can now choose 4 separate sidekicks 
 each with different attributes and special shots. its a good way to balance out your team with 
 shooters, passers, sprinters or defenders. Each sidekick has a different type of special shot that 
 they can perform when the meter is charged up. alot of these abilities can lead to an automatic 
 goal if you position yourself correctly on the field. if you stand to far from the net, you wont 
 reach. if you stand too close, the goalie can tackle you. sometimes if someone is standing between 
 you and the goalie, your shot wont reach the goalie either. The graphics in this game are actually 
 impressive. i dont think this game could have been done on the gamecube. There is alot of stuff 
 going on lag free. The character megashots have some really nice effects that are much better looking 
 than the old gamecube strikers game. Also, the croud looks absolutely amazing. there are like 1000 
 characters in the stands jumping around, and they dont look that bad either. not like in the old 
 gamecube strikers game where they looked like paper. the music in this game is also very good. 
 its too bad that there wasnt enough variety. i would have liked to see more of it too. you only 
 get to hear the good music during character intros. the bottom line is that this game has some 
 crazy good multiplayer, and you must play if u have wifi. if you dont play online, then i guess 
 you hate having fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 5, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is the first online game for Wii that's worth mentioning. The online servers 
 may have been crashing a lot when the game was first released, but they seem to be working much 
 better now. Like in the GameCube original, you select a team captain and some teammates to hit 
 the field. Unlike the previous game, you can select different sidekicks to aid your team, each 
 with various special skillshots and attributes. In addition, the super strike from Super Mario 
 Strikers returns, but with many modifications. It's now known as a mega strike , and it enables 
 your captain to launch anywhere from 3 to 6 balls at the goal. Unlike the super strike, though, 
 the mega strikes can be blocked in a goalie mini-game that appears after the shot is launched. 
 The action in this game is much more intense than the original, and the AI is smarter than ever, 
 maybe a little too smart. The game is really easy at first, but like Mario Hoops for DS, the difficulty 
 ramps up significantly as you progress through the cups. It's going to take a lot of practice to 
 conquer the final Striker Cup! In addition to the cups, there are also some Striker Challenges 
 to complete, which can be used to unlock various cheats in the offline modes. Finally there is 
 the ability to battle it out online, and the good news is, you don't need friend codes! Well, if 
 you want to battle your friends online, you'll use them, but the seasonal ranked matches won't 
 use the FC's. Anyone who was disappointed with Pokemon Battle Revolution's bare bones online should 
 check out Mario Strikers Charged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinofan01
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  When you first start the game and finish the tutorial you become so excited during the gameplay. 
 You feel great when you pull off a nice move. But as the game continues it gets harder. The game 
 can be so hard and frustrating you just shut off your Wii. Some of the content seems impossible 
 to reach because of the difficulty. The game can become to exciting. To many items can be on the 
 screen at once and the hits are constant making it almost impossible to get off a good kick. Online 
 play is usually great but can get some bad lag. Overall a solid purchase I only sugget the game 
 if you like the characters or the original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACDC19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  If you love high paced challenging games with great multiplayer, Mario Strikers Charged is the 
 game for you. First we'll start out with the controls. They don't use much of the wii motes motion 
 sensing ability but the controls are still great. You will have these controlls mastered within 
 30 minutes. You'll be tackling and doing Megastrikes in no time. But lets talk about the motion 
 sensing in this game. To tackle simpily shake the wiimote. And whenever someone does a megastrike 
 you become the goalie. You simply point the wiimote at the screen and press A over the oncoming 
 soccor balls. It is suprisingly very fun and its a nice little addition to this game
  
  Now to get to the graphics on this game. They're simply amazing especially when you do the megastrikes. 
 The character models all look great even during gameplay. The playing fields are also magnificent. 
 And there is a wide variety of fields to play on. So overall this game is a very good looking game.
 
  
  Now lets get to the gameplay. It is very very addicting and fast paced. You are constantly passing, 
 shooting, and tackling and that is very satisfying. This is one of those games where you just can't 
 turn it off you have to keep playing. And on this game you will have plenty to play with. Which 
 brings me to the replayability of this game.
  
  The replayability of this game is very high. Mostly because of the online. Which makes this game 
 a must buy. The online is great but Nintendo could of made this game to have alot better online 
 experience. For example there is no way of communication on online. Not even text chat. And Nintendo 
 once again made you have to use the stupid friend codes. And this game is region locked meaning 
 you can only play people in your country. But all in all its a great online game.
  
  So if your Wii is collecting dust and you want a game that will last you a long time, look no further 
 then Mario Strikers Charged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alfear
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is really a great game, it is better than its predecessor in many ways and 
 anyone who wants to play a good game that provides pure fun should at least try it. Graphics are 
 good compared to other Wii games. The gameplay is excellent because it involves the player into 
 the action of a Mario version of soccer very well and it is highly addictive. The Wi-Fi connection 
 the game has is very good and you can fight for a better position on a leaderboard by scoring points 
 on matches. This is one of the best multiplayer games seen until now for the Wii and I think that 
 is really worth the time you spend playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 5, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Hiya, Sugar here! I got this game yesterday, and it's cool!!!
  
  Gameplay (9/10) -
  Great game! It's a mixture of basketball and soccer! It may sound really boring, but it actually 
 is pretty fun and pretty easy in the beginning in story mode, but then it just gets really challenging 
 right after! It's pretty annoying after a while cuz then you start losing and losing.... for me, 
 anyway. Dunno about you guys!
  
  Graphics (8/10) -
  Same old graphics you'd probably see in any Mario game! Pretty chaotic and stuff! Coolness!
  
 
  Sound (9/10) -
  Music is cool and booming.... and stuff! The sound is usually some hitting sounds.... I dunno... pretty 
 cool sound. :)
  
  Value (9/10) -
  Worth all the money you spent on this game! Long lasting! For me, anyway!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt 
 (9/10) -
  Awesome game with coolness in every corner!
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (9/10) -
  It's a great game and it's got cool Gameplay, Sound, and all that but then after some hours of 
 gameplay, you'll scream BORING . But still great and enjoyable to play and is rtecommended for 
 all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dplummer18
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 5, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I really like the look of this game, but it just isn't fun. The first cup you play for is too easy, 
 and then second cup is too frustrating. The AI is too fast and very cheap. You get hit all the 
 time, and have no time to set up any scoring plays. During the striker cup the computer shut me 
 out 4 times. It so frustrating when you think you have a goal, you get hit from no where, and the 
 computer takes the ball down the field and scores. I'm trading this game back in ASAP. Save yourself 
 50 bucks, and rent it instead; then take it back a week later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TPShaydee
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  This is an addicting multiplayer game. The thing I like most about multipplayer is getting my butt 
 kicked by someone, observing what they did with special moves and tactics, and then applying that 
 to my own game. However there are a few annoying moves out there (hammer brothers deke anyone?) , 
 but can be overcome with good skill and practice. Definately a must have for multiplayer wii fanatics. 
 I hope they can add content to the game since it is online, that would put the icing on the cake. 
 The wii is the first system of its generation that I have purchased, and I plan on sticking with 
 them if they keep turning out great multiplayer (free a la no online fee) games like Mario Strikers 
 Charged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banksyrpaul101
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers is that typical of Nintendo spin off products; great concept, pretty good gameplay, 
 spoonful's of humour and originality, utterly runied by incompetent implementation of AI and excessive 
 levels of luck based results. Much like the Mario Party's (different developer granted) and Mario 
 Kart's what should be an enjoyable romp is turned into a quagmire of frustration and anger. The 
 game is simply totally broken in Single-player mode. Whilst the dearth of options for single play 
 is a major bug-bear the failure to recognise simple means of aleviating player frustration is evidenced 
 everywhere. Why Nintendo, and their sub-developers, feel the need to make you trawl through a multitude 
 of matches, taking around an hour, before robbing you of victory, quite literally, in a final which 
 causes the need to replay the whole thing is anybody's guess. Why a simple re-play of the final's 
 option isn't implemented stinks of arrogance and narrow-mindness. Worse the later cup competitions 
 are marked by farcical AI and the feeling of playing against ever increasing and unfair odds. You 
 can quite easily play a whole match smashing twenty or more fully charged and worked shots at the 
 computer opponent, with their keeper saving every single one, just to see one shot from the opposition, 
 from the half way line and not charged just trickle over your line for a 1-0 defeat. It's both 
 utterly deflating and a serious source of ire that will rob the game of all it's fun value. Worse 
 the additions of weapons is severly poorly worked out. Most of your own weapons can quite easily 
 devestate your own players to the extent bombs, for one example, dropped by yourself can actually 
 aim at your players gifting the opposition victory. The Captain's special moves are also badly 
 unbalanced, with Bowser JR's being utterly useless whilst Wario's is nigh on guarneteed to open 
 up a mega-strike e each time.
  
  The Mega-strikes are also a source of major problems. There is simply no logical consistency to 
 them. A rushed shot with three balls, and poor power will often result in two goals whilst a perfect 
 shot of six at full power can yield as little as one quite frequently. There feels little relation 
 between your actions and the results, a criminal flaw for a video game. Somewhat luckily for the 
 game however all these problems seep away in multi-player, where luck can be traded off as part 
 of the action and where the mega-strikes and opponents are far more balanced. The game in it's 
 multiplayer incarnation is a revelation, both fun and utterly exhausting where the line between 
 victory and faliure is tight. It's also away from the single player mode where the character slection 
 can shine. The ability to pick from a variety of sub players to augment your captain allows a high 
 level of customisation that makes your team feel like it's your's. The variety of special moves, 
 and the range of characters available adds much needed depth that allows the game to reach out 
 beyond it's short-comings. As a vehicle to promote the new online features of the Wii machine it's 
 a valid and successful choice.
  
  The range of stadia, and the unique personalities each holds is also a source of much inspiration, 
 and can alter the gameplay so dramatically so as to add genuine reasons to re-challenge your opponent 
 of a field of your choosing.
  
  It's just such a shame that so much that's good is let down by the mass of what's bad. A simple 
 bit of thought and fairness is all that's needed but once again a game bearing the Nintendo name 
 is let down by their unnerving desire to make luck such a potent element. Whilst you can relate 
 their reasons in a multi-player, balancing out the level between experienced and non-experienced 
 gamers, it is utterly unnecessary in the single-player incarnation and the travesty is that you 
 end up feeling so little control over the results of your efforts. This failure is only worsened 
 by the need to complete the single player to unlock many of the games secrets. A great game that's 
 been badly mis-handled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan543
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is a great game. A very complete game. Besides, is the first game to truly 
 introduce the WFC to the Wii. I know Pokemon Battle Revolution was the first Wii game to go online, 
 but lacked almost everything an online game must have. The game has a good presentation. The biggest 
 flaw is probably the graphics (and the lame friend codes, but everyoine already knew that) . Even 
 though you see a huge improvement since Super Mario Strikers, the graphics still look like a gamecube 
 game. The gameplay is terrific, the controls are just well made. This game will keep you entertained 
 for many hours, since it has an infinite replay value. Finally, this is probably one of the best 
 options for Wii owners, even if you don't like sports games, because this game offers a very wacky 
 and crazy soccer that it's nothing like FIFA or Winning Eleven. A must buy in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alleus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 5, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  So, here's the deal. I live in Europe, so I got this game a quite long time ago and I KNOW Gamespot 
 have totally underated this great and amusing game.
  
  I WOULD say that is all, but I guess I have to review the game myself to justify what I just wrote. 
 Okay so Mario Strikers Charged is a great game with very good multiplayer and long gameplay value. 
 Well, there isn't much else to do than play crazy (!) football, but it never gets dull. When having 
 a friend (or friendS) over you will have a blast playing this game! Anf if you get tired of playing 
 with the same people over and over again, just log into the online function and kick some butt 
 over the seas!
  
  Controls are great. Just simple enough for anyone to learn quick, but also complicated enough to 
 make combos and other strategies. Won't go into details, you'll have to see for yourself!
  
  The game's multiplayer is godo alright, but what about single player? Well, you've got a couple 
 of options here:
  Strikers cup: well, it's a cup basicly. You battle the CPU in different matches until you after 
 a while will meet the cup champion. Beat him and you will unlock him, simple as that. This mode 
 CAN be played with two players in one team (or more, dunno) if you wish, so it's both single- and 
 multiplayer.
  Striker challanges: missions with a time limit and an objective. Kinda simple, but good nonetheless 
 if you don't have anyone to play with or your internet connection is down.
  Doination mode: VS mode. Play with your friends against eachother, or play in teams against the 
 computer, your choice. GREAT warmup before playing a round or two online.
  
  Okay, so that was my review on the game. Might have missed something but hey, it's cool. So don't 
 listen to Gamespot or all the nay sayers, and trust me. It's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: materialweapon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  It's been a while since I wrote a review, so I'm here to review Mario Strikers Charged, for the 
 Nintendo Wii. As said in the review deck, this game definitely lacks in the single player aspect. 
 The Road to the Strikers Cup is the main mode, and frankly, it will only last about 2:30. The first 
 cup takes about a half an hour to beat, the second about 50 minutes and the third about and hour 
 and fifteen minutes. Other than that there's training that won't last long (Obviously) and there's 
 Striker Challenges that take about 45 minutes to complete them all. Thats it, thats the whole single 
 player mode. Pretty sad if you ask me.
  
  Single Player - 4/10
  
  Now the game's multi-player is a whole different story. If you've got someone to play with and 
 you have another Wiimote + Nunchuck your going to have quite some fun. That alone is very entertaining 
 and fun. That's not it though. The online mode is a major plus because of how fun and addicting 
 it is. I bought the game on release date, and everyday ever since I got it I've been playing about 
 10+ online matches a day. Yes, it's addicting and fun. They pulled it off; a fun online experience 
 for Wii. But, there is the occasional lag every now and then, but it doesn't really affect the 
 score because it's almost none-existent. Multiplayer - 8.5/10
  
  Now on to the basics.
  
  Sound 8/10: The music in this game is great and funky. The problem is, you'll be hearing it 
 over and over again. The sound is top-notch and what you would expect from a Mario sports game.
 
  
  Graphics 8/10: The graphics in this game are a little better than the original Strikers. Well sorry, 
 if you were expecting Gears of War graphics then you will be disappointed. Other than that the 
 environments are nice and the characters have a lot of detail in them.
  
  Value: It was explained at the top. Basically if you have Online and friends/family with a nunchuck 
 available the value is an 8.5/10. If you don't have any of those, the value is a low 4/10.
  
  GamePlay 8/10: They have added quite a few things to this sequel. but overall it's very fun 
 and top notch. Overall this game is a must-buy if you have online and a friend/family member to 
 play. If you don't have neither, then I do not recommend this game. It's as simple as that.
  
  Final score: 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 4, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun, and surprizingly really good graphics, gameplay is really fun, but only at 1 
 point you need to use the Wii Remote, goaltending, (and the main menu) . DUring goal tending you 
 really just movfe the remote to where the ball is, only showing hands, it could be better. I like 
 the characters, and there reactions during the short movies during gameplay. Super Strikes are 
 fun, and stadiums are cool. It equals out to be a great game. But, The cups are fairly short, I 
 could finish about 3 in a day, maybe more, but still, it is fun to reply them and unlock new items 
 and stadiums, if you have a Wii.... Buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eminem611
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 4, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  A fairly good game with okay graphics, didn't have high expectations due to the fact that it was 
 a Wii game. The game play is very intense but can get really chaotic and weird with the different 
 maps, and the random environmental events going on. Lightning hits the ball stunning everyone around 
 it. Lava erupts in the middle of the field blowing everyone near into the sky, etc. etc. Controls 
 are fairly simple and easy to get used-to and the wi-fi connection is pretty much lagless all the 
 time. That's all I have to say, pretty good game though should give it a try.
  
  The End
  The End
  The End
  The End
  The End
  The End
  The End
  The End
  The End
  The End
 
  The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End 
 The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RRR23
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 4, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charge is the new Super Mario Strikers that came out on the Gamecube Mario Strikers 
 Charge has more captains more sidekicks more arenas and more modes then the original. It has all 
 the original captains, sidekicks and arenas. It has new captains and arenas to unlock. Single player 
 is not the best but if you want all the captains arenas and cheats you have to win all the cups 
 and trophies. Multiplayer is were the game is the best you can have up to four players playing 
 local or you can play ONLINE with the Nintendo Wi-fi connection my Wii cant connect online so I 
 cant tell you haw its like I bet it is great anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 973849
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I will say right now that this is hands down the most addicting game for the wii. If you can connect 
 to the internet. I absolutely love this game, and right now is about the first time iv stopped 
 playing it since i bought it the day it came out. I had high expectations for this game due to 
 it being in my opinion the first online game for the wii. From the first time i sat down and played 
 my first seris online i knew i wouldnt be getting up for a while. Even as much as i love this game 
 the single player is truley awful. You will win 20-0 on normal and lose by the same score on hard. 
 But when you buy a mario sports game are you really looking for a great single-player experience? 
 Stick to the online and to playing with friends. My favorite part about the online system is the 
 ability to play 2 on 2 matches. The leader boards are great as well making a reason not to stop 
 playing so your ranking wont go down. The friends codes are stupid but who cares its not that big 
 of a deal. The worst part of the online is nt being able to communicate with your opponent. I dont 
 know how many times i have just wanted to completely bash my opponent right out of the game and 
 instead i end up yelling at a T. V monitor and people look at me like im crazy. I dont know if the 
 online play for this game will ever get boring but at this point i highly doubt it. An absolutely 
 great game. A must-buy for anyone with online connection and/or friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elbarto69
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 4, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is a very fun game that should at least be rented by every Wii owner. Not 
 only is it a visually beautiful game to play, it's also very fun, fast-paced, and you can play 
 it ONLINE! The single player game is certainly very enjoyable, but being able to play against others 
 online is where the real appeal is.
  
  To address one of Gamespot's points in their review: Yes, it can be a busy game at times. It's 
 only 4 against 4 (not including goalies) , but there are a few things that make it look rather chaotic:
 
  
  Every player can turn on a dime. This makes for quicker passing, which leads to more ball movement, 
 and thus more action on screen. Depending on which characters you choose, they may have different 
 running speeds, but being able to turn so quickly makes it easier to deke, which brings me to the 
 next thing that can make the game look chaotic.
  
  Every player has their own unique deke and charged shot. Some players like Mario or Bowser Jr. 
 have a simple deke, such as sliding or hiding in a shell with the ball, respectively. Others, such 
 as Boo or the mole (I forget the name) , disappear and reappear a few yards away or tunnel into 
 the ground with the ball and pop back up with it, sending nearby foes flying. These characters 
 also have similar charged shots. When you have 8 different players doing different dekes, and being 
 able to turn on a dime, there's potential to see a LOT of animations on screen at once.
  
  The powerups. Simply put, you can have up to two powerups at once (one usable and one stored) , 
 which vary from bananas to bombs to shells to unique powerups that only affect the team captain.
 
  
  However, I believe all of this adds to the game's excitement and fun. The game favors twitch players 
 over casual players, so it might not be fun to play with someone who's more of a casual gamer or 
 whose first enjoyable game was Wii Sports. The loading times are short, I don't believe I've waited 
 longer than 10 seconds for anything offline, it's usually just a few seconds here or there.
  
  The online play is a lot of fun, though I wish we could communicate with our opponents somehow. 
 It is kind of sad to have an amazingly close series with someone you don't know and then see them 
 whisked away, never to be seen again, without any chance to say, Good game! 
  
  My rating with this game reflects it as a whole, however if I were to rate the game WITHOUT its 
 online capability, I would give it an 8/10. Definitely check it out if you're into fast-paced, 
 quick thinking sports games with some Mario flair and an ability to go online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ash83
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 3, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who liked the original, but could never find anyone to play with will love this game, as 
 online play is pretty much all anyone who owns the game should play. I would have given this game 
 a 10, but the fact that you have to watch the opening cut scene before every online game is a waste 
 of time. My current record is 61-60 and I've only had the game since tuesday. This game gives wii 
 owners hope in the online arena, and makes the wii exciting as it was back in november. Once smash 
 brothers comes out, nintendo will finally cement itself as an online capable company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polishkid99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  i dont know.... theres just something about this game that i enjoy alot. there are alot of characters 
 to pick from mario to Donkey kong and, you get to pick 3 characters to be on your team for example 
 dry bones or or birdo. main characters like mario and luigi have diffrent stats and your side characters 
 have diffrents stats too. there are diffrent game modes to pick from to there online the strikers 
 cup and vs. online is probably the best one... but when you go to vs. mode theres game changes 
 like do you want to play for time or goals and diffulculty level. and theres also a cheat menu... 
 which i wont use.. when you start the game theres some boxes missing with characters that you can 
 unlock pick your player and then your partners and then staduims there all cool and theres alot 
 from the start and you can also unlock many and each stadium has diffrent things in it. you can 
 also get power ups in the accual gameplay like if your mario you can be super mario for about 10 
 seconds and there other things too like shells bombs and things like that. each character has its 
 own kinda smash move like in melee but its bigger and its a shot like luigi he lights the ball 
 on his green fire then it spins around him and he shoots it.
  
  anyways... this game is amazing and its great for any wii owner and for any soccer fan even if 
 your not a soccer fan you will still enjoy it. and its a must have for a wii owner. thanks for 
 reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilight_King85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  This game is good cause of online thats it really the story to it is okay but just like the first 
 1 this one is better than the first but still isnt the best wii game. online is the best thing on 
 it that only wat i do u should get this game if u are connected to the internet on your wii if 
 u dont have a connection then i wouldent buy it then! The graphics are the same like every mario 
 game the sound is good its still fun to play wit a bunch of people but online would be the only 
 good thing about this game! Its probaly the like 4th best wii game twilight is number 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyBirdie
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 3, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Well First let me say the Wifi for this game is truly great! However there has been some connection 
 lag and record lag (servers are overloaded) The single player is great and is finally quite challenging. 
 There is also challenges which unlock cheats for 2 player offline mode. Overall this is a great, 
 no, Awesome new wii title, and possibly one of the best, oh and I HIGHLY recommend buying this 
 if you don't have it. Also give the online some time to straighten out because last i checked there 
 was 33000 plus new members and if your record is bad, dont worry, every week a new season starts 
 which will reset your stats and help u shhot for the number one spot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoeTokoro
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 3, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is the sequel to the very popular gamecube game, Super Mario Strikers. Although 
 it definitely surpasses its predecessor some major quirks with the first game didn't get changed.
 
  
  -Gameplay- Mario is always known for having precise controls and easy to play mechanics. While 
 Charged holds true to this, somethings like the first person goalie mode have some problems. The 
 first complaint I have is for some strange reason, the sensor bar doesn't read as well online, 
 sometimes you'll block 4 of the 6 shots, and suddenly the hand disappears. It doesn't happen a 
 lot, but when it does you'll be mad as hell.
  
  -Graphics- This is definitely a better looking game than most wii games. Although some effects 
 are noticably crappy 2-D. Not that 2-D isn't bad, but red circles for fireball effect wasn't exactly 
 the best choice.
  
  -Sound- The music... is questionable. Some theme music is catchy and feels in place for the character. 
 But in other areas, it downright makes no sense. When you hear hillbilly music for a guy who has 
 nothing to do with cows or horses and is wearing metallic armor from the future, you'll question 
 it too.
  
  -Value- With online leaderboards, and enough challenges to keep you busy until the next great game 
 for wii, this is definitely worth the $50.
  
  -Overall- The overly cheap AI, makes single player mode hard to enjoy, and with no way to try a 
 match over again without starting over will make the time spent on single longer, but less enjoyable. 
 But with multi-player co-op or head to head matches for 4 players, online and off make this the 
 best multi player experience on wii. Now if only they could get rid of those damn friend codes!
 
  
  -Poe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiination27
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  All i have to say.. is Wow
  
  As soon as you try out this online play or multiplayer you will be stuck to it. For one of the 
 first online games for the wii the online deserves a.. 9/10
  
  Also single player is not all that bad too. Striker cup single player is where you choose a captain 
 and 3 sidekicks and you fight your way past 4 cups to become the ultimate champion.
  
  Each side kick has a special power to make it easier to score and same with the captain.. although 
 the captain has the ability to do a super striker or whatever u want to call it that gives you 
 the chance to score up to 6 times in 1 attempt.
  
  This is a must buy, It really does deserve better than what people are saying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natebayne
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  This game is definatly under-rated by gamespot. 7.5? I dont think so. Yes this game will not win 
 any graphics contest but again The Wii is not about graphics. Ok to start, even the offline is 
 fun, its fast paced, hard action fun. Secondly the online is smooth and rarely has a problem. Most 
 of the matches i have played so far have been close and furious. It has a good assortment of fields 
 to play on and the crowd actually adds to the fun because it just makes the game look even more 
 electric. There are different ways to score but my favorite is to pass it around and charge the 
 ball's power up and do a one-timer right at the goal. The matches are 3 minutes a piece, but if 
 you play ranked you play best of 3 against your opponent. There is no online chat, which i like. 
 Nobody to talk smack to you or irritate you. You search for a game, it tells you the connection 
 quality, you accept, play the game, and you win or lose and move on to the next game. To sum the 
 online play in one word Perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alphared
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  Great pseudo soccer game, probably better than any real-time soccer game out there. Dare I say 
 it better then FIFA games. It's fast, it's crazy, it's unpredictable, and it does what it's suppose 
 to do, be FUN. Who cares if it breaks the law of gravity or it breaks Issac Newton's law. Mario 
 Strikes Charged is intended for multiplayer fun, great for parties, and challenging for the hardest 
 core online gamers. Or probably just keeping the house guest amused. The wii-remote works excellent 
 as almost all wii games. Though I would really would of liked to see more options than just tackling 
 the oppenent. Have to say though slaming your oppenent to the electrifying fence or knocking the 
 opposition down to the dirt is satisfying every time. The solo version of the game is where it 
 lacks, it lacks becuase it has no substance, no storyline, AI isn't dificult to beat even on the 
 hardest setting. But you know what? who cares! Mario Strikers Charged is intended for group of 
 peeps getting together and out to beat eachother down, gloves off, no hold bars, dirt in your eye 
 fun! All bragging rights on the line. Great multiplayer title hands-down. Goes to show you don't 
 need a storyline or much substance to make a great title. You think you mastered every skill shot, 
 every steal move, power-up... guess again, meet players online waiting for their next freshmeat 
 to come to thier home field. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billy2by4
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 3, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  In the single player mode it's okay. The coms however are all too easy in the fire cup (first cup) , 
 Perfect match in the crystal cup (second cup) and Difficult yet still fun in the striker cup (third 
 cup) . If you did not get the first one it's good that they have the tutorial. My favorite two modes 
 are obviously the online mode, and free play (domination mode) . In Domination you can face either 
 coms or others at your house. Multiplayer is so much more fun because they put up more of a challenge 
 than coms, unless you make them way too hard. But none of these compare with the online play.
 
  
  By having a Mii in your Mii channel you are able to log on where you can face everyone else who 
 is on. You are ranked by wins losses and points and you get points by what you do. Challenge someone 
 or ask for a challenge, either way it's fun! However, if you don't have wi-fi (wireless internet 
 connection) or it is slow, you will have very poor playing time with lagging, freeze like lagging, 
 and even losing connection, which i know from experience since my laptop just had a meltdown and 
 lost half of its memory. But if you have good connection to your wi-fi, this is a perfect game 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  I was actually surprised about this game. I bought it on a whim actually, looking to add another 
 title to my Wii list (which prior to this game only had Zelda...) . I was pleasantly surprised.
 
  
  This is supposed to be soccer, but it plays more like hockey. Characters ram each other constantly, 
 which is very funny and very annoying. You choose a captain from a list of main Mario characters, 
 and three sidekicks which are typically enemies or side characters from the Mario series (like 
 Boo, Koopas, and Toad) . You then face off to score as many goals as possible.
  
  Each sidekick has slightly different strengths and weaknesses, and a different special shot. The 
 hammer bro's special shot is my personal favorite. He throws three large hammers and then shoots 
 the ball, and if you're close enough to the goalie, it'll take out the goalie and give you a clear 
 lane to score.
  
  There is one more major ability of the captain's called the Megastrike. If you can charge your 
 shot long enough, you'll gain the ability to launch up to six balls at the opponent's goalie. A 
 meter will pop up, allowing you to not only get more balls, but also speed them up. This leads 
 to a minigame using the remote, where you must click on balls as the appear on the screen, or else 
 be score upon. It's pretty fun. Simple, but fun.
  
  On top of the core gameplay, there are also powerups. These can be annoying, and I really don't 
 care for them much, but they're there for you to use. These range from simple turtle shells, to 
 allowing you to use your captain's special ability. For example, Bowser can shoot fire out of his 
 mouth, and Mario can grow to Super Mario.
  
  It utilized the Wii controls in just a couple ways. One, and the most important, is if you shake 
 the remote, your currently selected player will tackle the opponent. This can result in some nasty 
 hits. If you shake the nunchuck, you'll switch between your two gathered powerups, although this 
 is unnecessary most of the time and rarely used. The other main use of Wii controls is the aforementioned 
 Megastrike, where you must click on balls or else they'll score for the opponent.
  
  The game looks decent, but not great. It's one of the better looking Wii games, but that isn't 
 saying much. Particle effects are decent, but when zoomed in, the textures are poor. I'm still 
 disappointed in the graphical capabilities of the Wii.
  
  All in all, the game is very good. Online is fun, but slower than offline. But it's the first online 
 game, and it's very good. I'd recommend this for everyone. It's just pure, lighthearted fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylerbbadd1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 2, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't too excited for the new Strikers , to be honest, but I really wanted something new for 
 my Wii, which has gone unused since I played through Resident Evil 4. I now think that this new 
 soccer game is one of the early reasons to own a Wii. One of the things that impresses me, thinking 
 about the game, is its great timing. Some of the excitement that SHOULD have been generated by 
 the release of Resident Evil 4 should be dead now, and with everybody waiting for Smash Bros. and 
 Super Mario Galaxy , not to mention the other amazing line-up of games Nintendo has promised, this 
 game came out at exactly the right time, to keep people playing their Wii's and not forgetting 
 about the Nintendo console. The main part of the game is a series of tournaments, where you guide 
 your team, led by a Nintendo charachter as a captain, through multiple tournaments, each getting 
 more challenging as you progress. It takes about one match to learn the basics, and with the first 
 tournament starting with a round-robin set of games, don't be afraid of starting off in this mode, 
 instead of going through some exhibition games. The game has some fun powers, such as the classic 
 shells that you can shoot at your opponents, and each captain has different special moves. Luigi 
 and Mario, for instance, grow to gigantic heights, while Donkey Kong jumps in the air and bangs 
 the ground, destroying everything around him. The game also features a fun way to score, where 
 you leap into the air after charging your shot long enough and pound multiple shots at the goal, 
 which usually results in multiple goals. When this move is used against you, you use your goalie, 
 Kritter, to stop the shots using the Wii Remote during a side game of just hitting the balls as 
 they appear on screen. As Nintendo has said for quite some time, the Wii does not have the graphics 
 of the PS3 or the XBOX 360. This is obvious in a few screens of this game, but don't let you put 
 that off. This is still a great game, and while there isn't too much depth besides playing some 
 fun soccer, it's worth picking up. This is just another reason to believe that just because the 
 Wii doesn't have the graphics of a PS3 or 360, Nintendo can still put out great games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbierob703
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 2, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  e best games I've played for multiplayer next to Super Smash Bros. I recommend this game to all 
 people. The controls are very simple its the gameplay that will take about 15 min to learn. After 
 that you are a pro at the game. I was also impress with the stages. There are many stages and each 
 one has something special about it. The characters are the usual and something there for the gamers 
 who don't like motion sensing the game uses extreme little motion sensing. What comes to mind is 
 only 2 different times in the game you use it. Great game go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_mask_91
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 2, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Mario is back form his soccer/football sequel on the Gamecube. Will this game live up to the hype 
 or flop miserably? Thats for you to read.
  
  Gameplay- First of all since this is the full action online game for the Wii. Im going to spilt 
 the review in Single Player and Multiplayer.
  
  Single Player- First when you pop in the game youll get a choice for single player to go Road 
 to the Striker Cup where you choose a team and you battle somewhat in a round-robin style tournament. 
 Also you play the mode called domination where you select your team and play in a VS mode sort 
 of way on 17 unique fields but you have to unlock most of them Im pretty sure. Two more single 
 player features are Strikers 101 were you learn the basic and other important thing and practice 
 on field for a while and for last Strikers Challenges where you take on a series of different challenges 
 for each character. First lets start with the details of the Road to the Strikers Cup. Like I said 
 you pick a trophy and then you play in a tournament style soccer/football games. There is a schedule 
 to display your next matches, cup stats to display your ranking and your wins and losses. When 
 you win a cup you can view it in your Hall of Fame. Now for Domination in this mode you pick your 
 team and you can pick a captain and team for the other side and pick which side you want to be 
 on also you can choose the level difficulty of the opposing team. Then you can pick the stage and 
 if you want to play by goals or time limit and like I said before its very similar to VS. Modes 
 like in Mario Kart DS.
  
  In the game the stages are full of hazards like thunder on walls. Also there are 9 items so if 
 your tackled a lot youll get an item. All the items are very dangerous so watch out. Also this 
 can be a down point in the game that Ill mention later. Lets talk about charged shots and Mega 
 Strikes. Ok for Mega Strikes it can only be used for the team captain. To being you have to be 
 in the opponents half of the field. Hold B and then when you gauge try to get the orange then youll 
 get another gauge then its smaller and faster so be quick, when you hit the orange or green your 
 shots will go faster so try to get that. When you unleash your Mega Strikes pray that your opponent 
 doesnt stop them, dont worry if you get in the green/orange area it might not be a problem. As 
 for Power Charges you pass the ball around with A until the ball will turn purple, red, orange, 
 and yellow than the max white and then goes a fast shot!
  
  Multiplayer- Multiplayer/Online is the best part of the game because this is what single player 
 has worked you up to. For Multiplayer I have yet played it but I assume that you get another person 
 with a Wii Remote and Nunchuck and play normally. For online which I have played its the best 
 thing about the game. First when you connect pick a Mii to represent yourself and then go to series 
 or series with a guess but I never played that. For series youll search a partner and youll get 
 4 stars the more stars light up the better the connection. Youll get around 3-4 stars with a good 
 connection. When youll play pick your team but trust me pick your team good because there are 
 not a lot of low skill people playing against you. When you play youll get a random stage and 
 a time limit also youll play 2 matches. When you win or lose youll get points and that will go 
 to the leader board. To end the multiplayer overall its an amazing experience.
  
  Although all of this might seem the prefect game but it isnt because its frustrating for some 
 or more. The reason I say this is because its hard to find where you are because your constantly 
 switching players and all the hazards and items thrown at your arent very fun either. But overall 
 its a good experience.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are very nice and are about the average of the wiis power. But its still 
 looks like a extremely good Gamecube game no the less. Anyway the characters got an upgrade in 
 design form the last game and look good they seem to have a little shine of them. The fields are 
 unique and the display of the ground looks very good. The atmospheres of some levels are great. 
 Overall the graphics are very good and I cant really think of something against it.
  
  Sound- The sound of the game is pretty good you dont get to hear them talk much just little catch 
 phrase and stuff like that. For the stage levels as we know the Mario Series has great stage music 
 and they do it again the music is good and it adds to the fun. I cant really say much on the music 
 either expect that its good.
  
  Value- The value of the game depends is you have a friend or family member to play with or even 
 online. If your going to get it and only play single player dont get it because you wont like 
 it enough for 50$. It is a great game but not for only single player but you should rent it. Either 
 way I think you guys who want to buy it should rent it first to see how it is. If you like the 
 first one youre going to love the second one it has big improvements everywhere.
  
  In All- I enjoyed this game so far its very fun and if you have Wi-Fi its more bang for your 
 buck. Anyway I think everyone who wants to buy it should rent it first and see how it is. Also 
 like I said for the people who played and liked the first one will love this one. So I hope this 
 review made your decision and thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaticus
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  I began to play this game with great apprehension after the great let down of its predecessor, 
 but in the first ten minutes of playing the tutorial I was cast back through my minds portal of 
 time to the days of the SNES and was reminded of how much fun I had playing Mega Man Soccer .
 
  The more I played the more I liked and then I started the online play... the only way it could 
 be better, in the online aspect, is if you could use voice chat and they didn't have those annoying 
 friend codes. The first game online was an embarrassment, but not wanting to get discouraged I 
 challenged another person in another ranked match and this time I won!
  The satisfaction of being able to say I'm better than you. is great.
  The wide variety of special 
 weapons and power-ups gives this game something new every time you play it. You will always have 
 to be changing and evolving in the way you play this game if you want to stay on top of the leaderboards, 
 or if you just want to beat the game. The challenge mode is especially interesting seeing as you 
 get to play epic battles in the tiny universe of MSC, such as Sibling Rivalry where Mario and Luigi 
 duke it out to see which is the best plumber of all! All-in-all it's a very fun game, great single 
 player, great multiplayer, and a fun time online as well. At least rent it if you don't want to 
 pony up the dough, but even then if you like it then that $6 you just spent to rent it could have 
 gone towards the purchase, Oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  the good parts of this game is the graphics, the graphics are detailed and have a really nice scenery 
 to the game and some good detail into it also. Also, there are many more captains to choose from 
 and a lot of sidekicks to choose from, the sidekicks are a lot more help in this one and they have 
 their own special megastrikes/charge kicks, and you can alter between them. Alao, there are many, 
 many, many fields to play on this one has 17 including all the old fields from super mario strikers, 
 and quite a few new ones with some twists into them to turn around any game. The tutorial is very 
 easy to follow through and tells you everything to do in 1 paragraph. Whenever a captain does a 
 megastrike, the graphics are incredible and the look of the characters whenever they are up in 
 the air, nintendo did very well in that. This is the first wii game that has wi-fi that works well, 
 because pokemon battle revolution, the wifi was terrivle, and i was kicked off a lot, the only 
 problem with this wifi is the getting statistics, i think it takes a little too long. The bad parts 
 of this game is the amount of captains there are total, i would have at least hoped that there 
 were more than 3 secret captains. This is also a problem in the old one, the action, the action 
 can get to a boiling point, in fact, i think there is too much action and this game can p**s you 
 off really bad if you lose a game, i have lost a couple of games, and i was about ready to throw 
 the wii-mote and nunchuck. Last, this game can get very repetitive especially in single player. 
 Overall, this game is good, i do recommend it, but its a little more for multiplayer, not much 
 for single but it is still fun in single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kai-Setoshi
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Well i hadnt planned on getting this Game at all at first .. until about a couple days before it 
 was released i saw sum Gameplay of it and i was surprised at how fun it looked ..
  
  Now i finally got to play it and all i can say is WOW .. its so much Fun .. it has some Awesome 
 Multiplayer , but the Main part of this Game is of course Wi-Fi .. playing Online is jus the best 
 part and is Very Addictive .. i have spent almost all my time Online instead of Single Player ..
 
  
  The Online works great as well .. i usually have Little to No Lag .. u still will have to exchange 
 Friend Codes or u can play Ranked Matches in which the server will Match u up with another Player 
 with the same record as you ..
  
  Also now you have MegaStrikes in which u will Shoot 3-6 Balls .. the Character will go into Super 
 Saiyan type Sequences when u Fire these off .. but they all look swell .. and then of course the 
 Sidekicks have Skillshots which seem much more useful than MegaStrikes ..
  
  All in All get this Game if u havent already .. it is well worth the Money and is no doubt the 
 best Wii Game out right now (until Brawl of course) .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 1, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is a sequel to the surprise hit of 2005, Super Mario Strikers. Charged adds 
 a number of things, arenas, captains, the ability to have different sidekicks, megastrikes, and 
 environmental hazards. If that sounds like a lot, it is, and the gameplay's chaotic nature reflects 
 it. The idea is pretty simple: A bunch of Mario characters come together to play some hard-core 
 soccer. The controls have the same level of simplicity as well as a high level of possible mastery. 
 A passes, B shoots, C uses items, D pad uses dekes, and wagging the remote does tackles. Holding 
 B causes the kick to be charged up, initiating in either a Skillshot or Megastrike, if you're using 
 a sidekick or captain, respectively. Skillshots use a character's abilities to create a straight 
 and powerful shot. Examples are Birdo shooting a giant egg, or Hammer Bros. launching hammers and 
 then the ball. Megastrikes are harder to pull off but can be worth it. They send off 3-6 balls 
 toward the goalie at varying speeds. The goalie is then controlled and used to block the balls 
 in a point-and-click fashion. Graphics are not eye-dropping, but they are crisp, detailed, and 
 smooth. In single-player, the frame rate NEVER drops below 60 fps. Some of the cinematic stuff 
 is a little drawn out, but Megastrikes happen so infrequently you won't mind. Single-player features 
 a few modes to play in, one has you completing special goals , another is a tournament-style game 
 in round-robin rules. Locally, you can play with up to 4 people in any kind of match-up you desire. 
 And multiplayer is where the game really shines, it is fun, addicting, sometime nerve-racking, 
 but it is always fun.
  
  Speaking of which, this game has worldwide-enabled play on it. And is it ever a blast. You can 
 battle a random person or someone you know via friend code, and after some selections, a random 
 stage is selected, and you play a best out of 3 game. Also, if you have someone with you, you can 
 play a 2 on 2 match online as well. I notice that with most of my connections there are no drop-outs 
 and very little lag. Wether you've played Super Mario Strikers or not, you are going to love this 
 gem of a game. It is thus far, one of the most competitive multi-player expierences on Wii thus 
 far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadianGamer1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 10, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Mario strikers for the wii is a big improvement over its predecessor. All in all its just a lot 
 of fun. The single player isnt all that deep, the Ai arent that well done but when you have a group 
 of people over, or your kickin it online this game is one of the funest games that nintendo has 
 on there system right now. The graphics are kind of bland and most of the points you'll score are 
 going to be with your special but they make it work. So like i have said three times already ITS 
 FUN. And considering some of the most of the other games on the wii right now thats saying something. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moo948
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers charged is well worth its price. Everyone likes to play a couple of regular multiplayer 
 matches. Online play also features you and a friend against others all over the country. Unlockable 
 cheats and captains for your dream team make the game fulfilling, but the Road to the Strikers 
 cup mode will be your biggest challenge in the game. The first cup starts nice and easy, but the 
 second cup, the Crystal cup, will start brutal and get much much worse. You may lose 7-2 in the 
 first cuople matches of the Crystal Cup. From the Crystal Cup on, the Strikers Cup mode with have 
 you in tears with its unnecessary extreme difficulty. And that is just using the NORMAL difficulty. 
 You can only choose between normal and (i don't remember the second one, i think it is EXTREME 
 or MEGASTRIKER) . The Road to Strikers Cup is a long one, and if your looking for a severe challenge, 
 go there immediately. Overall, the wii controls are actually just button pressing. To tackle u 
 shake the wii remote, and u also use the remote to aim and stop megastrike goals, but other than 
 that, Mario Strikers Charged is really just not an innovative controlled game. The controls are 
 good though, they don't take much time getting used to. The game is very fun and entertaining, 
 it is really just the difficulty that makes this game not worth a perfect 10. I definitely recommend 
 this game to everyone. I really don't like sprts games, but this is really just a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockToTheLed
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 1, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Going into this i was skeptical mainly cause i'm not a big soccer fan. but how i was so wrong. 
 this game is by far my favorite Wii purchase. The game is just plain fun!
  
  The Gameplay is really balanced out well on the Wiimote. Nunchuk controls player movement, aiming 
 the Wii mote does the body checks. yes, this game has tackling, making it more like hockey mixed 
 with soccer. Z button kicks the ball, and holding it down charges your kick, essentially maxing 
 it out making you do a special shot. with any of your 3 sidekicks, or team player, they'll do a 
 special shot that relates to the character. Such as throwing a hammer, going invisible, or burrowing 
 underground and popping back up right inside the goal. and with your captain, or primary player 
 (more recognizable mario charatcers, Bowser, Mario, Luigi, etc.) they'll do a super strike shot. 
 this makes the character do a dragonball z like shot and shoot up to 6 soccer balls. this part 
 is fun if your on the opposition because you then have a mini game as the goalie where you use 
 the Wii mote to block the balls. it's a really solid gameplay experience!
  
  Graphics - Really clean for the Wii. character models looks awesome, cutscenes are fun, and very 
 vibrant with color. the fields look really cool, along with the effects that go along with them. 
 such as rain, mud, or electricity. or even the random cow that flies by during a tornado!
  
  Sound - hard to describe sound for a sports game like this. but it is really good. the sound 
 effects for all the different shots, the characters talking to eachother on field. even the corky, 
 elevator esque music played during the menus. it all makes a really fun experience.
  
  Multiplayer - yes, it needs a portion of the review for itself. definetly the best part of the 
 game. you can play offline with up to 4 people, all on the same team, or against eachother. as 
 well as taking you and a friend into the championship mode, where you play tournaments to earn 
 new fields and captains to use in versus mode. and of course, the online play! you can take up 
 to one other friend with you online, to play your friends, or against others. it really uses the 
 Wii online well. only downside is no voice chat. but either way, still an awesome game.
  
  My closing comment. is you should definetly buy this game! it's one of the best Wii games on the 
 market, and has loads of options, and so much to do. definetly a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NuclearKidX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Much better than the first for the Gamecube. Much more depth. If you want a realistic soccer game, 
 THIS IS NOT FOR YOU. Pros-
  
  Choosing your team captain and sidekicks (Teammates) Dramatically affects how you play. . Each 
 of the different characters you can choose are unique and have their own special ability, meaning 
 choosing the characters that work best for you and making up strategies, Adding more depth to the 
 game. Lots of fun to play with your friends! Online play makes this game a very long-lasting one.
 
  The mega strikes are really cool, You shoot 3-6 balls at the goalie. Also When the opposing team 
 successfully pulls off a mega strike, you play as the goalie. To block the mega strikes you have 
 to point the wii remote at the incoming soccer balls and catch them. Depending on how well you 
 did the mega strike affects how fast the balls get shot at the goal. There are 17 different fields 
 to play on. You can adjust th difficulty level to suit your skills.
  
  Cons-
  
  Some characters have abilities that are easily abused to score/stop opponent scoring
  The frame 
 rate can slow down at certain points.
  In online play some players will leave the match before it ends if they start losing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d-ray12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 1, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  The first time I saw that they were making this game i wasnt so sure how to react because the last 
 game that they made wasnt really that great. But then they announced the addition of online and 
 I thought hey this might actually be good and you know what. It was. Actually its better than good, 
 its great. I will start w/ the pros. The game has great visuals. An actually good online experience 
 unlike other nintendo games that didnt do so hot. The controls are easy to learn and easy to get 
 used to. Also I like the fact that when ur playing and your down by 4 or 5 you can just do one 
 shot and tie the game right back up. The only and I mean only con of this game is just the extra 
 little stuff that you see alot. But other than that I can easily say this was one of the best wii 
 games so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gally66
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is a fun game that you can't put down. Once you pick it up and learn how 
 to play you will go online and put your skills to the test. This game is best used for multiplayer 
 purposes because the cpu can be a weak opponant. so bring your friends and have a no holds bar 
 free for all.
  
  Once you raise your skills on go to road to the strikers cup where you will have to win two smaller 
 cups than get a chance to fight for the cup and for the glory. the animation is great and the players 
 super strikes are cool and imaginaive. and will have you perfecting the technique. this game is 
 worth buying especially if you have alot of friends or online capabilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eattacosAMR
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  this game is a good buy to hold you off until SMG, MP3, and SSBB the gameplay is really good but 
 sometimes the field can get so chaotic you dont know whats going on also you can do 4 players if 
 you have 3 other buddies with you or you can do wifi and try and work your way up the ranks which 
 is downright addicting or battle your friends if you have there friend code and you can do the 
 single player. The graphics look really good for a wii game some of the best graphics so far on 
 wii. The sound is great but it could have been a little. Better basically to make a reweiw short 
 is this game is worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isthisnametakn
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  It's funney how good games have a way of forcing themselves on me against my will. I say that because 
 I was just looking at this game the other day and I thought to myself, Hey! That looks like that 
 could be total crap! Yet sure enough, that night when my mom got home from work there it was, in 
 her bag. Don't you just hate it when people buy you something you have absolutely no interest in? 
 Because sure enough you'll be in your room two years later, playing video games, and your mom'll 
 pop her head in the door, see some unopned gift in the corner of the room and she'll say, You never 
 did use that gift your Aunt Cheryl bought you for your birthday. ... Makes you feel like such a 
 prick.
  
  Well, fortunately, I won't have to worry about such things happening with MSC; it's great! I didn't 
 want to just blow my mom off and it didn't quite seem fair since I never even tried it. I reluctantly 
 turned off GOW and flipped on the Wii (still can't say it with a straight face) and, low and behold, 
 the game was good! I suppose the most sreamlined way of doing this is to next part is to seperate 
 it into paragraphs and detail each of the game's attributes individually:
  
  Gameplay: 8
  I suppose that this'd be the games shining point, actually. One of the foremost reasons I was skeptical 
 about this game is that I Hate soccor... it sucks; I don't like it (BLOWS CHOWDA) . Fortunately 
 this game has hardly anything to do with the sport safe for kicking a ball into a net. I think 
 it's neat how the interface works. You get a captain and three sidekicks and you can cycle through 
 them at any point with the A button. Of course if your team is in possession of the ball it then 
 has to be kicked to the next player wich you choose by pointing to him with the player you are 
 currently using. The thing that makes this game fun isn't actually the soccor portion but that 
 each team capatain has a the abillity to power-up a shot for the chance to get multiple points 
 from one goal. This is actually difficult to do if you're playing against any decent opponent because 
 if your captain at any point gets kicked he will be forced to stop powering up. Another neat thing 
 is the game, like Mario Kart, gives you items that you can use (such as shells and stars) to give 
 you a temporary edge over your opponent. In all other respects, the gameplay works nearly perfectly.
 
  
  Graphics: 7
  What happened to the whole concept of a graphical quality standard? Don't get my wrong this is 
 a good game and that more than makes up for mediocre graphics but I'd have to say I'm rather dissapointed 
 with Nintendo here. I use to think that graphics were only detrimental to a game if they were totally 
 subpar but up untill now, I've never had to worry about that. I mean, I'm not saying that this 
 IS subpar but it's not that far off either. I hope this isn't the Wii's limits.
  
  Sound: 8
  Sound was good; I didn't find anything wrong there as far as any actual fault in the 
 audio quality. Of course some better music is allways appreciated. That and some of the smack tock 
 was a little hoaky. Other than that, though, it was good.
  
  Value: 8
  This is by no means a Halo for the Wii (where it, alone, compels you to buy a console) but I can 
 see this making a great addition for many people especially if you like the other Mario sports 
 games.
  
  Tilt: 9
  Personally, I had a blast. The only better thing than finding gold is finding it in something you 
 never thought you would. In that respect Mario Strikers Charged is really quite unique; I could 
 easily recommend it to any NIntendo fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liljio14
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought the previous iteration of Mario's Soccer world, I was a bit disappointed - 
 The game's single player mode wasn't very extensive, and the game didn't have too much going for 
 it in the way of unlockables or depth (Though it had great multiplayer!) . I was quite happy to 
 find out that Next Level Games has addressed all these issues for the game's sequel.
  
  The basics of Mario Strikers Charged are still practically unchanged from the previous game - Pick 
 a captain, pick sidekicks, play a game and try to win. All of these things have been polished up 
 from the previous game, though. First off, all captains and sidekicks now have their own statistics 
 - Some of them might excel at movement speed, while others are great at tackling. In the original 
 game, everybody was the same, which made the game feel similar to a Mario Party title. On top of 
 this, 4 captains and 4 sidekicks have been added to the roster, and you can now select 3 different 
 sidekicks - You don't have to have three of the same!
  
  New to the actual gameplay are the upgraded and completely new moves. First off, the deke, a move 
 that let you dodge incoming attacks quickly, has been given a change, and, much like the varying 
 character stats, is different for each character. Characters like Hammer Bro or Monty Mole, for 
 example, have a deke that knocks out nearby opponents, while characters like Waluigi and Dry Bones 
 can teleport forward short distances, which could be used to fool the goalie.
  
  The Super Strike has been replaced by the new MegaStrike - While sort of similar in concept, it 
 is in fact completely different. If your captain charges a shot, he will, after reaching max power, 
 continue charging a MegaStrike. Timing is of the essence here to select a number of balls (3 to 
 6) and shot speed. After this is done, your character will go into a short cutscene and fire 3 
 to 6 balls at a slow/medium/high speed towards the opponent's goal. When this has happened, the 
 opponent gets to control a set of gloves with the Wii remote as balls fly towards him, and he must 
 point at each of them and press A to block them. In the original game, if a Super Strike was executed 
 perfectly, it was unstoppable. Now, however, those with fast eyes will find MegaStrikes relatively 
 easy to stop. This makes the gameplay much less cheap, and you will find the game to be less about 
 get into the corner, knock out opponents and shoot your Super Strike like the original game was.
 
  
  New to the game are Skillshots - Sidekicks can now pull off mini-MegaStrikes by charging their 
 ball's power to the fullest. This will make them pull off a special move (Which is, once again, 
 different for each sidekick) which instantly scores, or at least makes it easier to score. To make 
 the game more balanced, the heavier, and thus slower, characters are the ones that possess the 
 instant goal Skillshots. As they are so slow, it is far less likely for them to make it close to 
 the goal and actually pull them off. Skillshots make your sidekicks a whole lot more useful than 
 they were in the original game.
  
  Another new thing is the inclusion of Super Abilities. Each captain has his or her own Super Ability, 
 which can be activated when you receive an item shaped like your captain's head (Items are still 
 received by being tackled when not having the ball, or shooting a charged shot at the goal and 
 missing) . These Super Abilities temporarily power up your captain and usually let him/her knock 
 down opponents with ease to create an opportunity to score. These items are fairly rare, and as 
 such, do not feel cheap at all.
  
  One other new gameplay element is the titular charging of the ball. As the ball is passed around 
 between your teammates, the glow around it will begin to change colour. If this glow becomes white 
 in colour, shooting it will result in it instantly being shot at maximum strength and power. This 
 is not a gamebreaking element, but still something that could be used to your advantage.
  
  The final new thing is the overhaul of the stadiums. There are 17 stadiums in this game - All 7 
 from the original game and 10 new ones. 8 of the new ones have stadium-specific features (The other 
 2 new ones and all 7 old ones are extremely basic, not featuring anything special) . Thunder Island, 
 for example, has no fences on the edges, and storms are quite regular on it. When one occurs, wind 
 will begin blowing characters (And fish, cows and tractors!) around, and if they get blown (Or 
 knocked!) off the edge, they take about 10 seconds to be launched back up to the field. Another 
 stadium, The Dump, features a constant flow of mud towards the center, meaning you have to keep 
 moving or you'll be slowly moved around by the stadium itself!
  
  If you've played the original game, the core gameplay and controls are practically unchanged. All 
 moves are still in the game, but, as the Wii remote and nunchuk do not have enough buttons, their 
 special functions have been given three uses. To tackle, you must flick the Wii remote, to switch 
 items (If you have multiple) you have to shake the nunchuk and to block MegaStrikes, you have to 
 use the remote's pointer. None of these moves feel tacked on and merge with the rest of the controls 
 well.
  
  So, how about game modes, then? Most old modes make a return in some form: There's Road to the 
 Striker Cup, which lets you pick a captain and team as they fight their way through three consecutive 
 cups in order to become the best player there is. There's Domination Mode, where you can play a 
 quick one on one (Or two on two, three on one or two on one if you've got friends over) match. 
 Then there's Strikers ABC, where you can learn the game's controls.
  
  New modes? There's Striker Challenges, where you pick one of the game's 12 captains and try to 
 beat their unique challenge, which can range from extremely easy (Mario and Luigi's challenges) 
 to completely insane and seemingly impossible (Yoshi and Diddy Kong's challenges) . Beating a challenge 
 will unlock a new cheat and a Character Card which features a piece of artwork of that character. 
 Striker Challenges are simple, short, optional challenges, comparable to Mission Mode in Mario 
 Kart DS, and, if you choose to complete them, they should help to sharpen your skills considerably.
 
  
  By far the biggest new mode in this game is Wi-Fi Connection Mode. Mario Strikers Charged is being 
 touted as the first Wi-Fi game on the Wii in Europe and Australia (The first online Wii game is 
 Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution elsewhere, Japan already having it as of this writing) , and it 
 certainly puts Wi-Fi to great use. You are able to select one of the Miis stored in your Wii as 
 your avatar in the game, and it will be seen whenever somebody connects to you.
  
  Once online, you can choose to play Friendly or Ranked matches. Friendly games have no impact on 
 your score. Ranked matches, however, do. But as most of you have experienced in Mario Kart DS, 
 what with those horrid snakers and all, is people disconnecting, causing you not to gain points 
 and the disconnecter to lose points. No worries though, as Next Level Games have found a way to 
 remedy this! If your opponent disconnects, they will lose 5 points. You, however, will still gain 
 a point for each goal you scored (Unfortunately, no extra 10 points for winning, but you can't 
 win 'em all!) , for a maximum of 10 goal points. If you're so bad (Or your opponent's so good) that 
 you end the game without scoring a single goal, you will still receive a single pity point. So 
 unless you disconnect like a sore loser, you will never lose points!
  
  So, what are these points for? Well, the game features leaderboards which you can look at between 
 matches. These are divided into three categories: Friendly, Daily and Seasonal. On the Friendly 
 leaderboards, you can see how you stack up to friends. On the Daily leaderboards, you can see how 
 you compare to other people who have been playing that day. On the Seasonal leaderboards, you can 
 see how you match up to other players this season . A season lasts one week (Monday to monday) 
 and thus gives you plenty of time to battle to the top. After the day/season is over, the Daily/Seasonal 
 leaderboards will be reset, so you can attempt to get to the top again. Another nifty feature is 
 that the Daily leader is shown in the Wi-Fi lobby as the Striker of the Day , complete with name 
 and picture of their Mii! So if you're good enough, the whole world can see you.
  
  Wi-Fi has a few tiny flaws, however. When not playing against friends (I'll get to those in a bit) , 
 you can only play against people of your own skill level. This means that once you're ridiculously 
 good, it is no longer possible to run into really bad players, and thus it is no longer possible 
 to rake up the goals against weaklings. Another thing is that you can only play against players 
 around your own region when playing against strangers. No American, Australian and Japanese players 
 if you live in Europe, and of course vice versa.
  
  When playing against friends, you can only play a Friendly game - No points are awarded for crushing 
 your friends with an ungodly difference in goals. However, a neat feature when playing with friends 
 is that you can customise the game. When playing against strangers, you can not pick the stadium 
 (It is picked randomly) , the time limit (Always 3 minutes) , the goal limit (Impossible against 
 strangers) , activated cheats (Impossible against strangers) , and AI Intelligence (Always 1 against 
 strangers) . When you're playing against friends, however, you can! This makes playing against friends 
 a whole lot more fun. Also, you can play against friends from all over the world, unlike Friendly/Ranked 
 games.
  
  If you've got a friend playing the game with you (In real life) , you can also choose to hit Wi-Fi 
 together. If another group of two people (Strangers) are playing, then you can do a 2 on 2 match 
 on Wi-Fi as well. If you're playing against friends on Wi-Fi, then it is possible to do the same 
 as in Domination Mode - 2 on 2, 3 on 1 or 2 on 1.
  
  The only setback to playing against friends on Wi-Fi is that Nintendo chose once again to use their 
 Friend Code system, however, for this game, the code is assigned to the Mii you select. This COULD 
 mean that your Mii will keep this code for other games, however, I don't know this for sure, so 
 don't chase me with pitchforks and torches if it turns out otherwise. What is neat about friends 
 is that you can look at their records anytime, and you can see where they are - Busy (In a game) , 
 Available (Not in a game) , or Not Connected (Not online at all) .
  
  Overall, Wi-Fi Mode in this game is very neat - Next Level Games did a very good job with it, and 
 besides a few minor flaws, it is practically perfect. Did I mention it's virtually lag-free? Before 
 each match, you see your opponent's connection quality. As long as this is relatively good (3 or 
 4 stars out of 4) , then there is no lag AT ALL. Pretty awesome.
  
  So, as I'm nearing the end of the review, I'll discuss some minor other things now. A very nice 
 addition to the game is that, at practically ANY TIME, music is playing. In the original, during 
 gameplay, you could hear nothing but the cheering of the crowd. Here, however, each of the new 
 stadiums has it's own theme music (The old stadiums have no music as to preserve the feel of the 
 original game) , which makes for a much more enjoyable playing experience. Also, each captain and 
 sidekick has his or her very own theme song which plays when they score, which can range from awesome 
 (Bowser's rock theme) , to nostalgic (Boo's merry-go-round theme from Big Boo's Haunt in Super Mario 
 64) , to downright insanely hilarious (Waluigi's hillbilly banjo music) ! All these theme songs give 
 the game just that bit of character it needs.
  
  A thing fans of the original will be pleased to hear is that all characters that were in the original 
 game have kept all of their animations - Yes, that means Waluigi can still do a crotch chop (But 
 now with his hilarious banjo music playing with it!) - but they've also gained a whole slew of 
 new, hilarious ones, and the new captains got some pretty funny animations as well. I mean, come 
 on, who doesn't want to see Petey Piranha limbo dancing while his sidekicks cheer him on and tropical 
 music plays?
  
  Overall, I feel Mario Strikers Charged improves upon the original game in every single way. Single 
 player features, multiplayer features, music, moves, characters, the way you unlock stuff and game 
 modes have all been improved immensely and the cheapness has been toned down considerably. As such, 
 I feel that this game is very much worthy of a perfect score. So, Next Level Games, here's a 10, 
 please make another Mario Strikers. I'll certainly buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Penguin93
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  It doesn't matter if you like Soccer. It doesn't even matter if you like Mario. Mario Strikers 
 Charged is one of the funnest games I've ever played. Nothing is more fun then walking into a room, 
 picking up the Wii remote and Nunchuck, and playing this game for a few hours, several times a 
 day.
  
  The game is basically the same as the last game Story wise. I would say that the Game Play is Tripled, 
 but i never played the first one.
  
  One of Wii's first online titles also turns out Really well. The Ranking system is Pretty good. 
 For those who hate Disconnecter's You still do not gain point for there Disconnecting, but they 
 lose 5 points. But make sure you're Internet Connection is good, Because if you lose Connection, 
 You lose points. Yes, somewhat frustrating if you have a bad Connection. but make sure you have 
 a good one cause other wise it's a hell of a fun time playing online.
  
  Graphics are Great, Characters and Visuals and so on look Great. 480p and 16:9 make it all the 
 better.
  
  Sound is so so, Different little Genres for each player, Little Rock riffs, bongos, trumpets, so 
 on.
  
  Once again, This game is one of the Funnest Wii games out there. The Online play is Great, and 
 Multi player Online or Offline is Awesome.
  
  Tons of Unlockables, many Challenges, and a Nice Single player that gets harder and harder as you 
 get farther.
  
  If you have a Wii this game is a must buy. Hate Soccer? Hate Mario? Doesn't matter. This is one 
 of the Funnest games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkz909
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  it is a great game but only for multiplayer the single player is soo hard i cant beat the first 
 lvl and this game has many challenges in wi-fi like u can verse sum hard people and sum easy people 
 ( i like nice and easy ) the controls are very very easy i mean like i can just stay still witout 
 gettin my hand broken ( exxageration ) but still there r sum motion controls but if u like moving 
 around and u like playing games like wii sports then i dun think this game is for u and this game 
 isnt like regular soccer since u can get the bal just by smackin sumone in the face and specials 
 get kinda annoying cuz they r too hard to beat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p8tball99nyr
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 31, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Mario soccer is back, and its better then the last one by far. It has new power ups and ways to 
 make it more crazy then the first. As you get really into it, your wii remote goes crazy as you 
 use it to check your opponents, and pull of sick one timers to beat the gator goalie. Then if your 
 on a brake away with your star player, Pull of a super strike and try your best to time it perfect 
 for 5 strait goals. OR be the goalie and try to stop 5 strait goals. Just but it this way there 
 isnt a dull moment when u play Mario Strikers.
  
  Graphics are better then the first, with some little frame rate issues on the post goal scenes. 
 But with all the madness going around, everything runs smooth.
  Sound is good, even tho the music uses a score that inst to intense. But pics up when u go to sun 
 n death. But i am glad they put some kind of music in this one unlike they did with the 1st (besides 
 SD) . Value is great. With online play and million game modes. This game is worth the 50 dollars. 
 So make a tournament with all your friends who have wii and have a blast game best of 3 series 
 or more if you want. This game is huge improvement from the original with all the new maps game 
 modes and features it has to offer. If you were a fan of the first pick this one up.
  
  Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetherocks
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is an excellent game in every way, especially multiplayer. It's kind of 
 like an intense, fiery soccer game with a cartoon twist.
  
  Gameplay: This game has great gameplay, but just no significant motion controls. Aside from that, 
 buttons are used a lot and controls are great.
  
  Graphics: These graphics are great and live up to the competition. However, they could have been 
 a bit smoother and colors could have been cleaner.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is excellent and really plays great.
  
  Value: This game isn't 
 really worth fifty dollars, but it's close.
  
  Tilt: There's no denying it, this game is awesome no matter the flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  last great game i played for the wii is resident evil and that was a port over game. we see a lot 
 of the gamecube games comming over to the wii, myself i like to see nintendo to do a break out 
 with somthing brand new and fresh. mario strinkers is a ok game it seems on the wii it is harder 
 then the gamecube. my little girl did not play it much about 20 minns and turn the game off, she 
 loved the gamecube mario strikers, so i gave the game a shot to see what goes, in my view it seems 
 at times to much going on the field of play and at times you get lost, then at times it seems like 
 the game cheats, like you cant get that right balance on the field of play. i did buy this game 
 reason my little girl loved the cube game so well, and now i dont know if she will play this one 
 on the game being hard. seems the controlls dont come off as well, nintendo is starting to lose 
 me, i will always have the wii my kids love it, but we seem to be getting port over games and games 
 that look so so to awful on graphics, i might be at the point i wont buy many games for the wii 
 until i see somthing brand new and fresh and great. mario strikers is not a bad game its just seen 
 that done that yeah yeah nintendo. it dont break out of the same old mold what they have been doing 
 with games for the last few years in my view, good rent game good game to get when the price comes 
 down like 19.99 are somthing. thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angry_Man65
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the best sports game for the Wii. I haven't played it that much, so this shouldn't 
 be too long. It's a whole lot better than Wii sports.
  
  Gameplay (7) : OWCH! The controls can really hurt your hands and that's what deducts 2 points off 
 of the gameplay. The other drawback about this game is that it's recommended to train before playing. 
 And the training is actually kinda hard.
  
  Graphics (10) : As usual, great graphics for a Mario game. They are neither shiny nor colorful. 
 Nor are they a little too dark.
  
  Sound (10) : The music is pretty interesting and the ball chipping, kicking, and passing sounds 
 are very realistic sounding. Great sounds and music.
  
  Value (8) : Well, I just got the game today, and I can't say whether or not it's recommended yet 
 since I've only played it 2 times today.
  
  Revierwer's Tilt (10)
  
  Overall Score 8.8 (Great) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kieranm2005
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Mairo Strikers Charged football is a good game, but it's not easy. The game would be easier if 
 the tutorials explained everything in the game, the thing is it just gives you a brief description 
 about each thing and then puts you in a game where you try it out it, it doesn't actually tell 
 you how to do it or show you, it just leaves you to get on with it. It also leaves some things 
 out completely, so you have to spend quite a bit of time experimenting trying to get it right. 
 The 1st time you go online don't expect to win, as the ranking system isn't great and you get put 
 up against good players, so you have to sit through and lose quite a few games. Also with it being 
 wi-fi some games maybe laggy, but most aren't. Playing online with a friend is good fun but you 
 will be run into the ground by players who have been playing for awhile to start off with, which 
 isn't so fun.
  
  Single player is pretty short, the 1st cup is a piece of cake, but after that it gets quite abit 
 harder. There are only 3 cups so it is quite short as well, it does take awhile as if you lose 
 in the final or semi-finals you have to go through the 10 play off games over again, which can 
 be a big pain. There are also challenges which can be done to unlock cheats etc, but there are 
 only 12 of these and most are not that hard. All of this can all be done with a 2nd player as well, 
 which adds to the fun.
  
  Pros
  -Everything is 2 player
  -Online is good fun
  -Good game play and graphics
  -Plays well
  -Lots of arenas
  -Good amount of captains to chose 
 from -
  
  Cons
  -Can sometimes be way to hard and that makes it no fun
  -Online sucks to start off with
  -Single player a bit short
  -Games can get a bit crazy at 
 times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay as confusing as the trailers make it seem is actually pretty easy and fun. 
 Shake to tackle or use + Pad. C button to unleash some devastating items. Shells, Bananas, Chomp 
 Chomp. C can also unleash captains Special Abilities. Mario turns huge. D. K slams the ground. Bowser 
 blows fire. The only downfall is how easy it is to beat computers sometimes. Sometimes if you use 
 a MegaStrike the computers won't even try to attack or they will attack too late. The computer 
 goalies can't block for crap but when you're against another good human player it's all good. 8 
 out of 10.
  GRAPHICS: Well looking at Mario Galaxy and Brawl in the near future I believe the graphics in this 
 could have done better. I can't wait till nintendo can make their games graphics as good as the 
 cut-scenes in the games. sigh. 7 out of 10.
  SOUND: Most people say the sound doesn't fit but I think it does perfectly. I love wario when he 
 sayz butt smash! or Mario WA-HOO!!! I like the sound. 9 out of 10.
  VALUE: If you ask me it was worth the money. all 50$ but i'll have to say 9 out of 10.
  TILT: 
 I LOVE THIS GAME!!! I can't deny it, it totally kicks azz!!! 10 out of 10 for my tilt. For those 
 of you saying man I can't do sports game they are too weird for me. Trust me that's what I thought 
 and I thought wrong when I played this.
  OVERALL: It's a 8.7 out of 10 for me. Trust me the 101 mode can really teach the game fast and 
 once you know your characters you can make te best team for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Treize_
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 31, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is the first Mario sports title to appear on the Wii and it is really an 
 execptional game that deserves real attention. It was well worth the wait.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are just phenominal. It is a huge improvement over the Gamecube version 
 and shows great character detail and area design.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is great. Online mode is really fun and will keep you coming back to play 
 some more. Online mode can be a little annoying because there are some losers that will just disconnect 
 half way through, but youll still get the win on your record, and they'll still get the loss. Besides 
 I haven't played many people who disconnect. Online mode is also has little or no lag. Offline 
 multiplayer is also fun, but i preffer online mode because you'll play someone different, who isn't 
 in your house. However, obviously since you would be offline, it would have no lag. Online mode 
 also features a series with a guest mode, which would allow another player, play as someone on your 
 team online. There are many different characters in Mario Strikers Chared including, Mario, Yoshi, 
 Bowser, etc. Also, when captains perform megastrikes you will play as the goalie, and try to block 
 the ball. Sidekicks nowhave supershots as well. For example, Hammer Bros. will throw hammers, and 
 if the hammer its the goalie and he shoots it is a sure goal. If the hammers dont hit the goalie, 
 it might go in, it might be blocked by a player, or it my be stopped by the goalkeeper. Single 
 player mode, really isn't that fun. There is also a challenge mode that puts you in different scenarios, 
 and if you complete the scenario, you get an award. Sound- The sound of the game is okay, but the 
 problem i found was there was no music while playing. Music only came on when you entered sudden 
 death mode. Overall the sound provides a good feel to the game.
  
  Well, that is all I need to say abou Super Mario Strikers: Charged. It is a really fun game which 
 is recemandable to just about anyone. It is worth the money and you should really buy this game, 
 you'll love it if you haven't played any Mario game at all, you'll love it if you've played and 
 completed every single Mario game in the series, which would be quite an accomplishmant. Overall 
 it is a great game, and you should buy it. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoxMcCloudDS
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  Hello there fellow gamestopians, I am here today to give my first pre-release review for Nintendo's 
 Wii system. When you first slide this game into your Nintendo Wii, and start it up, you will notice 
 some similar things from the direct predecessor, Mario Strikers for the Nintendo Gamecube. One 
 new thing is an all new online mode, this is possibly the most talked about new feature coming 
 out of Mario Strikers Charged. You will still have your tutorial, and your vs. mode, but you will 
 also notice Nintendo added an all new Challenge mode to the game. In this mode players will get 
 to try to beat 12 very tricky challenges and mastering them all wont be easy. Mario Strikers Charged 
 is noticeably more difficult then the first, but with the smooth control system, and the tutorial 
 in the main menu, you will be striking your way to victory within the first hour of the game. Personally 
 I was very surprised that Nintendo made some of the things in the game to unlock next to impossible. 
 My favorite new feature Nintendo added to single player was the power skills that is specific to 
 each character. Personally my favorite is when you get about 12 yards away from the goal with the 
 hammer brothers, and throw hammers at the goalie then quickly shoots the ball in for the much needed 
 point.
  
  Now there is one question floating around that I have heard multiple times; Is Nintendo finally 
 bringing good online gaming to the Wii? the answer lies within Mario Strikers Charged. Gamers around 
 the world can go online and battle their friends using friend codes as usual, or the can use a 
 search system similar to that of Mario Kart or Tetris DS. Unlike the DS games or Pokemon Battle 
 Revolution, the search is very quick, and most people will pick up another player within 3-5 seconds. 
 Nintendo also added a great new online leader-board right into the game. Now you will be able to 
 see how you stack up against your friends and other gamers. Now with this being said nintendo is 
 slowly moving closer to getting that great online community everyone has grown accustom to with 
 Playstation Online and XBOX Live. Now we have saw him time and time again, as Mario hit's the golf 
 course, the tennis court, the baseball diamond, and of course the battle field in the infamous 
 Super Smash Brothers series. Mario Strikers Charged for Nintendo's Wii stands tall with all the 
 other Mario sports games, and for fans of the series is a definite must buy. If you are new to 
 the mario sports games series, this is going to be a great game to try out, because its colors 
 truly do shine through the others as being my personal favorite mario sports game to date. I actually 
 don't know if you would be able to consider Mario Strikers Charged to be a sports game, because 
 it is so fun, and so action packed, it feels a lot more like Super Smash Bros. felt when it first 
 came to the Nintendo 64. Mario strikers deserves a high score for being the first good online game 
 for the Wii, and for kicking the snot out of EA's FIFA series. I give Mario Strikers Charged for 
 the Nintendo Wii a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foooox
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is highly addictive and you wil sit for hours playing with people online 
 . There are 12 training lessons to teach you the basics of the game but there are some moves that 
 you will learn from the computer or from playing online like charging the ball, jumping over the 
 keeper. etc.
  
  You can also play 2vs2 online with your friend or brother which is extremely fun. Not to mention 
 that you can beat the cups either by yourself or with your friends (up to 4 players)
  
  Even if you didn't like the single player mode or the challenges, the online is ranked, meaning 
 that the more you win the higher your rank will be, and if gained so many points in a day you may 
 become the Striker of the Day.
  
  This is a great multiplayer game and is a must buy for every wiifan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendave86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is a soccer game that is completely filled with wacky mario items and the 
 ability to smash into your opponent even when they don't have the ball. It has a fantastic multiplayer 
 mode, that is made even better by the fact that you can play across the net. However, in terms 
 of single player mode, it does not have the same depth because computer players are mostly way 
 to easy, or absolutely impossible to score on. The road to the striker cup is tedious and can get 
 repetitive but ovarall the games multiplayer overshadows that, and it is great to play an unpredictable 
 opponent online. Basically, if you don't have the necessary equipment for internet play, it would 
 mostly be a waste of money, but if you do, then I highly reccomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowlord
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  This game have it's things, at least this is the best and most anticipate game for the wii, and 
 at the same time is the first that will use the wi-fi play in a real time action! pokemon is supposed 
 to be the first, but, let's be honest. In a RPG game, that isn't a very appreciable mode, btw i 
 think this game will use the wi-fi play very fine. The use of items make this game turns from crazy 
 to total madness, items can turn things worse . But at the same time, make it more funnier and 
 addicting. So in general, this is a very good game, buy it if you like to have fun with your friends 
 or if you want a good game for your wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgillhonger
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Amazing Game!! Ignore the 7.5 GS review if you intend to be playing this online against others 
 (which should be pretty much 80% of the people purchasing this game) . Getting online is a snap, 
 and you'll be playing with friends (or random opponents) in no-time.
  
  The action is non-stop, heart-rattling, and intense. The weapons are incredibly varied, creative 
 and fun to unleash on unsuspecting opponents. The characters themselves are cute, funny, and delightfully 
 crazy at the same time! The online, multiplayer alone is worth the purchase. If you want to go 
 at it alone, I admit the experience is a bit disappointing, and you are better off with another 
 title that begins with FIFA or Winning .
  
  For me, one of the best additions to the multiplayer options is the ability to play with a friend 
 in the same room against another 2 opponents online. That's terrific especially if you have a friend 
 over and you can talk strategy at the same time (which is barely possible with the frantic pace 
 of the game) .
  
  All in all, an excellent game to have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Inferno_Man
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great addition to the Strikers Series. The best thing for me is that you can pick 
 your side kicks so there is so much variatey to the game that every match is like playing the game 
 for the first time. The captians aren't the only one any more who can do mega strikes now. For 
 instance Birdo shoots a giant egg out of here snout. The games music is very catchey but it is 
 a bit repitive. The Wifi in this game is out standing basically no lag if your connection is good 
 but there is no way to communicate so i don't see why you need a friend code to play with your 
 buddys. By far the best thing in this game is the multipalyer. Up to four players can play on one 
 Wii and 4 on online people can play too (2 to a Wii) . The graphics are stunning and the Nintendo 
 really did good with the visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clark3y
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 28, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged Football is a whacky football game developed by Nintendo. The main aim of 
 the game is to use your dexterity and whit to win the 'Striker Cup'. Mario Strikers Charged Football 
 is a great game that anyone who owns a Wii should buy. The story to Mario Strikers Charged Football 
 is a basic but involved one. You start off by choosing a team, from the start you can choose from 
 10 players but this grows throughout the game. With your team you are set out to win the ultimate 
 prize - 'The Strikers Cup'. You don't start off at the 'Strikers Cup' you have to get through two 
 cups before that which adds more to this game than other football games. That and an increasing 
 difficulty make Mario Strikers Charged Football stand out from the rest.
  
  The game's graphics are superior to it's prequel. It's graphics are clear, crisp and generally 
 of a high standard. The frame rate is great as the game shows no sign of slowdown or lagg. Each 
 character has a new unique look and this gives them a different impact on the game. Nintendo has 
 also added new arena's and kept some of its older ones however the older ones have a new graphical 
 update. The Wii remote offers new sounds and oppourtunities to improve the game further. As there 
 are new and improved modes in the game the sound regularly switches between the T. V. and the Wii 
 remote. Overall the sound differs from what character you play as and/or if you use a special move. 
 The voice overs are good and are not at all metalic. The sound is another great part of this game. 
 The Menu screen is well layed out and user friendly. There are seven game modes that offer different 
 styles of gameplay. The first mode is settings, this is where yo can change the setting to suit 
 you, this mode is much like the options mode of the game where you can change the sound input and 
 adjust the size of the screen.
  
  Another mode is 'road to the strikers cup'. This is where you select a team to try and win the 
 strikers cup. You don't start off on the strikers cup, you must beat the two ones before this - 
 The Fire cup, and The Crystal cup. In all of the cups there is oppurtunities to unlock new things 
 such as stadiums and new characters. In each cup you can win other cups where you either need to 
 gain the most goals for (the golden boot) or the least goals against (the brick wall) .
  
  The next mode is an extremely new mode for Nintendo - wi-fi mode. This is where you can challenge 
 other people throughout Europe - soon to be US and AUS. This section of the game is probably the 
 most anticpated game mode but there are some downfalls to it - Lagg. As the system is new it is 
 bound to have a flaw. Also people can loose terribly and just turn off the console resulting in 
 you not recieving your hard earned points. There is also a nice feature of 'Striker of the day' 
 where the person with the most points won on a day - there mii is shown. You need a Mii to access 
 this feature. There is a friend feature where people can exchange friend codes and play in a mim 
 tournement.
  
  For those who are new to the game the mode strikers ABC is a way to help you become a master at 
 it. This is a new feature that shows you how to play all of the basic features.
  
  Another one is 'Striker Challenges' this is where you have challenges to beat and the further you 
 get in it the harder the challange are untill you are at the near unbeatable - MEGASTRIKER mode. 
 Also you unlock new 'cheats' for multi-player mode which when you unlock a characters cheat will 
 make the multi-player mode more interesting.
  
  The second to last mode is the 'Hall of Fame' where you can view all of your achievments in the 
 game which adds a nice touch to the game.
  
  Last but not least is 'Domination Mode' this is where you use all of your capabilities to try and 
 beat your friends and family or just play against the CPU. This is a great mode and one of the 
 best. There is a maximum of four players (2 vs. 2) and a minimum of 1 (1 vs. CPU) .
  
  Overall after playing this game for over 120 hours i would definately reccomend it to anyone who 
 is going to get a Wii or already owns one. For the first online game for wii this is a must have 
 to add to your growing collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steviegerrard92
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  I was begging my parents to get me this game and after clearing out the 'box room' (we recently 
 moved to Cardiff) , iI was eagerly anticipating it's arrival. When it finally did arrive, I ripped 
 open the packaging and set to work, making a profile, learning the controls e. t. c. I have to admit 
 that in the excitement of a new game, I forgot about it's faults and enjoyed playing the game. 
 I left it for about two weeks as I had finally completed a tough part on Zelda: Twilight Princess 
 (the Goron Mines) and when I cam back to it I was dissapointed. It does not use the Wii remote 
 to it's full effects and you would have had pretty much the same experience playing with a Gamecube 
 controller! The graphics, although good, aren't up to the Next Gen console standards and the fact 
 that it becomes impossibly hard to score outfield goals and 'Megas' after the first cup in the 
 'Road to the Striker cup' makes it a very frustrating game so I left it to gather dust on my games 
 shelf. I recently picked it up once more just to give it one last chance to win me over and I have 
 to say it did. I don't know what happened, maybe I was in a particularly good and forgiving mood, 
 but I fell in love with the whole game - graphics, gameplay, the lot! Also, when you read this 
 you must undersand that currently my Wi-Fi connection is not working due to signal errors and when 
 I finally did get it working a few weeks a go, I didn't have the time to try it out. Now that I 
 have however, I can see that the first online Wii game is a hit... online anyway and is great fun 
 when playing multiplayer of any kind! I hope that Nintendo build on this game and its online abilities 
 and use the faults listed as learning curves! Please remember that these are my views and although 
 I found it hard, you may not so don't leave negative feedback about how I must be stupid not to 
 grasp this game as I now have. I realise that you pick up the game in the first half hour but to 
 master it takes a lot longer as you need to learn good strategic manoevres before you can excel 
 and this game can reach its full potential!
  In conclusion:
  +Great multiplayer
  +Very addictive
  +Clever ideas
  +Exhilirating an tense gameplay
  -Doesn't test the Next Gen 
 graphics
  -Doesn't use the controller
  -Can be very frustrating
  -Quite hard an you need to really master it before it's fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabz_95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  Hmm.. First wifi wii games a football game? Err...
  Dont be put off by this because you couldnt have hoped for a better game to start of the wii's 
 wifi connection!
  
  Firstly the games a sequel to the gamecube version, mario strikers. This one has some new captains 
 and alot more sidekicks. Also you can customize your team, which makes a huge difference as you 
 have to balance your team, for example you need a fast player, a defensive player, a good shooter 
 etc.
  
  You have to focus on the stats of players before you start. This gives the game alot more strategy 
 as you need the right players for the right strategy. For example if your going for strength and 
 strong goals you should go for players like bowser and monty mole (i think thats what hes called) . 
 But if you need speed you should have either mario/luigi, or a speedy captain and players like 
 toad and dry bones. This changes the game immensely.
  
  At first glance the game looks very similar to the previous game. But if you actually focus you 
 can see the detail next level games have put into it. For example if you get burnt by fire there 
 will be soot marks on you while you play. Even though this should be normal, even when you score 
 and theres a celebration, the soot marks are still there, which is alot more realistic as in real 
 life it wouldnt have come off either. This also happens with ice. Also the details in pitches and 
 character models have improved alot as the pitches look great as there are so many different elements 
 in the stadiums. The characters look very detailed aswell.
  
  The game runs and plays extremely smoothly. You shake the wii remote for a barge, B to shoot, A 
 to pass, C to use specials, z to chip and so on. It sounds hard but when you play it the controls 
 are very easy and easy to use, That doesnt mean the game is easy because its extremely difficult. 
 Although it looks like its easy to use mega strikes, it takes alot of time to do one so its easy 
 to get knocked down. This is an advantage and a disadvantage as it is sometimes extremely difficult 
 to pull one off. The megastrikes look great as the character animations here have great lighting 
 effects. Although it looks hard to stop with a bit of practise it is quite easy to block them but 
 this also depends on how powerful the shot is.
  
  The stadiums in the game change the gameplay immensely. The crowd change from cheering you on with 
 chants like Luigi! Luigi! which is quite amusing. The music in the game is very fast and fun so 
 it really helps you flow in the match so i love the music here. There are the old stadiums (which 
 will say Classic:) and there are new stadiums. The new stadiums are the ones that help alot. They 
 change the game completely. For example, one stadium is extremely windy so cows and cars are blown 
 across the pitch which knock players out of the ring which brings people down to like 2v1 until 
 someone scores. In another meteorites fall which create crators that are filled with lava and all 
 these changes in new stadiums changes the gameplay completely in strikers charged. In some stadiums 
 the pitch is filled with mud which slows you down. Things like this make the game unique.
  
  Not only will the main mode last you long as it has 9 cups, and is immensely difficult there 
 are other modes which will keep you going. Of course there is the unlimited online play which you 
 will probably never get bored of as there is always harder challengers to face, and there is the 
 challenge mode. The challenges start of easy but get really hard as i couldnt even beat the 3rd 
 one. Even though challenges might seem pointless, its not because not only does it make the game 
 last longer, it unlocks you new moves that are useful.
  
  Finally the online play. The online play has been constructed beautifully in this game and wii 
 owners couldnt have hoped for a better start. You have two types of online. One is called series, 
 where you play random players and you get put on a ranking leaderboard. This is your standard online 
 as you just play random people around your region and you go up or down the leaderboard depending 
 on how many matches you win. Trust me, get some practise before you do this as it is EXTREMELY 
 difficult as people are experts at this game and are very difficult to defeat. There is extremely 
 little lag in the online play which helps alot.
  
  There is another type of match which is a friendly match. This is to play specific people by getting 
 there codes. This is quite fun as you know who you are playing and you can laugh at them the next 
 time you see them. This is also good as you can play who you want and even if you lose it doesnt 
 go on the ranking system.
  
  Overall this is an essential wii game, even if you dont like football, this is a deep football 
 game with alot of fun elements splashed onto it which will last for a while thanks to the long 
 and difficult story mod, challenges and the excellent online play.
  E-S-S-E-N-T-I-A-L 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Porshe911Turbo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Good: Many people to choose from, Wi-Fi, Lots of maps and objetcs to use, challenging Bad: Wi-Fi 
 Cuts out on you every now and then. on Wi-Fi when u go to vs someone you can be put up against 
 someone who has played the game longer then you and is alot better. If you dont want to play a 
 ranked match which earns you points if you win. You can simply add your friends code and play them 
 in a friendly match.
  
  This is a great game for you nintendo fans out there and soccer fans. With many captains to choose 
 from such as mario, dk, diddy  and more. Theres something 
 like 20 stadiums to choose from including the classics from mario strikers. Theres some different 
 options to pick from such as going online with Wi-Fi and vsing people all over the world. Then 
 theres Strikers Cup which gets harder and harder the more you go threw it very challenging or you 
 can simply start your own match, pick your captain, pick the bots captain, then choose your sidekicks 
 and stadium and your simply in a game already playing. You can also choose the amount of games 
 in the series and the length the games go for. This game is up to 4 players so if you want to 2v2 
 with your mates or even 3v1 you can. Remember that your going to need 4 nun-chucks as well. or 
 even 1 to play. All Together this makes Mario Strikers Charged a very fun and lasting game to play. 
 I recommend playing for awhile before playing on Wi-Fi so you dont get your but kicked by pros. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wynaut
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 16, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged Football is a better version of Mario Smash Football.
  This time, the single player mode is not boring and you have online modes.
  You can unlock and 
 play more characters and only in this game, I like Peaches look.
  This game is and feels so awesome, until you have to shake the controllers.
  I recommend you 
 to beat the whole story mode fast, so you are ready to football against whole Europe, do this at 
 soon as possible!
  And this game has functions the developers could not do on the Gamecube, released in 18 November 
 2005.
  
  Good: Online, lots of aggressive gameplay, many characters to choose for your own team.
  Bad: 
 Online only in your region (Europe) , sound is still missing in gameplay (or it's because I turned 
 off the sound, lol) , some Strikers Shots could be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hfm_brian
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 15, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  Mario Striker's Charged! A must have for the revolutionary online play for nintendo wii! this game 
 will challenge you on so many levels, it starts off kinda easy so you get used to the controls 
 which are easy to get the hang of because of it being the first football game out on the wii. the 
 control scheme is quite a masterpiece, they made it so the game becomes a button flicker kinda 
 game, but also added just the right amount of wiimote's skills. This game includes many characters 
 that appeared in the previous mario strikers for the gamecube and the characters from mario tennis. 
 you actually use 3 sidekicks to help you build a strategy. each team leader has a special ability 
 which when used properly seem crutial to every single match. Mario Strikers Challenge has 3 cups 
 along the road to the strikers cuP the first being moderately easy, the second being a little more 
 challenging, and the third one.... well lets just say its a real task to finish, you must master 
 your teams abilities and strategy to get the victory. There are really no cheep wins in mario striker. 
 there are mega strikes which are new to the wii, and they play a big role in almost every match, 
 you must practice to not get beat/
  
  OVERALL THIS GAME IS WORTH THE MONEY! AND A GREAT FIRST ONLINE GAMING EXPERIENCE FOR ANY KIND OF 
 PLAYER! A NEW MUST HAVE FOR WII along with the great titles such as Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess 
 and Resident Evil 4
  
  SUPER SUPER SPORTS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyernix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  For us in Europe, who already have Mario Strikers we can say that based from the first WiFi connected 
 online game for the Wii, we can see good things in future for online gaming.
  Mario Strikers does what Mario games do best, turn a well loved genre and transform it into something 
 everyone can enjoy. From its GC predessesor, Mario Strikers has improved, graphically as well as 
 in terms of gameplay. Forget football, this is war! theres so much action going on, its hard to 
 keep up at times, and yes this really does give a thrilling experience.
  the main single player game has you going through tournaments which get increasingly diffucult, 
 and theres also selected scenerio challenges, but what really sets off this game is the WiFi mode.
 
  setting up is easy, simply assign a Mii to your own profile, and select to find other people, 
 or play your friends. the entire WiFi connection has its own league tables and gives a record of 
 how many wins and losses you have had as well as your accumilated points. From this you can see 
 how good your opponents are.
  
  the really annoying things about this game is simply how unfair it may seem. characters are assessed 
 on type, and power types can score without any effort, so you may have a team of Bowser, Monty 
 Mole and Birdos and lack in speed, but alas Speedy types like Toad and Diddy Kong can somersault 
 over goalkeepa's to score. while this evens things out, its extremly annoying and takes the fun 
 out the game, Even when for example you are winning something like 5-1, opposing online players 
 tend to disconnect giving you only the points you earned from scoring. while all this in not Nintendos 
 fault, measures could have been taken for example limiting no more of the same character on the 
 same team. However, rather than empahsising the bad, the connections are reliable, a rating of 
 4 gives you the connection status of each match, avoiding some heavy slow down. Regardless you 
 can still enjoy Mario Strikers, I mean, every online game will have its cheats and sore losers 
 hey? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gareth91
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Im not very fond of football games but I thought I would try this new yet different football game. 
 I played it on single player. Its good, it offers a challenge to some experinece players, but also 
 has a major problem you can save where you are in a cup but if you want to start 1 out of these 
 3 cups you have to do them all again. Thats including chaging charcters. As for Multiplayer is 
 great fun to play on the cup, online and challenges with your mates esspically on line its complte 
 choas! Single online is also great fun but you get thoose sore losers who log off just because 
 there losing but you do get 10 points in retun when you scored 10 and close to ending the match 
 but they log off so you dont get your 20 points you get half! Curse you nintendo! As for unlockbles 
 theres some great arenas and cheats for you to unlock for multplayer but the 3 charcters you can 
 unlock are a letdown. So for some multplayer fun I reccommend this but if you dont have any freinds 
 or online device for your wii use that money on a different game :P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlito4
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 30, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged football is the wii's first online game and that should be reason enough 
 for people to go buy it as it is a great experience but this is not the only reason to buy this 
 game and I will go through those reasons now. OK a description Mario Strikers is more of a battle 
 game then a football game and is the sequel to the lacklustre Gamecube title. You get to pick one 
 team captain ( all the main characters from the series) and three sidekicks ( the lesser characters 
 from the series) this is an improvement from the first game where you just had 3 of the same sidekick. 
 Anyway each character has a different skill defence, power, playmaker, and balanced and you can 
 mix these to get the type of team you want to play with so there is an element of tactical play 
 now. Now to score goals you need to charge the ball up if you shoot the ball without it being charged 
 you will almost certainly not score as most of the time the keeper is unbeatable so you need to 
 pass it about and charged that ball to white and then let rip for an almost certain goal or you 
 can unleash one of the sidekicks skill shots this makes the chances of scoring much higher as some 
 of these are impossible to stop if done in the right area ( the birdo egg shot and the hammer bro 
 hammer throw for example) this again is an improvement from the last game where the sidekicks didn't 
 have this ability. Finally the captains themselves have a megastrike which when started brings 
 up a golf swing like meter which you have to stop in the right place to get as many balls and as 
 much power as possible these can seem very unfair as you could be leading 5-0 and your opponent 
 winds up a megastrike and scores six goals and you lose but it is part of the game and you have 
 to put up with it. Right thats the basic description over with onto the Controls this game doesn't 
 make great use of the Wii Remote but then again it doesn't need to and what it does use helps you 
 get involved in the game, to barge players off the ball you just flick the remote in the right 
 direction and when you get a megastrike you take control of the goalies hands and have to blocked 
 as many balls as possible to keep the scores down these help you get into the game and it works 
 well. To pass you tap the A button and to charge up a shot you press and hold the B trigger until 
 you are ready to shoot. To lob you press the X button and to use a power-up you use the C button 
 and obviously the analogue stick controls your movement, these controls work really well and help 
 add to the gameplay. Onto the gameplay and it is basically fast and hectic and by the later matches 
 very difficult and it is this difficulty which could put off people buying the game as it is so 
 very frustrating but if you don't want a challenge there isn't much point in gaming anyway. There 
 are many different modes there is the Road to the Striker cup which is the main mode of the game, 
 the challenges section is more of a distraction but gets very hard later on, and there is the Wi-Fi 
 mode which is the games major selling point and works very well, there are to options friendly 
 match where you play against friends who you have registered with your friend codes and ranked 
 matches where you play against people around your region for points and to get as high up the leader 
 boards as possible and there is surprisingly little lag if on a good connection. So overall the 
 game plays very well, the graphics on this game are good but not outstanding for the Wii though 
 they are fine and don't make the game painful to look at with good textures and plenty of detail 
 on the stadiums and the crowd. The sound then well there isn't much of it the characters mumble 
 to themselves and there is a little music in the background when you play your matches but nothing 
 special, there are nice touches with rumbles and sounds coming out of the Wiimote which helps boost 
 the score a bit. Finally the value well just for the online play this makes it very good value 
 as you could potentially play forever but if not hooked up to the internet the single player mode 
 is hard but very short so I would advise getting a connection before you buy this game. So In conclusion 
 Mario Strikers Charged kicks off the Wii's online play and does it with style but not only that 
 this is an accomplished game which is one of the best on Wii and is an absolute must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom_brawl
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  ddddddddddj jk jk k kk k k k k k k kdsdkj sdk kd skd skd skdskd sk dsk dskdks dks dks dks dksd 
 dksdk kdskd s dksd ksdsk dks ds ksdksd kskd ksdkskdskdkskd ksk dsk kd ksdk kdk dk ks kk k k k kk 
 k k k k k kk k k k k kk k k k kk k kk k kk k k k k k kk k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k 
 k k k k k k k k k k k k
  
  i cant be bothered writing a review if u know what i mean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9344891
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is fast paced frantic fun fun. The meat of this game is online and i think offline has 
 suffered for it having online play. There are three cups and three unlockable caracters u can quese 
 what u have to do to unlock the characters. Play through a frustrating, long cup which is the wurst 
 part is getting to play the unlockable charcter to claim them then lose and start from the begining. 
 This adds a fulse Length to the game which is unnessasery as it worsens the experince for me. Now 
 the online play is simple qwick and effective. There is little LAG and two on two is great. The 
 frien codes are anoying but dont destroy the experince. The rank system and the player of the day 
 is great .This gives it a highly adictive edge and makes you desperate to play just one more. THIS 
 IS A MUST BUY . SO BUY IT GO ALREADY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  if you read the title then you should know that this is a football game. but all is not as it seems, 
 sure there are nintendo characters instead of licensed players but dont go thinking that is the 
 only difference.
  
  the graphics are very good for this game and if you put it in widescreen mode it seems to make 
 it better. the sound isn't the best but it's not that bad either. but this games incredible gameplay 
 and value stop it from becoming boring.
  
  you have 5 in a team: 1 goalie, 3 sidekicks and the all powerful captain. the main mode is 3 cups 
 to win, each getting harder with the last one being insanely hard. you can unlock 6 stadiums each 
 with unique features, 3 new captains and there are 12 challenges to do.
  
  the captains and sidekicks are of great variety and you can mix and match to your heart's content. 
 you are then out into a pitch and given one objective, to win. you can do this however you want 
 because there are no rules at all.
  
  you can smash people, you can perform megastrikes, skillshots, use the electric fence, use items 
 like chain chomps, bomb-ombs, mushrooms etc., and there are also captain super abilities which 
 can give you a scoring chance.
  
  there is so much in this game and i haven't even got to the great multiplayer and the even better 
 online multiplayer. this game will keep you fascinated for hours and hours, it gets very hard later 
 and is definitely worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedgehog_bhoy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  All hail the first Wi-Fi game of the Wii! Mario and friends take us for a spin in this game and 
 its excellent!!! Mario Strikers Charged Football is one of the best games I have ever played and 
 it is an instant must-have and classic!
  
  With great graphics, lots of captains and sidekicks, and best of all the gameplay, this game is 
 the best on the Wii yet! You can't go wrong with this game at all. Why not be Luigi and take down 
 your big bro, Mario, and take glory for yourself? Or how about you go Peach and teach your younger 
 sister Daisy a lesson? In this game, you can!
  
  Also, if you want to teach your friends a lesson on how to play football, this is the game to do 
 it on... unless your good at football! But the Wi-Fi connection is easy to use and play on, but 
 I'll warn you, it's much harder than playing the AI (Artificial Intelligence) on Cup Mode!
  
  This game is really fun with brilliant controls and uses the Wii-Mote and Nunchuk to their 
 best of their abilities! The arenas and environments are very good while the characters are really 
 easy to control. There is only one bad point about this game... the further you go up the leagues 
 and cups, the harder it gets. Well, its hard for all you sissies who can't take a challenge! (jk 
 jk) This game is brilliant and it is the best game I've played yet, so a round of applause for 
 Nintendo and Next Level Games!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krnc
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  At first i thought this game would be an average game and quite easy. But its not ike that. Its 
 very difficult and it will take you a while to use the dekes at he right time and to pass the ball 
 without being intercepted. It may not be XBOX 360 graphis, but it is still great.
  
  The control are easy to get ussed to, only about 20 minutes to use the controls properly. There 
 is the strikers abc option to teach you the basic skills you nedd to know. But your skill will 
 improve dramaticly when you beat the second cup.
  
  There are four main mode to play the game on, the Road to Strikers Cup mode where you paly three 
 cups. In this mode you unlock new captains for domination mode. Its not very long, but it's extremely 
 annoying and fustrating trying to beat the crystal cup and the Striker cup. You can do challenges 
 to unlock cheats while playing domination mode. Domination mode is basically just vs. mode where 
 you can just face off against other teams of your choice and chose your own team too. You can also 
 choose the cheats you want you unlock from challenge mode. The best and final mode in Mario Strikers 
 Charged is the online play where you can play people all around the world who have wireless broadband, 
 its brilliant. You can play the best of 1,3,5 or 7 games in a row called series, the person who 
 wins the most....... WINS! On a whole this game is great and I recommend this game to anyone and 
 everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gmecbe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  When i played this game for the first time i was expecting it to be a little short and too easy. 
 Well the game has reasonable difficulty and i dont think the graphics are that bad either.
  
  Mario strikers charged has just purely fun gameplay. If you like football then you are really 
 going to get this game i think. It does just have one game mode in obviously playing football but 
 it has other game features such as a road to the striker cup option where you can play in different 
 competitions for cups and then you can just go on a domination mode where you will just play the 
 game against any character you want and you can tweak certain options to make the game play how 
 you want.
  
  The online feature of the game is brilliant. It can be a real challenge playing some people online 
 but once you get good pratise you can soon match other people online in a best of series meaning 
 you will play a best of 3,5 or 7 games for example.
  
  The controls are really easy and it doesnt take more than 10 minutes to get used to them. The difficulty 
 i did find much harder as the game progressed but this is a game that when you master the more 
 difficult areas of the game it can become a little easier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spider-manfan45
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  its all right but it dosent take any use of the wii's ability. So whats the point of it bein on 
 wii? it might as well be on gba or gc. But scoring mega strikegoals are pretty good and its like 
 fifa street 2 so gameplay is the only reason you should get it. also the striker cup is descent 
 but its nothing without your friends. so if can give my own score not like gamespot score style 
 i would give it a 8.2. i expect if soccer games continue to be like this well , no one i repeat 
 no 1 would buy it soccer games on any console. so my verdict is, its only good if you're playing 
 with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayzee994
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 17, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Mario strikers Charged is great for many reasons. I mean there's a fair bit to do although the 
 single player is kind of short, that doesn't mean that it won't take you forever tring to beat 
 it. It depends on your definition of short. Anyway, it's the first Wii game with wifi! So that 
 will last you a while. The multiplayer is great. The controls may take half an hour to get used 
 to but after that they seem so simple. There so simple I can even play it with my dad! Gameplay 
 - 10
  The game is highly addictive, extra fun on wifi and has an awesome multiplayer. I mean it's even 
 entertaining watching it. It's a wacky version of soccer with Mario (and friends) in it. There 
 are power up's to use for your captain. For Example: When Mario gets a power up, he becomes massive 
 and tramples the competition. Also there are 12 characters to choose from which are: Mario, Luigi, 
 Peach, Daisy, Yoshi, Donkey Kong, Waluigi, Wario and Bowser and 3 secret characters. (If you want 
 to know who they are check the hints and cheats section. Also the megastrike has been brought in. 
 Basically you hold shoot for about 3 seconds and a gauge comes up. You got to press shoot on the 
 darkest bit of the gauge, then press shoot again on the orange part of the gauge. Then your opponent 
 plays a catching game. He has to catch 3-6 soccer balls by using the Wiimote and clicking on them 
 with button A really fast. Graphics - 8
  The graphics are quite good, but I still think you could get away with the graphics on the Gamecube. 
 It didn't reach the Wii's full potential in my opinion. The in-game movies, like when Mario falls 
 out of the sky and lands on the soccer field is pretty good graphically wise. Sound - 9
  I thought it would be worse but it's a lot better than I expected. The music is ok I guess but 
 when you get a power up, sometimes the crowd gets involved and it sounds like a real soccer match. 
 For Example: In a soccer match, the crowd goes Oley oley oley oley, oley, oley! In strikers they 
 go Wari-Wari-Wario, Wario, Wario! Value - 9
  If the game didn't have wi-fi, I'd give it a 7. Let's just say that the singleplayer is fun but 
 it doesn't have that much. On the main menu it has Road to the Striker Cup, where you compete in 
 3 tournaments. Domination Mode, where you just play against a computer player or a friend. Striker 
 ABC, basically the tutorial. And last but not least the Striker Challenges, which is a normal match 
 with special conditions basically. So you can see, the single player doesn't have that much going 
 for it. But the multiplayer and the wi-fi, that's the best part of the game. There's also wi-fi 
 on the main menu where you play a match against someone else online. On the main menu there's also 
 options and Hall of Fame where you gaze at your trophies that youve won. Reviewer's Tilt - 9
  With all the stuff I just told you about, I think this game deserves a 9, dont you?
  
  Overall 
 - 9.2
  
  By Jayzee994 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korayem
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review:  I love it... can't get bored from playing this with my brother.
  
  We started by learning the basics... doing the 10 lessons will get you started in no time.
  
 
  Next we went into cup mode to collect those trophies. Playing against each other is sooo awesome.
 
  
  We laughed soo much on the characters sounds (nintendo style baby!!) . The Captain powers and side 
 kick powers are so fun to do and watch.
  
  BTW, this is not a Soccer game. It's Mario's world in a funky domain. There are no outs, corners 
 or fouls (heck, there is no referee!) ... to beat your opponent, you have to create a good balanced 
 team of a Captain and his 3 sidekicks.
  
  This game is a definite must have for everyone having the Wii. So do your self a big favor and 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyboi123456
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 10, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is not only a better game then its predercessor, but its in an another league. 
 Gameplay: The gameplay is not much different from the GC version but has had little tweaks, which 
 has made more addictive then ever. Value: This is the thing I LOVE the most in MSC. The GC version 
 was very short, I nearly finished it in a day: O. But in this Wii version its faboulous. The sort 
 of main game has been made much longer taking about I dno like 5 - 7 hours more. But it doesn't 
 stop there, their is a challenge mode ( which is short but i enjoyed it =) ) and the online/multiplayer 
 is great. This is the thing which will keep you playing for ever. Controls: When I started in exhibition 
 mode the controls were a bit annoying, but you start to get the hang off after round 20mins so 
 not bad. Graphics: The graphics are surprissingly very good, I was not expected such colourful, 
 beatiful graphics. Could be argued as the best on the Wii Difficulty: Well really there isn't really 
 much single player mode ( when you think about it ) but this game for a Mario game is really hard 
 and fraustrating. Road to striker cup is only 3 cups :| but really is hard. The challenges also 
 are really hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsweens24
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 8, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  There's something fundamentally wrong with Mario Strikers: Charged Football. And it's not the relatively 
 low quality of the graphics (come on, this is the Wii after all) ; or the repetitive nature of the 
 sound design (which is starting to grate already) ; or, as it happens, the hugely entertaining gameplay.
 
  
  It is, simply put, so close to being unplayable on your own that I honestly considered taking it 
 back to the shop. The challenges are ridiculously tough; the cup modes even more so. They're not 
 *impossible*; but they certainly aren't *ever* a push-over; even some of the early challenges had 
 me seething due to a fourteenth repeat. Now I like a nice, challenging game (Ninja Gaiden on Xbox 
 is still one of my favourites) ; but this is ridiculous, seeing as it's challenging for all the 
 wrong reasons. The AI is sometimes stupid to the point of ludicrousy (the goal keeper occasionally 
 just stands there watching the ball, even though it's less than a foot from him) , and other times 
 you'd swear it's reading your mind (which, of course, it more or less is) . Anyways, if you like 
 tear-your-hair-out, break-your-wiimote (not that I have, but I can imagine there may be types out 
 there who might) kind of difficult, then this might be the game for you when it comes to single 
 player.
  
  And one of the more disappointing things is its relatively sparse use of the Wiimote. Apart from 
 navigating menus, the motion sensing tech is only used in two situations ingame - for doing a heavy 
 tackle, achieved by flicking the thing in any direction; and for 'saving' super strikes, which 
 is like a shooting gallery-type minigame. It'd've been nice to have maybe an assortment of special 
 moves linked to gestures, or something like that; or even just different *kinds* of heavy tackle 
 linked to which way you twitch the remote! But as it stands, it feels a little lacking.
  
  However! All this is completely forgotten when you get a four-player match going. Be it all in 
 the same room, or over the internet; this game is absolutely fantastic when you play it multiplayer. 
 This is mostly due to the fact that the only AI you have to compete against and/or rely on is the 
 goalkeeper; and despite it's occasional bouts of total stupidity (which can be in turns annoying 
 and hilarious, depending on which end it happens at) , it's decent enough for multiplayer purposes.
 
  
  The gameplay is smooth, and - more importantly - actually fun when played multiplayer. There's 
 a degree of skill required, and a hefty amount of luck involved, but overall it's hugely entertaining, 
 whether you win or lose.
  
  One criticism that I've read in several places is the overwhelming nature of the Super-Strike; 
 and I have to disagree. Whilst initially, it is indeed a highly powerful - and slightly bizarre, 
 truth be told - mechanic, once you've figured out how to save it every single time (and in turn, 
 have either the AI or you're human opponents do the same) , it more or less becomes redundant, and 
 you'll be lucky if you can score one goal from it; so it simply becomes another way of acquiring 
 one - or *perhaps* two - goals.
  
  In the end, this game is fun in single player for a while before it becomes incredibly difficult; 
 but this is compensated for by the addictive and highly entertaining multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Optusnet
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 8, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  Isn't online great? At any time YOU want, you can just sit down of your fat arse and compete against 
 anyone who isn't sitting next to you. While Strikers Charged doesn't offer a whole lot more in 
 the single player, it's the multiplayer and customization/options that have been dramatically been 
 changed or improved on. Graphics: If you've seen vids and screens of the game, the final product 
 really does look like that. There's a few extra graphical effects thrown around, extra detail added 
 to the backgrounds, and there's actually a proper 3D crowd, but the game is very much reminiscent 
 of the GC game. That's not neccesarily a bad thing, but there's still room for improvment. The 
 frame rate also dips during certain victory animations, which is quite strange, but it's nothing 
 alarming.
  
  Sound: The music is a better effort than in Strikers, but some of the sound effects and vocals 
 are still itching on the brain of annoyance. You just want to backhand Peach whenever she does 
 her god-awful laugh, and don't get me started on the Daisy or the sidekicks. However, some of the 
 sound effects are quite convincing, and some of the vocals are downright hilarious (we're talking 
 Rayman Rabbids hilarious) .
  
  Gameplay: Strikers fans beware - this game feels slower than in the original. If you're one to 
 get away with the ball as quick as possible, void that plan. There's no run button. It's been replaced 
 by a 'chip' shot with the Z button that makes you slightly dash, but nothing worth it. There are 
 a few characters that use the d-pad who dodge by dashing, but that's it. However, you realise after 
 a while that it makes sense due to balancing, character's stats and abilities, and you do eventually 
 enjoy the pace of the game. Also, the wii controls allow to make it much easier to do fake shots, 
 charged shots, maneouvers (when you have the ball) , and the controls feel nice when you have to 
 block off shots. Online is a blast. A true blast. Gaining the most amount of goals, and gaining 
 ranking points is hugely addictive if you're into that sort of thing, and online is truly rewarding 
 when you defeat an experienced opponent. It's what you're oging to spend most of your time on. 
 It's a great first effort from Nintendo.
  
  Although the single player options are pretty much the same as the original, there's a couple fo 
 SP letdowns. There's practically no reward value in defeating bots after playing online, and the 
 main 'road to the striker's cup' mode is horribly limited in replay value and is tedious altogether. 
 If you're hanging out for the overall package, Strikers will absolutely deliver on some fronts, 
 and underwhelm in others. But the positives definitely overweigh the negatives. If you're looking 
 for a solid title on Wii, or enjoyed the first Strikers, spend no hesitation getting this title. 
 As for the rest of you, rent first. + Same addictive, over-the-top gameplay
  + It's online! + Wii controls work suprsingly as good, if not better, than GC controls
  + It's 
 polished!
  - Longer learning curve for you and your mates
  - Single player underwhelming and lacks some quality substance
  - Score board gets in the way 
 of watching replays 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reno2199
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Another Mario sports game. This game takes the basic idea of football and then cartoonifies it, 
 but this new-ish (this is a sequel...) take on the beautiful could be for better AND worse.
  
  For no real reason, all the Mario characters decide to have football tournaments. The first 
 is extremely easy, the second is quite hard and the third is extremely difficult.
  
  You pick one 'captain', i. e. a fully-fledged character, and three 'sidekicks', who are the less-important 
 characters of the Mario world, such as Koopa, ShyGuy and Birdo.
  
  Each character has strengths and weaknesses - Mario, as in ALL the other sports games, including 
 racing, is your typical balanced character. DK is obviously more offensive.
  
  The controls work quite well. Passing is done with A (and a direction on the nunchuk) , shooting 
 is B, C uses an item (shells, chainchomps etc.) and Z is the modifier i. e. it makes a pass into 
 a lob/cross or performs a lobshot with B.
  
  Special shots are performed by holding B. These are unique to the character, which is quite cool 
 - for example, Birdo shoots an egg. With captains, it uses Megastrike. This may sound/look cool, 
 but unless it's (near) perfect, human players will save each shot (by pointing and pressing A) 
 and computers will as well, at least on higher difficulty.
  
  Each character also has a skill, performed using any directional button and most of these (if not 
 all) are simply to avoid contact with other players. If not in possession of the ball, the buttons 
 do a slide tackle. For the more aggressive of you, shake the Remote for a smash tackle, which you 
 can do off-the-ball. You should try to hit the person into the side of the arena, there is either 
 an electric fence or nothingness.
  
  Music is remixed Mario classics, which all sound familiar to fans. Sounds of characters are also 
 familiar, including Peach's squeals when thrown into the electric fence.
  
  Multiplayer and online are basically the same in my eyes - except in one you play someone not sat 
 next to you. It's fun but, again, frustrating at times.
  
  The problems : it goes from FAR TOO EASY to INSANELY HARD very quickly. There are too many cheap-feeling 
 tricks, like making Boo float through the keeper or constantly volleying the ball, making it VERY 
 hard to get it. Pressing Shoot in your own half clears the ball, with NO direction. Repetition, 
 gameplay wise, is not too apparent, but the Megastrike cutscenes feel like they drag on forever. 
 The WORST thing of ALL is that you cannot skip the scene after your opponent scores in multiplayer. 
 They have to press A. My older brother uses that to his full advantage whilst Wario gloats, dancing 
 around the pitch whilst Mario cries in the corner.
  
  There are, of course, times where you feel it's the best game ever. Chipping the ball to Mario 
 who does a slow-mo backflip kick and shoots it to the back of the net. Dry Bones charging up a 
 shot that electrifies the keeper, followed by a lob shot over his frazzling body. Knowing that 
 your opponent will never win in the twenty seconds left. Being happy in the knowledge that you've 
 just ruined some seven-year-old's day.
  
  Mario Strikers is a good game, in single and multiplayer, but if you buy it, be sure that you are 
 in for an emotional rollercoaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigfish2
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Mario strikers charged football takes a sport we all know and love, football and strips it down 
 to the bare bones and then builds a whole new game. But believe me that new game is just as brilliant. 
 There are no fouls; no rules against hand-ball, weapons; super abilities and mega strikes. Lets 
 start by talking about how you play a match. Firstly you choose your captain from Mario, Luigi, 
 Peach, Daisy, Wario, Waluigi, Donkey Kong, Yoshi, bowser and if you've unlocked them Bowser jr, 
 Diddy Kong and Petey Piranha. Then you choose 3 sidekicks from Monty Mole, Shy Guy, Koopa, Dry 
 Bones, Toad, Boo, Birdo and Hammer Bro. You can have duplicates of each sidekick. Each sidekick 
 has there own special shot which they execute when you charge up a shot. When you charge up a shot 
 using a captain they unleash a megastrike which shoots up to six balls at the goalkeeper and the 
 other player has to use the wii remote as the goalies hands to stop the balls. The amount of balls 
 and the power of the balls is decided by where you stop a guage. Then you pick the stadium from 
 a wide selection and the match rules. Once the game has started you play 5 a side with your captain, 
 3 sidekicks and Kritter in goal. When you are playing you can slide tackle, barge tackle, use items 
 such as shells and use your captains super ability which comes as an item. Mario and luigi's super 
 abilities are super versions of themselves where they grow really tall. A major gameplay mechanic 
 is the way the ball changes colour when you pass it to encourage team play. It changes all the 
 way throughh from red gradually to white. The closer it is to white the easier it is to score. 
 The different game modes are domination mode which is just a one off match or series with one or 
 two players, road to striker-cup which is like a campaign, the tutorial, striker challenges where 
 you have to complete set challenges and of course the much heralded online mode. Online mode works 
 well with just a few minor problems with the servers when they where first bought online. You can 
 play friendly matches against people that you have exchanged mii specific friend codes with or 
 ranked matches against anyone inyour region. Friendly matches can be played worldwide. Ther is 
 an online ranking so you can check where you are compared to other players. Every single mode especially 
 the online mode is incredibly fun but the road to striker cup is very difficult. The graphics are 
 very good and so is the sounds of the crowd and everything else. Overall the game is an excellent 
 one and a great introduction for the wii to online gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 7, 2007 2:22 am PT
Review:  This is a game that offers little in the way of fun or interesting gameplay for the single player 
 and is only really a game that can be enjoyed online.
  
  The cpu A. I is too hard for the casual gamer and you also have to deal with random effects also 
 hampering your play which means there is no real learning curve to follow. Games are very repetitive 
 and quickly become boring. There is little use of the wiimote as well which means you are resorting 
 to mainly using it a a stansdard joypad. For wii owners who like to use motion sensing this is 
 not the game for you.
  
  While the graphics are pretty good for a wii game, the playabilty and general lameness of the concept 
 (which is a tenuous link to soccer) detract grealty from this game's appeal. There are plenty of 
 much better wii games out there on the market that use the motion sensing which will probably see 
 this game become one of the forgotten titles of this console. On a plus note the online play with 
 ranking is a good touch and this can be enjoyed as a player vs player game although the ranked 
 matches are often populated with tools that spam the special moves and turn the game into a cmplete 
 lame fest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IanBlaz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  The single player mode is very challenging and the AI of your opponent can be very cruel scoring 
 for fun most of the time in the later cups. But once youve beatin all 3 cups (thats it) then theres 
 10 challenges to keep you busy. But then thats it for single player mode. Luckily enough theres 
 the online mode which to be honest seems to be the only reason people are goin for this game! Also 
 playing against a friend can be fun but there is a serious lack of competitions to compete in, 
 Such as you and a friend cant enter say a knockout tournament as seperate teams! Or say you and 
 a group of friends want to enter a cup mode (like FIFA) where u can play against computer or be 
 drawn against a friend, you cant do this you can only either play with you and a friend playing 
 on the same team against the computer in the single player mode OR against your friend in a best 
 out of 3 matches head to head. I know this sounds petty but the game cube version had this and 
 i just think that adding a multiplayer striker cup multiplayer version for when you have a lot 
 of people round wouldve made such a massive improvement and made a huge difference to multiplayer 
 mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyrulesliver
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  bought it from london
  love it like it was a child
  like fifa street but with weapons
  amazing online. people are easy to beat
  hardly lags unless you are playing a non EU person
 
  get it because it rocks
  brilliant! for the money. Great single player and amazing online...
  Wario and Wailuigi are the 
 best charaters IMO. i love the sidekicks as they just rock. Toad is one to play with. he is funny
 
  Buy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy 
 itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy 
 itBuy itBuy itBuy itBuy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philstra
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  Using the full functionality of the controller these games has games within itself. Easy tutorials 
 that allow after the 10 lessons a full game to be played. Good variation of levels of computer 
 skills, and worth playing the computer at level 5 just to learn some added tactics to use against 
 friends online.
  The graphics are good on this game and loading times are not massive between games. With locked 
 characters and locked stages there is enough to keep you going even if you do not have a WI-FI 
 connection yet, but is defiantly more fun when playing with and against your friends online.
  Looking forward to other games online, it opens up a whole new world and allows games to be more 
 playable. Worth a buy...... there are some good deals for this with cash back websites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyodwyer
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Im going to keep this short and sweet. I came to play Strikers without playing the original cube 
 version. Im a huge fan of the pro evolution series, and a football (soccer) fan also. I found Stikers 
 to be a great mix between the core concepts of football, but with a lot of nintendo spice put into 
 the equation.
  
  The single player is fun, if not a bit limited like Mario Kart. But its the local multiplayer which 
 is where the fun is more me. Me and my mates spend a lot of time playing pro-ev socially in each 
 others houses, and i found that this is where i enjoy Stikers the most. My attemps at playing online 
 have been mixed, but honestly i dont even like playing pro ev online much.
  
  The graphics in stikers, are probably the best i have seen on the Wii, and frankly i was surprised 
 at how good it looked when i first saw it running.
  
  The there are enough specials and ways of scoring goals, to keep your learning how to use the various 
 characters, for a long time. But, as nintendo seem to manage effortlessley, they are near-perfectly 
 balanced, as even the most complex moves, can be countered if you just know how.
  
  For me, strikers is a breath of fresh air for my wii. The wiimote isnt overly used, the controlls 
 are simple at first, but are deep upon exploration, the gameplay is addictive, the animations and 
 graphics are incredibly impressive, and most of all its FUN.
  
  Even when i loose games, i thoughouly enjoy playing them.
  Somthing i dont think i could ever 
 say about traditional footy games.
  
  I really enjoy this game. I just hope the Wii gets more of this calibur more frequently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kngdmhrts2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  When you think of most sports now... Mario isn't very far behind with a game based on it.
  
  There's Golf, Kart, Baseball, Basketball and of course.... Football (soccer for everyone else, lol)
 
  
  With the success of Mario Football on the GameCube, a 2nd football game was sure to arrive. And 
 sure enough... it had... and arriving on the Nintendo Wii.
  
  The main attraction though is the Wi-Fi Connection, making this the 1st game on the Wii to be fully 
 compatible online. Using one of your Mii's... you're given a friend code to swap with others, and 
 then you can play each other in friendlies... or you can face a random competitor in a ranked match.
 
  
  The other modes outside the Wi-Fi are: Strikers ABC - where it'll teach newcomers the basics of 
 the game and controls
  
  Domination Mode - Simplified by me as Friendly ... where you choose your own rules and differculty 
 (if its You vs CPU) and special cheats (i'll mention those later)
  
  Road to Striker Cup - Story Mode as i like to put it, where you're put in 3 cups and you must win 
 them (obviously, lol) but also unlock arenas by getting requirements in the Group stages (requirements 
 are the same in all 3)
  
  Strikers Challenge - What it says really, 12 challenges varying in task and difficulty, and when 
 you complete one, you unlock a cheat which can be activated for Domination Mode, which can make 
 things better... or harder.
  
  and Hall of Fame - not going into detail on that, lol
  
  The Controls are so simple, pass is A, shoot is B, movement is the analogue on the Nunchuck, tackles 
 by either shaking the wiimote or pressing the directional buttons. And to activate your charged 
 shots, hold B... now if this is with your Captain (e. g Mario, Peach etc) you can activate your MegaStrike 
 which will shoot up to 6 (yes, 6) balls at the goal, and only the goalie can stop them.
  
  Now if you're against the CPU, just pray... its pure luck if they go in. But if you're against another 
 player (or its you facing the MS's) , you must stop the balls by pointing the wiimote and pressing 
 A over the balls.... simple but sometimes hard to master if they are coming REALLY fast.
  
  You can also receive items which can be used during the game by pressing C. These can vary (wont 
 go into what ones there are) and sometimes you will receive a Super Ability for you Captain (e. g 
 Mario has a Super Mushroom which makes him Gigantic!!)
  
  Its with all these things which can really turn any match around... so always be aware of your opponants.
 
  
  The Graphics and Sound are incredible... sure its only Mario but even when the camera is constantly 
 moving back and forth you're able to see so much detail and every sound is wow (especially the 
 ball since its metal)
  
  So Mario has made his football debut on Wii a superb debut... especially with its Wi-Fi Connectivity. 
 Its so worth the money!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richardmouland
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Found the single player experience all a bit hit and miss. It gets too hard, too soon. There feels 
 as though there is very little progression made as after the first cup, the A. I. is ranked up to 
 very hard. I managed to finish the first cup after a couple of goes. I'm lucky if i can get into 
 the crystal cup semis.
  The best part of this game is the on-line part. Wi-Fi is welcomed here and playing with friends 
 on-line is fantastic. There does appear to be problems with connections at the moment, but i'm 
 sure it will improve. It's easy to find and add friends and i do seem to get a good, lag free game 
 with them. Thumbs up for this.
  A little disappointed but can see this being a good pick up and play your friends game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjharwin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 1, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  I never played the first one on the Gamecube, but after playing Mario Strikers on the Wii, I was 
 amazing at how fun football games can become with some familiar characters from the Mario factory 
 and a barrel of crazy techniques.
  
  The road to the strikers cup may be a harder aspect of the game, but is still extremely fun to 
 play and is a challenge to those who prefer it. If you find it hard, why not team up with a sibling 
 or friend to beat the game? That's what I did.
  
  Multiplayer is an amazing part of the game, and is a great way for friends to team up and have 
 fun. Playing 2 on 2 couldn't be any better in this game, and I think that this is the Wii's best 
 multiplayer title since Wii Sports. Online is also a great way to connect to friends, and there 
 is a lot less lag that DS titles such as Mario Kart and Metroid Prime hunters. The way you challenge 
 people on your friend roster is also appealing.
  
  This game is a must. I reccommend you buy it from Choices UK, as it's only &pound;28.99 on the 
 website with free P+P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Retman
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 4:10 am PT
Review:  Price: &pound;35
  Release dates: US: July 30, Japan: December 31, Europe: Now
  Online: Yes.
  Other Platforms: None, only on Wii.
  
  Dont get me wrong, this is Football 
 (Soccer for you cheeky Americans) but with a twisted, is that twisted good? Lets find out...
 
  
  INTRO/MENU
  
  First its to be said when you first pop the disc in the Wii you will be prompted to Update, Nobody 
 knows why, the update doesnt add anything to your Wii that you can use, all it does it let you 
 play the game. The Update hardly takes time about 10 seconds Max. When you do get it start youre 
 presented with a nice Intro then onto the main menu where you can play different modes. These are: 
 Domination Mode, Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, Road to the Striker Cup, Strikers ABC, Hall Of Fame, 
 Strikers Challenges and the Options menu. Lets dive into each one.
  
  MENU INFO
  
  Domination mode is, to me, another name for Quick play. It lets your Character, team and Stadium 
 and throws you into a match. You can change the settings of the match as you like them to be E. g. 
 you can change how long the match is or how many goals until the game finishes etc... Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi Connection, well the titles explains it all. Play against random people online or register 
 your friends Friend Code to play against them. Im glad they let you scan for random opponents 
 because with friends they arent always there for a match but with Strangers they are. While playing 
 online you can get points which show how well you are at the game, you also get the basic Info 
 on how many wins, loses and draws you have had. This kind of tells you who the Disconnecters are 
 but it could end up being someone that just really sucks at the game. There is a Leader board to 
 work your way up to. There is different options while playing online, lets look at Friendly. 
 This requires you to have someone on your Friend roster which is just a list of your added friends. 
 If you want to play a match against you then they can send an invite asking. Now this was a must 
 for this review: Most people are having issues on connecting online - it is Nintendos server which 
 is hammered, I guess they didnt know it would be so popular. At the time Im writing this review 
 the online is fine, Nintendo must have fixed the server. Lets dive in more about the Leader board. 
 There is: My season ranking - View those ranked closest to you during this season, Friends - View 
 a ranking of registered friends based upon ranking points, Season leaders - view the 10 ranked 
 players of one season, my daily ranking - view those ranked closest to your for the day and finally 
 Daily leaders - view the top 10 ranked players of the day. Road to the Striker Cup places you in 
 a Tournament with your team. This is where you can win trophies. Is more like a Story mode but 
 with out the story. Not much can be said with this mode as its just tournament based matches until 
 you win all the trophies. Strikers ABC lets you get the basics of Mario strikers charged football. 
 The option is recommended when you first play the game. It will teach you how to score and so various 
 special powers. Hall Of Fame lets you view all the Trophies you have won from the Road to the Striker 
 Cup. And Player cards which you got from Challenges. Strikers Challenges pits you against different 
 challenges to win Player cards. These Players cards are only info about the characters. Finally 
 the options menu - This contains Visual options, Audio options and Credits. GAMEPLAY/GRAPHICS
 
  
  Now that we have the very long options out of the way lets look at the Game play, graphics etc...
 
  
  It can be said that Mario Strikers Charged Football is a very flashy game, it tries its best to 
 be impressive and it works. Random effects from the weather, funny but annoying specials from characters 
 (wario farting....) all work together to make this game really enjoyable. They didnt hold back 
 on Items. Various items can be obtained by performing a charged shot (more on that later) or shot 
 or when attacked. The long list of Items is: Green Shell - knock characters down, Red Shell - home 
 in and knock down the opponent, Blue Shell - Freezes characters, Spiked Shell - Repeatedly rebounds 
 and knocks characters down, Banana Peel - makes characters slip and fall, Bo-omb - Explosive bombs, 
 Chain-chomp - immobilises all the players it hits, Mushroom - Raises speed for a set time and Power 
 star - Invincible for set time, stunning any players that you touch. With the items, game play, 
 stadium effects all during the game makes this a fun blast - much better than watching proper football. 
 Now dont get me wrong all this is great but it can be frustrating at times. All this stuff happing 
 and most of the time you dont know where the ball is! This can make you lose a few points. Each 
 Character has a different MegaStrick and Super Abilities. MegaStricks are when you hold the B button 
 for long until a bar appears this lets you select how many shots you want to take but this takes 
 a few seconds and a opponent could easily come in and tackle you. Then you select how strong best 
 to get it in the orange bar which is the fastest. When you finally complete that you get a little 
 scene where your character jumps up in mid air and performs are strike. Then the opponent has a 
 chance to save the goals. If you are trying to save a MegaStrike then a menu appears where you 
 control a set of goalie gloves and each ball that appears you have to press A over the ball, if 
 you miss then thats a point to your opponent. This is called Mega Saves. A Mega Shakedown is when 
 you shake the nunchuck to ruin the plan of a MegaStrike.
  
  OVERALL
  
  This is truly a fantastic game, they are hardly any faults. A big win for this game is of course 
 the online play. This makes you want to always play this game since there is always an opponent 
 waiting for you. Flashy animations, items playing left and right make this on top game. A great 
 game to start the wiis online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  When I played the first game (Mario Smash Football) for the Gamecube, I liked it but at the end 
 it didn't have enough depth in it. So when I bought Mario Strikers Charged Football on the day 
 it came out which was 25th May of course, it was great fun. I'm glad this game came out in Europe 
 first because us Brits and the rest of Europe invented Football. Next Level Games have put so much 
 effort into it and there is a lot of depth in it. After you choose your Captain you can for the 
 first time select a sidekick which position you want it to be in such as defend, midfield or centre 
 left or right forward. But the Kremlings still remain as your goalkeeper. When your opponent is 
 about to score a Megastrike, also for the first time you can try and save the balls by using the 
 Wii remote and that is amazing. Another amazing bit is when you are tackling your opponent you 
 can either do a slide tackle by using the D-pad or doing a shoulder budge by waving the Wii remote 
 and finally when you have the ball you can perform a special skill by pressing the D-pad. When 
 you are playing as Mario or Luigi when they have there own self item with them, they grow into 
 a giant for a short time before they shrink by stamping on the other players. When the game was 
 advertised it had Former England and Arsenal and West Ham player Ian Wright and his adopted son 
 Shaun Wright Phillips who plays for Chelsea playing the game via the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection 
 and it was cool.
  
  The Captian selection has more characters to choose from Mario to Bowser to Diddy Kong, Bowser 
 Junior to Petty Parania. They perform their type of pose for a Megastrike especially Wario's one 
 where he jumps up high and inflates himself up like a balloon and bursts the ball into the goal.
 
  
  This is one of the best games on the Wii so far and also the first Mario title for the Wii in Europe 
 and the first Wii game to have online gameplay. Anyone want a game of Footie? This one is for you 
 for any Footie fan or non Footie fan.
  
  Its definitly a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GigaBowserJr14
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 31, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  As the follow up to Mario Smash Football on the gamecube I thought the controls may not port over 
 well to the Wii controls but I wrong. The controls are perfect with very little motion controls 
 just to do a big hit and to save mega strike but there is no sprint button which is slightly strange. 
 The graphics are hit and miss there generally good but the intro to the thunder island pitch looks 
 like a N64 game but the mega strikes are very impressive. The sound is ok and the background sound 
 in matches is good and immersive but the sound that comes through the wii-mote is useful for when 
 you get a item. The value of the the game is great lots to do and the single player mode has much 
 more depth and there are challenges set up for you to complete like in fifa 06 and then there is 
 the online which works well but can be hit and miss at times but it's generally ok. Final bad things 
 are very unbalanced ,difficulty levels, long loading times are the only down sides. So this is 
 a must buy for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianmercer89
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the best game out on the wii. Great tutorial mode to get u started and loads 
 2 do! I got online within the first hour or two and its fantastic with all the daily and season 
 leaderboards. This is a must buy for any wii owner and is definitely up there with any of this 
 years Playsation 3 games for gameplay. The graphics aren't brilliant but they don't take anything 
 away from this great game it seems like the perfect package. By the way I'm also a big pro evolution 
 fan yet I stil love the football side of things included in this game the mechanics are pretty 
 good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evertonlad5
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 30, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I dont play FIFA or Pro Evo. Ive played one or two matches now and again but too be honest, it 
 doesnt really interest me. I mean your playing something you could just go outside and play now. 
 Thats where MSC is different. Unless you possess giant blue shells or can split a ball into 6 pieces 
 whilst jumping metres in the air, MSC gives you the football game you want whilst making it something 
 new and different, but in the end is still football.
  
  The gameplay is fun and creative, but sometimes can be a bit too difficult. The single player campaign 
 seems lengthy enough, even though I havent finished it yet, but the main attraction of MSC is the 
 online play.
  
  I have only ever played one other game online. Mario Kart. Apart from that Ihave never played an 
 online game. So this being my first experience, I enjoyed it. MSC whilst not as complicated and 
 established as XBOX Live offers you fun play with leaderboards and striker of the day so on. Even 
 if it does use the demised friend codes, it still makes a good start for online play on the WIi
 
  
  Graphics are ok, quite good when you can enjoy it on a HD Tv. Not amazing and certainly not the 
 Wii's best but good.
  
  Overall the game is certainly enjoyable and definately worth getting. Unless you can play like 
 Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo1000
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 30, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  Entertaining gaming fun, its online service is free!, new captains and sidekicks (I think theres 
 not enough though) , more tactical than prequel which makes it more interesting choosing your characters 
 to face your mate, mix &amp; match different sidekicks, best of all multi-player mayhem fun, special 
 laugh-out-loud sidekick moves
  
  Bad:
  Not the biggest graphical step ever from previous game, really only a party game, REALLY TOUGH 
 (WHAT WERE YOU THINKING NEXT LEVEL) certainly next level the difficulty is though, its just too 
 hard, almost like a typical 2-D Mario platformer, its frustrating at times e. g. you get to the 
 semi-final after playing 10 very tough matches and you lose, guess what you have to start all over 
 again
  
  Mario Strikers Charged, the first online game for the Wii (Outside of Japan anyway) . And the game 
 delivers on most fronts, except some arent. You cant help but feeling that the game is only a 
 multi-player game. The single-player mode offers a sort of toned down career mode, which is called 
 Road to the Striker Cup. Which, in truth is rather short too short in fact. There is also a Striker 
 Challenge Mode. Twelve varied challenges at different difficulty levels. But in all its too difficult 
 for 99.9% of players who will play Mario Strikers. Again its too short. There is also Domination 
 Mode which primary job is for multi-player matches against the computer.
  
  The game is well presented, you can feel some improvement over its prequel, not massively much, 
 but there is some improvement since last time. There are new abilities this time, with sidekicks 
 getting a new special ability each. It makes you think more carefully when picking your team, because 
 certain teams with a certain mix of abilities can play well. For example, Birdos is an egg ability, 
 charge up for a shot and an unstoppable egg will come out of her mouth, it will smash past the 
 goalie, providing there is no enemy character in the way of the goal. Also new sidekicks: Dry Bones, 
 Shy Guy, fat Monty Mole, Hammer Koopas. New captains too are, F
  Diddy Kong Jr, Bowser Jr and Petey Piranha (I think, I havent unlocked him yet because the game 
 is too hard) . There are new characters, but possibly not enough in my view.
  
  Graphically the game has some improvement, minimal though. There much more brightness and shading 
 effects and the graphics are sharper. Very few less glitches where, for example the ball would 
 go straight through the goalies arm after you hit a shot. There is some improvement, but not massively.
 
  
  Gameplay wise, the game delivers for most part. There is an annoying tactic where people pass the 
 ball in the air. From a defensive point of view the ball is impossible to get back, youd have 
 to really tackle them before they get the ball, thus then conceding what could be a vital match-winning 
 weapon. Another is Dry Bones and Waluigis disappear trick, which is frankly cheating. Youll understand 
 when you see this unfair trick in action.
  
  In audio terms the game uses a wide range of different genres of music. Normally each stadium has 
 a different song each. Though some are distasteful and dont match the way the game is being played. 
 For example certain songs do not match the tempo of some games, there too cheery and quiet, yet 
 on the pitch characters are tackling each other by headbutting. But overall most songs are decent 
 and varied.
  
  Advanced Tactics 
  Compared to Mario Smash Football, where you could only pick one type of sidekick, now you can mix 
 and match characters to give your team a balanced, attacking, defensive or aggressive edge. Why 
 wasnt this concept introduced in Mario Smash Football? I just dont know? But certainly its a 
 better idea, and something to really ponder when choosing your team to play somebody else in the 
 same room of another country.
  
  Online Verdict
  As its Nintendos proper online playing debut its only right we see if its any good. Of course 
 people have been moaning about the lack of intuitive online features on the Wii from Nintendo. 
 And they have a point.
  However (depending on your internet connection power) you will get some lag at certain times when 
 playing. And the server will break down occasionally. But overall its decent. Im sure it will 
 get improved over time. Even though you cant quit when playing you can turn off the power or remove 
 the connection to your Wii. But only sad people do that, and they do sadly. People also use deliberate 
 tricks or tactics which can make you paranoid. It also makes sense why Nintendo have decided to 
 make wi-fi matches region locked if you like. Its clearly to do with a lag problem. The online 
 service is fine, if not a bit annoying at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertybobsy
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 30, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Super mario strikers charged is a great game which takes some of the series elements and characters 
 throws in the rules of football to make a great game
  
  graphics are great and there is so much going on you will not get bored of them
  
  sound slightly 
 lacking for sound none of the classics are in but does give a good fast paced soundtrack
  
  value very high it will keep you coming back
  
  gameplay only one word to describe it great
 
  
  this is a great game which you should deffinetly buy IF you have the money it dosen't get boring 
 and is a solid football game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magrappy
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 30, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Nice try at giving the fans what they want but it just does not work. Very unpredictable gameplay 
 and A. I. makes this a truely frustrating game. Online you can win a game 5-0 one second and then 
 lose 0-5 the next depending if the map and random-ness wants to favour you or not. The game shows 
 some lag online which can win or lose you the game.
  
  Offline it's worse, maps can dispose of your characters making any type of plan worthless. Ive 
 experianced games where i was down to one player due to the map zapping away 2 and the wind blowing 
 away another and 2 vs. 1 in a final match is impossible to win.
  
  Kids bashing the remote around might get some fun out of this but if your over the age of about 
 14 and like a little stability from a game forget this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bedders05
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 30, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  Mario strikers has been long in development, but was it all worth it!? The game came out here in 
 europe a week ago and after having a weeks fun with the game i can only say yes. Its not normal 
 football, and no yellow and red cards are shown in the game! but its fun, pointless! but fun!
 
  
  the online mode is rather a huge letdown. as the connection and logins are rather pore and most 
 of the time you can't login!
  
  the point system is highly rubbish as well as it always encounters errors after a match so sometimes 
 u dnt get those deserved points!
  
  but apart from that the online is amazing, and is reli fun to destory an opponent!
  
  after 
 a while when u score you cant help but jump out of your seat and start to do a victory dance!
 
  
  overall this game is precious to all wii owners, as is one of the first online game and is a a 
 great fun game, where you can lose hours playing football with Mario and his gang! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raverrozza
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 30, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  Now when I first started playing strikers I really enjoyed it. Learning the new moves, finding 
 out charcters hidden skills and strengths etc. but once everything had been figured out I was struggling 
 to enjoy it. I found the multi player very repetitive and lacked entirely in depth. I enjoyed the 
 pitches which has crazy events which interfered with play (such as cows and tractors flying across 
 the pitch) but I feel there isn't enough over the top pitches for a game which is essentially trying 
 to be as far from the PES sims as possible. I still love all the old Nintendo characters but they 
 essentially cant hold this game up on their own. (while on characters, what the hell is wrong with 
 DK's voice? all wrong) As for any tactical play, forget it. You could play a great bit of tactical 
 play (by this games standards anyway) and score a great goal (which is what i enjoyed doing) but 
 then someone superstrikes you and by chance gets a great speed on the shot and puts 5 past you. there 
 is no part of the game that really encourages you to make long runs cross balls or the like when 
 u can with a decent amount of early tackles you can set up a super strike without much difficulty.
 
  
  POOR GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKoop
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  The Wiis first on-line game makes an appearance and to me it wasnt a disappointment, focussing 
 on single player mode first off theres a lot to do (typical Mario-esque style) work your way through 
 different cups unlocking a few nice extras such as characters and stadiums. The feel of the game 
 isnt much different to that of the GC (if you played that version) but it does play better in 
 a sense, More selectable characters, improved gameplay and more interactive environments also lovely 
 quirky opening cut-scene. There are numerous tips and tricks to be learned for each of your wingers 
 and defenders on your team and all have their unique special abilities.
  
  Theres also a challenge mode, in which you have certain scenarios to conquer or come back from 
 which inevitably earn you more goodish rewards (Nintendo like to make you work dont ya know!) 
 Mario Strikers is for me the first game showing off what the Wii can do with its power (oh yes 
 it has power) which makes upcoming titles even more highly anticipated. I was honestly a bit un-sure 
 at first as to how long itll last me but looking at it now I know that one of the key features 
 in Mario Strikers: Charged is the multiplayer value it offers. Like any good multiplayer it has 
 to be fast and fun and theres no challenge like another human as oppose to the cpu, this is also 
 where Wi-fi comes in, it is a pain in the butt having to punch in Wii-friend codes all the time 
 but when the game is up and running its worth it, and I noticed no lag on it (so far)
  I dont want to give to much away about the game, so all I can say is if youre a Mario fan in 
 any shape or form this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grey-Hawk07
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 29, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Mario Strikers Charged is getting mixed reviews, for all the wrong reasons.
  
  First off may I say that this is still a very pick-up-and-play style game, the mechanics are easy, 
 and the enjoyment instant. It isn't however a pick-up-and-master game like Mario Kart, getting 
 good takes more than the first couple of plays.
  
  If you've played the original and didn't like the lack of depth, MSC has got it covered. With 4 
 new sidekicks, much more varied team captains, and a couple of exciting new mechanics, this truly 
 feels like a whole new game while sticking to the core mechanics that made the original such an 
 addictive and accessible experience.
  
  Teams are fully customisable, and the playstyles varied. I have begun to master one playstyle, 
 the Powerful but slow Donkey Kong backed up by three fast nimble, but more fragile Playmaker characters, 
 that have high speed and accurate passing. However due to the number of different team styles, 
 I really feel I want to give something else a go, despite the fact I've really found a team mechanic 
 I can make work. It's like playing a whole new class in an MMO, and although I still have much 
 to learn with my current team format, the variety of playstyles available is sure to add to the 
 longevity of the game, making it excellent value.
  
  A new mechanic that has recieved alot of criticism is the Megastrike, a super shot that can only 
 be performed by a team captain. With the ball in the opponents half a player charges the ball to 
 maximum with the shoot button, going past the limit initiates the megastike meter, much like a 
 swing meter in a golf game you have to time it right to get a) the maximum amount of balls in one 
 shot and b) the speed of the shot to make it harder for the defender to block.
  
  Should you be succesful 3-6 balls will be fired at the opponent's goal via a character specific 
 mini-cut scene, which all look fantastic. The defender then uses the wii remote to guide a pair 
 of hands around the screen and block the balls as they come firing at you, the better timed the 
 shot the striker made, the harder it is to get to the balls in time, think Space Invaders but First 
 person,
  
  While this may sound like a totally inbalanced mechanic, and people will be firing them off every 
 5 seconds, they take time to build up and it's a genuine challenge to get your captain into space, 
 and make a decent effort on the meter under pressure. Unless timed perfectly the balls are very 
 easy to block completely, making an effective Megastrike a true achievment both online and against 
 the medium-hard offline AI opponents.
  
  The computer AI can feel a little too calculated and mechanical, especially at higher levels and 
 the difficulty jump between each cup is fairly extreme. Online play is in my honest opion the best 
 and most enjoyable avenue this game has to offer. It is however rather unreliable at this time, 
 but games are smooth and genuinely thrilling once connected, and at times you'll laugh out loud 
 once the ball is firing round the pitch.
  
  Some people have complained about the difficulty of the higher levels of the offline *for lack 
 of a better word - story mode*, however getting good enough to beat those upper levels is not a 
 chore, and is easily learned within 3-4 days play, making offline genuinely challenging, and I'd 
 say that is personally a first experience with a Mario game.
  
  While the online mode is slightly shakey and unreliable, once connected your connection blues will 
 fly out the window as you fire shells at your opponents, strive for the perfect angle to place your 
 shot and use the weird, wacky and wonderful skills of the colourful Mario Universe in a truly addicitve 
 game.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mighty_shark
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  If you've ever played Super Mario Strikers/Mario Smash Football, you would know that it was a good 
 game. You would also know that the game was seriously short and was lacking gameplay options and, 
 most importantly, an online mode. Well, a sequal is here for the Wii and Nintendo have listened 
 to their fans and have provided us with an online mode.
  
  Let's get the basics of the game out of the way. The way you play the game. You choose a captain 
 and each captain has a different catagory of play. For example, Mario is a balanced captain and 
 Luigi is a playmaker. Then you get to choose three sidekicks, each of which also have their own 
 catagory. Then you start to play the game. When you are on the ball, A is pass, Holding down Z 
 and A is an air pass, holding Z and B is chip shot, B is shoot, D-pad is skills and Z is weapons. 
 When you are off the ball, A is change player, D-Pad is tackle, Z is weapon and shaking the Wiimote 
 hits your opponent. A key feature to this game is the colour of the ball. It starts off as purple 
 meaning that if you have a shot, it is unlikely to be a goal. However, if you pass the ball around 
 or charge up your shot, the ball changes color. When the ball is white, it means that your chances 
 of scoring have increased. If you hold down B for long enough while on the ball, you will do a 
 super strike. When a captain does a super strike, a meter comes up. You have to stop it at the 
 amount of shots you want and then at an accuracy meter. It is possible to score a maximum of 6 
 goals using a super strike. If you are facing a super strike, you become Kritter and you have you 
 have to control his hands to stop the shots from going into the back of the net. Sidekicks also 
 have superstrikes but there is no meter for these strikes. You just hold down B for a while and 
 then something will happen depending on which sidekick you are using.
  
  There are several gameplay modes. Domination mode is just a plain exhibition mode where you can 
 face the CPU or a friend and you can then choose to use cheats that you have unlocked. In the Road 
 To The Striker Cup mode you play in several tournaments, unlocking characters and so on. This mode 
 is spot on as it gradually gets harder and can get very hard at points, which is a lot better than 
 the original where you can just stroll through the tournaments with ease. There is also a mode 
 where you can complete various challenges to unlock cheats.
  
  And then there is the main attraction. Online mode. You choose a Mii to use as your avatar and 
 each Mii you use is assigned its own friend code which is perfect if more than one person wants 
 to play online. There is a Ranked mode where you can earn points to get furthur up on the leaderboard. 
 You play a best of three game. A win gets you 10 points and each goal you score counts as 1 point 
 each. You even get 1 point for losing but you get deducted points if you disconnect during a match. 
 You can add peoples friend codes and then face then in a Friendly match which is just for fun and 
 no points are awarded.
  
  The graphics and music to the game are pretty solid. Nothing spectacular but nothing terrible either.
 
  
  The stadiums that you use vary. You get all seven courses from the original games back and lots 
 of new ones. Some new courses strongly affect the way that you play the game such as Thunder Island 
 in which wind is blowing and things can roll at you and in Lava Pit when random areas of lava appear 
 in which your players can get caught in. In these stages you feel that the game is really unfair 
 especially online.
  
  The captains gameplay styles also can make no sense. For example, Bowser Jr. is an offensive captain, 
 yet he is very slow. Have you ever seen a striker in football that is slower than the rest of his 
 team? No probably not because strikers are meant to run fast in order to score goals. Also, in 
 the previous game I played as Daisy because she was an offensive captain. For some reason, both 
 of the offensive captains from the previous game (Daisy and Waluigi) are now defensive captains. 
 Does that make any sense to you?
  
  And this game is all about luck. The goalkeepers are really inconsistent. You can have 20 shots 
 in one game and 7 of them are goals and then in another game, with exactly the same shots, none 
 of them will go in.
  
  In conclusion, this game is good and the online mode makes this game miles better than the original 
 ever was. However, a few problems hold it down. If you own a Wii and need a new purchase, this 
 game should please you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mixindave
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 27, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I had alot of anticipation for this game as this was the first online game for the wii plus im 
 a football/soccer fan. even though they call it football its far from it with all the mayhem and 
 carnage thrown in lol. start out doing the tutorial once you have the basics its really easy to 
 just pick up and play. some fun single player stuff do do and the online is even better. graphically 
 for the wii this has to be the top game. very sharp alot of effects and nice crowd movement. overall 
 from the 8 wii games i have this is the best, a soccer fan or not i would recommend it. bad points 
 of the game are. single player gets really hard later on, online not fully stable at times although 
 plays really smooth over wireless, server problems but stil early days. thats all i can say about 
 the bad stuff. if you dont have it go now and pick it up :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  Like i said in the title, i never thought it would be this good! I will go straight to the gameplay. 
 It's good, its really good. So where shall i start? First of all there are many modes to choose 
 from, domination mode, wifi, challenges and a training mode. The training mode basically teaches 
 you how to play the game and the basics of the game. Domination mode is like a 'friendly' mode 
 where you can choose to play against the CPU or a friend that is next to you. There are loads of 
 stadiums to play and unlock, about 12 i think (roughly) and loads of characters to play with and 
 you can also unlock some aswell. 'Challenges' mode gives plenty of football challenges like 'not 
 conceding a goal' for example, this will keep you busy when you are not in the mood for a match 
 which is good. And best till last : Nintendo Wifi Connection. This is by far the best feature of 
 the game. You can compete with or against a friend or those of you who like a challenge you can 
 try and get to the top of the leader-board in a season (1week) against people you don't know. Each 
 season is 1 week and are reset every week so everybody has a chance to fame. For every match you 
 win you get 10 points + amount scored and with every match you lose you get 1 point + the amount 
 of goals you scored in the match. You only ever lose points when you dissconnect from a match. 
 To be honest the online is suffering at the moment due to unknown error codes and the servers are 
 crashing however this is probally only temporary as its still the 1st week, hopefully ninty can 
 fix this soon. The only real problem with the gameplay is that after having it for a long time 
 it may start to get a little repetative but nevertheless its top draw.
  
  We then move on to the graphics. When you play this game for the 1st time you will definately notice 
 the much improved graphics from previous games. Nintendo really have shown that the wii's graphical 
 ability's are not to be overshadowed just yet with the amount of detail and colour they have put 
 in here. I can finish with 3 words ' colourful' , 'clean' and 'beautiful'.
  
  Next is the sound. There is not much to say here about the sound apart from that it's good lol. 
 There are many different sound tracks for each stadium and unlinke the really ANOYING wifi music 
 we got with the ds's wifi service, it's actually good.
  
  Considering this is one of the best games on the wii yet im suprised that it's cheaper than the 
 normal average game for wii which is &pound;40. If you go online you can get it for &pound;30 from 
 play. com which will be the best &pound;30 you will ever spend. Great value for money as it's long 
 lasting too (thanks to wifi) !
  
  I think this game is, or is one of the best games to come out on wii yet and is a MUST-BUY for 
 any wii owner. My friend code is : 326518 186810. Pm me if you add me :) I'll be hoping to see 
 some of you online soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesblaster
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 27, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Mario Super Strikers Charged was on my list for years and now its finally out. At this minute i 
 want to just thrash Bowser and anybody in my way. The only difficulty is the controls i still need 
 a bit more practice but other than that its perfect. The graphics are also prefect for the Wii 
 but can be improved if the console had a more powerful processor. The number of functions are great, 
 the flexibility of teams are amazing i can now make a mario footbal team army and literally run 
 over the other teams. i am sorry about it being short but i have been away from Mario Super Strikers 
 Charged for more than 30 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burge999
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 27, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  You will either love it or hate it really. The online is great because wv have all been waiting 
 for so long for wi fi. But the music is terrible throughout and the gameplay is sometimes repetitive. 
 The challenges are fun and the tournaments are enjoyable. The main attraction is definetly online 
 play. I still think the wii friends code is stupid it too long. But overall great game cant wait 
 for the rest of the mario games.
  
  Xbox live gamertag : burge999
  
  Ps3 gamertag : burge 999
  
  Wii code : soz too long cnt rememba message me if you want it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 27, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  Mario strikers charged is, as i stated before the first online game on the Nintendo Wii, and its 
 a pretty good attempt at the home console online thing.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics are what you would expect from a mario game, cartoonish but stylish. I havent seen 
 any low-res to high-res jumps, and theres no draw ins (not like theres much to draw-in in a fottball 
 game) . The stadiums you play in are all very impressive, from the vice (a standard pitch) with thousnads 
 of cheering, jumping (and 3d) spectators, to Thunder Island, which has no walls, so you can punch 
 opponents off the pitch, and the frequent hurricanes to take players out of the game for 10 seconds 
 or so. The Character models are spot on, and they look even better doing the Mega-Strike. There 
 is no slow downs, but is 'lagg' whilst playing online depending on your/there connection.
  
  SOUND
  
  Theres some good music playing in the background, and a few bings from the speaker 
 and the screams of players getting hit by items, electric fences, or just cos you felt like running 
 into them. Apart from this, there isnt much else in the sound department.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  The controls are easy to pick up and play. You use the A button to pass, B to shoot, C for 
 items or powers, Z for a Lob, Z+A for a lob pass, hold B for the mega strike or the Side Kick Power 
 Strike, and the D pad to steal the ball. So far... no motion snesing, which in my opinion is a good 
 thing, but there is some motion sensing which is implemented perfectly. You swing the wii mote 
 do a smash tackle, or a BIG HIT, and if your hit by a MEGA STRIKE you go into 1st person and control 
 the keepers hands, and you have to destroy all the incomming balls, which is a very cool addition, 
 and when playing multiplayer (on or offline) it forces you to think of Other ways to score, instead 
 of constantly mega striking the opponent all the time.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay in Mario, is very good. There is loads of unlockables. I belive there is 5-7 stadiums 
 to unlock, and 3 captains to unlock. That might seem like much, but there more. Like captain cards, 
 Brick Wall and Golden Foot tropheys. The game it self is easy at first, but quickly gets harder, 
 the difference between the 1st and 2nd cup in difficulty is rather large, but it is possible once 
 you find a captain and team that fits your playing style. There are a variety of modes in the game 
 aswell, like:
  .Dominator (your 1 on 1 vrs matches, this is also where you play multiplayer off line)
  
  .Road 
 to the Striker Cup (the campagin, which is rather long, and is where you unlock stadiums and characters)
 
  
  .Challenge (this is where you unlock captain cards, each card has a cheaqt that can be used in 
 Dominator mode)
  
  .Strikers ABC (Tutorial)
  
  .Wi-Fi connection (online gameplay, you can go co-op or alone to become the best in the world, 
 with constantly changing leader boards and striker of the day awards)
  
  ONLINE The online on Mario is excellent. Although there is no headset, or any way to communicate 
 YET, it is still pretty well thought out, it has Ranked matches, and friendly matches, along with 
 a Leaderborad that has 3 different layouts. The games take a few seconds to find, and about 20 
 seconds to set up. On ranked you get a randomly selected stadium, and then you and your opponent 
 get to pick ANY of the captains, even ones you havent unlocked, then you select your team. This 
 is a great way to practice with captains before you get them, and overall a very good way to quickl 
 set up 3 miniute games of football. OVERALL
  
  Overall, this is a Solid package, and for &pound;30-&pound;35 this is definatly worth it. With 
 the great controls, loads of unlockables, huge variety of character play styles, loads of great 
 stadiums, hundreds of different tactics and ways to score AND with the Online modes, this is definatly 
 one of the best games on the wii. A must buy for all football/mario fans, and a great buy for ANYONE 
 else!
  
  9.1/10 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
