-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Marvel: Ultimate Alliance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/rpg/marvelultimatealliance/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge, eclectic cast of Marvel heroes and villains.
 deep, yet largely optional character-customization system.
 great variety of environments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Wii controls feel clumsy and tiresome.
 graphics suffer from indistinct textures, nasty aliasing.
 only console version without online multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.4, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 1,043 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Vicarious Visions
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The tacked-on motion controls and lack of online support take some of the shine off this otherwise 
 dependable superhero adventure. 

  No longer content with covering the localized struggles of Marvel's mutant superheroes as it had 
 in the X-Men Legends games, developer Raven Software has blown its established action role-playing 
 game formula out to an intergalactic, interdimensional scale with Marvel: Ultimate Alliance. With 
 more than 20 unique playable heroes; a massive campaign that features a wide variety of well-known 
 Marvel Universe villains, supporting characters, and locations; and plenty of hidden extras, it's 
 the biggest piece of Marvel fan service seen in a video game. Marvel: Ultimate Alliance has made 
 its way to virtually every console under the sun with pretty consistent results. Its appearance 
 on the Wii, though, is the hardest to recommend, due to slapdash use of the Wii controller and 
 the omission of the online cooperative play found in every other version of the game.  

          The Masters of Evil are up to no good, and it's up to you to stop them.     

  Ominous 
 deeds are afoot right from the start in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance. Dr. Doom has brought together 
 a coalition of supervillains under the Masters of Evil name, whose first act is to attack a S. H. I. E. L. D. 
 helicarrier. An opposing coalition of superheroes quickly comes to the aid of S. H. I. E. L. D. director 
 Nick Fury, who takes command of the situation and coordinates the superheroes as they continue 
 to track Doom and his minions across the universe and into different dimensions. The sheer quantity 
 of Marvel supervillains you'll face on your quest to defeat Dr. Doom is genuinely staggering. Heavy 
 hitters like Ultron, the Mandarin, Mephisto, Loki, and Galactus all play major roles, but there's 
 still room for lower-profile villains like M. O. D. O. K., Fin Fang Foom, Arcade, Grey Gargoyle, Blackheart, 
 Super Skrull, and literally dozens of others. There are a couple of truly excellent twists and 
 turns, and the story does a good job of concealing the true nature of Dr. Doom's plans until just 
 the right moment. Some of the finer points, such as the excess of long-winded expository speeches 
 in between levels, don't stand up to close scrutiny so well, but the narrative is successful in 
 keeping the game moving at a fast clip.  

  Your starting lineup in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance consists of Captain America, Thor, Spider-Man, 
 and Wolverine, but after a few levels playing with these heroes, you're given the option to create 
 your own custom team. At first you'll have about 18 different heroes to choose from, and they represent 
 a good cross-section of high-profile heroes and more obscure fan favorites. Old-schoolers like 
 the Fantastic Four, Iron Man, and several X-Men are there, as are a number of heroes who are likely 
 unknown to those who don't keep up with comics, such as Moon Knight, Luke Cage, Spider-Woman, and 
 Deadpool. As you progress you'll run into other heroes such as Blade, Dr. Strange, Ghost Rider, 
 and the Silver Surfer, who will in turn join the cause. Part of the fun of Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 
 is the sheer variety of places the game takes you. While the X-Men Legends games seemed stuck mostly 
 in dungeonlike corridors and sewers and such, here you'll visit some of the most spectacular and 
 mythical locations in the Marvel Universe, including Mephisto's Realm, Asgard, Mandarin's palace, 
 the Skrull homeworld, and, finally, Dr. Doom's sinister Latverian castle. Many of the environments 
 really do look as if they came straight out of a comic book.  

  Despite the familiarity of the underlying gameplay formula, which sticks mostly to the same disciplines 
 that drove hack-and-slash dungeon-crawlers like Diablo, Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance, or Raven's 
 own X-Men Legends games, there's a bit of a learning curve with Marvel: Ultimate Alliance on the 
 Wii, which does a pretty clumsy job of translating controls originally designed for more standard 
 controllers. You'll need both the Wii Remote and the Nunchuk to play. The analog stick on the Nunchuk 
 controls character movement, and in what is probably the game's most clever and intuitive use of 
 the Wii controller, tilting the Nunchuk side to side causes the camera to rotate accordingly. Many 
 of the basic maneuvers like grappling, blocking, dodging, jumping, and opening doors are all assigned 
 to simple button presses, but most of the combat is performed by moving the Wii Remote in different 
 directions. You'll wave the remote back and forth to perform simple attacks, move it sideways to 
 perform a sweep attack, move it up to launch your enemy into the air, and move it down to perform 
 a stun attack. Each hero has a unique set of special powers, which require you to hold the B button 
 on the remote while you move the controller around.  

          Its shoddy use of the Wii controller is Marvel: Ultimate Alliance's most damning fault. 
     

  A little bit of the combat can be off-loaded to button presses on the remote, but it can be awkward, 
 and you're still going to have to shake that remote a good deal either way. The problem with this 
 control system is two fold. For one, the controls feel imprecise, and though the combat is inherently 
 prone to button mashing, this makes it difficult to perform specific attacks when you really need 
 to. Second, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a game where you fight enemies in volume, and the relentless 
 controller shaking becomes tiresome quickly. Bottom line, this control scheme is no more intuitive 
 or immersive than something more conventional. Indistinctly waving the remote around, which often 
 gets the job done, is no more analogous to the action than pressing a button. It hurts the experience 
 well more than it helps.  

  Though you have little control over how your heroes' basic stats (like health and energy) increase, 
 with each new level you're given skill points that you can put toward special powers. Each hero 
 has eight or more special powers in an arsenal, though many of them are inaccessible until you 
 reach certain experience plateaus. You can also use cold, hard cash that you pick up by beating 
 enemies and smashing crates to purchase points, though they start off pricey and become exponentially 
 more so as you progress. Each hero also has three alternate costumes that you can unlock, which 
 not only can drastically affect the hero's appearance, but also come with a unique set of bonuses 
 that you can pay to increase. Defeating significant villains and finding special treasure chests 
 will usually net you a piece of performance-enhancing equipment. Usually any hero can use any gear 
 you happen upon, though it never shows up on their person, and there are also lots of rare pieces 
 of gear that only specific heroes can use.     

  It would seem that there would be a bit of a conundrum in having an RPG-style experience system 
 with such a huge cast of characters. You'd think that any hero who isn't constantly a part of your 
 active team would become useless after the first level. Marvel: Ultimate Alliance addresses this 
 smartly by artificially increasing the experience levels of nonactive heroes as your active team 
 progresses. Nonactive heroes will usually be about one full experience level behind your active 
 heroes, which is just enough that, should you choose to swap in a hero that you haven't used before, 
 they'll still be tough enough to keep up. Perhaps most interesting about the whole hero customization 
 system in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is the fact that few of your choices are permanent. Though 
 you can't take back any money spent, any skill points you've earned or purchased can be redistributed 
 to different special powers at the drop of a hat. Additionally, if all of this talk of skill points 
 and team boosts seems boring or confusing to you and you're just interested in beating up lots 
 of bad guys, you'll love that the game handles all character customization by default.  

          The game's ridiculously expansive cast makes this a Marvel fan's dream come true.     

 
  Beyond the individual heroes, the actual team building plays an interesting role in Marvel: Ultimate 
 Alliance. When you're initially given the choice to create a team, you can either pick a prefab 
 group such as the Fantastic Four or the Avengers, or you can pick four heroes of your liking to 
 create a custom team. You can swap in other heroes as you please, but by playing with heroes that 
 have been designated as a part of your team, your team gains reputation points that can be used 
 to infer specific bonuses on the team. Playing with heroes who aren't designated as part of your 
 team will reduce reputation, though if you stick with your initial team of four for a while, you'll 
 be able to add additional heroes to the team. Separate from the team reputation system, who you 
 choose for your team can earn you  yet another  stat bonus. Some of them are obvious. For example, 
 you'll get an X-Men boost for playing with mutants, and a Fantastic Four bonus for playing with 
 Mister Fantastic, Invisible Woman, Human Torch, and The Thing. Alternately, if you play with, say, 
 Captain America, Spider-Woman, Luke Cage, and Spider-Man, you'll get a New Avengers bonus, while 
 playing with all female characters will earn you a Femme Fatale bonus. Juggling specific heroes' 
 skill points, gear, and costumes, as well as your team reputation points and roster-specific team 
 bonuses, can be overwhelming at times, but this also facilitates a great amount of flexibility 
 for those who seek it.  

  The amount of crate and barrel smashing that you'll do in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is discouraging, 
 but the game does a lot to keep the action interesting and varied. There are a few puzzles that 
 you'll have to solve while simultaneously wailing on villains, though they have a tendency to alternate 
 between painfully obvious and excessively obscured. There's no shortage of boss battles, the best 
 of which can actually make pretty decent use of the Wii Remote's motion sensing capacities. You 
 can play Marvel: Ultimate Alliance by yourself, allowing the computer to pick up the slack with 
 the three heroes you're currently not controlling. You can instantly assume control of a different 
 team member, and you have access to some basic team behavior controls as well. The artificial intelligence 
 can generally hold its own, but it doesn't always listen to orders and can act a bit buggy at times. 
 For a better experience, you can have other, real-life players take control at any point for some 
 satisfying cooperative play. Sadly, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance on the Wii is the only console version 
 of the game that doesn't feature cooperative play over the Internet, and it's a less appealing 
 package for it.  

  Another fun distraction is the way you can earn experience points in between missions by correctly 
 answering Marvel-themed trivia questions. The trivia questions range from relative basics, like 
 which newspaper Peter Parker works for, to obscure details, like the name of Fin Fang Foom's home 
 planet. There's no time limit for answering questions, making it easy enough to hit up the Internet 
 for answers, and you'll find that you can find the answers to most questions by chatting up non-player 
 characters in the game. Still, it's a nice touch for fans to see just how much they really know 
 about comics. Even if you choose to ignore the numerous side missions that you'll be presented 
 with along the way, it'll easily take you a good 15 or 20 hours to play through Marvel: Ultimate 
 Alliance. The game gives you the sense that you can affect how the story ends by certain decisions 
 you make, but these choices are usually pretty superficial and not really worth playing through 
 the entire game again for. The unlockable hard mode is much more attractive since you can import 
 the buffed-up team you already beat the game with.  

          There's some nice art direction, but parts of the game can be tough to look at.     

 
  There's something odd about the presentation of Marvel: Ultimate Alliance on the Wii. In a lot 
 of ways, it looks quite a bit like a PlayStation 2 game, as character models look pretty boxy, 
 texture quality tends to be fuzzy, and there's jagged edges on everything. That said, there's some 
 decent lighting effects that can lend a bit of atmosphere. The game's sound is less inhibited by 
 technical limitations, and generally sounds pretty good. Some of the voice work is a little corny, 
 but the action packs a punch, and the surprisingly eclectic soundtrack is fantastic, capably shifting 
 gears to keep up with the game's near-constant and dramatic scenery changes.  

  If you can get past the clumsy controls, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a well-made and accessible 
 action RPG. It captures the essence of the Marvel universe, an incredible feat considering the 
 breadth of the source material, though there are just enough omissions to easily justify a sequel. 
 Still, its control problems are fundamental, and they definitely get in the way of what is otherwise 
 a really solid experience.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (75 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ShadowInTheAir
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Ill take off a point for when ur playing and ur character get behind a wall and hes fighting u 
 cant see ur guy. other then that GREAT GAME!!!!!! i love the team play and the ability to select 
 who u want during gameplay thats a HUGE plus for the game... i wud say rent the game b4 u buy it 
 cuz its different then most game as i said.... Most stores sell for 25$ GameStop has it for 15$!!!!!!!
 
  
  
  TRY HaloWars while ur at it... Great RTS -- very basic, but very fun!!!!!!!!
  it really lets u control the Halo Universe!!!!!!!!!!!!! again either ull liek it or u wont..
 
  theres really no BETWEEN with this game... very awsome games tho.... 
  
  Ult. All.2 i give the same review as this one.... difference is more lvls... more charcters and 
 more FUN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  
  P. S. The graphics are very nice!!!!!! & the again i love the team play!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordsidious1121
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Let me first start off by saying that if you have another next gen system or PS2 i would recomend 
 you play this game on that system. Not that this game is horrible on the Wii or anything just it 
 was a game not made for the full use of the Wii. 
  With that being said now Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a great game for fans of the Marvel Universe. 
 The game is chalked filled with your favorite superheros along with extra costumes ( One of the 
 costumes have a related hero to them for example Beta Ray Bill is an extra costume of Thor) . This 
 will bring a smile to any Marvel fan. The story is a simple one but It does have a few surprises 
 along the way ( Superhero pitfall) . The graphics on the Wii version won't be as crisp or as clear 
 as that of a next gen system but they aren't awful, and the sound along with the voice acting gets 
 you into the action. 
  Over all this Game is a must play for any Marvel comic fans out there. As I have stated there before 
 if you do have a next gen system play it for that. but on the Wii you will find it just as enjoyable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixVenom
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  A huge cast of marvel superheros gives the player a vide variety of teams they can assemble and 
 take on the evil forces. This game has a whole bunch of characters that a player can choose from 
 to play with. With having 4 member teams and 20 or so superheros to choose from this gives the 
 gamer the ability to mix and match their own favorite characters to form their own superhero super 
 team. Yuo can make a team of all strong guys, or fast, or smart, or atheletic or clique teams or 
 just pick your favorites from the whole pack. The character avalibility and unlockables gives this 
 game lots of replay value. You can try all the combinations of heroes you want until you get that 
 one special team that you desire. The lack of online play and sketchy controls at times do hurt 
 this game a bit, but it doesnt take away from the fun of it. This game is basically any comic book 
 fans dream all wrapped up in one special limited edition issue. You can play the story how you 
 want and with who ever you want. comic book fans this is the game for you. This is a game for everyone. 
 It is definitly worth a look at especially now you can find it at a cheao price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: despa1r_fact0r
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  STORY: Even for a comic book game this is a super far fetched story! Doctor Doom recruits vs. S. H. I. E. L. D. s 
 recruits --- it begins with Doom and his recruits attack S. H. E. I. L. D headquarters then Atlantis 
 (Kills Namor if you don't finish the sub missions) , kidnaps Jean Grey and Nightcrawler, then you 
 get tricked to go to Murderland to save Jean and Nightcrawler (one of them will die and you have 
 to choose who lives) , then you have to go to the underworld to save Jean Grey or Nightcrawler (only 
 if you complete a submission) , Then you head to Asgard, Doom steals Odin's god powers, Doom becomes 
 a god, Your forced to go to the moon, the watcher sends you to get the M'Kran Emerald from the 
 Sh'air Empire who are in the middle of a coup, you must save Lilandra (she will die if you don't 
 complete a submission) , then the watcher will send you to the Skrull planet to save threm from 
 Galatus attack and steal something from Galatus, with the emerald and the thing you stole from 
 Galatus you can now steal Dr. Doom's god powers. After you beat doom the watcher sees the future 
 and tells you whats gonna happen --- this is the result of not completeing all the sub missions. 
 Mine was something like Mystique kills Professor X because I didn't save Nightcrawler, and the 
 skrulls and humans are at peace because we stoped Galatus from eating their planet and so on so 
 on.
  
  
  GRAPHICS: This is a game on a new gen system with last gen graphics. I couldn't complain if it 
 was on the Gamecube. As a release title for the Wii this game should show what the Wii could do, 
 sadly it shows nothing special graphic wise. The cinematics were Beautiful and perfectly done! 
 Shame that the whole game was done like that!
  
  
  CONTROLS: This game does make good use of the Wii mote, swing the mote to side to side and you'll 
 do a side attack, swing the mote up to preform a knock up attack and etc. The Power moves however 
 is where the game need to be complemented because you can use the mote OR ur just can use the "A" 
 button. This is good because you won't find yourself just shaking the mot all through the game 
 like many other games out for the Wii. 
  
  
  SOUND: horrible too, some parts of the game the background song plays louder than the character 
 voices, the cinematic sounds were excellent.
  
  
  GAME PLAY: Some bosses were just too easy to beat and had no resistances, as in the X-Men Legends 
 game some boss were physical, mental, and elemental resistant so this had to to reassemble your 
 team to beat the boss --- but all through Ultimate Alliance I used Wolverine, Deadpool, Luke Cage 
 (Power Man) , and Thor and never changed teams. All but Thor have a healing factor so keeping them 
 alive was easy (even on hard) . There is also a mutli-player co-op in this game that is pretty good 
 if you have someone that wants to play the game with you1 
  
  
  SUMMARY: This isn't a bad game nor a great game. This is just a game that is good for killing time 
 for any comic book fan. This game could have used an online feature, which would make the co-op 
 BETTER. I also feel that the sound and graphics should have been better, and not look SO MUCH LIKE 
 LAST GEN!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario_46
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  The Good: Tons of super-heroes at your disposal, each with his/her unique powers  Good mix of 
 RPG and action adventure  Great voice acting  Awesome value  Fantastic use of the license  
 4 player Co-op
  
  The Bad: Ugly graphics  Some of the motion controls don't work out that well  No online Co-op 
 
  
  
  
  Introduction:
  
  
 
  
  The X men legends games were probably some of the best super-hero games ever created, they were 
 a fun mix of action adventure and RPG and they had everyone's favorite mutants in them, but developer 
 Raven Software decided to make it's sequel bigger and better, so they included almost every character 
 you could expect from the Marvel universe, added some great side missions, minigames and kept the 
 same great gameplay from the Legends games, creating like that what could be the biggest Marvel 
 fan service to date. And while the Wii version lacks the great graphics and online multiplayer, 
 it's just as recommendable. 
  
  
  
  
  Presentation: 
 8/10 
  
  
  
  The graphics 
 are dull and ugly (more on that later) but the CGI cutscenes are amazingly well done, the amount 
 of voice acting is great because all voice actors are perfect and the menus are nicely done
  
  
  
  
 
  Story & Characters: 8/10 
  
  
  
  Dr. Doom 
 has created a league of villains called The Masters of Evil, which include recognisable characters 
 like Bullseye, Scorpion, Loki, BlackHeart and others. This group attacks the SHIELD helicarrier. 
 Soon a group of Superheroes come to help, they are Spiderman, Wolverine, Captain America and Thor. 
 This group gets bigger, though, and soon they become a team trying to defeat the Masters. 
  
  The story will take you to a variety of locations such as Murderworld, Atlantis, Mephisto's 
 Realm, Asgard and Dr. Doom's castle. The story is not amazing or mind-blowing but it does it's 
 job and will please both Hardcore Marvel fans and casuals alike. 
  
  
  
  
  Gameplay: 
 9/10 
  
  
  
  Gameplay-wise 
 this game does a fantastic job at being addictive and fun. You star with a few super-heroes at 
 your disposal but very soon this small group will be of more than 20 characters. Your job is to 
 create a team of four heroes (you get extra bonuses by re-creating famous groups such as the Fantastic 
 Four or The Avengers) . The game borrows heavily from Diablo in the fact that it is somewhat linear 
 with very few puzzles or backtracking, but is great anyway. In it you'll follow a linear path through 
 various locations hacking and slashing enemies until you reach the boss battle (which are incredibly 
 fun) or complete the required objective, and while it sounds repetitive it really isn't. 
  
  Here you'll use both the Wiimote and Nunchuck. Moving the character is done with the analog 
 stick (duh) and tilting the nunchuck controls the camera (it works better than it sounds) . Combat 
 is done by moving the wii remote in different directions, since the game has lots of enemies this 
 can get tiresome, but don't worry because it can also be done by pressing the A button. The character's 
 special powers are done by holding down B and moving the control in a specific direction, this 
 method is a little bit off, but to it's credit it does work out well sometimes (Shaking the wiimote 
 to shoot Deadpool's guns) but most of the time like in 90% of Ms. Marvel's attacks is clunky and 
 doesn't work so good. If you don't like this method, then don't worry because you can also perform 
 the powers by holding B and pressing A. 
  
  After successfully completing each level you'll get skill points, which can be used to increase 
 your character's powers, you can also buy these points by getting money after defeating enemies. 
 Your characters also have experience, and if you reach enough experience you'll have access to 
 new powers. You can also create custom teams which can get you team reputation and if you increase 
 the rep you can add more than four characters to this team. This RPG-like customization system 
 is very deep, but if you don't want to do all that and just kick some bad guy butt, you'll be happy 
 to know that there's a default character customization system, even for non-active characters, 
 it's less efficient but is a nice addition. 
  
  Ultimate Alliance includes old favorites like Spiderman, Thor, Ghost Rider and Iron Man, and it 
 also has some obscure ones like Moon Knight, Deadpool and Miss Marvel. You can play solo if you 
 want because the computer will take care of the other three characters (but you can change at any 
 time you want) , the real fun comes when you play with other three people, it doesn't mean playing 
 solo is boring, but is definitely not as good as playing with your friends. It also helps that 
 there are not many 4 player co-op games for the Wii, but the lack of online is disappointing. 
 
  
  Your actions in the game will change the story depending on the missions you take or if you decide 
 to save certain non-playable characters like Namor or Nightcrawler. You can also unlock different 
 costumes for the character, which not only change the appereance, but also the powers and stats 
 of the character, for example one of Ms. Marvel's costumes is Sharon Ventura or her human form, 
 which lacks some of the powers the original costume has, same happens with others like Captain 
 America, Spider-Woman and Ghost Rider. You also get additional side missions and a fun trivia game. 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  Visuals: 
 6/10 
  
  
  
  The graphics 
 are probably the most disappointing thing about the game. They are an ugly mess, animations are 
 dull and some textures are awful, but it does have a decent art direction and some cool lightning, 
 but other than that most of the things are quite bad. 
  
  
  
  
  Sound: 
 8/10 
  
  
  
  The sound 
 effects are great, every attack and explosion sounds amazing. The voice acting is also good, every 
 character is voiced and they are perfect. Music on the other hand, while it fits the game, is a 
 little generic, decent but not amazing. 
  
  
  
  Performance: 
 8/10 
  
  
  
  The framerate 
 and camera can be a little loose when there's four people playing, but for the most part it's good. 
 Enemy AI is not overly difficult, but it isn't easy either, it has a good balance, friendly AI 
 is just as good but it can get stuck sometimes, doesn't kill the experience. 
  
  
  
  
  Replay 
 Value: 9/10 
  
  
  
  Even 
 if you don't complete the side missions or trivia games, Ultimate Alliance can take a good 10-20 
 hours to beat. Besides it has a lot unlockable content like artwork, comic books and a Hard mode. 
 And it's fun enough to make you want to play it again. 
  
  
  
  
  Fun Factor: 
 9/10 
  
  
  
  This 
 is a fun, addictive and enjoyable game that will consume plenty of time from anyone who plays it, 
 it is not the best action adventure game you'll find on the wii, but it's definitely worth a try. 
 
  
  
  
  
  Appeal: 
 8/10 
  
  
  
  This 
 is a Marvel game, it includes Spiderman and the X men, so of course it's going to attract lots 
 of people, especially comic fans, but the game is good enough that people who've never heard of 
 Marvel or any of the heroes will enjoy the beat em' up/RPG gameplay.
  
  
  
  
  Tilt: 
 9/10 
  
  
  
  While 
 playing Marvel: Ultimate Alliance i found myself addicted to the variety of characters, levels 
 and gameplay the game has, i'm not even a fan of comic books, yet i couldn't put the controller 
 down. That being said, this is not the best version of the game and if you want the complete experience 
 the Xbox 360 version is the one to get, but for Wii only owners this is a worthy game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Storyline: 8 - Interesting story, not one you would typically not see from Marvel.
  Graphics/Physics: 8.5 - Graphics were very good for this style of game, shading and lighting were 
 tip top.
  Sound: 7.5 - Alright sound, some of the commentary by characters is somewhat lame but sometimes 
 very comical.
  Environment/Maps: 7 - Maps were alright throughout the game, nothing too difficult to figure out 
 puzzle wise. It was annoying that the tips would re-appear everytime you walked by the area they 
 were assigned too, this should have been fixed.
  Game Engine/Scripting: 8.5 - Development did a great job on this game and I could find very few 
 flaws in the scripting. I will definately play the next game that this development team makes.
 
  Interface: 9 - Default controls are very confusing on the PC, but with a little tweaking it's 
 very easy. Other systems controls were much easier to learn. Huge selection of heroes to play from 
 and many many villians to fight. Leveling was a cool feature due to the powers you advance or gain.
 
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 8 - Huge selection of heroes and with each lots of different gainable powers. I'm not 
 a big fan of this style of game but It proved to be fun for hours. Definately worth playing or 
 at least trying out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltscardfan
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty good and that the graphics are bad and the gameplay ain't terrific. the storyline 
 is great. Also the nomber of chachters you can use is great. You can use spider-man and many X-men, 
 you gat Thor, deadpool, and many more. You can mix and match these chacters just the way you like 
 em. and After a certain point you can make a team and do tacks to earn reputaions points which 
 you can then use them to add to your team strengthes and weakness. The same thing for your chacters, 
 you can use your points to add to your attacks or you can use money which you earn in the game. 
 But everything is very expansive and it gets mre expensive the more you but things. the graphics 
 aint very good. Things are blurry. To attack you either press the Abutton or you can press the 
 B button and do the corresponding motion to attack but some times the things don't react. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  Being a big comic book fan myself, when this first came out for the wii i was abit cautious. But 
 having only had a couple of games for my wii (due to a lack of good games at launch day) i decided 
 to buy it. To this day i am still glad i made the right move. The game is very good. Its like the 
 old Diablo games, top camera view and you hack away at many old and new enemys. One enjoyable thing 
 about the game is mixing your 4 members about and seeing what you can create. For instance, Fantastic 
 4, New Avengers and the Xmen are a couple of combos you can create. While you dont have to make 
 a specific team its good too because you get an extra helping bonus for one you make. Either way 
 its a great addition and you can spend ages just playing around with your team combo's, heroes 
 attributes, costumes, etc etc. Theres also a great amount of change in the enviroment. From S. H. E. I. L. D's 
 secret air carrier, to Dooms castle to mephistos realm (in hell) so it make for a nice change to 
 move from place to place.
  
  
  Gameplay: While The RPG side is fun the hack and slash bit is a solid bit of fighting but it can 
 get abit tedious. To Level up attributes on your heroes you have to collect golden coins dropped 
 by the enemys or in the enviroment. The Wii controls are easy to use but you can clearly tell its 
 just an add on gimmick and not alot of effort was put into them.
  
  Sound: Sound is good. Strong voice acting and some nice soundtrack music.
  
  Graphics: This 
 is where it drops down. The graphics are some of the weakest on the wii. While there solid they 
 are by no means good. Character models look ok and enviroments get the job done. 
  
  Shitebox: Graphics arent great. Glitches galore. Ms. Marvel?? who the hell wants to play as her?! 
 
  
  Overall: Great suprise and a fine addition to your wii collection. While it doesnt have the great 
 graphics the game is just too fun to really care. Loads to do and plenty of replay value. However 
 if you have a 360 i'd say get it on there because it has extra characters you can download (venom 
 anyone!) and the graphics are superb. Bottom line though, if your a fan of marvel buy it, you wont 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenaciousAds
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  great game with friends or no friends one of my favourite wii games even when you complete it you 
 still can have a laugh.
  
  I enjoyed this game because of the story and the gameplay but alas there is a slight problem...... 
 theres nothing to do when you complete it except the furating tasks of finding daredevil figures 
 and black panther figures all you do when you complete it is try and get all the charactors and 
 costumes *yawn* but I am not saying it is horrible these are the best bits in and out multiplayer 
 action. Story line a good few laughs from spidey hes good to have on your team great scenes like 
 the one where you climb on frost giant Ymir and do movements and the kraken dodge one. also you 
 see how the greatest heros where born and play one of there best adventures.
  
  The questions or in asgard known as the riddling shrine are fun and tricky but still the one problem 
 remains you can't redo missions.
  
  TenaciousAds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broncosfan375
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Seriously people fricking suck at having fun, between this and spiderman 3 these are excellent 
 and fun games with great controls. The fun thing about MUA is the fact you have twenty two heroes 
 to choose from to make crazy teams. Have you wanted invisible woman to work with ghost rider, well 
 you can. The thing i also like a lot is the fact that this is a rpg. Your characters level up and 
 you can change their costumes and upgrade those and upgrade attributes and a lot of other stuff. 
 One other thing is the amount of NPC's. This game gives you so much interactivity such as trive 
 and simulater missions, that you wanna play and find everything else. Two problems: no online play 
 and controls sometimes get mixed up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyOctober
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Well, first off, lets begin by saying that this game was in fact fun, but a little on the short 
 side. Also, the game is about loads of Marvel characters duking it out to stop Dr. Doom. The gameplay 
 is solid, and the voice acting is pretty good as well. Also, seeing as the video is the hd counterpart, 
 at least the videos look good. But, in contrast, the game is still fairly blocky, but that really 
 doesent matter. the enemies get repetitive, and the bosses get tough. the major problem i had with 
 the game was the fact that when the wii-mote was put at any rolling angle, the camera would just 
 keep spinning, until completely straight. 
  
  Pick it up, especially if theres someone to play it with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IloveRayman
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 25, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I thought when I picked up this game that it would be fun. I even though that
  even if the game was boring that the Wii would make it fun. It did not.
  The people who tried 
 to program the Wii controls into this game did an extreamly sucky job when they tried. None of 
 that is the Wii's fault. Sure the
  ability to unlock and play with superheros from the past would be fun if this game was any good, 
 but it is not. Don't waste $50 on this game. You will be so
  disappointed when you bring it home and get so frustrated that you throw your Wii through the window. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsurfer200
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty fun. Dr. Doom has forms a team of super villains called The Masters of Evil 
 who will stop at nothing to rule the world. Well, who better to fight a giant team of super heroes 
 than a team of super villains? In this game you get to control a team of up to four super heroes. 
 Aside from all the cool powers, this game features a large variety of extras! Everything from concept 
 art to bonus solo levels is included.
  
  The greatest part of this game is the super powers that you can control. You use motion control 
 to fight and use powers and use the nunchuck to walk. There is a great variety of players.
  
  This game is great to play with a friend. (it is co-op, but, you can compete for a higher score)
 
  
  The powers can be contradictory though. For example, If you freeze an ememy at the same time a 
 teammate sets him on fire, The enemy will be both on fire and frozen (and you get a bonus for it)
 
  
  I would suggest this game to anyone (especially for wii) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifan001
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a fighting adventure some game. Over 20 different Marvel characters 
 to play as- including some from the X-Men, Avengers, The Fantastic Four and other known Marvel 
 characters. There are even 2 next-gen. characters intro'd in the game. They are known as Luke Cage 
 and Moon Knight. I have to say that the super powers were implented well and almost to their fullest 
 extent. There is a variety of attacks- from throws to projectiles, signature move, and even attacks 
 where you swing your Wiimote and execute the attack. You even get to have 4 Marvel characters team 
 up and all fight together and switch to another one of your 4 characters any time you want. 
  
  The problem comes when you're constantly switching and looking for your control schematics. 
 When you can unleash your signature move, you must first scroll through some other control styles 
 before using it while enemy combat is occuring causing you to possibly to lose health. If you haven't 
 played it yet, I just simply put that the controls on the Wii were just slapped on and very unorganized. 
 The Wiimote doen't always respond right to the attack you called on it. This is probably the biggest 
 downfall of the game. On top of that, there are some puzzles occasionally. The puzzles in this 
 game are dorky and shouldn't be in the game. The camera is pretty bad as well. To move the camera, 
 simply rotate the nunchuck. The camera is so aggervating that it could make you a little sick to 
 your stomach or give you a headache. 
  
  Throughout the game, you'll see a wide variety of creatures and dozens of bosses. Some can be fought 
 head on and some you must use some strategy as to beat them. The boss battles are actually nice 
 with only a few lousy ideas as to bosses. The bad guys have all joined together and is led by Dr. 
 Doom. As you may expect, you must track down Doom and his minion and put a stop to the threat of 
 ruling the galaxy. It's amazing that you'll be fighting in a wide variey of places. Before you 
 know it, you'll be in Atlantis, in the skies, the depths of hell, a space stations, and even inside 
 a pinball machine (?!) Along the way are Sketch Books and Simulator Discs. Simulator discs are extra 
 side quest mission to complete. Most of them are individual with a few in a group of four. These 
 missions aren't much fun, though. There are 2 kinds of multiplayer mode. Cooperative mode is working 
 together to progress through the game. Arcade mode is competing against one another and collecting 
 kills. Both modes are capable of 4 players. However, the Wii version being the only one without 
 online mode hurts. 
  Naturally, you gain experience as you fight and collect items as you go and defeat enemies which 
 boost your attack or defense or something among the sort. There will also be different costumes 
 to collect. Classic Marvel fans will recognize costumes back in the old days and there are some 
 recent costumes too. 
  
  As for graphics, the textures in the Wii version are rotten. The only good points in this game 
 that stand out here is the movie trailers given every once in a while. Had the game looked that 
 good during the play time, this would easily be the best looking Wii game out there. I've seen 
 better background textures on a few N64 games. 
  
  Sound- The sound effects are one of the top achievements of the game. Numerous sound effects are 
 throughout the game. There are several songs to be heard. The game has voice acting all throughout 
 the game (considering there is a lot of text) from all the bosses and some villains. 
  
  Value- Playing this game the first time through should take you about 25 hours if you skipped the 
 Simulator Disc missions and other out of the way side quests. There are 3 levels of difficulty- 
 Easy, Normal, and Hard. You may or may not want to check out the other modes.
  
  Overall: It was very hard to choose between a 7 or a 7.5, but I gave it a 7 because the controls 
 were just slapped on plus clunky and the lack of online multiplayer, bad camera and not so good 
 graphics. I must give it credit for being an improvement to Marvel Nemesis: Rise of the Imperfects. 
 
  
  Gameplay & Graphics- 6; Sound and Value- 8; Tilt- 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is one of the biggest Marvel games to date. Featuring more than 100 characters 
 (only 20+ are playable) and an interesting storyline, it is a pretty good game.
  You take control of four Marvel characters as you try and unravel a gigantic plot that Dr. Doom 
 has cooked up. The motion controls are uninspired (I usually just press the buttons) , and you can 
 just button mash your way through the enemies. But, if you do that, you won't get a chance to use 
 your awesome powers, which look pretty cool. This game's coop mode is pretty fun, especially with 
 four players.
  The graphics of the game suck. The cinematics are amazing, though. Not quite PS3 or 360 caliber, 
 but amazing for a Nintendo console. However... the ingame graphics look like they could be run 
 on the Nintendo 64.
  Overall, I would say that if you have an extra $50, then by all means, pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blonderambo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I am definitely not a huge Marvel enthusiast so when I got this game as a surprise Christmas present 
 I didn't know what to say. I was either thinking what a waste of money or hmm maybe I should try 
 it first . So I popped the game in my Wii ( I just got it at this point so I was a noob with the 
 controls; wait newb, n00b? however you spell that abomination of the english language) and was 
 surprised to see.. no fighting! I was expecting arcade style fighting like Marvel vs Capcom but 
 whatever I stopped playing and later on discovered cheat codes for it so with those I found a few 
 ounces of fun but still wanted to fight some people arcade style. I know there's a way to do that 
 with multiplayer but at that point I could not afford another wiimote/nunchuck so after getting 
 bored I just stopped playing, I thought to myself what a waste of money and now I only very rarely 
 play it. So it was not all what I was expecting I felt sorry to have wasted some hard earned money 
 for a minorly played game. Maybe if I was a bigger Marvel fan and was more familiar with the characters 
 maybe just maybe this game could've been the game I'd been looking for with some fun fighting gameplay 
 and easy controls but apparently not, there's always December 3, when SSBB comes out now that'll 
 be what I've been looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicquebec
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I think if there's one word that could describe this game... it's FUN 
  
  The game is not revolutionary, it's a little repetitive, but it's the kind of games you wanted 
 to play with your friends when you were 8 years old.
  
  I wish i can bring 3 more friends in my small appartment and play a full night of MUA 4 players 
 co-op!!!
  
  Anyway the game is full of nice features, Costumes, Gears, Level and experience, sometimes it feels 
 like diablo 3 with Marvel characters.
  
  Anyway the day they release another great title like that, MUA2 i hope, they already got my 60$.
 
  
  I have not played the other's console version, but i feel that the Wii's version is the coolest, 
 slashing in front of your tv-screen for the final blow to the big boss is priceless!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentyne
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 25, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Marvels Ultimate Alliance was not what i expected it to be. The only positive thing about this 
 game is that it has great multiplayer, other then that, it didn't really do much for me. One of 
 the biggest flaws in the game are the graphics. I know wii graphics aren't suppose to be that great, 
 but i didn't expect it to look like ps2 graphics. The colors were not sharp and the textures looked 
 very dull. The gameplay is all about button mashing. There are some combos you can pull of but 
 they aren't done very well. The list of characters you can use is cool, but they kinda play all 
 the same way. The voice acting isn't bad and the replay value is ok. If the graphics were better, 
 then this game would've been much better for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  Well, I think that this game is really good!
  And no other adventure game that I have seen lets you play as all of the Marvel chracter! But with 
 more power comes more responsibilate!
  The game is really challenging!
  And will take some time to beat!
  But, it is really fun!
  And you can only chose to make a 
 team of 4 and play as one of them at a time!
  Bottom line this is one of my fav games!
  But I think that they could do better!
  I think that you'd like this game better if you rented 
 it first to see if its your type of game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenchusolid
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion this game was a new twist on an old formula. I say this because X-men Legends and 
 this game had some very similar features such as extreme moves and totally destructible environments. 
 On The plus side there where new characters and a better storyline. Now I'm not saying MUA copied 
 from X-men Legends they may have had the same formula but different content. The graphics for this 
 game was good at best. You were able to make out certain facial features every now and then. You 
 couldn't really see features on character models like I would have liked. But, don't let the graphics 
 stop you from getting this game. The controls in this game take some getting used to. Executing 
 your special powers was kind of frustrating because you find yourself flailing the wii-mote so 
 the game can register your movements. Now if this does become to bothersome you can activate your 
 powers using certain buttons on the wiimote which is easier. Besides that the game controlled nicely. 
 The game to me was good because of it's replay value and RPG elements. You get to pick your fate, 
 create a superhero team and customize them. If you liked X-men Legends your going to fall in love 
 with this game. If you aren't you can still find fresh content and better story lines where as 
 you affect the outcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I didn't like X-men Legends, but this game really imporves on everything bad in the X-men Legends 
 games. The story is that Dr. Doom is looking for the power of Odin and the ultimate Alliance hasd 
 to stop him. The gameplay is really good and uses the Wii Remote to great potential. The graphics 
 look really good and are the best we've ever seen in a marvel game. The games sound is really good 
 to with great voice acting and great music. You're gonna wanna go back and do the game over and 
 over again until you just can't get enough of it. My final thoughts are that this game is really 
 good and great fun for any Wii owner. This was the first Wii game I played and is the best super 
 hero game out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragondude
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 7, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  when first playing marvel ultimate alliance i realised that the graphics weren't amazing but after 
 a while i really got into it and it kept me occupied for ages. i really enjoyed creating my own 
 superhero team and trying to find special combinations of characters. unfortunately i think i completed 
 it too fast but it was one of the few games that actually made me decide i want to complete this 
 on all difficulties once i had completed it i got my friend to play it with me and we tried to 
 see who could get the bigger score. i really enjoyed this game and whether you're a fan of marvel 
 or not i think you'll really enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOMIE_G64
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a top-down 3D RPG-esque game based on the Marvel franchise. The gameplay 
 is pretty much the same as X-Men Legends, although the new cast of heroes not restricted to the 
 X-Men universe, and the ability to create a team of your choice is definately something that makes 
 this game visitable to everyone. Unfortunately, like a lot of ports lately, the Wii version just 
 seems to get the bad end of the deal.
  
  Right off the bat, you will notice that Multiplayer is gone. This takes a lot of the replayability 
 away for people who are content to just go through the single-player once. Although there are training 
 simulators, concept art, and other little collectables for you to find, you can find almost all 
 of them if you really tried; those who don't try can get around half of them. Unless you really 
 want to get all the unlockables and beat the game on all three difficulties, renting it at Blockbuster 
 should be enough for you.
  
  During the start of the single player mission, you're group of heroes consist of Wolverine, Captain 
 America, Spider-Man, and Thor, protecting a S. H. I. E. L. D. helicarrier. However, as you progress, 
 you will go through the Stark Tower, change people in you're group, and create a team; all within 
 one hour (if you got mad skillz lik meh) . Eventually, bosses will get harder by being ultra cheap 
 and never letting you attack, although the blue and red orbs that they drop will heal you so that 
 you won't die that easily. The A. I. for your team isn't bad, but could use some improvements. You're 
 teamates might jump off of a cliff trying to kill an enemy you just threw down. You're allies also 
 sometimes just stands there until you give them an order. The cinematics aren't real time, so they 
 usually repeat what you have already learned talking to NPCs. Scripted events seem to be off as 
 well. Sometimes, you will talk to NPCs and have no clue what they are talking about. Then, as you 
 are walking out the door, the scripted event occurs and explains what you have missed. Problems 
 with A. I. and scripted events really aren't that rare, but aren't that common that it becomes frustrating.
 
  
  However, it really isn't the gameplay that will shine, although the gameplay isn't bad. You're 
 goal can be summarized like this, kill this, destroy this, activate that. No, what really shines 
 is the amount of the Marvel Universe that is actually incorporated into the game. The game has 
 many, MANY places, characters, items, and events that will immediately knock-out any fan. It will 
 even impress people that just know the name of some popular heroes and teams. This huge chunk of 
 the Marvel universe really makes this game playable.
  
  The Wii version, as we already touched upon, really isn't as good as the other versions. The controls 
 take some getting use to if you aren't familiar with the standard Wii gestures. However, the Wii 
 version does let you use certain powers without having to scroll down and select it, a real life-saver 
 is some places. Multiplayer just doesn't seem to be Big N's strong point, and is not incorporated 
 with the Wii version of MUA.
  
  Overall, a good game. Definately not great , but enough for a rent for casual Marvel fans and a 
 buy for more hardcore Marvel fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This game was built ground up with the standard controls in mind, when they tacked on Wii controls 
 to this game it made the Wii motion seem unnecessary. The Wii controls work most of the time but 
 it's not the fact that the controls are unresponsive, it's that it feels unnecessary to use motion 
 controls. They didn't even allow Gamecube/Classic controller support which would have helped a-lot. 
 For example, when you use a thrusting motion, it doesn't matter how hard or light you thrust or 
 even the direction because it's going to do the same amount of damage/effect in the game.
  
  That being said the game at it's core is still good. Great looking CGI cutscenes, although, 
 some cutscenes look better than others, great voice acting, bonuses in choosing classic teams and 
 such, great collectibles, pretty good graphics, and a great storyline. Overall, this is a great 
 game that would have benefited with an optional standard controller support. If your a hardcore 
 Marvel fan then you will love this game and easily look past the controls, but if not, look for 
 a different version of the game or rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blehbeast1234
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Aight. Here it goes. This is a really good game. Has a great storyline and a ton of characters. 
 This is the ultimate game for Marvel fanboys and fangirls. I love this game a lot. The controls 
 are pretty good except for a few times. But you learn from your mistakes. The graphics are okay. 
 And I use that term to it's lowest extent. The graphics could have used a little bit more help 
 here. I mean sometimes they look good, but then other times they just look really, really, really, 
 really shoddy. I'm kind of disappointed in the developers here. They always work really hard on 
 the 360 and PS3 graphics, but put no effort onto the Wii versions of the games. And I think the 
 Wii is getting the shaft because of that. The developers should really work harder. The replayability 
 is alright, too, I guess. I still pick it up everyone now and then, pop it in my Wii and play for 
 an hour or two. It's still fun. But with all small, tiny flaws set aside, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 
 is still a really good game at it's heart with tons of cheats, unlockables, and stuff that Marvel 
 fans or just fans of superheroes in general will love. Pe@ce. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilrd
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  This game stinks. The graphics are ok but the veiw sucks most bosses are easy besides one. I'm 
 young though and don't really on brute strenghth thats proply why I can't beat him. Another thing 
 is they make a big fuss of enmys I beat in a minute and most aren't even arch enmys then they might 
 be though. The story isn't good I meen come on dr. doom I'd ecpect somthing like magnito or galactimus 
 or somthing like that. The good things are the enmy taunts and seacret conversations some players 
 have. Another thing if you like one hero only this is bad one they might suck two there not in the 
 game or three you need to unlock them. Another good thing is the coutumes and powers most of the 
 time. I didn't like this game but thats me rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palmatthew1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  One of the best party games that I have ever played. It just gets better the more people who play 
 it! Even though this is definitely a multi-player game, it still has a more than decent single 
 player mode. While I don't usually play this genre, this game was a great exception. As for the 
 controls, they were easy to learn, and I enjoyed the innovative integration of the Wii-mote and 
 Nunchuk. It made the action in the game seem real, as my character punched and kicked as I swung 
 the controls! I recommend this game to anyone with four sets of Wii-motes and Nunchuks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBalla
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  My first Wii game review:
  
  This game has a lot to offer, I don't understand how it got only a 7.1. It has about 20 playable 
 Marvel Heroes, over like ababillion Marvel characters, lots of unlockables, and lots of cover arts.
 
  
  ... Anyways let me start. The gameplay in this is simple. TOO SIMPLE. Basically all you got to do is 
 either shake the Wiimote in a pointless gesture or just press the A button and you move by moving 
 the analog stick. The graphics are ok for the most part but it occasionally turns really dark which 
 turns the graphics ugly. The sound is great too. It really sounds like super hero music. Also the 
 voice acting is amazing I mean Spider-Man sounds so cool in this game compared to his movie and 
 show counterpart. About the replay value all you really do is try to get whatever you missed and 
 do the single hero missions which are really really boring but that's just me maybe someone will 
 find it fun. So in conclusion I'd say it was a pretty good game despite the too basic controls, ugly 
 graphics, and boring things to do after. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamike
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 28, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  A great game that's a X-men Legends type game. It has all the classic Marvel Heroes (Spider-Man, 
 Thor, Wolverine, Captain America, etc., etc.) and all the classic villains (Dr. Doom, Arcade, Rhino, 
 Bullseye, etc., etc.) . It also has the feature of SUPER TEAMS, where if you happen to put people 
 in your team that have a relation or are a team in the comic books, it gives you a bonus, BUT the 
 whole team has members of that team in it. There are classic teams such as: The Fantastic Four, 
 X-men, The Avengers. Then there are teams the creators made up, like if you put: Wolverine, Deadpool, 
 Elektra, and Blade you get the Assassins Team, which gives you a bonus of +60% Money Drop (aka S. H. I. E. L. D. 
 credits) , or another team is The Natural Leaders , which consists of the team having Storm, Captain 
 America, Dr. Strange, Mr. Fantastic, or Nick Fury, it gives you a bonus of +5 XP. Just thought 
 I give you a little help, you know giving you the way to get 2 teams. Another cool TEAM feature 
 is My Team , if you haven't already figured out, YOU get to make your own team of Heroes in any 
 way you want. You get to give a name &amp; symbol. This game is one of the best games I've ever 
 played, it has a great story (which I'm not spoiling) , great powers, great characters,  
 I highly recommend 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenmachine05
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 25, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  When I first turned on this game to play on the Wii, I almost fell asleep. It BORED ME sooo much. 
 Then, when it finally started getting fun, it turned boring again, and the cycle continued in that 
 same order. It is probably one of the strangest games, in the sense of fun factor, that I have 
 ever played. Heres what I think of the game in each of Gamespots categories. Also, I will admit 
 I'm not a professional gamer, since people have messaged me bad reviews, but I will try to give 
 my best opinion on this and any other game I review, so here goes:
  
  Gameplay: Flat out lousy. With constant shaky controlling, almost constant bad camera angles, and 
 occassional points where I was clueless on what to do, I have no choice but to give gameplay a 
 bad review.
  
  Graphics: Very good. This is probably the only saving grace in this entire game. There is still 
 one problem here though. No matter what level, there always seems to be places which are very dark, 
 therefore drowning out the nice graphics. Sound: This is the part I love to review the most on 
 any game. The sound in this game was fairly good, but the voice acting! It was TERRIBLE! Some voices 
 even sounded like creepy old child stalkers. Not good in the sound department, thats for sure!
 
  
  Value: Although there is some replay value, I personally would not want to play it again. I didnt 
 mind it first time through, even with all the flaws, but it's not fun enough to go through a second 
 time. Really no other value though.
  
  Overall, I think this game would have been great if it was just given some more time and polished 
 up a bit. Thanks for reading this review. Theres more to come from me soon! Also, if you liked 
 this review, please leave me a message. Thnx! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 24, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  My 14th wii game, and definatly one of my best! MUA is truley a great game, the graphics are nice 
 and clean, the lighting is excellent and the gameplay is fun and addictive. With a solid multiplayer 
 and a nice selection of heroes to pick from, this is a game worth buying.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  They are clean and crisp. They bring out the comic side of the heroes, and MOST characters 
 look fantansic when playing them. The one acception is probably Ice Man, he looks pretty crappy. 
 The lighting is amazing, it gives your world a nice look to it and makes it look next gen. The 
 attack aniumations are top notch and all your powers look fantastic. And what makes this even better 
 graphically is the lack of slow downs! With all of this, i have to strongly disagree with GS, this 
 looks LOADS better than the PS2 version.
  
  SOUND
  
  Excellent sound track and sound effects. The voice acting is actually pretty good, they capture 
 the characteristics of the charatcer, especially on Spider-Man, he is always saying smart remarks 
 and funny little lines that make him stand out. The echo on the SUPER POWERS makes your heroes 
 sound ULTRA powerful, which may be a minor addition, but its a welcomed one.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  Well, i like the basic button mashing for your attack, and knockback attacks, but apart from 
 that i love doing the gestures for the powers and other various attacks. The camera is alos EXCELLENT, 
 its really intuative, you tilt the nun chuck to spin it around, which doesnt getr in the way of 
 gameplay.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Great. Each hero has loads of powers, both offensive and defensive, and there own UNIQUE super 
 power. The story is interesting, and the controls just feel right. With the HUGE selection of heroes, 
 you can form your own UBER TEAM, its one of the highlights of the game. And with the ability to 
 literally INVENT a team with the team creator (part of the story) and then level up the team to 
 give you loads of bonuses, is a very cool part. There are loads of unlockable costumes for your 
 heroes aswell, like iron man can get his Classic suit, Avengers, Ultimate and Warhawk (i think thats 
 what its called) which all have different bonuses you can pruchase to make it even sronger! The 
 most user friendly part of the game is the LEVELING UP system, you can choose to manually upgrade/learn 
 new powers or you can set the computer to do it for you, i personally like the computer to do it, 
 because it creates a balanced character, but you can easily do it your self and make a character 
 what you want it to be.
  
  Multiplayer is a great addition aswell, you normally have you and 3 computer characters, but if 
 you wish, you can have you and up to 3 other human controlled characters for a excellent gaming 
 experience, and with 2 modes of play (Arcade or Co-op) it will keep you comming back.
  
  If you dislike having the rest of your team hogging EXP, health, and personal glory (thats not part 
 of the game lol) you can even go it alone. Many people have complaind you HAVE to have a team, 
 no you dont! You can simply remove ALL other characters and go around by ur self pwning everything 
 in sight lol.
  
  OVERALL
  
  A truely amazing game. With a long campagin, sweet sound, great graphics, large selection of GREAT 
 characters (famous and not so famous) and excelletn gameplay in both single and multi player, this 
 is an easily recomended game for ALL wii owners. I give this a 9/10 (very rare, as im rather tough 
 on reviews) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdrofl
Rating: 5.1
Date: May 22, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Bad control port, the good interface from Legends 2 is now broken. Navigation is not fun.
  
  X-Men legends 2 was a pretty good game, the customization of your character was a little tricky, 
 but functional. I'm not sure how they took a good interface and made it terrible. Having to press 
 +, A, Z, C, B, Z, C.... to turn off auto skill point use is a pain in the ass. Why not have ONE 
 select button (A) instead of sometimes A and sometimes Z? Can't switch between party members in 
 the customize screen, have to go back and back into another character.
  
  They had a good inventory and item system, now you find hardly any items and can only have 1 item 
 equipped. There are no passive skills that you can use skill points for and the good skills cost 
 money, which is the only thing you can spend money on. Also, skills don't tell you how many skill 
 points they require to purchase and some of the skills don't say how much energy they cost to use. 
 The map system doesn't show any of the useful places of interest when in the base such as the simulator. 
 I really don't think they had anyone playtest this game. When playing single player you can't see 
 your other party members' health/energy and the AI is terrible. Bosses only go for the character 
 you control and even when your party members are set to aggressive they stand around while you 
 get your ass kicked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trini_hoshi
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 16, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is here on the Wii and, its one of the Wii's best games. If you played 
 this game on any of the other consoles then you know the story because its the same game on that 
 standpoint. However the game offers two more characters in the X-man Colosos and, Moon Knight for 
 the next gen game systems, then there's the wii-mote controls.
  
  To attack an enemy you can use the A button repeatly. To use your powers you can either set a shortcut 
 with the B button where A and B will do that move or you can perform the motion that is for that 
 attack. There's lifting straight up, swinging the wii-mote to the right, shaking the mote right 
 and left quickly, etc...
  
  This game is fun and even if you played it before on one of the older consoles you will stil find 
 yourself playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lio83197
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 12, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I have not played a lot of marvel games but I think this one is really good. I love the idea of 
 being able to create your own super hero team. It is awsome how it is entirely customizable, you 
 can pick the team logo, name, and of course members. I also like the feature of being able to choose 
 up to four costumes for each character, of course you will have to unlock three of them. There 
 are tons of things to unlock and find throughout the game which makes it alot of fun. Whats really 
 nice about it is that since you have a team of four even if one player dies you can still continue 
 the mission with the other three and revive the dead one (s) later on. Its also nice that your friends 
 can join in the game at any time and take control of one of the other players. Its a really a great 
 game and I recommend it to eveyrone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazedwithwii
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 26, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is the best game with Marvel Superheros. You can create a team of four 
 heros from twenty choices including the fantastic four and The Avengers. The only bad thing is 
 no online play. The objective is to take down the Masters of Evil (A company of villians headed 
 by Dr. Doom.)
  With the Wiis interactive controls, it makes this game even better by thrusting foward to release 
 a burst of fire or swiping to throw Captain America shield. Each character has about 7-10 powers 
 plus melee attacks like punching. Will you save the universe from Dr. Doom? Or will you fail and 
 let the world fall into chaos? Assemble your team of superheros to ensure the citizens are safe 
 from the Masters of Evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haziqonfire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  The Wii version of ultimate alliance has been underrated in my opinion. 7.1 is not enough.
  
  The controls at first may seem tack-on, but honestly, M: UA is the most fun on the Wii. Playing 
 this game with 4 people is just a blast.
  
  So let me start
  
  Controls: The controls take a while to figure out. At first, i got really pissed that i had bought 
 this game, but after spending some time with the controls, i really, really enjoyed it. I loved 
 the camera movement with the nunchuck, and i liked the gestures for MOST of the characters. Also, 
 being able to trip people by flicking the controller to the left is awesome.
  
  Graphics:
  Not much to say here, they look better than the PS2 Version, and very close to the 
 XBox version (not 360) . Some nice effects.
  
  Sound:
  awesome sound. The music is good, the voice acting is awesome too, but beware: many cheesy spider 
 man lines. Length:
  this game will last you about 10-15 hours of gameplay. Its a fun ride, especially if you play with 
 3 of your buddies. overall, if your looking for a fun dungon crawler, i would suggest picking up 
 M: UA, but only the Wii version, seeing as its the most fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiwillstand
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a video game that gives the gamer access to the largest superhero 
 tema-up of all time. Being on the Nintendo Wii, MUA offers some intuitive controls that can get 
 you one step closer to being your favorite superhero. Although the controls are the same for each 
 character, it still makes the game a lot more fun and as I said, intuitive.
  
  The plot is a very interesting one. Dr. Doom has stolen the power of Odin, and with it and the 
 help of the larget Villain Alliance imaginable, he will take over the world for his own. The only 
 who can stop him are you, and over 20 superheroes at your command.
  
  The graphics are okay, they look like they've fallen back a couple years, but you get used to it. 
 You may find the game interesting, and yet a little dull, but eventually you get into it. With 
 many missions and tasks to be carried out, this game is filled to tip with action, adventure, and 
 intense battles!
  
  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is an intuitive game with only a few flaws that can easily be looked 
 through. It is a game worth playing by any gamer. This game will make you feel the power of a Marvel! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emile144
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 9, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  If you're a fan you need this in your collection. If you're not better dont risk it. Audiovisuals 
 are average and obviously not there to keep you interested. COntrols are relatively ok but don't 
 seem to add to the game either. Probably the games forte is its vast amount of playable characters 
 and of course the whole idea of superheroes. The graphics are ok, the sound is ok, the controls 
 are ok... a bit too ok. Unfortunately the camera angles arent. If you dont want to throw your numchuck 
 through your TV and get an aweful headache you need to keep your hand stiff since every movement 
 is interpreted as a change in camera angle. If your the energetic type the screen will just keep 
 oging round and round. Other than that, you'll probably use as many button assigned actions as 
 you can. The controls are pleasing and a novelty but sometimes they can be unreactive, annoying 
 and slow. The graphics and sound as i said are ok but ok is not really new generation. The actual 
 story is exactly what you would excpect from a superhero game but the cinematics accompaning it 
 and the voice acting is quite good. The idea of having a team is challenging strategically but 
 because of the very low dificulty of the game useless and over the top. This could have been a 
 much better game if the one hero could just take all the glory. It's actual length is pleasing 
 and some replay value could be seen in the horizon. In general a fan must have. If your not a true 
 fan of the comics however this game will fade from you quite fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiilink
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  The wii motion sensing for the super powers with this game is awsome once you get used to it. The 
 best part is that untill you do know how to use it you can use the non-wii mote motion sensor super 
 powers. Well any way this game is a nice fighting game. In which the super heros have levels and 
 every level (with the exception of wolverin) you get 1 stat point which you can buy a new super 
 power with or upgrade it. Then there are 4 possible armors for the 20 hero's that can also be upgraded 
 with the money you pick up after killing enemeys or breaking open the enviroment. Then you can 
 pick out a team and get team credits for by doing good deeds and killing super villians... and 
 upgrade to make ur team better. The game is kinda short thought i beat it in a few sittings but 
 the replay value is g8 cause there is so much I still need to find some comic disks (also a nice 
 add) This game is jam packed with stuff but over to short a distance. Also its kinda easy even 
 on hard. And the motion sensing the wii is awsome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osbassgordo
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I thought to myself that Marvel: Ultimate Alliance was going to be great as a multiplayer game 
 to rent to and play with my friend. The truth is, its not. The opening sequence was AMAZING. SPECTACULAR 
 GRAPHICS AND AWESEOME SOUND..... until we started the first level. The camera in the game was very 
 unpleasant to the eye and the graphics look very choppy and just plain watered down from the xbox 
 360 and ps3 versions. I just wonder why Activision chose to tack on really crappy controls. All 
 you do to fight is just wiggle the wiimote left or right (same for the nunchuk) . There is also 
 another option in which you can just hammer on the A button repeatedly to do all of your moves. 
 Activision has made just another one of its crappy games for the wii. Titles like these just drag 
 Nintendo's name in the mud. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saturos_4_ever
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  I borrowed this of a friend. Its a good thing to because I was going to buy it. Not worth. It has 
 horrid game play. And ridiculously easy puzzles. Like I could finish this game in my sleep. Levels 
 feel very repetitive. The AI for the rest of your team is plain moronic. e. g. they will stand in 
 a pit of lava or just jump of a cliff and die. However once you finish the first two levels (i 
 hated them) the game becomes mildly more enjoyable.
  
  The Good:
  nice graphics
  cheap
  
  The Bad:
  storyline is nonexistent
  no challenge
  
  Overall:
  Wait for the 
 price drop, or rent, it develops into a semi decent game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K_u_F
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  the idea of a team of superheros of your choice is great. the combinations you can think up are 
 great and thankfully this is realised in M. U. A. you can combine a vast amount of marvel superheros 
 and go to battle. the fighting is simple with a few special moves chucked in but its so pleasing 
 to wade in that the simple combat doesnt matter as you wade through your enemies. the wii controls 
 arent as great as they could be and you will probably end up using the buttons instead but its 
 still fun. a typical but good comic book storyline pieces together the action and the unlockables 
 and addictive gameplay will keep you playing. the game doesnt try anything new or try to be revolutionary, 
 its just trying to provide fun, which it does very well. so if your looking for a decent superhero 
 game or just any good action game on the wii then its well worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doylen05
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  ok so this is it : GRAPHICS ---- kind of remind mi of the early marvil games on ps2 and the veiw 
 is from the top, appart from this explosions are top class
  GAME PLAY ---- its the kind of game u go up 4 a 5 min game and end up playing 4 hours STORY ---- 
 not verry good its atually bad but hey there loads and loads of cool superheros in cluding goast 
 rider DIFFACULTY --- not to hard but its not a stratage its a beat them up kind of rampage game 
 UNLOCKS --- appart from the very very cool super heros there are other things up 4 grabs including 
 costumes and new moves PLZ PLZ PLZ PLZ PLZ PLZ PLZ SEND MI A MESSAGE IF U ENJOYED MY REVEIW OR 
 MY REVEIW HELPED U MAKE UR MIND UP OVERALL ----- a fun game BUT so mutch better with a freind to 
 play with THANKS FOR READING MY REVEIW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DTbikerider9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Its Villians VS. Heroes in this action packed fun game that is Marval Ultimate Alleince. Basically 
 ya gotta save the world with all your super hero pals that have passed on the marval legacy for 
 years. With a vareity of super heroes, villians, special capabilities and maps everyone can enjoy 
 this game. Although some of th controls will give you VERY swore wrists this game is very much 
 worthe it. Everyone punches, kicks, slashes and sores through this game with great fun. The graphics 
 are just good and same goes for the sound. But the gameplay is one of the most fun of all marval 
 games I've ever seen, and is the best in the series, also a must own wii title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 15, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, I enjoyed this game. Maybe it's somewhat because I've been a comic fan for years 
 but I think too because it was the first game on my Wii that I played all the way through. I really 
 thought they did a good job with the between-scene cinematics. Really pretty. The game was definitely 
 a little easier than I expected which was also nice for my first game out on the Wii. I somewhat 
 expected it and sort of eased myself into my Wii. lol I enjoyed just playing the different heroes 
 to check out their different powers. Even a non-gamer female friend of mine had a lot of fun playing 
 Wolverine. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  After the sadness that was Captain America #25, Marvel's Ultimate Alliance has new meaning for 
 me. A moment of silence for the greatest American Hero.....
  
  I'll have to admit that I didn't like X-Men Legends that much, so I didn't really follow up with 
 X-Men Legend 2. Due to the shortage of Wii games out I though i would like to give Ultimate Alliance 
 a try. I have to say that this game is far more fun the X-Men Legends. I think it's that the cast 
 of heros and villians scope over the entire Marvel Universe, and that you can team them up with 
 each other is even cooler. It's more of a comic fan's dream then a gamers dream. But how cool is 
 it to have Captain America, Wolverine, Spider-man, and Iron Man kick some villian behind. Although 
 I will have to say that they pulled out some of the LAMEST villians for bosses that haven't graced 
 the pages of a Marvel comic in a LONG time. But as the game progresses the bosses get better. Aside 
 from the combining of forces that don't normally get combined the Wii verison give you the option 
 of using the Wiimote to do various abilities. All of the same abilities can be done with the buttons 
 on the Wiimote. I find myself using the buttons more then the movements just because the movements 
 hurt my wrists after a while. You have to do them so often and violently that it can cause damage 
 to you hands and wrists. I feel that they could have worked on the Wiimote functionality a little 
 bit more. The graphics are much like the earlier verison of the X-men legends games. The CG scenes 
 are pretty cool though. Some of the voice acting can use some work. The music isn't much to be 
 remembered and the sounds aren't out of place. This game is best when playing with friends.
  
  If your a comic fan particularly Marvel then pick this up. But as far as a single player and 
 a game goes it's pretty average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxCOM
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 7, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Well marvel ultimate allince is game from actvision. That continues the X-men legend series) it 
 was released on a lot of differnt consoles Including the Next-gen, Motion senseing wii. Well i 
 know it may sound awsome to play a button masher with a wii remote. But it really isn't The controls 
 are tacked on and don't feel right. The graphics are lower then the PS2 verison. Like There are 
 3 main attacks. Swipe (which you can do by swiping the wii-moat left or right) Trip attack (move 
 wii-moat down) uppercut (move wii-moat up) and special move (A and B) But no matter what attack 
 you pick it feels really tacked on. And meant for a gamepad. And there is no online support of 
 any thing. On a high note there are over 2 dozen super heros but still Get it on a differnt console. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobiasjim07
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 28, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a game that is available on pretty much all the consoles. The x360, 
 PS3, and Wii version have a couple of additional heroes you can play as and better graphics. The 
 x360/PS3 versions have high definition graphics and widescreen support while the Wii supports progressive 
 scan and widescreen. So basically the Wii version mostly distinguishes itself in the controls area.
 
  
  Controls:
  
  I think they are really well done. It is actually just like Super Smash Bros if you think about 
 it. It is simple and easy to learn and you can switch between characters without having to specifically 
 learn the new characters moves. I said it is like Super Smash Bros so let me explain so that anybody 
 that has played Super Smash Bros understands
  
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance
  
  Regular attack -&gt; A button
  Smash attack -&gt; One of five gestures (jab forward, left/right, 
 up, down, shake left/right)
  Special attack -&gt; Hold B + One of five gestures (jab forward, left/right, up, down, shake left/right)
 
  Default Special attack -&gt; Hold B + A (can cycle which power is default by hold B then use D-pad 
 to scroll powers)
  
  Super Smash Bros
  
  Regular attack -&gt; A button; or one of four directions (up, down, back, forward) + A
  Smash 
 attack -&gt; Yellow stick in one of four directions (up, down, back, forward)
  Special attack -&gt; B button; or one of four directions (up, down, back, forward) + B
  
  So 
 Marvel UA actually has more type of attacks but still has the simple intuitive type of controls 
 that made Super Smash Bros fun
  
  Marvel also has picking up weapons, grabbing bad guys, super special attacks, taking enemy weapons/sheilds, 
 context sensitive controls for boss fights and puzzle stuff, flying characters, co-op play, the 
 works.
  
  Also specific moves for specific heroes can work based on the hero. For instance Captain America 
 can throw his sheild as one of his special attacks but then you can control where the shield goes 
 or just let it bounce around. Another of his moves does a shield bash where you can just do a quick 
 bash or keep charging through knocking enemies down. Another of his move can be charged up for 
 more damage. Character like Spider-Man can do web-swings, while storm can fly with the double jump. 
 All the heroes have their own specific powers and there are very few heroes that I would consider 
 underpowered or weak... or maybe I just didn't get how to play with them. But there are enough 
 that there would be at least a handful that you will like.
  
  Camera control is very intuitive being tied to the nunchuk. You can tilt the nunchuk left/right 
 to make it turn left/right. I wish Zelda TP on Wii had this type of camera control implemented 
 but also top/bottom for that game. Nunchuk gestures are used for grabbing, rolling, etc and just 
 having the tilting for the camera movement doesn't complicate the thing having multiple functionality.
 
  
  Presentation:
  
  The menus, interface, etc are all very well designed... very intuitive. The in-game cinematics 
 (like the mission briefings) are sometimes very ugly looking and other times much better. Electra 
 specifically looks really bad while they seem to have a good job on Captain America. The CGI cutscenes 
 for start of game and between 'Acts' are top notch.
  
  Graphics:
  
  I haven't seen Marvel UA on any other console... but I played through the one on the Wii and it 
 looks pretty good graphically... especially on progressive scan.
  
  Eventually people will stop comparing Wii graphics to x360/PS3 like they have stopped comparing 
 DS graphics to PSP which initially they used to keep knocking the DS for having n64 graphics while 
 the PSP had PS2 graphics.
  
  For a Wii title it is one of the better looking games
  
  Value:
  
  It is easily 20+ hrs to play through. Tons of unlockable training missions complete 
 with their own voice work and story scenarios. A nice way to encourage player to try all the different 
 heroes and get a costume and skill reward for that hero. These are unlocked during the natural 
 progression of the game by finding 'disks'.
  
  Unlocking of other characters is also during the single player either by doing mini-games hidden 
 in some levels, completely story objectives, or doing optional objectives.
  
  Once you complete the game you can play again on harder level and try a different team (more of 
 the team available from the start... whomever you unlocked)
  
  Or you can use your completed file to basically go to any level you want with your fully upgraded 
 team to find any remaining art-work or training disks or whatever else you missed. As you play 
 the game you will learn better how some of the stuff is hidden so going back and finding stuff 
 you missed the first time will just involve using that knowledge.
  
  Overall
  
  Marvel UA is one of the top games on the Wii in my opinion... that isn't for the non-gamers. It 
 was great fun to play on the Wii. I don't doubt for a moment that it will be great fun on the x360 
 or PS3 as well. The controls here were a lot of fun for me... and because of the controls even 
 if I had option to get x360/PS3 or Wii version I think I would choose the Wii version because the 
 controls were just fun and the graphics with the progressive scan were more than good enough for 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiPlayer16
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This game, is the best game released on the wii yet. With over 20 playable charecters, its easy 
 to find the best group of 4 to play as! (GO THOR) ! This is also a pretty hard game, it took me 
 about 2 weeks to beat it. Plus, its packed with side quests, some easy, some hard. The ony thing 
 is, i DO NOT get the T rating, it should only be rated E10+ at most. Anybody who either likes the 
 X-Men series, or loves using the wii-mote, should get this game. Also, it does take some time to 
 learn how to play the game right, but by the end of the first level, you should have it. ~WiiPlayer16 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistergalaxy
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 11, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  A great game which makes use of all your movements for special attacks. Great graphics even though 
 the Wii does lack of graphics in most games. The game was a bit short in comparition with the latest 
 new gen games but the story made everything more thrilling and realistic. With a great variety 
 of Super-Heroes from which to choose which made more exciting with a open variety of abilities. 
 The sound was really OK and was sometimes enjoyable but never good. Great unlockables and fun videos. 
 Great use of the Wii mote so if you like interactivity at a point of maximum movement this is YOUR 
 game. This game is worth your time definatly no matter which version it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZhugeMarc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a game legions of fanboys have been waiting on. The premise behind 
 it - pick and choose a team of superheroes from the well-known Marvel Universe - allows for comic 
 fans to pair up their favourite heroes and fight evil using all the character's signature moves.
 
  
  The game starts off with a S. H. I. E. L. D. helicarrier being attacked by Doctor Doom and the new Masters 
 of Evil. Spider-Man, Thor, Captain America and Wolverine are teleported onto the stricken vessel 
 and from there you proceed to beat seven shades out of the bad guys' grunts (which resemble the 
 Avengers foe Ultron) , as well some mini-bosses in the form of Scorpion (Spider-Man villain) and 
 Bullseye (Daredevil/Elektra nemesis) . At first, you're restricted to the starting four, but once 
 you reach your first save point - around five minutes into the game - you can start organising 
 your dream team. While some characters aren't available from the beginning, at the start of the 
 game you can make use of more than enough heroes, including the Fantastic Four, Deadpool (my personal 
 favourite) , a few of the more well-known X-Men, Iron Man, and more. Throughout the course of the 
 game you'll unlock more heroes to play as, such as Daredevil, Dr Strange, Ghost Rider, Blade, Black 
 Panther, Nick Fury and the Silver Surfer. Each character comes with four different costumes (except 
 Moon Knight, who has three) and one basic special ability - Shield Throw for Captain America, and 
 so on. As the game progresses, you'll unlock more abilities and upgrade them, as well as unlock 
 the different costumes that give your characters different bonuses, such as Health Regen and higher 
 Attack rating. Graphically, the game doesn't compare to, say, the X-Box 360 version, but that isn't 
 much of a problem. One of the glaring errors in the graphical side, however, is the shadowing. 
 At times it can seem rather strange, flickering, appearing and disappearing, and also seems jagged 
 and blocky around the edges at times - for an example, see the trident-holding statue in the Temple 
 of Negrote, Atlantis. Cutscenes can also be a disappointment - while the opening and ending scenes 
 - and some key ones throughout the game - are beautifully rendered - most of the mission briefing 
 scenes look rushed, badly done, and at times the heroes' faces look positively mangled (Thor) . 
 Aside from the cutscene issues and the shadow flaws, the game looks good enough to keep most happy.
 
  
  Gameplay is fun and hard to get tired of - using the characters you know and love to take down 
 a well-known villain such as the Mandarin is a joy to do. However, at certain times, the Wii controls 
 can seem rather tacked on, as you can perform a basic combo by pressing/holding the A button - 
 which can basically defeat most normal enemies. Aside from a few control issues and niggling graphical 
 inconsistencies, however, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a must-have game for any self-respecting 
 comic fan. Once you play it, you'll ask yourself two things - Why didn't I have this before now? 
 and, of course, Where's the Hulk? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enrique_marrodz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 7, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  The storyline is about the Masters of Evil with another plan to take on the world entirely, and 
 the superheroes forming the Ultimate Alliance to stop them.
  
  Ok, that's the story which actually contains some turns and twists to make it more interesting 
 but, basically, is an standard superheroes cliche.
  
  But that's not bad because you know what are you going to find in this kind of game. Which really 
 adds up is the massive number of characters, extra content, historic details and, of course, the 
 great controls in the Wii.
  
  Done with the storyline, let me put straight that the graphics look just good, with some very nice 
 effects, especially when performing superpowered attacks. From time to time you can find also some 
 nasty glitches but there are really minor to the overall experience.
  
  The sound is good too and the voice acting adds a lot to every character personality, you'll hear 
 the classic humor from Spider-man and Human Torch, etc. And the music comes just right in each 
 scene.
  
  Now, as every Action/RPG you'll win experience points which, in turn, will let you access new superpowers, 
 costumes, and increase the abilities. Just take notice there are a lot of superheroes and this 
 makes a little difficult to develope all of them equally, so choose wisely.
  
  Also, each costume, beyond looking great, adds some specific characteristics, like boosting your 
 energy, experience points or defense, etc. And finally, each boss defeated leaves some kind of 
 weapon to enhance even more each heroe.
  
  In the control department you'll be presented with a tutorial when you first play, showing the 
 5 basic moves whic, combined with B , also control each superpower. The basic moves are very intuitive 
 and soon you'll find your favorite ones, but is important to manage each one as, later in the game, 
 yo may find enemies that can receive more damage from certain attacks. Now keep in mind that you 
 don't require a big deal of movement to each attack, and the practice will allow you to better 
 handle each superheroe's abilities.
  
  Also, the multiplayer option allows up to 4 players to play in arcade mode or cooperative, and 
 this can get really great, depending a lot in the way you and your team communicate.
  
  Finally, the game have a lot of action, a lot of content, a great parade of heroes/villains, and 
 a great chance to create a super team and vanquish the evil!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a comic book fan's must have. For fans of X-Men Legends, it's the 
 same idea, but on a larger scale. The story opens up with Dr. Doom attacking a S. H. I. E. L. D. Helicarrier 
 with Nick Fury in command. Spider-Man, Captain America, Wolverine and Thor then get on the ship 
 and help to stop the attack. From this first locale, you'll end up in Mephisto's Relam, Asgard, 
 Murderworld, Dr. Doom's Castle, Stark Tower, and many many other locations in the Marvel Universe. 
 Not only are the locations very diverse, but so is your character selection. You can have some 
 very strange combinations such as brainiac Mr. Fantastic with half-crazy Deadpool, vengence-filled 
 Ghost Rider, and shamanistic Dr. Strange.
  
  Graphically, the game parts with the hard line look of the X-Men Legends games and appears more 
 realistic, however sometimes shadows look strange and even become pixelated at the edges. The special 
 effects look nice and brilliantand do plenty for the storytelling. Sound-wise, the game isn't anything 
 spectacular, but it's not bad either. Voice acting has some great performances (such as Thor or 
 Wolverine) but then there are some really bad ones (Invisible Woman and Ghost Rider) . The music 
 sounds very well orchestrated and adds plenty to the feel of the game, but sometimes it drowns 
 out the dialogue. Gameplay is very unique, as it should be on the Wii. To execute some special 
 moves (such as web bullets or Web Throwing on Spider-Man) you press B and then move in a certain 
 way for most. You can also perform various gestures to do knockback, popup, stun, trip attacks 
 and such. You'll also be required to use the remote to diffuse bombs and flex those muscles using 
 the same gestures. Problem is, sometimes the controls feel unresponsive or they just don't do what 
 you meant.
  
  Overall, this game has a lot to offer, even to those who don't know anything about Marvel comics. 
 It's a very entertaining adventure/ dungeon crawler game, especially with multiple people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidrummer133
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 14, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game is great. I was just expecting it to be okay when i got it.
  but wow was i wrong.
  
  Graphics- I thought they were great compared to the other wii games. 
 compared to the x box360 and ps3 versions just average.
  
  Gameplay-great, the motion sensing gameplay is really immersive. sometimes it will read the wrong 
 move but its because you getting all excited while playing are doing the completly wrong thing.
 
  
  Sound -great cool metal music kicks in when you get surrounded by enemies.
  
  Value-worth the money , if you rent it dont return it just keep it and play it forever.
  
  
 If you have a wii BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruttness
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I got this game with the Wii, and after beating Zelda, I played this. This game is really fun. 
 The story is cool and you can do some awesome stuff, but the game is weird. It is weird in little 
 ways, or little things that can bug you. The thing that bugs me the most about this game is the 
 CAMERA. To turn the camera, you tilt the Nunchuk. Seems simple, and it is, but maybe too simple. 
 I, being a lazy bum, enjoy laying on my couch while I play games. The camera is not good while 
 laying down. It seems to me that you have to specifically concentrate on keeping the Nunchuk steady 
 while laying down unless you can take the feeling of About-To-Hurl. But I guess after a while you 
 can get used to the spinning around in a circle thing. Other little things that bug me is that 
 if you want to do side quests, it can take you a while to find out what to do. Now, don't get me 
 wrong here, I don't like total self explanatory games, but this was taking it a little too far. 
 It's like there are 3 stories going at the same time and you have to go search for 15 minutes just 
 to find a person to talk to about it. The graphics were okay. Could have been better but the special 
 moves and the movie sequences were very well done. Sound was good with the exception of certain 
 characters annoying voices. Worth playing once, just to see if you like it. It's a good game but 
 could have been much, much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camble
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 27, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  It would be different if this game was fun, but as it were, it's appeal is more for the comic book 
 afficianado rather than a true action/adventure gamer. And what is with calling this an RPG? Uhhh, 
 I don't want to just rant at the faults in this game, but I find it hard not to.
  From the first minute of the game I was somewhat confused as to the point. Not the goal of the 
 game itself, but the reason Activision made a game with zero improvements over the first X-men 
 Legends game. In fact, I think the X-men game was somewhat better. I appreciate challenging games, 
 but not to the point of overall frustration just trying to figure out what to do (and even in this 
 first level this happens) . I guess that my distaste in this kind of game is that I spent enough 
 time playing Gauntlet Legends for the Dreamcast like 7 years ago to be even vaguely interested 
 in a game that doesn't do much to improve the genre. The characters are unreasonably small on the 
 screen. The words are distorted by blending in with the color of the background. And, the game 
 is more and more of the same jiggling of the wii-mote, but with different effects for different 
 characters. Even the leveling up and upgrading are pointlessly confusing- and I have played tons 
 of RPGs. Save your money, don't even rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksig235
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  I know that I also have Wii Sports, but I was thinking of a game game. That is besides the point. 
 The point is that this game is great. Great for beginners and great for the gamers. It explains 
 alot about the characters that you may not know much about and then it goes deeper into the characters 
 that you already know and love. (I. E. I learned about Deadpool and now am finding out as much as 
 I can about this character.) Uses the new Wii technology in a good way. Love it and am going to 
 go play it again. This is also my first RPG. I have not liked them before, but now I think that 
 the only way to play a superhero game is like this. This game ROCKS!!!
  
  P. S. I have rented a few games for the Wii and they sucked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcalkenobi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 23, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance for the Wii is a really good game, its worth the time and money you will 
 put into it. There is a widely vast amount of characters ,moves, a nd levels to keep the majority 
 of of gamers happy for a while, especially if you enjoyed the Xmen Legends games. This is also 
 a game youll want to have f you even remotely like the Marvel comics. There is so much from the 
 comics, its great. Over 150 characters appearing from the mavel universe with over 20 playable 
 characters, a Marvel fanboy's dream game. The graphics are still a little shaky (not because its 
 a Wii game, but because of what type of gameplay theyre going for) . They look pretty good if the 
 camera isnt up close, but upclose, you might not want to look. I liked how they approached the 
 game , but I wouldve preferred another Xmen legends game. Still this is a game youll want with 
 the Wii or at the least, a definite rent. So cnonsider this, new control system that makes specials 
 easier and better to use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuramak
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  It is a great game, maybe loses a bit of the comics story and loses a bit of the characters. The 
 evil characters the are all together, they really looses their personality and are all easy .
 
  The game play is really cool, with the move senses of wii, but really some time it do the wrong 
 move or just don&acute; t. The A. I. is no really smart.
  In X-men Legends II, you could really customised your character, choose power and attributes, I 
 miss that. Also they use the super power , as they will, it is hard to save the super power for 
 the boss.
  In my opinion is one of the best games for wii, but it could be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GM_Link
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 5, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  So you have a Nintendo Wii and youre trying to find a new game to play. Like all launch systems, 
 you may find it a bit difficult to find the perfect game for you. Is Zelda a bit too long, Rayman 
 just a bit too quirky and tiring, and you've beaten the crap out of Super Mario Bros? Youve heard 
 how wonderful a title Marvel Ultimate Alliance is, but youve never picked it up because you didnt 
 think youd like the Wii version. Well dont be afraid, it wont bite you. Its actually pretty 
 fluid.
  
  Hands down, Marvel Ultimate Alliance on the Wii is one of those games that will be great for some, 
 but not so great for others. Oh sure, it may not be a button masher unlike the other versions, 
 but in the case of the Wii it doesnt have to be.
  
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance starts off the same way the other versions did. Dr. Doom is attacking 
 the S. H. I. E. L. D. Helicarrier, its up to the heroes to fight there way and defeat any enemies that 
 cross their path. That, we can handle. Controls are simple and theres a tutorial that is given 
 before you play the game for the first time so that you can get a grasp on how the motion based 
 controls work. To attack an enemy, just shake the remote. For those who have played the other games 
 made by Raven Studios, namely the X-Men Legends series, you know that theres a certain button 
 combination for Popup, Trip, and Stun attacks. Not anymore. By performing certain motions, lifting 
 the remote for a popup, swiping the controller to the left for a trip, and lowering the remote 
 for a stun, you can instantaneously perform those moves without attacking the enemy first. This 
 makes it a bit easier to get the upper hand on the enemy.
  
  Your power moves also have the same motions triggers, and a simple guide will show you which move 
 uses which action. However for the support and Xtreme powers you actually have to flip through 
 your powers until you come across them and press the A button. It would have been a little nicer 
 to see a motion for them. Speaking of the motion, every once in a while the motion sensor dies 
 when playing Marvel Ultimate Alliance. Several times I found myself frantically shaking the controller 
 for Deadpool to attack while he just stood there and enemies came down on him. Also, sometimes 
 when I lifted the remote for a certain attack, it thought I lowered the remote and performed a 
 completely different attack. Not good when you have enemies surrounding you and you need to clear 
 them out quickly. Another thing is controlling the camera is performed by tilting the nunchuk left 
 and right. This is a problem when you decide to have a multiplayer party and then all of a sudden 
 the camera starts to rotate around because someone forgot to keep the nunchuk level. Finally it 
 seems like some of the computer controlled heroes gone a little brain dead. When you fill your 
 momentum meter, computer controlled heroes often wasted it on a couple foes. Now if this was like 
 X-Men Legends, I wouldnt be complaining too much. However in Marvel Ultimate Alliance, if one 
 person uses their Xtreme attack, anyone who also has their momentum meter filled will perform 
 theres one after another.
  
  Graphically it wont compare to the X-Box 360 edition where everyone, even Iron Man, looks shiny. 
 However its not as bad as the regular X-Box and PS2 editions. But then again, the Wii isnt a 
 graphic powered machine. If you want a shiny Iron Man, by all means go get the 360 edition. Its 
 just as good as the Wii version. Sound has also been a bit buffed in the Wii edition, but over 
 all most of these sounds have been the same since the first X-Men Legends.
  
  I could go on and on about how the Wii edition doesnt have online multiplayer, but coming from 
 a person who doesnt play a lot of online games it doesnt even matter. Sure online multiplayer 
 is great, but without the support yet from Nintendo, youre just going to have to invite friends 
 over to your house. They need to see what it looks like anyways.
  
  For fifty bucks, its not a bad compromise to the already existing titles on the Wii. The controls 
 are not as tiring as some people make it out to be, you wont have to do backflips and cartwheels 
 to get the characters to attack. However if youre more of a button masher than a motion exaggerator, 
 think about picking Marvel Ultimate Alliance up for any of the other next-gen consoles out there. 
 Either way, Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a great game with the same story no matter what system 
 you play it on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 4, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  So it's an Action RPG. With Marvel Characters and story lines.
  SCORE. Mostly.
  You see, what we have here is quite a fantastic game, really.
  
  But the motion controls take 
 some getting used too and I can't help but think the game would be better enjoyed without - and 
 had a 360 version been available here, I'd have done so - but I take what I'm given and this is 
 what I've got. It's not really game-breaking. It just takes quite a lot of getting used too.
  
  Graphics are alright, mostly. There are a few eyesores around, but nothing too major and the 
 voice acting is what you'd expect from a game based on comics. Theres some pretty good VA in there, 
 but some is cheesy as you'd expect - which isn't a bad thing for a game such as this, really.
 
  
  It's a good game on your own, theres the odd path-handling issue with the AI but it's generally 
 serviceable and they'll back you up adequately.
  Of course the game shines in multiplayer, so if you can find another - preferably 3 people, this 
 game'll be heaven for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafreak4life
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  In this game you can play as several different charecters that are from marvel games. If you want 
 to be Captain America and throw his mighty shield of justice, GO AND DO IT. If you want to be spiderman 
 and shoot his webbs of fury, GO AND DO IT. If you want to be the Incredibla Hulk and smash buildings 
 and cars, YOU CANT DO IT, why? BEACUSE HE ISNT IN THE GAME. Ok its pretty cool that there are so 
 many charecters in the game but no hulk? Well the hulk kinda is in the game because his human form, 
 Bruce Banner, makes an apperance in the game but whatever. On to the real review.......
  
  Gameplay 8/10 This game could have had better gameplay. Its a little misleading also because on 
 the commercial, you see the guy holding the wii remotes like spiderman shoots webs out of his wrists. 
 The truth is that when playing as spiderman, the way you shoot webs is to press A+B. Same thing 
 with Captain America's shield and commercials, but no hulk. ( just a little joke ) Well using the 
 remote is kinda difficult because swinging the remote in the desired direction when in combat is 
 sorta confusing. Luckily there is another alternative! You can press the A button! Gameplay is 
 pretty self expalnitory.
  
  Graphics6/10
  
  This game really doesent have the best graphics. END OF STORY! It has low grade, last gen, gamecube 
 graphics that are dissapointing.
  
  Sound 8/10 This game has music that is similar to that of all of the Superhero games from the past. 
 Thats pretty much it. Its not bad but its just repetative
  
  Value 9/10 Its just a fun, rpg type game that has good coop and is nice seeing the heroes interact 
 togeter.
  
  Yes i know that was a short review but my others are longer........ check out my profile....... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opiumbrl
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  I unfortunately was given this game as a gift for x-mas. I've played it on the PS3 and it's pretty 
 cool in 1080p. Not all that and a bag of Twilight Princess, but it's kinda fun with a buddy playing 
 too. It loses a lot by being on the wii. The wii is not strong enough for some of the big moving 
 scenes when you're battling 9 guys at once, which is rare. And the graphics are horrid on the wii. 
 The feature that you can hold the trigger and do moves by moving hte controller is sorta fun, but 
 it's not nearly fast enough for most areas and trying to remember 8 moves from every character 
 which have four of the them tied to how you move your hand is a little taxing. Not to mention the 
 'move screen' feature on the wii. If you dont hold your hand straight up and down, when you tilt 
 the nunchuk the screen spins and sends you into a world of angry and frustrated no man should go. 
 This may be the worst feature of the whole game. I simply do not hold the nunchuk straight when 
 I play games. It should have had a 'start position' sensor or set up to have this feature in the 
 game. I've also discovered that when you play through it again with your current save, I've played 
 it through on hard and they stop giving you unique items from the bosses that you battle. If you 
 didnt keep them from your first play through, you're not getting the unique items again. If you're 
 looking for a top down beat'em up game, buy Diablo II. If it's gotta be on a console, buy Balder's 
 Gate. If' you're some huge comic book fan and need more Marvel, buy and Xbox 360 or a PS3 with 
 a high resolution television for a fun 20 hours of your life blown. I wouldn't recommend this game 
 to any one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capcom49
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  I have played this game on PS2, X-box 360, and on WII. And I must say WII was more fun. Well I 
 guess so if you use the controller to atack! The sound was alright and the music half half... The 
 game play is high, I still have fun with it. A great amount of characters and fighting styles. 
 But to me if Ironman is in it I like it already! The storys not that bad and the graphics could 
 of been done sharper. It has a high replay value with all its hidden characterts or extras. A good 
 release on the WII and recommended buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseball_hottie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2006 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Okay, let's face it. Marvel UA for the Wii does feel a little like it was just quickly ported over 
 to the Wii. But it is still a great, solid game that takes much less time to learn to control than 
 other Wii games (that's not an insult, just a fact) . If you want to learn how to use a Wii before 
 tackling Red Steel or other games that can make you want to rip you hair out, play this. The characters 
 are great, the superpowers are great, and the cutscenes are outstanding. The Wii may not have the 
 best resolution/graphics, but all of the games make the best out of what they have to work with, 
 unlike the PS3 (check out 360 vs PS3 on graphics on the home page) . This game is fairly easy on 
 beginning mode and can be quite difficult on hard mode, so it can be played by experienced players 
 or newcomers. The storyline is easy to follow and the voiceovers sound so realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javrixx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  I bought this game with my Wii on release, and I'm very glad I did.
  
  Fans of superheroes and comics will love it. Even those who aren't in superheroes will love it. 
 The controls are great. I hear people complaining in the forums how they don't want to move their 
 arms all around to play a game. I sit back in my bed and play this. People don't understand that 
 you just need small natural movements from the Wii remote to make this and other games (excluding 
 Wii Sports) work.
  
  Graphics are okay, not great, but who cares? You know they'll be good enough.
  
  Sound is good, 
 I like the soundtrack.
  
  The story and dialog is great. It's like you're living in the comic. The bad guys are sometimes 
 cheesy, but in a good way. You can picture them saying those lines right on the comics, so it makes 
 the game fun and enjoyable.
  
  Replay value is pretty good for multiplayer. There are so many levels and characters that you can 
 play the game at least 3 times through and still be entertained. Especially if you have different 
 people joining you. The good thing abou this game is that anyone can just come in and play at anytime 
 too. I play mostly single player but on occasion my cousin will stop by and want to play.
  
  Overall this game is great. You won't be dissapointed. Having superpowers is fun and entertaining. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matrixhasyou2k4
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  Yes, it may be true that the graphics for Marvel look like a step backwards in the console wars, 
 however though! The gameplay presented through Marvel are far from outdated. It at first may seem 
 frustrating to have to move your hands around in your living room like some over caffinated air 
 traffic controller, but once you get the hang of it, it rocks! You will begin playing the game 
 and think, man what the heck am I doing, but stick with it and let the story mode take you in. 
 One of the cooler features of the game are the upgrades, if swinging your hands like spiderman 
 don't draw you in, than the ability to up your character's abilities, and add some pretty sweet 
 attacks to your characters entourage most certainly will. It is pretty addicting as well to have 
 such a wide variety of character selection each and every one with special moves that others do 
 not have. That makes the gameplay different coming through and playing the game again. So overall, 
 forget the graphics it has to offer, and focus on the fun you will having swinging a bad guy around 
 in a spider web, incinerating enemies with Human Torche's flamethrower, or pounding an evil hero 
 into the ground with Thor's hammer, and the game will be fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bottomdollar
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  I looked forward to this game when I first heard about it and I wait til the Wii launch version 
 of this game to add to my library from the get go. Do I think I made a mistake? No but some improvements 
 could have been made. With that said, the game is pretty good, it runs great and sound good as 
 well, sometimes your just swinging away with the trusty Wii-Mote praying you make contact. The 
 controls can feel a little cluncky when trying to do super moves but in all, please add this game 
 to your Wii collection if you haven't played the game at all. Activision, Raven, Vicarious Visions 
 did a good job with a good concept in the game so its worth playing, just be patient with it, I 
 would say it has a bit of a learning curve to it but once you get use to it, you should have some 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy1978
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 30, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  I really have to say that this is the 1 out of 2 games in the Wii library that really made me frustrated 
 about the controller. At times its responsive other times feel sluggish and using their super powers 
 shouldn't really be too much work. If you can't play a game, no matter how good it looks it will 
 just be that. A nice cover art, but no depth. Thats how I see Marvel UA for Wii. If you played 
 the 360 or PS3 version then your real safe. THAT is how the game should have ran. I played this 
 on my kid brothers Wii and I felt frustrating at times I couldnt pull off the team combo I wanted 
 to.
  
  Other than that, its pretty much similar. Im dont mind that it doesnt have online capabilities. 
 I just wish that they made more efficient use of the Wii controller. At least this isn't another 
 Red Steel -_- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djane25
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Guys, I think you got the wrong idea in playing this game... The cinematic, sure is two thumbs up!... But 
 not Marvel: Ultimate Alliance (PC Version) has good cinematics...
  The characters were all cool... But the main reason why it give me the bad impression?... The controls... Yeah, 
 it is... Have you been in the boss stage in the Atlantis stage?... Have you met the Evil giant fish, 
 who is invincible of physical attacks by the characters?... Well, try to check it, for I can't beat 
 it!!!
  I don't blame the monster though, but the way Activision made the control to turn him down... You 
 should be able to get inside an opened hole of a pillar he made... Then, there's a series of controls 
 you have to follow in order to defeat the monster and made this pillar fall off to his head...
 
  The series of controls were the stupid part... You won't be able to see what will you press, since 
 it varies its location and the color of the controls is hard to distinguished because of its moving 
 background and it has the same color with the background... Who could ever catch up those series 
 of controls?...
  It would be easier if the controls go with the same series, but it wasn't... You have to look carefully 
 until you become blind!!!... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tharealdeal20xx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Greetings all gamers: This game is a fun game. Unbalanced but very fun. the wii controller is almost 
 perfect when you use it to attack and such. If you are looking for flashy moves and powers this 
 game will not let you down. Graffically the game is nice looking but it could have been a little 
 sharper. The super moves will let youover look that though. (Check out deadpools ultimate attack)
 
  
  Control is a breeze and the implementation of tilting and or turning the nunchuk contoller to the 
 left or right for the camera is impressive. Realism is important to me in a game and this game 
 lacks quite a bit of it. E. G silver surfer should not be able to be harmed by any human but it 
 happens. Despite of that though the game is solid. I recommend getting it. It does not have online 
 multiplayer so that is not cool either the PS 2 version does at least have that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Keltic-
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  If you every read a marvel comic or seen a movie by marvel, this game is a must have. This is action 
 packed game that looks like it came right out a comic book, it has a huge roster of Heroes and 
 Villian (mostly npc) but they still make an appearance. You start out playing as 1of 4 characters 
 (Captain America, Spider-Man, Thor, or Wolverine - can swap during gameplay) . Other characters 
 are available to you when you get to a save point and switch roster. Total playable roster is 24 
 I believe 20 to start and 4 characters to unlock. Each character has its own unique power to choose 
 from, 4 being the limit to use, you pick you choose.
  
  The graphics and sound are very impressive, with the common hero repeating there slogans. But I 
 don't think they had any marvel writers on this game cause the storyline is alittle short and weak 
 (not a biggie) . A big plus that I enjoyed was that the heroes where able to unable to unlock outfits 
 they wore in there history.
  
  I would recommand buying this game, story is alittle short but theres tons of stuff to unlock. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  First let me start off by saying that I like Marvel: Ultimate Alliance. This is most likely a game 
 that I would have bought on another Platform as well. You get to play as different heros, its fun. 
 I still have to learn a lot of the moves, but it looks as if my play is shaping up. Now, is it 
 good use of the WIi control system? or better yet, the question should be Is the game itself enhanced 
 by using the Wii control System? 
  I would have to say no. I think that some of these games are not designed solely with the Wii in 
 mind. Oh, they may have been redesinged to work with the Wii, but the controls do not enhance play. 
 I am starting to think that in order for a game to really be great on the Wii, it has to be built 
 from the ground up, with the Wii in mind.
  This is not one of those games. So would I by this game, Yes... but does is specifically have to 
 be for the Wii... nope! So far, as fgames that I can truly say are enhanced by the Wii control system, 
 I would say Wii Sports is Number ! (Note, I have not reviewed Zelda yet... its shipping as we speak 
 to me!) My advise.. Buy this game for the gaming system you own with the best graphics... if you 
 have a PS3 then get the game for the PS3 or Xbox 360... (I feel like a traitor because I love my 
 Wii System, but I got to tell it like I see it!)
  
  PS -I just read Gamespots review of this game... I think most of what they said is true, but it 
 still is a good game.... just would not be my first choice... Its worth $39.99... but not full price 
 of $49.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eagles931
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a very unique game. i know it`s just like X-men legends but it just has a better gameplay 
 value. i just cant stop talking about how you use the wiimote to play it. the controller is very 
 motion sensitve so that gives us gamers what we always wanted out of a game: total freedom! With 
 over 20+ characters this is a must buy if you just got a wii last week. (like I did) You will definetly 
 play this game a long while if you are a marvel or non marvel fan. The only sownside i really see 
 in this is the graphics. I mean its been a little more tweaked from the old gamecube but come on!! 
 Oh yeah and the sound could use some improvement. But overall this is a great game and for that 
 i `ll give it an 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Ewok178
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  You first pick up the control and you may think, I going to be a superhero. That's somewhat true 
 but the motion sensing isn't quite up to par. Your suppost to shack the control to do your main 
 attack, but it doesn't respond fast enough, for me anyway. But thank god you can also press the 
 a button to attack, i was so relieved. The other motions work a bit better like lift the control 
 up to do a stun attack. Another good thing is you can do you super with the wii remote as it shows 
 on screen or just hold the b button and press a, another thing that's good. The rest of the controls 
 were good like twisting the nunchuck to turn the camera.
  
  For me i thought the graph were amazing for a not so powerful next gen console, sound ok, gameplay 
 was quite fun and value, since it's an rpg it should be fun for quite some time since you can go 
 back to previous levels and fight.
  
  My first review ever, hope you liked it and hope it was informative. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
