-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Medal of Honor: Vanguard
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/medalofhonorvanguard/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gameplay is decent, if unremarkable.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 It's another WWII FPS.
 Sloppy hit detection makes shooting big guns unsatisfying.
 Parachuting adds nothing to the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 28, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.8, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 532 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Mar 26, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Medal of Honor: Vanguard is yet another run-of-the-mill WWII-based first-person shooter. 

  To say first-person shooters based on World War II are a dime a dozen might be putting it mildly. 
 There are still some great ones every now and then, such as Call of Duty 3 on the PlayStation 3 
 and Xbox 360, but even the best WWII games are getting dangerously close to having their top-notch 
 gameplay overshadowed by the "been there, done that" feeling you get from doing the same or similar 
 missions over and over again. There's no great gameplay to be found in Medal of Honor: Vanguard, 
 so there's nothing to hide those feelings of dj vu that you'll get when you play it. Nearly everything 
 in the game has been done before, and it has all been done better.  

          Step 1: Kill Nazi soldiers. Step 2: Do it again.     

  Vanguard places you in the role 
 of Frank Keegan, a paratrooper in the 82nd Airborne division. Each mission is set up with a bit 
 of black-and-white footage narrated by Keegan, followed by a brief cutscene once the mission starts. 
 It's the same basic story from previous games, and you're not likely to give it a second thought. 
 There are four campaigns, each of which is divided into two to four missions. You'll be fighting 
 in Italy, France, the Netherlands, and Germany, doing just what you'd expect to be doing in a WWII 
 FPS. You'll plant charges on enemy antiaircraft weapons, procure documents, rescue missing soldiers, 
 clear bunkers, use bazookas on tanks, and shoot a ton of Nazis. You'll get to do a little bit of 
 parachuting here and there, but there's nothing to it -- you have a tiny bit of control over where 
 you land, and it doesn't matter a whole lot where you end up. There's no online play to speak of. 
 This isn't a huge shock on the Wii, but considering that other Medal of Honor games for the PS2 
 have had online play, its omission is notable. You can play some split-screen multiplayer if you'd 
 like, but come on -- this is 2007, not 1997.  

  Even if you can look past the clichd mission objectives, there's plenty of other issues to bring 
 you down. Enemy artificial intelligence is atrocious. Nazi soldiers exhibit no advanced tactics, 
 unless you count ducking their heads back behind cover for a few seconds after bullets whiz past 
 as an advanced tactic. Even if they do seek some sort of cover, they'll just stick their heads 
 back out in a few seconds so you can shoot them. The soldiers you fight with are just as brain-dead, 
 and it's almost comical to watch your group fight the enemy -- everyone's in plain sight, but nobody's 
 hitting anything.  

  One of the biggest problems is horrible hit detection for bullets. It routinely takes two or three 
 shots to register a hit, if it registers at all. Most weapons have terrible range, so you've got 
 to get pretty close to your target to get a kill. Nazi soldiers don't seem to have this problem 
 and can easily hit you from any distance, through even the smallest openings. It makes it pretty 
 tough to find cover when you can't see who is shooting you, or even discern the enemy's general 
 location. You don't have a health bar, but your screen grows red as you get hit, so you've got 
 to take cover to regain health. Even this system, which has been used in countless other games, 
 doesn't work very well. You're frequently given very little warning that you're getting hit and 
 near death; sometimes just one or two seconds pass from the first shot to the last. All of these 
 problems are at their worst near the end, when the developer tried to make up for the game's brevity 
 (you can beat it in about six to eight hours) by making the last two missions ridiculously difficult. 
 The checkpoints are few and far between, and you're getting shot from all angles. It's extremely 
 frustrating and not much fun.  

  Like most of the other first-person shooters on the Wii, Vanguard has been saddled with lackluster 
 controls. The basic controls are fine, and being able to look around corners is a nice touch. Once 
 you get a hang of aiming and looking around with the Wii Remote, you'll find that it offers much 
 more precision than the PS2's analog sticks. But because many of your moves are mapped to the hard-to-reach 
 face buttons of the remote, you'll find yourself accidentally moving the remote and thereby altering 
 your aim when you try to change weapons or select a grenade. Don't even bother trying to move the 
 remote forward to melee -- you almost always mess up your aim and miss. You move around by using 
 the Nunchuk's analog stick, and this works well. The problems come with the more advanced controls. 
 The Nunchuk's buttons are used to change your stance from prone to crouching to standing, but you 
 can also do this by moving the Nunchuk up or down. It doesn't take much movement to make this happen, 
 and you'll often wind up crouching or standing up at very inopportune times. You can turn 180 degrees 
 by moving the Nunchuk quickly to the left, but if you move it to the right, you reload your weapon. 
 Needless to say, mixing these two up is an easy and often fatal mistake.  

          Thanks to some muddy graphics, it's often difficult to figure out who's shooting you.  
    

  Medal of Honor: Vanguard looks pretty much like every other WWII game out there, though it looks 
 a little better on the Wii compared to the PS2 version, thanks to widescreen and 480p support. 
 The frame rate isn't all that fast, but it's usually consistent, slowing down only when things 
 get really hectic. You'll fight in bombed-out villages, fields, and churches, as well as inside 
 war-torn homes. Most of these locations aren't very interesting, though there are some nice touches 
 here and there, like when you look up in the sky and see it filled with paratroopers. Very little 
 of the environments are destructible, and outside of some decent-looking smoke, the effects aren't 
 much to get excited about. There are lots of browns, grays, and greens, which makes it hard to 
 discern enemy soldiers from their surroundings unless they're firing their weapons. There are some 
 decent enemy death animations, but they often take place a full second or two late, which makes 
 them look quite silly. Probably the game's best aspect is its audio. You'll recognize the main 
 theme from previous Medal of Honor games, and the orchestral soundtrack kicks in when the action 
 gets intense. The game's sound effects are good, and while the voice acting isn't remarkable, it 
 is helpful. Your fellow soldiers will warn you to get down when you're getting shot and even point 
 out enemy locations from time to time.  

  With so many World War II games already on the market, just being average isn't enough anymore. 
 In many ways, Medal of Honor: Vanguard isn't even average; it does too many simple things poorly 
 and does nothing particularly well. There's really no reason to pick it up on the PlayStation 2, 
 and thanks to a higher price tag for the Wii version, there's very little reason to buy it for 
 the Wii, either.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (61 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sportsmen2008
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  At first I was really excited about this game and maybe I built it up too much before I played 
 it. I kept thinking a 10 (ok not really) and then kept saying, oh it does not do that -1, oh that 
 is not good -1. The score kept dropping. 
  
  Honestly I did enjoy the game, and even though it was quick, I would say this is a game you can 
 enjoy on a day with nothing to do. Its not perfect but I do not think it is as flawed as they say. 
 
  
  The Game play is fun, and delivers the feel of a classic first person shooter. The controls took 
 a little getting used too, but overall they worked fairly well. The game moved along fairly smoothly. 
 
  
  The graphics are ok. Many other Wii games but this one too shame but this game is not bad graphically. 
 The sounds are again just average. 
  
  The AI is fairly weak. You really get zero variety, and you always know what the soldiers will 
 be doing. It really makes the game too easy. 
  
  You get some errors in this game that can be annoying. When you shoot someone it seems like a decent 
 delay until he is dead. The AI was very weak. A lot of the game was just too predictable, and didn't 
 give us a real challenge. graphics and sound could have been much better. 
  
  The multiplayer really does give this game a boost if you can do it. I would most likely rate this 
 game a 6/10 without it but I am boosting it too 7/10 because this a great feature and really gives 
 the game an added bonus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gsmith92
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  As most of you may have noticed the Medal of Honor franchise is slowly and painfully dying out 
 thanks to the many new rising fps franchises (specifically Call of Duty) . I used to be a big fan 
 of Medal of Honor games. I loved Frontline and had fun playing European Assualt despite the bad 
 reviews it was given. Vanguard was a sad attempt to add to the Medal of Honor series. First off, 
 the use of the wii remote in this game is horrible. I found myself spinning in circles and aiming 
 mostly at the ground and sky. I have also played Call of Duty 3 on wii and didn't notice this problem 
 at all. The single and multiplayer levels were boring and uninspired and felt like they were all 
 taken from old MoH games and tweaked. Also the graphics are terrible for a wii game, they look 
 similar to a MoH game for the game cube. Overall the game is a complete failure. While other fps 
 are advancing MoH seems to be trying to do the same thing it did 2 or 3 years ago. Vanguard was 
 really a half-hearted effort. The only reason to get this game would be if you love fps and only 
 have the wii. There are many other fps out there that are much better than vanguard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  June 1944. You land on the beach and before you can even aim your weapon, the bullets are whizzing 
 past your ears. Then, with the shells pelting down on the sand, you have to meet up with your general 
 before playing your part in the battle that was to change the course of the Second World War.
 
  
  That was Medal Of Honor: Allied Assault, the game that was to change the course of EA's war series 
 forever. Then came Medal Of Honor: Rising Sun, and although the Pearl Harbour opening level made 
 a valiant effort to match the intensity of the D-Day landings, the subsequent jungle missions were 
 very poor. So, shellshocked by that experience, EA went back to basics with Medal Of Honor: European 
 Assault. Sadly, for its Wii debut, Medal Of Honor is playing it safe again.
  
  Wii controls aside, Vanguard doesn't really offer anything new or exciting and it certainly can't 
 match Call Of Duty 3 for intensity. Even the opening level - usually Medal Of Honor's forte - is 
 a bit timid as you and your fellow 82nd Airborne Division troops parachute into Sicily at night. 
 Pushing forward the Remote and Nunchuk you can choose where to land but that's as exciting as the 
 parachuting gets. Upon landing, some soldiers will attempt to shoot you but if you were expecting 
 the usual barrage of enemy gunfire you'll be disappointed. 
  
  Then you work your way through buildings with your team, shooting enemies and picking up weapons 
 beforetaking charge of the boat house. It's all very linear but that wouldn't be a concern if, 
 as in Call Of Duty 3, you felt like you were fighting in a real war. In a real war we'd imagine 
 that you'd get killed if you ran out of ammo, but if you're careless with your bullets here you 
 can just amble back through the level and look for stray weapons you might have missed. 
  
  As you turn your back on the battle your team will stay on the frontline. Yet when you return, 
 nothing has changed - the enemy are still there and although your men haven't shot anybody, no 
 one on your team will have been killed.
  
  Your team will often get in your way, obscuring your vision when you're trying to shoot through 
 a doorway. Then there's this ridiculous moment where you have to defend the safe house by shooting 
 the Italians from the windows. So you take your position at an open window only to be barged out 
 of the way by one of your men who's been scripted to go there. You might as well go solo. 
  
  The only time you'll actually feel like you're on the frontline of a real war is in the final 
 mission, Operation Varsity. Suddenly, upon making your landing in Germany, the action steps up 
 and it's hard work as you get stuck in some intense shoot-outs in tunnels and factories. With the 
 bullets flying and explosions going off it offers everything a war game should but it's all too 
 late and it leaves you wondering why this level of action wasn't on offer in the rest of the game.
 
  
  Operation Varsity is the only place where Medal Of Honor: Vanguard excels, but that's not to say 
 that it's the worst war game ever. The Wii controls are good, the old weapons still feel nicely 
 cumbersome and it's always satisfying blasting a World War II tank with a bazooka or getting a 
 one-hit kill with a shotgun to the head. 
  
  On The Frontline
  Also, unlike Call Of Duty 3, there's a multiplayer mode with split-screen deathmatches and three 
 different takes on the standard Capture The Flag idea. Then there are the medals and the resulting 
 bonuses to earn by completing missions without getting killed or using all the weapons in a battle 
 (and so on) .
  
  It's hard to hate World War II shooters, as no matter how average the production it's always enjoyable 
 fighting in famous battles we've seen so many times in the movies. But while Medal Of Honor: Vanguard 
 is an okay wartime blast, it's an all-too familiar fight. With more new ideas, better visuals and 
 more intense action it would have a chance, but at the moment Call Of Duty 3 
  is still the war hero.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bren451
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Most people will say that this game is horrible, but it is actually an alright game. In Medal Of 
 Honor Vanguard, you are a paratrooper of the 82nd Airborne named Frank Keegan. You will play through 
 battles ranging from Operation Husky in Sicily and finally Germany itself. You can use your Wii 
 remote and nunchuk to maneuver while you are parachuting. Although this is nothing compared to 
 Airborne, it still proves to be fun and innovative. This game has amazing sound (as do all Medal 
 Of Honor games) , decent controls, moderate gameplay, and a pretty nice selection of weapons. Although 
 it has some positives, it also come with its negatives. The game is too similar to the PS2 version. 
 For example, it has the same graphics and the same levels. Another downside is that to make up 
 for the game's shortness, I think the developers made the last two levels extremely hard. All these 
 positives and negatives give the game a good score of 7/10. This game is definitely underrated 
 and underappreciated. Even if you believe the reviews, this game is still worth a rent if you have 
 the Wii or PS2 console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Great_Ow
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Ok i am gonna keep it short. This is umm... a so-so game. Pity the first two campaigns are a bit too 
 easy and it is short and not that challenging. Less weapons than expected. Multiplayer needs to be 
 better. Graphics are so-so also. Remember when you play change the sensitivity to your liking so 
 as to ensure smoother playing. Practice till you can play properly, people cannot play properly because 
 they dun know how to adjust it to their liking and get wallop by enemies before 10 minutes gone 
 by as they struggle to control their wii remote! I adjust mine to low sensitivity as i find it easier 
 to control. Still a big fan of medal of honor!
  
  Not the best game of MOH but still A-Okay. The parachuting was superb! Could not possibly get anymore 
 better than doing it as if you really are parachuting... weeeee!!!!
  
  Overall, it is a game that you play to relax as it is not at all challenging or tough. Have fun, don't 
 stop yourself with all the bad remarks. Who cares... i always say, just have fun, that whats games 
 are for, not to hog on them and say they suck to the core or the rock like super. By the way, if you 
 dun feel like buying this game, never mine, go find other games like... watever. Go ahead, knock yourself 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevewins1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Vanguard is part of the whole Medal of Honor series. As you might be able to guess 
 from the name, it's a shooter where you are in a war. In this particular version, you are fighting 
 in World War II against the Germans. You are on one major mission to win the war and it is broken 
 up into several missions. There aren't that many missions but they are all pretty long. There are 
 4 campaigns and each campaign has between 2-4 missions. At the start of every campaign, there is 
 a short, historic video clip that is non-fictional. This clip is a bit like an intro into the beginning 
 of the missions. There are also very short animated clips at the start of each mission.
  Storyline: 7
  
  The graphics are somewhat detailed but aren't great. They're not necessarily 
 what you'd expect for a Wii game. There is lots of detail in some places but very little in others. 
 For example, in most areas, there was lots of detail and you could see different textures. However, 
 on characters, there would be very low detail and faces would have hardly any features. One major 
 problem that I found with the game is that there are many dark screens. If you have a television 
 that doesn't get to bright, this game might be hard for you to play. When I play it, I have to 
 have the brightness set to full or else I wouldn't be able to see it. Other than that, the graphics 
 are good.
  Graphics: 7
  
  The sound effects are pretty good and make sense for the game. When you fire your gun, you hear 
 the shot and it's pretty realistic. When tanks shoot, you'll hear explosions and if bullets fly 
 past you, you'll hear them whiz. Sometimes, the soldiers call things out - both the Germans and 
 you. When the Germans talk, it's in German so that makes sense and is realistic. Sometimes, what 
 they say can get really repetitive and annoying but not often. Where you stand can also affect 
 what they say. For example, if you stand out in the opening, they'll tell you to get out of there 
 or to get down. The sound effects really make it more realistic.
  Sound: 9
  
  The controls are almost perfect except for some problems with the nunchuk. To aim, you point at 
 the screen with the Wii remote and the aiming is flawless except for one point. While you're playing, 
 if anybody walks in between you and the screen, it will screw up your aiming and you'll have to 
 take a few seconds to get your controls back to normal. To fire, you push the B button which makes 
 it seem more like a real gun. As I stated earlier, there are some problems with the nunchuk. To 
 reload, you must move the nunchuk to the right. However, most of the time when I do this, it spins 
 my character around. This is because the controls to do that are to shake the nunchuk from the 
 left to the right. This can be a bit inconvenient but it isn't required that you reload. When you 
 run out of bullets, it will automatically reload.
  Controls: 8
  
  A nice feature about this game is that there is multiplayer. You can grab up to two of your friends 
 and fight to the end. There are four different modes to choose from. You can pick the old-fashioned 
 death match, capture the flag, king of the hill, and scavenger hunt. Scavenger hunt and capture 
 the flag are almost exactly the same. You must find something, such as a flag, and bring it back 
 to base. In king of the hill, you must look around your chosen area for a flag sticking out of 
 the ground. When you stand next to it, you'll get points.
  In multiplayer, you can choose how to end a game. You can set a maximum score and a maximum time. 
 The first person to reach the score wins. If you have a maximum time, the person who has the most 
 points by the time that the timer reaches zero wins. If you have more than two people playing, 
 you can play with teams. I think that multiplayer is a nice part of this game and is fun to play 
 with friends and siblings.
  Multiplayer: 9
  
  This game is quite short and I completed most missions without to much difficulty. On the last 
 one, I had a lot of trouble and found it really hard to beat. When I had beaten all of them, I 
 found myself wanting to keep replaying the missions. If you're one of the people who thinks that 
 everything must be done in order for the game to be "beaten," then you can replay all of the missions 
 with a goal. For each mission, medals are available. These medals can be gotten many different 
 ways. For example, you might get a medal for completing a mission without dying, or for getting 
 30 head shots in a mission. Sometimes, these medals can be quite hard to get so this game should 
 last you long enough.
  Playtime/Replayability: 9
  
  Overall, I'd say that this is a good game worth getting especially if you like historic first person 
 shooters. I got it new from a store for 25 Canadian Dollars.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbetybob
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok so first off, don't buy this game, rent it, it's not bad but it's too short and there are much 
 better FPS for Wii our now (as in MP3, Medal of Honor Heroes 2, and soon Call of Duty 5, Quantum 
 of Solace and the Conduit) .
  
  Ok first up;
  
  THE GOOD = )
  
  -Controls aren't as bad as some early FPS, like Red Steel and COD3, you can customise them a fair 
 bit and they work well enough, just don't even bother trying to use the nunchuk movements, VERY 
 unresponsive, you'll spend half the time doing a 180 turn when you want to reload or jump that 
 seems to be the only move they mapped to the nunchuk well. Wanna know how bad it is? You all know 
 how unresponsive the nunchuk is, well they mapped about 6 different things to it...
  
  -Shooting stuff is pretty satisfying. Getting headshots is amusing.
  
  -Hilarious dialogue. 
 Ok so you might not see it as good but I do, trust me after the 4th cry of "It's an MG42!!" in 
 under 10 minutes you'll be laughing.
  
  -Decent use of cover. The leaning and peering from behind cover works well, and you will have to 
 use it, so it feels fairly technical rather than just running and gunning.
  
  THE BAD = (
  
  -Aiming. Ok so the controls are pretty decent, but it all feels too twitchy, 
 especially considering it's asking you to pick off distant enemies. Even in the ADS mode it's quite 
 unnacurate. Once you pick it up though it's quite satisfying.
  
  -Charges and samey objectives. Apparently you are Coporal Chargewhore. The only man in the American 
 army who has charges. And you have A LOT of charges. And 50% of the time your objective is to blow 
 things up with said charges. Sadly the other 50% are "Kill all the enemies!!! But watch out they 
 all got MG42'S!!!!"
  
  -Short. It's shorter than a midget with no legs. Yeah it's about 6 hours long maybe a bit longer. 
 It adds some replay with the medal system where you can replay missions do certain things like 
 use all weapons, get a certain amount of headshots in the missions etc. It's a decent system but 
 hardly likely to draw you back.
  
  So overall not the worst game but not one I can recommend, especially not over Heroes 2 with superior 
 controls and online mode. Definitely a rental only unless you find it for a really cheap price 
 and you simply must have a WW2 FPS on Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedre123
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 17, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Half the time in this game i couldn't see anything the other half my guy was spinning around like 
 a maniac while i tried to make him stop. and in the rare time that that was not happening i was 
 trying to stand up from my freaking crouch!!!! the one good thing about this game is how hilarious 
 it is when you make the guy sprint and he flies at like 6000 miles an hour. the story line is the 
 exact same as the others the graphics are mediocre as i have already delved deep into the gameplay 
 is freaking miserable and the value i mean it was like 50 dollars for this peice of crap game and 
 i was really dissapointed then of course new medal of honors come out and i hate my self for buying 
 the retarded ass game i was too bored and fed up with the crappy controls to go any further than 
 the first few levels 
  
  
  GET THE OTHER ONES, NOT THIS NOT THIS ONE!!! FOR YOUR OWN SAKE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VelociBlade
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 30, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  We all love the MoH series, thats a fact, but it's starting to lose it's appeal starting with this 
 game. The enemies are always the same, the parachute can be difficult to control, and there is'nt 
 that much new int the game. On the bright side however, this could be the most accurate historical 
 fiction game in the series. Nothing fancy, just go in on some operations, do your job, and get 
 out. However, thats also the reason this game is a 7.0, because we LIKE games where we play a major 
 part in battles, we LIKE being the hero. This game will be fun for realists, but there should be 
 more to it. I suggest a training camp to practice in, and easier Wiimote function would be good 
 too. But still.... everyones been to almost every battle in WWII now, the idea of being in it is 
 getting old and tired. When series' get worn out, there is only one reasonable suggestion for them: 
 Let them die. However, they could go out with a boom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polo136
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  I got this game for $40 AU, this is a very good price, but, I have to say, the game is only twenty 
 dollars short of what the price should be.
  It's not bad, it is enjoyable, but compared to other FPS games I've played e. g. Call of Duty 3, 
 it's not very good.
  I found the game was too dark, especially the first 2 levels. It's rated MA15+, but this must be 
 only because you are killing humans because it isn't incredibly violent, I mean, there's no blood!
 
  The only thing here that I found really good, is that you can bop up and down when your aiming 
 down the barrell, but you can't move around.
  The weapons are your average world war guns, nothing unique or special here.
  
  Now I will 
 be a bit more optimistic.
  This game can be quite satisfying, it still offers the same run throughout big levels blasting 
 nazi faces off that we've come to know and love.
  This was the first World War FPS game that I bought, and I have to say, I think I would have preffered 
 to borrow this game 3 times and buy Call of Duty 3 instead of vice versa which is what happened.
 
  This review is much like the game; short. I don't like short games, they don't fully satisfy me, 
 I come out thinking; is that all?
  
  Fun is to be had with Medal of Honor Vanguard, just not much of it. I'd say, rent it, but beware, 
 if you do rent it, you'll probably finish it before it's due back.
  
  Adios Ameegos.
  Polo136 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario2BM5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor is back for yet another WWII shooter. The Story has been the same as Call of Duty 
 in 2000 and nothing has changed in the story eversince so I dont need the story introduction. Everything 
 is here from killing Nazi's to the usually locations such as france. The inventive controls set 
 this FPS apart from the rest. You point the Wii remote at the screen to aim press and hold A to 
 line up your shot and press B to shoot. Thats really about it and I would only recommend this gaem 
 to HARDCORE WWII fans! Or just a Medal of Honor fan in need of a inventive first person shooter 
 for their Wii. I would sure like it if EA added multiplaer like they did with Medal of Honor Heroes 
 I mean they did it for the PSP and the Nintendo Wii is sure hell's capable of internet connection. 
 If there was at least split screen multiplayer this game wouldve gotten a higher score. Anyways 
 I gave this game a 6.5/10 and this game deerves some of your attention.... as a rent though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I popped in the disc with baited breath not quite sure what to expect, apart from novel aiming 
 schemes and Gamecube (ish) graphics. As a volley of music announced the game's Wii- channel and 
 automatically upgraded my Wii (parental settings I hadn't yet applied perhaps?) I was pretty impressed 
 and ready to get into the game proper.
  
  Jumping into the game, I was first struck by similarities with other first person shooters (FPS) . 
 From Halo for instance I recognised the proper orchestral score, the professional voice-work of 
 fellow soldiers and the ability to recharge health by finding cover. Other FPS franchises such 
 as Gears of War had also been brought to bear in Vanguard's cover system. A confident provision 
 of 'stop and pop' game play, controlled via the analogy stick on the nun-chuck.
  
  These aspects of the game were well executed and meant that I was happy to suspend my suspicion 
 of other less impressive parts of the game, until I'd played through a few levels. The first of 
 which introduced, what I understand to be a staple element from the upcoming Medal of Honor Airborne, 
 parachuting into the mission arena. Again this was nicely executed with nun-chuck used to pull 
 one cord and the Wii-mote to pull the other, you had a good degree of control of where you landed, 
 although not to the extent promised by Airborne. 
  
  Before we cast a more critical eye over proceedings, let me cut to the chase. The key issue for 
 any Wii FPS release is: do the controls work? The answer for Vanguard is mainly yes, but not without 
 its faults. I was impressed by the feel of the main moving and aiming dynamic. The Wii-mote targeting 
 provides excellent sniping control, although it is more clunky for close encounters. The most compelling 
 argument here is that after 15 minutes or so the controls become second nature so that you become 
 less aware of anything unusual and can just enjoy the game.
  
  That said, there is still work to be done here. The mapping of actions such as running and melee 
 to buttons at either end of the Wii-mote left me fumbling up and down trying to find the right 
 one. The use of nun-chuck gestures also proved too sensitive and often introduced an unwanted crouch 
 or jump when things got hectic. Luckily, the majority of these features were superfluous and could 
 be ignored leaving a largely functional and satisfying sense of control.
  
  My main gripe with Vanguard was the lack of any meaningful sense of human-like artificial intelligence 
 (AI) . Both allies and enemy troops are either obviously on rails, or simply repeating the same 
 action over and over. This may be why there is also a lack of any computer players in the multiplayer 
 modes. I would have been happy to forgive this limitation if there had been a co-op mode for the 
 campaigns, but without either this turns into a solitary pursuit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miles13
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 12:08 am PT
Review:  What can I say about Medal of Honor: Vanguard... Well here it goes: Pretty terrible controls overall, 
 really needs to be reworked, very jerky. The game is very difficult to move, once you gain control/aim 
 it is lost fairly quickly. This is what really turned me off to the game. I had visions of actually 
 feeling like I was aiming a gun, as you feel like swinging a bat or bowling in the Wii Sports games. 
 Just visions though, nothing in this game came close to feeling like anything, besides possibly 
 what it looks like when you sit in a paint shaker for too long. Now don't get me wrong, the graphics 
 and sounds are pretty good. Overall though, a very disappointing game... I was very excited to play 
 an FPS on the Wii, this one did not live up to any of my expectations.
  
  OVERALL: 5/10
  GAMEPLAY: 3/10
  CONTROLS: 1/10
  GRAPHICS: 7.5/10
  SOUND: 8/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: follis12
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  I happen to be a big fan of the MoH series, probably because I'm used to the control arrangements. 
 With the Wii, you'll have a slight learning curve on the controls, but they work great once you 
 understand that you must continually point the Wii-mote at the screen. There is also an option 
 to freeze the gun position if you like, but I think the default is better and more fun - you'll 
 get used to it and like it.
  
  A lot has been said about the sloppy hit detection, and frankly, I haven't really noticed. Granted 
 it isn't perfect - but pretty good.
  
  One just criticism is the way your squad members seem to always occupy the best firing positions. 
 This is a little annoying, but in a way it adds to the challenge.
  
  My big knock on the game is the last two missions. They're extremely difficult and long - something 
 like 25 separate objectives with check points way too far apart. It is especially bad on the last 
 mission. This is clearly a design flaw that could have been solved by breaking up the missions 
 a bit more. This takes the fun away and adds frustration - uncool.
  
  The multiplayer is solid.
  
  Bottom line - good, engaging game, but give yourself time to get 
 used to the controls and set aside a good block of time for the last two missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukiat
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok the medal of honor for me are a great game, in the pc, in the ps2, but when i now about the 
 gqame in wii i say "wow, that's te perfect combiunation" but the perfect copnsole for this class 
 of games, it's not the wii, for a few of reasons: in some moments, the camera gets off of the tv 
 and you are desesperated to get back to his side!, no especific (and confuse) wii cointrol.
  
  Gameplay: it's intreasting the gameplay of this game, throw the granades, shoot, aim, change 
 weapon, but in somer moments the confusion enter and the put your head freak, and some curiosity 
 of the game is the thing of not die.. a grenade explouds on your hand and you dont die, well, dissapointing.
 
  
  The graphics let a question to answer, it's not the best point of this, in some placesyou can aim 
 behind the things, and that, its not cool.
  
  Sound: its very cool counting the sreams, the shoots, and ebverythin else, this is solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King-Yoshi
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Vanguard is a good Wii war shooter and definitely better than Call of Duty 3 in 
 my opinion thanks to its lasting appeal.
  
  Graphics: While not nearly as good as the graphics in Heroes 2, the graphics are decent and easily 
 better than the graphics of Call of Duty 3. From afar buildings, structures, and enemies look good, 
 but when up close they look pretty blurry and quite frankly bad.
  
  Controls: Very good, though not as good as Vanguard's graphics. The aiming was very responsive 
 and accurate and I loved the feature to recenter the screen if you go off the screen. Grenade throwing 
 is simple and makes it easy to hit the mark. Switching guns, crouching, and using turrets is easy 
 as well.
  
  Story: I enjoyed the game's single player and the missions were fun, but it was a cakewalk and 
 the game was over very quickly (finished in about 3 1/2 hours) . The first few missions didn't take 
 more than 15 minutes apiece, while the final two took about an hour each and were far more challenging 
 thanks to checkpoints being very far spread out.
  
  Lasting Appeal: The game's story is very short, but the splitscreen multiplayer is really good 
 and definitely the best for a Wii shooter to date. The courses were on the small side, but there 
 were some good hiding spots and just flat out are fun. Most of my time playing this game has been 
 during this multiplayer and there are I think about 6 courses, each different. If you enjoy shooting 
 multiplayer games with great gameplay pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  Vanguard looks better on Wii than on PS2 (thank god) so anyone thinking in a direct port with enhanced 
 wii remote controls forget it. The game looks ok on Wii but Wii can do much better than vanguard 
 shows us, its graphics are cool, some good textures, typical ambient for a WWII game (you know... 
 some ruined towns, not a lot of light, destroyed buildings...) , character models are cool but there 
 is nothing that really calls your attention while playing it (unfortunetly) .
  7
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Many people said that it was impossible to make a good FPS for the Wii because 
 the controls were not good to do it, this is completly false and in vanguard you can see that. 
 The controls are not very accurate but the basic functions work pretty well and the game its in 
 the right way, just needs some here and there corrections. At the beggining you will feel a bit 
 annoyed cause the controls are kinda hard to get into but soon as you get it, its satisfying and 
 fun, there are unfortunatly somethings about gameplay that have to be reviewed, for exp. to reload 
 you have to move nunchuck to the right, this can be frustrating as hell because to turn around 
 you move nunchuck left and its pretty easy and pretty usual that you mess with the two functions 
 a lot, the most of the times you'll turn around and sometimes with some luck you'll be able to 
 reload, its damn frustrating, but the rest of the gameplay feels ok and the next medal of honor 
 will almost certainly do this better.
  8
  
  Sound:
  
  It all feels too familiar... we all have already listen to this in previous installements of this 
 franchise or other WWII franchise, nothing new in here and the soundtracks really don't get your 
 attention. However the sound effects are good they are familiar but they are good and voice acting 
 its pretty cool as well
  7
  
  Value:
  
  Way to short... you finish the game to quickly and there is not much to bring you back in action, 
 only the cool and fun gameplay will probably make you play the game somemore or its multiplayer 
 but the single player really feels to short, maybe it will take you some more time because the 
 2 last missions are difficult as hell, there are not many checkpoints and enemies everywhere, its 
 sometimes frustrating and also feels intense.
  6
  
  Overall:
  
  Its another WWII shooter with cool controls only possible on the Wii, I was gonna give the game 
 a square 7, but because I think the next medal of honor will be pretty good because vanguard its 
 in a good way in my opinion and with some hard work it could have been a great game, but because 
 money its more important than people nowadays we get a nice fun game instead a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amvis
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible. Many shots do not even register as hits. Their are hardly any guns to choose 
 from. On top of that the controls are not the best of the best. In other words, this game is a 
 total letdown. The worst Medal of Honor game ever so far. The only thing I find appealing is the 
 several ways that they made it able for you to use the Wiimote. Such as using the parachute, but 
 instances like these are far few. I had fun with it no doubt, but just sad. I expected more. Buy 
 something else that is worth while before you buy this game. If they had spent more time on this 
 game then it would be a 8 or 9, but this game was obviously rushed. Please do not support poor 
 games or else more poor games will come. It had some innovative ideas, but those were foiled by 
 the poor quality of the game. Gamespot hit it right on the mark here.
  
  Go with God.
  
  Amvis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolracZeravla
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  First off, it's good to say that the lenght of this game isn't that decent, as the regular play 
 time is near 5 hours (at my own criteria) .
  
  Next, the controls usually manage to annoy the player, especially for the kind of people that are 
 new to this genre, or that have never played a shooter at all.
  
  One more thing, the shooting calibration is excessively bad, meaning that trying to shoot an enemy 
 from near 10 foot will result on failure, unless you have a machine gun with near 25 bullets, you 
 will not hit anything.
  
  But not everything is ruined on this title, the Medal of Honor essence can still be felt, the scenarios 
 are designed as good as possible and the war ambience is highly enjoyable.
  
  Meaning, as a matter of a fact, that this game lacks of gameplay efficience, very badly, as the 
 game itself looks very good, but the player doesn't feel the same joy as the guys next to him. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asm607
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 26, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Although this game did not get very good reviews, I enjoyed playing it. It is basically the same 
 as all of the other WWII games I have played, it was still decent enough for me to say it I liked 
 it. The best thing about this game is the controls. I personally love the wii first person shooter 
 controls. They make shooters a lot smoother and easier to control. This game utilizes these controls 
 very well. This game was basically the same as call of duty three, but without the lame charge-setting 
 and melee-fighting sequences that were just frustrating. Also, the fact that this game actually 
 has multiplayer puts it a step ahead of COD3. I would say that this game is better than most people 
 say it is, but it isn't really anything too special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcap
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  graphics look like battlfield 1942 ,but gameplay trumps the ok graphics.
  not cod3 but better gameplay play it play it now play it play it later play it play it play it, 
 its a really good game. so if your a wii head or a ps3 head get this game right now do not pass 
 go do not collect 100 dollars just do it, get this game. You See Call of Duty 3 continues the series 
 of World War II shooters, this time focusing on the battle for the liberation of Paris - known 
 as the Normandy Breakout. So buy this game too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepsodentalspy
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  This was my first (and definetly last) WW2 game and it was totally disappointing. Killing the nazis 
 won&acute; t propably get more dull than this. The control scheme of the Wii in this game is far 
 away from accured and the hit detection is purely a shame.
  
  The single player campaing is short. It takes about 3-6 hours to finish it.
  There aren't any 
 store (of course) and the whole thing doesn't make really any sense. Especially the ending of the 
 whole thing. You just go from one place to another and kill some nazis on the way and that's it. 
 Don't expect any heroic moments or thrilling battles. It seems to me that the game has been done 
 in a hurry.
  
  The graphics of the game are usually very ugly, but some places it looks nice, BUT only for a Wii 
 game.
  
  The gameplay is annoying and unresponsive, Tho the aiming with the wiiremote works pretty well. 
 Crouching and proning can be done by whipping the nunchuck down and up, which rarely works. You 
 can also press the buttons in the nunchuck to do that but EVEN THAT DOESN'T WORK ANY BETTER! Neither 
 does the reloading which is performed by whipping the nunchuck to the right.
  
  The only fun thing in this game is the multiplayer, which contains a few crappy and tiny maps. 
 And the fun thing? That's the way the dudes move in the game: They seem to be drunk all the time. 
 Actually on of the most hilarious things in my life was when me and one of my friends were standing 
 in front of the TV and trying to punch each other in the game by whipping the wiimote forward. 
 We took some distance from each other (sometimes the other one was chasing the another) and then 
 jousted towards our competitor. Our dudes started to run like drunken people and we tried to get 
 the guy in the game to aim and hit properly. And the then we faced each other. Sometimes someone 
 of us killed the other, sometimes we both died, and sometimes the dudes just crouched for some 
 reason and aimed to the ground. Those time when we both missed were the most funniest. We lost 
 control for a second and the guy in the game just aimed in the air or in the ground and run sideways 
 or backways REALLY weirdly. It was SO much fun to watch the other guy struggling after he missed 
 his hit. And then we kept going on and trying to pwn each other again and again. In the end I just 
 couldn't stay up and I fell on the ground laughing.
  
  But the game sucks. Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yobar23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  This was my first real game for the Wii, the others being the graphically-childlike Sports and 
 Play. I was hooked from the first jump into enemy territory. Using both the nunchuck and remote 
 for controls was a sharp idea on Nintendo's part; it allows for a more natural shoulder-wide upper 
 body position while playing. Despite the gripes of others, the chute is steerable, allowing a player 
 to guide Keegan to the LZ and earn his wings for the mission. The tricky part is to come up firing 
 after landing.
  
  I love the background sounds. I got a new big screen with decent speakers, so now I better appreciate 
 the distant bass crump of artillery fire that backs up the staccato small-arms fire.
  
  I have just a couple complaints about the game. On the hard setting, the bad guys turn into Magic 
 Nazis. Their one-shot kills and/or their focused fire while Keegan maintains good cover in the 
 dark are goofy. They also seem rather difficult to kill. To get around this I took my time and 
 used the headshot. My other beef is that your NPC buddies tend to take the best firing positions. 
 If you get there first, you get pushed out or you'll be unable to peek around your cover to get 
 a shot until you back away. Your squad members also often step in front of you while firing, a 
 major gaff real soldiers avoid.
  
  Even though this is an installment in a long-lived game series, it still provides fun gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakxxx
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  despite what most people have said, i think this is a good game. the different difficulties allow 
 you to play for a long time and it has good replay value. The game seems a little short though.
 
  There is a decent selection of weapons, but it would be cool if you could use a shotgun. But my 
 biggest problem is with reloading, when i try to reload, my person always crouches, goes prone, 
 and then reloads. It can be really annoying if you are in the middle of something.
  But overall, i think it's a pretty good game, but it has its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrummerDude1010
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 4, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. It is like a lot of other World War II games out there, but the Wii controls 
 make it more exciting and very different.
  
  The game starts out with you parachuting into the battlefield. You do have some control over where 
 you land, and it feels cool, but if you land near the beacons, you get a medal. You also get medal 
 for things like not dieing or lots of head shots. The controls are all explained as you use them 
 in the game on the first level, and after it tells you how to do it, you can do it yourself. You 
 can skip these if you want, but they help if it is your first time playing. Aiming is done by pointing 
 at the screen and it works really well and is fun to do. There are 4 different motion controls 
 on the Nunchuk, and it sometimes doesn't recognize your motion right, but it is a good thing you 
 can turn some of these off, so its not too much of a problem. After a while you can get used to 
 the motions and perform them decently, but it still isn't perfect. One motion control I love, is 
 the mellee. You simply push the remote forward and you swing your gun. It is pretty satisfying 
 to shove your arm forward, and have the action mimicked on screen and take down an enemy. The main 
 review says it messes up your aim, but you don't need to aim much during a melee attack.
  
  Medal of Honor Vanguard does have split screen multi player. I have only played it one 1 vs 1 because 
 I only have 2 controllers, but it is pretty decent. It gets boring after a while, and would have 
 been great online, but other than that the only other replay value is beating the game in different 
 modes, and collecting all the medals.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. I can compare it to some PS2 games, but i know the Wii is capable 
 of much more. It is nothing unbearable though, and i didn't have many problems.
  
  It also has your average booms and bangs and battle cries, and it all sounds pretty good.
  
 
  This game is definitely worth a rent, but maybe nothing more, as you can beat the game in a few 
 days, unless you want to get all the medals and beat it in every difficulty level. It will be worth 
 your time though, and if your like World War II shooters, you will like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Samsung_
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  Right EA have done - yes its true - another MOH game, i mean come on theres been frontline, rising 
 sun, pacific attack, european assault and there's no uniqness from them. I personally like Call 
 Of Duty much better.
  
  The proper sort of storyline is short and needs the same thing that the other ones do, the easy 
 accuarcy of a M1 garand or a Thompson or something. All you've got to do is find stuff, get to 
 people and kill people. I have to admit though online mutilplayer for the PS2 which ive got it 
 for aswell purely for the reason of multiplayer, is quite good. i would expect better graphix aswell 
 considering this is the newest installment in the MOH Series. i don't see the depth and autheniticy 
 that COD has because in COD the way you move, shoot and well all of it, it seems somuch more real 
 as though your the one out in the battle. And i just dont get that from MOH Games, i don't no about 
 u, but evry1 has there opinions and i hav mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jemberley1000
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  It was an alright game but over all i say not worth to buy. It took me less than a day to beat 
 the one too however i enjoyed doing so. I was dissapointed when the game ended. I think if there 
 was an online feature, this game would be soooo much better if you could play it online. I wish 
 it was longer too, if that had've been the case it would have been a much better game but all in 
 all it was good fun and worth the money if you want to rent it, but dont bother to buy it cause 
 it'll just take up space where a better game could've gone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gonjulas
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 15, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Although Medal of Honor Vanguard could have some more gameplay, the gameplay that it does contain 
 is astounding. Formatted with the Wii's controls, the game feels more then ever like you are experiencing 
 rather than playing it. The multiplayer capabilities happen to be quite enjoyable also, whether 
 you want to play an exciting game of capture the flag, or if you want to have a classic deathmatch, 
 it'll serve up some fun. If you get the game Medal of Honor Vanguard, I reccomend starting the 
 campaign on Recruit, you'll find the first half of the game quite easy, but as you advance in the 
 game it gets harder and harder. At the beggining of each set of levels the game has real black 
 and white footage for cutscenes that might actually teach you something about World War II. If 
 you want a good historic first person shooter, I would definitely reccomend getting the game Medal 
 of Honor Vanguard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russ52786
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jun 25, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game and im glad i didn;'t buy it. You can spend 30 min beating a part then die on 
 the next part and it didn; t auto save, it randomly decides where an actual checkpoint is. Enemies 
 will pop up which aren't on radar and your dead before you can react. Its frustrating when u spend 
 forever avoiding the enemy popping outta nowhere and then u die in a spot where 60 guys pop out 
 and then u start all over. ive gotten headshots which didn; t kill the guy then i shoot them in 
 the arm and they go down..? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 17, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This is another World War 2 based game. This is nothing but a prettier version of Call of Duty 
 3 The gameplay is good but the parachute beggining does not work. You might as well land normally. 
 The aiming is good but most gestures don't work. The game is as said before a prettier version 
 of Call of Duty 3. I would rather better gameplay than better graphics. The sound has the regular 
 explosions and shooting. The game I would say is short. However most war games are. I would reccomend 
 that you play COD3 rather than this game. This game is pretty but not good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jun 9, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Vanguard is probably the worst of the medal of honor series. With graphics that 
 aren't even acceptible for gamecube, this wii port of the playstation 2 game doesn't have a strong 
 campaign that will keep you challanged. Once you beat the campaign it isn't likely that you'll 
 ever want to play the game again. Some of the missions can be quite repetative and allows for tiresome 
 gameplay. The multiplayer isn't very fun at all and does not have very large levels, and oesn't 
 make up for the single player mode at all. This is one game that I wouldn't even bother trying 
 unless you a big fan of the series and even then I would only rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogeliozim
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  MOH vanguard is an awsome shotter in widh you follow a group of paratropers. The game has very 
 similar controls to COD3 and is very fun to play. The story champnie is very short (it took me 
 2.5hr. to beat on medium difficulty) but the multiplayer makes up for that and more. The mulitplayer 
 experience is totaly awsome and is just completly worth having 2-4 people over blasting the crap 
 out of each other. as usual MOH mulitiplayer games it has all your regular mode like Death match, 
 capture the flag, etc. The team option is really fun and cool. Also since the wii has a whole new 
 control stlel for shooters it's learnig curve is about 10-40mins, but once you get the controls 
 down for this game you'll probly be able to player all the other shooter for the wii including 
 COD3 and MP3. Vanguard is just a great game and is the game for anybody who likes shooters and 
 owns a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: criminalowen
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jun 1, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Quite possibly the worst game in the Medal Of Honor Series. There must only be a maximum of 10 
 guns in the whole game maybe less... To start a mission you are parachuted out of an aeroplane, 
 you have hardly any control of you parachute and will always land in the same area. Every house 
 in Europe that you enter is identicle to the last. The Battle fields are small and crowded, and 
 everything seems the same in each mission. Go there - Kill Germans - Blow up Anti Aircraft Gun 
 - Oh No! A tank! Take this bazooka here and blow it up, and dont worry, it will keep respawning 
 next to you. So the game itself is very basic.
  
  The AI in the game is pathetic. You can go and sit down next to one and it wont even notice half 
 the time. Their aim is pathetic, they can be 5meters away and miss every shot and then they'l run 
 away. 1 or 2 shot and their dead, no real challnge. I didn't findany major glitches but sometimes 
 when you kill a German his hat will come off and float in the air untill it suddenly vanishes... interesting. 
 Also if you run out of ammo it is hard to find another gun with ammo, and for 1 level i did the 
 whole thing without a gun! The game is also sooo unbelieveably easy! I completed it in about 4 
 hours. You can walk through the levels just firing a few shots as you walk. The numchuk was overused, 
 so if youwanted to reload you can end up spinning round and ducking down.
  
  DONT WASTE YOUR MONEY ON THIS RUBBISH GAME!
  
  ( If you really want to play this pile of turd, 
 rent it ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaigo2k4
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 21, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  Due to the fact that for months the game was suppose to have online play, but on the last month 
 or so it was taken off, Vanguard is not a game to be bought. The single player mode is fun at the 
 get-go, but after playing for a while the game isn't as intense as Call of Duty 3.
  
  The AI in the game isn't great, I still wonder if there is AI. The NPC's shoot at you from the 
 same point every time you reload from a save point or start a new campaign. Two new elements are 
 in the game: The shooting around cover and the parachuting. The parachuting might have been nice 
 if you were allowed to look down to see where you're landing and it's impossible to get earn medals 
 when you land on the designated landing zones. The shooting-around-cover feature is nice and useful 
 with the Wii controller, one good element surrounded by other bad general problems.
  
  The Gamplay is nice with the Wii controllers, but could have done better on the button layout. 
 After playing for a while you may start to think that the creators just mapped the main buttons 
 on the controller and then slapped the other features on the controller by random paper, rock, 
 scissors. There's also something wrong with the depth perception with the weapons. When attempting 
 to fire from afar you realize a there's a 2/3 of a second delay from the bullet leaving the gun 
 to actually hitting the target your firing at, even when using a sniper rifle.
  
  The graphics are terrible, what else it there to say. The wii could have done alot better. When 
 taking hits your screen starts to fade in red, not in a good way. It looks like someone is putting 
 a transparent red film on the edges of your screen while your trying to play that make you want 
 to say, What the h*** is that! The game itself looks foggy as if the creators tried, and failed, 
 to give the game some atmospheric perspective. The game looks like a pc game on 800x600 resolution 
 on medium texture graphics.
  
  The sound is ok, nothing overwhelmingly great. When an explosion occurs near you your character 
 temporarly has that flash-bang sound and everything temporarily slows down.
  
  Overall, this game is just a rental. If you like WWII games and would like to play one with mutiplayer 
 split-screen for the Wii this is it. But I strongly recommend not buying this game. I did before 
 reading the main review and that was a mistake I don't do often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 11, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Well another run and gun game from EA. This time you are put in Vanguard Italy, the latest 
 chapter in the 8-year-old Medal of Honor franchise, puts players behind a World War II rifle as 
 Corporal Frank Keegan, a shooter in the 82nd Airborne Division. You will be doing all the pretty 
 much typical stuff in this game like, killing a lot of Nazis, rescuing ally soldiers, clearing 
 out locations and bunkers, securing documents, and destroying enemy weapons. Also there is many 
 new and upgraded weapons you can choose from and use. Despite all the well done graphics an well 
 done audio, .\The AI for the most part is decent, but the occasional spotty moment will have the 
 AI behaving stupidly or oblivious to your existence. But the biggest annoyans is the sparse amount 
 of checkpoints later in the game. Graphics: The graphics look pretty good for a PS2 game. You will 
 be fully immersed in the game The performance can slow down at times, but considering the graphical 
 quality, distance visibility, and dense action, the framerate is actually pretty sturdy.
  
  Sound: The sound is excellent, with realistic explosions, ambient sounds, and music It reallyt 
 immerses you in to the game and makes the game tense. The voice acting is not bad either.
  
  Value: All in all this is a quick run and gun World War Two game that you have mostly have 
 come to expect from the Medal of Honor games. You might just want to play it one or two times and 
 then you will get board with it since it has no multuplayer. I give this game 7.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nova_Mongoose
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 8, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  I have long been a Medal of Honor fan. Ever since the first time I infiltrated a Nazi bunker with 
 Jimmy Patterson I've been hooked. But after European Assault I've been turned off. Why am I all-of-a-sudden 
 in a standard Army unit instead of the highly secretive OSS? Why am I taking part in the gruntwork 
 instead of sneaking behind enemy lines incognito? This new formula for Medal of Honor was blatantly 
 ripped from the fabric of the Call of Duty franchise which I don't like as much. But Vanguard isn't 
 all bad like the 5.4 gamespot score would lead one to believe. While it is incredibly short with 
 a sometimes frustrating control scheme and poor hit-detection, it still provides for some good 
 entertainment. The parachute moments are quite fun even though there are too few of them and they 
 are over far too quickly. The missions are the run-of-the-mill WWII shooter fodder that you've 
 played over-and-over before in other better games: protect the house, blow up the gun emplacement, 
 take out the machinegun nest... There really is nothing in this game that substantiates a purchase. 
 However, the game is worth checking out if you've already beat Red Steel, Call of Duty 3, and are 
 tired of waiting around for Metroid Prime 3. The graphics look pretty good for a Wii game but the 
 level design is so linear and mundane that it doesn't really matter. The great musical score from 
 the old MoH games is back... but it's so out of place in this game because it's just not Medal of 
 Honor like it used to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViVi110
Rating: 3.3
Date: May 29, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honour Vanguard is a bad game. It's overall just like any other crappy WW2 shooter but 
 it is really laying down the crap. The graphics are so bad that a blind person would probably stare 
 and laugh. The gameplay is dull and very cliche. The camera is annoying, the controls are bad and 
 the music is the same thing over and over and over and over again and the enemy AI is terribly 
 stupid! The picture on the front cover just pisses me off!
  
  Don't Buy this game. Don't rent this game. Don't touch this game. Don't discuss this terrible, 
 terrible game. End of Story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steinberger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion this game has been horribly hounded by reviewers. It is short and at some times can 
 be a little too realistic for it's own good, but besides that, it is a solid FPS. I have really 
 enjoyed it and I usually hate WWII themed games.
  
  Gameplay:
  The campaign is very good although pretty short. you could probably sit down and beat the campaign 
 within a day if you played diligently.
  
  The multi-player is quite good, but I recommend you try to find a big screen to play on if you 
 do more than two player or else you will be doomed when aiming.
  
  The game is a bit on the easy side although it can be challenging especially near the end of the 
 game. The AI isn't astounding like in Resident Evil 4, but i's not completely stupid like in Call 
 of Duty 3. The AI doesn't really do much but what it does it does pretty well. You won't see much 
 collective strategy from the AI though.
  
  Controls:
  I couldn't ask for much more. The game blends the targeting and moving functions together much 
 better than previously released games. The controls work well and I am much more proficient at 
 shooting with the Wii remote than with a standard controller. The only gripe I had with the controls 
 was the about-face command using motion controls on the nun-chuck. It often misread reloading or 
 standing up motion as an about-face so I turned it off in the options.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics aren't the world's greatest but they aren't horrible. Most of the graphics are pretty 
 good except for the vegetation. The grass is pretty baldy rendered, but I'm sure they were trying 
 to save the frame rate. The rest of the graphics are pretty good. My biggest problem with the game 
 is that they made the graphics a little too realistic in some situations. Inside some of the buildings 
 can be so dark you just have to look for muzzle flashes and fire. Aiming the through the "real" 
 sight in dark areas can be practically impossible. The same thing happens occasionally outside 
 as well. This is great for realism but can be a little annoying. Besides this the world is very 
 well rendered. All the buildings look very realistic and nothing really looks out of place.
  
  Sound:
  Not much to be said here except that the sound is top notch. They did a great job 
 with not only the background sounds as well as the effect sounds. It is really great to hear your 
 equipment rustling around when you sprint to cover, or hear the boards slowly creak as you walk 
 through the war-torn buildings. All the voices fit very well and your allies can be very helpful 
 with their warnings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapy18
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is getting some bad reviews that it does not deserve. I hear people complain about the 
 graphics. If it is graphics you want DONT BUY A Wii!! If I wanted great graphics I would have 
 bought a 360. I wanted something new and that is exactly what I got.
  
  If you want a new way to play games then this is what you are looking for. I love aiming by pointing 
 the controller and controlling movement with the Nunchuck. I keep reading complaints about the 
 controls. I have not had any problems with them. Three of the main complaints I have read are about 
 reloading the gun (moving the Nunchuck to the right) , about facing (moving the Nunchuck to the 
 left) , and changing your stance from standing to kneeling (moving the Nunchcuck up and down) . I 
 really dont know why people are having issues. Maybe they need to adjust the sensitivity in the 
 options menu, or theyre making to big of movements with the Nunchcuk. I RARELY have any problems 
 with these moves.
  
  Other complaints I have read about:
  The accuracy of the guns. Here it is all about what gun you are using. I am always getting head 
 shots from a long ways away. Not all these weapons are sniper rifles you cant expect them all 
 to hit from a great distance. Not having a health gauge and dieing to fast. I find no need to have 
 a health gauge as you heal up fast when you take cover. When your vision starts turning red from 
 being shot that is a sign to take cover and heal up. As for dieing to fast, if you are getting 
 shot multiple times from a machine gun you should expect to die fast. I hate games where you can 
 stand in one place and keep shooting while you are being shot by a machine gun. The game makes 
 you use cover, which I like.
  
  Really the only thing I do not like about this game is the length of the game. My advice, use the 
 hard setting or it will be over to soon. That said I believe any good game is to short and wish 
 they had infinite levels/missions. For the price I do recommend renting it first to see if it something 
 you will like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychofoo007
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  First off I feel that gamespot 's rating is very low. THis is an excellent addition yo the Wii 
 console. Yes it's you're typical WWII shooter, but the wii controls make it better. I'll admit 
 that the controls could still be fine tuned but, they do work very well.
  
  Control Summary:
  
  Well, you point the Wii remote at the screena nd that's where your gun 
 is pointed. The nunchuck is thrusted right to reload, thrust left to about face, thrust down to 
 crouch/prone and thrust upward to stand up. Those of you who have played Call of duty 3 and red 
 steel should notice some similarity in FPS controls. Also if you've played those games then you 
 know the contols can be hard to master but soon it's second nature using the wii remote.
  
  Graphics:
  
  I'll come out honestly that i think the graphics are pretty aren't terribly impressive 
 for a wii game not that's not saying too much. But remember it's the gameplay not the graphics 
 that count.
  
  This game isn't too different form the other million of WWII games but Medal of honor is probably 
 the first game to get the contols to work well. If you have a wii and want another shooter look 
 no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Austin527
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  The controls in tis game are hard.... =- ( If you are not a very good game player, then this game 
 is way to hard to play!!!! It's so hard to move the gun around because while your playing, your 
 guy will start to swing around because you accidentally moved the num-chu a little and then you'll 
 be shot at, and you don't have very much health, so you only have like 10 shots on you till your 
 dead, and of course, you'll have to turn around again. But it is so hard to do that because you 
 can't move the Wii Remote off the screen. Because of that the objectives are so hard to do. So 
 if I were you this is not the best game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LLsmooth
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 16, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  Here is the rundown
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are nice. Good textures, lighting as well as animations.
 
  
  Controls: They take a little time to get used to. If you played FPS on the PC, you will have an 
 easier time with these controls.
  
  Gameplay: The typical shooter with a limited storyline.
  
  Sound: Sounds great, but nothing 
 to get excited about.
  
  Overall: Overall, this is a good game that is worth playing. You must have a good understanding 
 of the controls and work with them a little. If you have played alot FPS with the analog controllers, 
 the controls in this game will feel a little loose to you... as well it should because the Wii 
 allows for an unfixed feel. In essence, you have total control over the game. It does not control 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedzub
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  I personally think that this game was well thought out and used the wii controller pretty well. 
 But it was rushed and if they put a little more time into it and a little more thought it could 
 of made a hit as the first great first person shooter to hit the wii market. It is fun and worth 
 buying but its not the best it could be i give the game a 5.9 the graphics could have been improved 
 a little bit and the tilt also. but other then that its a fun game and i guess fun is what Nintendo's 
 plan is so it isn't a failure but with a little more work put into it, it would have been funner 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peanut-butter
Rating: 3.9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  When I started to play the game, I said o. k decent so far, but in about 5 minutes I was having 
 trouble just reloading. When you shake the nun-chuck to the right as told, you often crouch or 
 do a 180&ordm; turn. Other sloppy controls took away from the gameplay. I also noticed that music 
 from the first MOH games was recycled into Vanguard. A. I was pretty dated, and missions were done 
 in no time. I think the total game took about 2 hours to beat. Multiplayer lacked maps, (4 maps 
 total I think) . But it did feature a usable mg42, which was new. One big thing was that I was expecting 
 for was atleast decent air drops, but you only jump out of an airplane 3 times in the whole game, 
 and all the other missions was where you already start off in some town or farm, and the other 
 times is where your plane blows-up and you are the only survivor. What a surprise. The game is 
 a total let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi_Lover
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 12, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  So if you have read my review for Red Steel you will find me commenting on how it came so close 
 to a solid game but needed a couple more months in development to fine tune the controls. In the 
 end it was a step in the right direction and i may find myself repeating myself because this games 
 although fun has made another step in the right direction but needed a lot more work.
  
  Gameplay: Lets start with the good aspects of Medal of Honour: Vanguard's gameplay. By far my largest 
 fear when picking up this title was that the turning system would be as flawed as that of Red Steel. 
 Luckily for fans of MOH, EA has spent some more time getting a good turning system down. You will 
 find it a lot easier to time your turns and with a little practice be quite accurate. Unfortunately 
 there still isn't a perfect way to turn on the Wii and that problem will have to be fixed at a 
 later date. The unfortunate thing about the game is that it doesn't provide anything new... at 
 all. All the rest of the gameplay is solid but adds nothing new like all successful franchises 
 do. You have the basic zoom to the reticule and all the rest of the controls are pretty easy to 
 guess. The only fun and improved control was the Wii grenade throwing. By holding B then bringing 
 the controller back and forth and releasing B you lob a grenade and its actually fun, accurate 
 and doesn't feel tacky at all. To sum it all up the gameplay is all solid and fun but like I said 
 it adds nothing and Wii controls for FPSs still need to be perfected. Graphics: I think Ill make 
 this reasonably short and sweet. To be completely honest the graphics are nothing to shake a stick 
 at and barely pass expectations. It is clear from past games on the Gamecube and the Xbox like 
 RE4 that there was a certain standard and now that we have a stronger machine in the next generation 
 we need to produce games of that graphical caliber from now on. In the end they are passable to 
 the point where you can have genuine fun but developers need to spend more time on these games. 
 Sound: Again just like the graphics I'm going to try to be short and sweet. First I have loved 
 the Medal of Honour score produced for the games I really do love the theme but the guys need to 
 get some new music out there. As for the in-game sound effects they are sufficient but never blow 
 you away. The sound of a game or movie makes or breaks it and in this case its just sufficient. 
 In Conclusion: So in conclusion my personal thoughts... What I really think is that if you really 
 believe you want this or have just been waiting for a good FPS for the Wii then rent it first. 
 It provided me with genuine enjoyment and it had good gameplay for the most part but I could see 
 where many people couldn't get past some technical things. For the most part the reason I gave 
 the game such a low score was because it improves on nothing but the Wii turning system and the 
 Wii controls aren't always accurate. Once in awhile you'll want to reload with the Nunchuck and 
 end up turning 180 degrees and getting shot in the back. So rent it first and buy later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heathcliff
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 10, 2007 2:47 am PT
Review:  If you've played MoH: Frontline, then essentially you've already played MoH: Vanguard. . . and 
 if you've played the Wii version of Call of Duty 3, then you've already played a better WWII shooter 
 on Wii. Vanguard is a by-the-numbers WWII shooter. It's definitely a fun game. It's just that there's 
 very little here that hasn't been done before. It's not as big and ambitious as Call of Duty 3, 
 which offered different styles of gameplay, and wasn't afraid of experimenting with the Wii remote. 
 Vanguard is all-shooter from beginning to end. And the missions seem very familiar. Enjoyable, 
 but largely formulaic. It uses the same control system already seen in other Wii FPSs (which is 
 good) of moving with the nunchuck, and aiming and firing with the remote. Gesture-based actions 
 also come in the form of thrrowing grenades by making a throwing motion with the remote. That is 
 good too, but with the nunchuck, things get a bit frustrating. You can crouch and/or stand up by 
 moving the nunchuck up and down. You can perform a 180 quick turn by tilting it left, and you can 
 reload your weapon by tilting it right. A terrible setup since sometimes it's a bit unresponsive 
 and often you end up doing one thing when you want to do the other. Visually, the game looks good 
 and the audio is just as good. This isn't the first time you play as a paratrooper in a game, but 
 it is the first time you actually jump from the plane. And these bits represent the only fresh 
 thing about Vanguard. They're well done, they look cool, and they add realism to the feel of the 
 game. Unfortunately, these parachute bits only last seconds, and once you land, the game plays 
 just like any other WWII shooter out there. It's obvious that the series, and the genre are getting 
 a bit tired. Personally, I'm not tired of WWII shooters yet, but I do see the need for innovation. 
 Vanguard does very little. It even ignores the additions that the previous MoH game (European Assault) 
 introduced, like the Adrenaline mode, and ability to command a squad. This would have been the 
 opportunity to build and expand on that. But they are ignored completely. This can certainly be 
 a satisfying shooter. Just don't set your expectations too high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: datbush
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 4, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Despite that the so called professional reviews say, its a good starting fps for the wii. the graphics 
 are great for a wii game. most of the sound and voice acting is decent. most of the music is from 
 allied assault and fits well.
  the level design is rather linear but long the battles are intens. the gameplay itself is fun and 
 the controls are almost perfect. while the hit registration isnt perfect its not nearly as bad 
 as the pros say. i have little problems hitting targets. the pros probably just suck. the ai isnt 
 that smart but its not that bad. (few games have great ai anyway.)
  
  Now the first problem with this game is the multiplayer. Im more of a sp guy but while the fuctionality 
 is there mp is limited to split screen only and no bots. so with no online and no bots its restricted 
 to ss with up to 4 players.
  - 1 for its score
  
  the other major problem is its WAY TO SHORT. 10 levels. 10 long and intens levels but 10 levels. 
 thats what we call a value game but ea thinks they can get away with that kind of crap. -1.5 fpr 
 score and there are some minor bugs but none to problematic.
  
  this may be the first refined fps on the wii and ww2 fans and people dying for a wii fps should 
 pick it up. others may want to rent or wait for a price drop.
  
  on a side not im tired of these pros writing games off as just another ww2 game. a lot of people 
 like ww2 and if its not your thing dont review it. you might as well write cs, bf2, delta force, 
 swat, or soldier of fortune as just another moder fps of terrorist this and terrorist that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazy-Kingdom
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is decent, if unremarkable. It's another WWII FPS; sloppy hit detection makes shooting 
 big but, makes me go wow. it ok, but that damn shooting thing its all crappy and messed up if you 
 played it and kinda know what i mean then well, then you'll know what i mean lol. remamber the 
 sloppy hit detection i mean its what kinda makes the game suck so i say you should rent it before 
 buying a gameunless your flippin' pro and can beat a game in a 5 hour period i can't stop beating 
 a game in a 10 or higher period of straight game play not to brag but, i guess its my way of playing 
 games im kinda losing track of what im saying half the time so im stoping my review here.
  smell you later,
  
  Sincerly Yours, &amp;#1758; Leon&amp; hearts; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junito91
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played COD3 on Wii but for what i had read it's sounds like MOH is better. The game does 
 a nice job with the Wiimote. Is pretty difficult when you play for the first time, but later it's 
 get very easy. I didn't had may problems with the controls. The graphics are pretty decent, but 
 it looks dark. The best part of the game is the sound is not good as COD but is awesome. The huge 
 problem with the game is TOO DAMN SHORT. I bought it yesterday and I finished it like in 6 hours. 
 But it doesn't matter when you love WWII FPS. You will still like it. But the next one EA, make 
 more more larger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Barto339
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  Another WWII game hits the markets but other than those games this one sucks. Alright the graphics 
 may be better than Call of Duty for the Wii but everything else is terrible. If you are a hardcore 
 first person shooter fan... like me, this game is not for you. A noob can blow through this game 
 on medium difficulty in say 4 hours. Maybe if there were some variation but all you do is kill 
 Nazi's move on kill more Nazi's move on blow up wall kill more Nazi's. the lack of weapons makes 
 it even worse. There's about 5 different guns and not a single sniper rifle. At points excitement 
 does kick in but thats only for a few seconds and during those few seconds you can see a glimmer 
 of what kind of a game this could be. All in all if you absolutely must get a first-person shooter 
 promise me it won't be this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PurelogicsBack
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  This game beats all the other Medal of Honor games out of the water, the battles, teams, and equipment 
 are much better, gameplay was moderate and controls just right but after playing this game among 
 the others I found it to be repetitive you go in and fight, eventually its gets boring. Though, 
 if I'm in the mood for a good shooter I'd choose MOH in a heart beat, but if you haven't played 
 this game or own many games similar to it, rent it. I recommend it as a 1st MOH purchase but again 
 it can get boring the downsides to this game along with most 1st person shooters associated with 
 MOH are you run you shoot as long as you complete mission its repetitive in a way, I like games 
 that have shooting but still are challenging.
  
  
  All in all 
 its a decent game: Call of Duty 4 is better Though
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: rouguesquadron
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 30, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm a major fan of FPS games so, needless to say, when I heard about Medal of Honor: Vanguard I 
 was really excited. I've been a fan of the MOH series ever since I played Frontline and, even though 
 I've been slightly disappointed with the last two editions in the series, my hopes for this game 
 were high. Unfortunately though, my hopes came crashing down once I got my hands on this game.
 
  
  The primary problem with this game is the length, the game is just too short. There are four campaigns 
 with each one being divided up into 2-3 missions each, with the average play time per mission clocking 
 in around 30 minutes. Compared to other MOH games this is quite pitiful.
  
  Another issue with this game is the lackluster multiplayer. Nowadays system link is considered 
 to be standard with FPS games, yet EA fails to utilize the Wii's wireless nature to link up multiple 
 systems. To make matters worse, Vanguard does not have the ability to set up bots in multiplayer, 
 so the maximum number of players you can have on a map at any one time is four (yourself and three 
 opponents.
  
  On the plus side, the play control for this game is great. If you've played other FPS games on 
 the Wii there is practically no learning curve, if you haven't it takes about 15 minutes of playing 
 before you start to feel comfortable with the controls. Having the ability to just point and shoot 
 at your target is a great asset to the FPS genre and Vanguard definitely doesn't disappoint in 
 that regards.
  
  Unfortunately, the short play time, coupled with a $50 price tag, mixed with horrible multiplayer 
 makes this the worst Medal of Honor game to date. EA needs to step up to the plate with their next 
 installment in this series or I can see Medal of Honor falling by the wayside in the next few years. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  the wii controlls is what holds up this game. take that away and you have a ps1 game. the enemy 
 side looks like they are pasted on washed out graphics. graphics is a big part of a game. some 
 game can be just ok and you still can have fun. but vanguard is just awful graphics. and the enemy 
 dont even act right are die right looks fake. and this is 2007 its hard to enjoy a game when it 
 looks like 10 years ago. and if this is the best the wii can do with other titles. they better 
 stay with wii sports wii play and wii kids stuff. games like this will never hold up in today market 
 of games. and i was hoping and wishing for a fun game i was , and now i am just sad and upset that 
 EA sports can hatch out a game like this to the public. and i have just about had it all the way 
 around with war war 2 games getting old old ben there done that and died there i think. vanguard 
 might make you wish you was dead , and the searchlights dont even move around in the game the job 
 of the spot lights is to look for enemy aircraft. hard to do when fixed in one spot. this game 
 is awful. EA needs to wake up off that money cow one day that money cow will dry up. about had 
 it with there lame games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nanabasher999
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 30, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Stick with your N64 and perfect dark, the only FPS ive ever loved. CONTROLS
  
  First of all, the wiimote aiming is good, i have nothing against it, its reletivly satisfying to 
 shoot people with good enough accuracy, yet the nunchuk... UGH. Flick it up to jump, flick it down 
 to crouch, flick it left to spin quickly, spin it right to reload. In the heat of battle, you find 
 yourself swinging the nunchuk, jumping, crouching and spinning when all you wanted to do was RELOAD!!!! 
 I cant believe that they thought that was OK, there ARE NO alterative controls. NONE! only sensitivity. 
 AI
  
  The player AI is really dumb, the teammates you work with ONLY get killed by static actions like 
 bombs etc, other than that they are invincible, they all shout repetive tasks and never take damage, 
 they get in the way and leave you to do all the work, they stand outside of battlezones, hiding 
 behind boxes shooting blanks and leave YOU to do all the work. The enemy AI is even worse, if you 
 run at a person they simply just stand and shoot instead of running for cover, you can basically 
 RUN past a lot of them and shoot them all in the back. Its all so primitive. I was so angry at 
 the AI, i couldnt stand it! To think that STUPID AI was even released, i mean, occasionally they 
 will do something smart, BUT only AS PART of the story, AGAIN AND AGAIN.
  
  STATIC MOVEMENTS
  
  Since this is a war game, it has to emulate historic events, therefore 
 i find this game COMPLETLY boring. Everything HAS to happen in a certain way, i hate the way tanks 
 can only blow up certain things and nothing else. The enemies seem to repeat the same actions, 
 almost like they are limited. Some good Troop commanding could of been nessecary here to change 
 the flow of the game. Its like RUN - THEY HIDE - YOU SHOOT - THEY RUN IN PRETENDING THEY ARE STILL 
 AWARE - YOU RUN AHEAD, THEY WAIT, - YOU SHOOT - THEY COME IN PRETENDING TO ACT ALL SUSPICIOUS LOOKING 
 FOR ENEMIES - YOU RUN - YOU SHOOT - THEY WATCH - THEY SHOUT - THEY SHOUT = YOU WASTE MONEY! REPETITIVE
 
  
  Remember on the PSX when you find a nice shiny gun turret? As soon as you get on it a flood of 
 enemies come running at you. WHY DOES THIS STILL HAPPEN ON GAMES? they obviously wouldnt be that 
 stupid and would run for cover, FOR GODS SAKE, in PSX days it was a sight to behold, but not anymore, 
 people are into more realistic things. Honestly, if someone were to buy this for the wii, it would 
 give it a bad name. I dont like the 3rd party rip offs of games, i cant stand EA'S crappy ports 
 and simple rushed games. I think they should spend more time, i know they are juggling so many 
 platforms, but ITS CALLED A 'DELAY' PEOPLE! Do not support them, if you want my HONEST opinion 
 on what GOOD wii game to buy... Id say NO to...
  
  Wario ware, Sonic, Gt Pro series, far cry, cooking mama, etc
  
  and welcome these
  
  Godfather, 
 heatseeker, blazing angels, Excite truck, Elebits, kororinpa, SSX blur Honestly, you buy MOH: V 
 then you seriously have something wrong with you, If you have the money to buy this game, you may 
 as well just burn it in the flames, otherwise youll have a extra box on the shelf that you cant 
 believe you even bought and a system save for the pile of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corpse_Vanishes
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I don't see why this is getting such low scores, I mean yeah it IS just another WWII FPS but I 
 like them, thats why I got it, and I hope they come out with a dozen more for the Wii. I haven't 
 played CoD3 for the Wii so I don't know how it compares to that (I have it for Xbox so theres no 
 point in getting it for another system) but this is 100 times better then Farcry. So if you're 
 looking for a FPS on the Wii this is a must rent (don't buy, its too short but Ill get to that 
 later) .
  
  Gameplay: I really like aiming with the Wiimote, it makes it a lot easier and more fun and you 
 feel like you're really in the game sometimes. The parachuting was ok, it wasnt long enough to 
 really add anything but it was fun for the few seconds that it lasted. The nunchuck controls are 
 a little messed up, Ill try to crouch but Ill end up spinning around and vise versa, but the 
 good thing is you don't have to use them, all of the nunchuck functions are also done with buttons 
 so as long as you hold it still you shouldn't have any problems, you can even turn it off so no 
 one should have any trouble with the controls. The hit detection is a little off sometimes, like 
 Ill shoot a guy right in the head and hell keep shooting at me or Ill shoot the guy in the gut 
 4 or 5 times before he falls over and dies, but most of the time the people die when theyre supposed 
 to. The AI isnt the best but it never will be perfect because then it would be too hard and people 
 would stay behind cover forever and youd never be able to get a shot at them. Your allies have 
 much better AI, usually they just get in the way but they actually help some here. But the not 
 so good enemy AI makes it too easy, I didnt even die for the first time until the second to last 
 level when they drop you down in the middle of a bunch of Germans with hardly any cover to get 
 behind. Another not so great thing is that a lot of times mid-level it will cut to a 10 or 15 second 
 cinematic and then throw you back in the game, those interrupt the experience and are kinda annoying 
 because they come out of nowhere sometimes and theres no warning when you go back to playing so 
 sometimes youll be holding the Wiimote a certain way and when the clip ends youll all the sudden 
 be facing straight up in the sky.
  
  Graphics: Really good graphics, they're nothing amazing and don't seem very next-gen but for the 
 Wii so far these are some of the best.
  
  Sound: It's a MoH game so you know the sound is good.
  
  Value: This is where the game gets 
 bad, there are only 10 levels, all of which can be beat in about 15 to 20min so you only get about 
 3 or 4 hours of gameplay. The split-screen doesn't add anything to it because I don't any friends 
 and can't play it and the Wii doesn't have any online games yet so thats out.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I really liked this game, its a lot better then Rising Sun but far from the best 
 MoH, it felt kinda rushed and it probably was because this isn't their main new MoH, Airborne is. 
 So I think if they had put some more time into it, made it 20 or more 20min levels or made the 
 levels longer then it would have been a lot better. So like I said its a definite rent but I wouldn't 
 suggest ANYONE pay $50 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wastedyuthe74
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 30, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is WOW! I love this. I really can't understand most of the negative comments on this 
 game. Especially those pointing at the controls.
  
  Basically, how ever you would like a fps game to play on the Wii, this game DOES IT!! You want 
 loose controls so you only turn when your crosshair reaches the edge of the screen? Fine. You want 
 it tighter so you turn with the slightest movement of the crosshair, as in CoD3? Fine. You want 
 to turn faster or slower when you do? Fine. You want the crosshair to stay dead centre in the middle 
 of the screen? Fine. This game does the lot! I have tried all settings, and there are settings 
 here for everybody! Tip: If you do select the crosshair to stay in the middle of the screen ('aiming 
 mode' in options) , minimize the deadzone so your slightest remote movement will register.
  
  For those who moan about the nunchuck gestures, each can be disabled. And if you don't want 
 to disable, you can turn down the gesture sensitivity!!! You really can't go wrong with the settings 
 in this game.
  
  Me? I have tried a few different ways, but have ended up sticking with the original set-up regarding 
 movement. However, I have disabled About Face and Jump/Stance gestures. I didn't have a problem 
 with these, but I can see further down the line I might, so I'd rather use buttons.
  
  The game controls much better than Red Steel on it's default settings, and better than Far Cry, 
 as Far Cry turns too slowly.
  
  The game itself is great so far. I was expecting the allied soldiers to get in the way, but so 
 long as you treat them with respect (ie let them go first sometimes) then they are fine. The shooting 
 seems accurate enough too. Sometimes you need to change your primary rifle for the longer shots 
 to get a good head shot in (which is probably what some reviewers never bothered trying) . The graphics 
 (for Wii standards, not comparing to PS3 etc) are excellent. A high texture resolution makes for 
 some detailed scenery. Animation is spot on too. Sound is superb, absolutely spot on. Great effects, 
 great music, great speech. Gameplay is very exciting, but most of all, FUN. Because of the ease 
 of the controls you'll be shooting Germans through the helmet in no time. I have selected the medium 
 difficulty, and did die a few times on my first few runs of the first campaign. But when I died, 
 it was because I was getting too cocky. My only reservations with the game is it's longevity. With 
 only four campaigns, and the first one being completed within the first 20 minutes, it makes me 
 wonder how long this great game will last.
  
  As for multiplayer, there are four multiplayer games- Death match, Capture the flag, Scavenger 
 hunt, King of the hill. CtF and SH seem very similar, having to find something and take it to another 
 location. For each game, there are the same 6 maps to choose from, with various other options to 
 choose from too, like how many kills in the Death Match for example. Plenty here to keep you occupied 
 with mates. Yes it is a shame there are no bots, but it is still good for something that isn't 
 online (come on Nintendo!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: girufool
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  Alright guys. Its March 27 and i just picked up a copy of MOH: VG (i am in Hawaii and i get things 
 one day late) Anyway, to start off. MOH is a WWII FPS, now you may have heard this over a million 
 times, but this is Medal of honor . Well basically its your typical WWII style shooter, you know, 
 Kill the Nazis, blow up shi* up! and hey, maybe save some of your fellow comrades in the heart 
 of battle. You start off in MOH by jumping out off a plane thats getting shot down, and using the 
 stylish wii-mote and nun-chuck controller to control the parachute. when you get on the ground 
 you kill some krauts. yeah... woo. Unfortunately Theres ALOT of things that could have been fixed. 
 First off The enemy AI. The AI in this game is not so bright. When a German is taking cover behind 
 something, you can sometimes walk right up to them, Without the enemy shooting and cap'em in the 
 Head. Second, The graphics. Come on guys, This is a little more better than the playstation 2 counter 
 part, but it dosent look like next-gen graphics, it looks like a xbox game with some band-aids 
 slapped on and a sticker that says next-graphics! and framerate in the game can get worse than 
 red-steels, and it just looks like the MOH: european assault engine with a few tweaks . Third and 
 finale the gameplay, This game is very fun, Dont get me wrong, but the shooting can seem a little 
 mindless at some point also NO ONLINE PLAY COME ON EA! IF YOU CAN MAKE MOH: HEROES 32 PLAYER ONLINE 
 why cant you make the wii version online!??!!? I am tired of the 'ol split screen time to throw 
 it out and a grab Wireless router I AM SICK OF MY FRIENDS SCREEN LOOKING!!! &gt; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XNbuck
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 28, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Wow, some harsh reviews for this one. I disagree with a lot what is being said. Most reviews seem 
 to bash this for being just another WWII shooter . Well, I happen to LIKE WWII shooters. If I didn't, 
 I wouldn't have bought one. The story, while just your typical WWII fare, is adequate, centering 
 on a paratrooper from the 82nd. The controls are good. Maybe not as good as in COD3, but the abilities 
 to lean, turn an instant 180, and press a button to center the screen make up for it. The graphics 
 are good with some nice lighting and particle effects. The sound is outstanding. The roar of planes 
 over head, the thundering explosions and, of course, the sounds of bullets wizzing by are all done 
 exceptionally well. I play on my HD LCD with surround sound and it really draws you in.
  
  It could use more Wiimote actions beside parachuting and grenade tossing. The parachuting is a 
 blast. You hold the controlers like you would the lines of the chute and pull and twist to land. 
 I only wish there was more of it. Tossing `nades is fun too. You hold in the B button and make 
 a throwing motion, letting go of the button to let go of the pineapple. Very satisfying. On the 
 flipside, most of the motion controls on the nunchuck (jump, crouch, reload, 180 turn) are frustrating 
 at best, and fatal at worst. I gave up on them about 5 minutes into the game. However, they are 
 all mapped to buttons so it is not a big problem.
  
  The only other problem I have is the hit detection. I've had many-a-Nazi dead in my sights only 
 to miss. And sometimes your target dies a second after you fire. I don't know if this is due to 
 poor detection, or perhaps my squad mates got them.
  
  No, this is not the best FPS on the market. But it is better than you'd expect from most of the 
 professional reviewers. If you are into WWII shooters, then definately pick it up. If you are looking 
 for a decent shooter for the Wii, then pick it up. All others, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fr_tag_2745
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  EA continues its upport on to the wii with another great game which any shooter fan will love and 
 its graphically good i really liked the graphics on this game i think it was very fun those nice 
 awesome beggining missions that everyone loves i dont know why some web sites gave it a low score 
 i hope gamespot wont it really is a great game it has a really fun multiplayer (i really would of 
 like some online but hey its still really good) .
  So i think any fan that likes first person shooters should go and get this game its really good 
 trust me on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boni
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  this is the best world war shooter on the wii dont get me wrong call of duty three also was also 
 good but this is graphically superior for people that like first person shooters and own a wii 
 i think they should buy this game the graphics on it are really good like when your in a dark room 
 and you shoot with your weapon it will light the place arounf it will light right in your enemies 
 faces also the controls are made really good like when you just move your arm a litle bit the weapon 
 will also move alittle bit i think that good the thing is not any vehicle combat but still i enjoyed 
 the game it was really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chien_11
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 28, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  How can IGN rate this game a 7/10?? Im waiting to see what gamespot gives it...
  Its alot better than call of duty 3 in every way... Every one has mentioned the improvement in graphics 
 but the controls have improved alot. You can finally adjust the sensitivity .. and the less sensitive 
 the better... half the ppl that play cod3 at my place couldnt even get to grips with the gun movement 
 because it was too sensitive. Aiming around objects couldnt be better and throwing grenades make 
 it more life like in this game. Last but not least.... its the first FPS game on the wii to have 
 multiplayer... definatly fun 4 player action 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
