-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Medal of Honor Heroes 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/medalofhonorheroes2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fast and fun gameplay.
 Solid controls with interesting motion-sensing implementation.
 32-player online is impressive.
 Arcade mode is a fun diversion.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story and mission structure bring nothing new to the table.
 Terrible AI.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.5, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,532 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Medal of Honor Heroes 2 for the Wii combines solid online play, sharp controls, and fast-placed 
 gameplay into one of the best first-person shooters for the Wii. 

  Given that the last game was released just eight months ago, and considering that it wasn't very 
 good, you'd be forgiven for thinking that Medal of Honor Heroes 2 on the Wii would be just another 
 WWII first-person shooter with the same problems as its predecessor. That couldn't be further from 
 the truth. Although the game doesn't break any new ground with regard to its story or mission structure, 
 it improves on the last game in nearly every other way. In fact, Heroes 2 is so good that even 
 Wii owners who have sworn off the WWII genre would do well to give the game a look.  

           The motion controls even make tuning a radio fun.      

  There's a bit of a story 
 to Medal of Honor Heroes 2, and it's told in the form of premission briefings that feature still 
 photos and narrated voice-overs. Nevertheless, the plot is mostly inconsequential. You're an operative 
 in the Special Forces and it's up to you to stop Hitler from deploying his new rocket, the V2. 
 Over the course of eight missions, you'll perform the usual array of activities found in many a 
 WWII-based FPS: You'll plant charges, pick up documents, fight in a church, launch mortar rockets, 
 operate large cannons and stationary machine guns, and kill seemingly endless waves of Nazi soldiers. 
 At this point the developer doesn't even try to explain where these soldiers are coming from. You 
 can see them appear literally from thin air right in front of you on numerous occasions. Don't 
 expect any advanced artificial intelligence from the game, either. Enemy soldiers will run right 
 past you in an effort to get to their preprogrammed destinations. In a tremendous victory for equal-opportunity 
 advocates worldwide, your fellow squadmates are just as inept; they'll stand mere inches from a 
 bad guy without so much as batting an eye. They also love to shoot walls. But despite all of this, 
 the game is still great. How?  

  Heroes 2 is able to overcome its mostly routine objectives by excelling in other areas. For starters, 
 the game moves extremely fast -- much faster than your typical Medal of Honor game. The series has 
 always had an arcade edge to it, so speeding up the gameplay doesn't feel unnatural and serves 
 only to make things more exciting. You won't spend your time traversing long, empty sections of 
 terrain, and you won't have to inch forward to progress through a level. You can't just run through 
 the levels willy-nilly because Nazi soldiers are good shots, but usually you just find some cover 
 so that you can restore your health, quickly take a few guys out, and then scamper to the next 
 group of enemies and mow them down.  

  The speedy gameplay wouldn't have been possible if this Medal of Honor shared the same poor controls 
 as its predecessor, Vanguard. The controls aren't totally revamped, but they're definitely improved. 
 You move with the analog stick, look around by moving the Wii Remote, and fire with the B button. 
 There's always a reticle onscreen that turns red when it's over an enemy, so you can shoot via 
 that method or press A to raise your weapon and use the sights. You can also tilt the Nunchuk left 
 and right while in this view to lean in and out of cover. These aiming mechanics work just fine, 
 but it's the new auto-aim feature (available only on the lowest difficulty) that works the best. 
 Essentially all you have to do is focus your reticle on an enemy soldier and then press the Z button 
 to lock on. You can then move and fire while remaining locked on to your target. It's not as mindless 
 as many other auto-aim mechanics because it still requires some skill to line up that first shot, 
 and it really works well with the fast-paced gameplay. It's just a shame that it can't be used 
 on all the difficulty settings. There's also a control option that lets you use the soon-to-be-released 
 Wii Zapper, but it's far inferior to the standard controls.  

           Catch!      

  The fear with any Wii game that has roots on other consoles is that the developer will try to implement 
 some half-cocked motion controls just because people expect Wii games to have some sort of unique 
 remote-waving scheme. It's refreshing then that there are some truly interesting motion-sensing 
 controls in Heroes 2. You get midmission information by going up to a radio and tuning in the appropriate 
 frequency, which requires you to twist the Wii Remote like a tuning dial. The sound from the radio 
 even comes through the remote's speaker, which coincidentally has just about the same fidelity 
 as a 70-year-old radio, so it works perfectly. Using the shotgun is especially satisfying because 
 you pump it by quickly raising the Nunchuk. It makes you feel like an action hero when you run 
 into a room and start blasting a guy at close range and then pump your weapon with one hand. Even 
 setting explosive charges is a lot of fun; you twist the remote like you're winding a timer and 
 then you pull back as if you were pulling out the pin. At one point you'll find yourself holding 
 a mine detector, and you'll have to wave the remote back and forth while listening for clicks from 
 the Wii Remote to alert you of hidden danger. Of course, not all of the motion controls are great. 
 Twisting the remote to zoom in and out with the sniper rifle while you're trying to aim makes it 
 difficult to use. Likewise, holding the remote facedown on your shoulder as if it's a rocket launcher 
 is incredibly unwieldy, not to mention that you look really stupid while doing it.  

  The single-player campaign probably won't take you more than five or six hours to finish, so it's 
 good that there are plenty of other ways to stay busy. There's an arcade mode that is an on-rails 
 version of the single-player campaign. You move through the levels automatically, and your only 
 worry is to take out hundreds and hundreds of Nazis along the way. It's not as fun as something 
 like Time Crisis, given that the game wasn't designed from the ground up to be played this way, 
 but it's pretty entertaining. The Zapper does work well here, by the way.  

  Arcade mode will keep you busy for a few hours, but it's the game's online mode that will keep 
 you coming back for more. Considering that most Wii games don't have  any  online components, it's 
 impressive what EA has done with Heroes 2. Up to 32 players can duke it out online. The game modes 
 aren't groundbreaking, but they're what you'd expect from a Medal of Honor game. The level designs 
 are based on maps from the single-player campaign. They've been reworked a bit for multiplayer 
 and are well designed. The multiplayer succeeds both because it moves really fast and because there 
 are 32 players playing at the same time, so there's always some action. Our online experience went 
 smoothly and suffered from very little lag, though it would have been a little more fun with voice 
 chat, which is not supported. Even if Wii owners had other options for online first-person shooter 
 play, Heroes 2 would be a worthy choice.  

           You can even give out free lead to those less fortunate.      

  One thing that hasn't 
 changed a whole lot since the last game is the visuals, but Heroes 2 does look crisper and runs 
 smoother than Vanguard. It also has a bit more color than your typical WWII game. The graphics 
 are consequently less dreary than what you may be used to, although the levels take place in the 
 same sort of locations you've no doubt grown accustomed to: underground bunkers, a beach, a church, 
 a small town... You know the drill. Other than offering up stereotypical locations, the only real 
 knocks against the graphics are that enemy soldiers aren't very detailed and that they frequently 
 clip through solid objects. Outside of some interesting uses of the Wii Remote's speaker, what 
 you'll hear from Heroes 2 is what you've heard from Vanguard, Heroes, Airborne, and every other 
 Medal of Honor game: good-sounding weapons; sparse, but fitting music; and soldier chatter.  

 
  Thanks to sharp controls, speedy gameplay, and an impressive online mode, Medal of Honor Heroes 
 2 is a battle worth fighting. It really is a great game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (164 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 4:27 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Very good graphics; amazing, precise controls, even with motion detection; realistic 
 sound effects and weapons; an enjoyable career with enough difficulties to improve your fisrt-person 
 shooting skills; 32-person multiplayer, with no friend codes; arcade mode's pretty fun, and utilizes 
 the Zapper; you can keep track of your advancements easily.
  
  The Bad: So-so voice acting with annoying repetition; no local multiplayer; the campaign's pretty 
 short; levels aren't very expansive; graphics are a bit blocky on Wi-Fi.
  
  Medal of Honor, as of late, hasn't had a great track record. The franchise started with a spectacular 
 shooter to nearly rival Goldeneye on PS1, but like Call of Duty (mostly) , it's still stuck in World 
 War II.
  
  There's nothing wrong with World War II, it's a great idea to use it as a first-person shooter 
 setting, and many of the games based in it have been awesome. But it gets old.
  
  Not that that can't be overcome with spectacular gameplay, generally speaking. Yet I'll emphasize 
 again that tons of Medal of Honor games have been mediocre, if not just plain bad, recently.
  
  Fortunately, Medal of Honor: Heroes is a different story. Both Heroes games are on PSP and 
 turned out well, just like this one. In fact, upon release it was probably the best third party 
 effort on Wii that wasn't a port, and still is in those higher echelons.
  
  Not that third parties have put much effort into games on Wii, but this one manages to impress 
 regardless. Metroid Prime 3 isn't a shooter technically, but a first-person adventure, making this 
 the only quality shooter thus far from any company.
  
  The campaign is what you'd probably expect. You'll be battling through the Normandy Breakout, trying 
 to make it alive out of WWII with your allies. That's where WWII games have gotten annoying, they're 
 all basically the same.
  
  But on the upside, if you're new to shooters, the three difficulties (green, veteran and hero) 
 do a very good job of getting you better at the genre. If you beat green, veteran won't be a ton 
 harder at first, easing you into it, etc.
  
  However, the main story is extremely short, only a couple hours, in fact, though that number increases 
 including deaths and all the difficulties.
  
  The voice acting during this is actually rather poor. The guy who tells you about your mission 
 (you're apparently part of a secret organization along with being a soldier) gets very annoying, 
 very fast. Other AI characters repeat the same lines over and over. "Leave some for us!", "Doesn't 
 get much deader than that!" and, "Out of ammo, gotta reload!" get old within one or two levels, 
 and that's all you'll hear from them.
  
  Yet the sound and graphics in single player are top notch. There's naturally some very serious 
 war music, and it isn't overdone. The sound of guns, explosions, and targets being hit sound just 
 like they should. Guns and bombs feel like they're done the way they work in real life. And the 
 graphics look better than Gamecube graphics in general, fortunately. EA certainly didn't give Wii 
 a lousy port again, and that shows.
  
  In arcade you'll play through the same levels as in career, but you'll be on-rails, and focus on 
 shooting, reloading, health packs, and grenades. It's pretty fun, supports the Zapper (which makes 
 aiming much easier and more fun) , and allows for newer gamers to enjoy it too.
  
  The better you do on fulfilling all your objectives, the better score you'll get on the level. 
 This gives you a gold, silver or bronze medal, and advances your rank. You do in fact move up in 
 real life army rankings, which is pretty fun to see. In your records you can keep track of that, 
 the percentage of people you kill and your accuracy, and more. I personally like this addition 
 quite a bit.
  
  Unfortunately though, there's no local multiplayer. That takes away from the chance of bringing 
 everybody in to this game as a more mature welcome to the Wii, despite arcade mode. Plus, it means 
 you'll have to rely on Wii Sports for four player for now. Other than that, two player Guitar Hero 
 and Resident Evil are all you've got until Brawl.
  
  But then, (again, as of release) , Medal of Honor has the best Wi-Fi available. You could even still 
 say it does, because EA has their own Wi-Fi account, so no friend codes are required for the full 
 experience. You can get up to 32 person multiplayer going, which is as or more fun than the career. 
 It's no trouble setting up an account, a server, or joining a game already going, and there are 
 plenty of cool maps to pick from.
  
  You can't voice chat (since the Wii doesn't have a way to do that yet) , but you can call out for 
 help and such with the control scheme in wireless. It's good to see the developers thought about 
 that factor, even though voice chat would be better.
  
  The graphics in Wi-Fi can be a bit blocky though. The opponents and allies have chunky clothing, 
 even though the locales look the same. But that's just a nitpick.
  
  The absolute best part about the game, however, is the controls. Aiming is tight, and works as 
 well as Metroid Prime 3's in this respect: the way you dreamed of when the Wii was announced. It's 
 far, far superior to using two joysticks.
  
  But unlike Prime 3, the other controls are all flawless. Moving mortars, reloading, throwing grenades, 
 setting bombs, hitting people with your weapon, it's all done withhout a single mistake. Not that 
 Prime 3's were bad, but a little clunky once in awhile. These aren't. They're probably the best 
 controls on Wii to date.
  
  All the buttons work just right, too. Shooting is naturally assigned to the trigger, you can lean 
 out (by tilting the Wiimote) from hiding spots, aim down the site, crouch, target (in green mode) , 
 switch weapons, and again, the game won't make a mistake.
  
  Wii has received almost no support from third parties. Nintendo's done its best, as ever, to make 
 the best titles on its system, but one company can't make a spectacular game every month. Ubisoft's 
 best was a decent Rayman, (thought No More Heroes was from them, Suda made it) and Activision hasn't 
 really given much effort to the Wii versions of its games. Capcom's ports of Resident Evil and 
 Okami, on the other hand, are wonderful. Plus, they have Zack and Wiki to their credit. Sega, at 
 least, seems to be joining with its long-time bitter rival with House of the Dead, MadWorld (I 
 highly suggest it) , and the upcoming The Conduit.
  
  And fortunately, EA is a company that's giving good support too. Along with this, the best third 
 party game not from another system first, EA has brought the best versions of Harry Potter and 
 Madden to Wii, too, in many cases.
  
  Not that any of them aren't giving as much or more support to other systems, but they've given 
 us games that aren't awful ports from PS2 that wouldn't look good on a Gamecube.
  
  So if you like shooters, you have a Wii, and you want the best, this is where you want to go. Even 
 if that's not the case, this is one of the best third party attempts on the system, in case you 
 already got everything Nintendo has to offer. I'd certainly suggest it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lman971
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 2:52 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost this the best first person shooter on the wii. WAYYYY better than CoD3. The 
 gameplay, 9 outa 10. Being one of the first shooters being wii zapper compatible, it does a great 
 job for controls. There are only a few campaign levels but they are lengthy and tough. Overall 
 this is a very hard game. The last level is killer hard. The enemy A. I. isn't that great, but still 
 it makes the levels sweaty and hard. All of this earns MoHH2 a 9 out of 10 gameplay rating. Graphics, 
 9.5 outa 10. The graphics in this game are some of the best on the wii. Some are even Xbox 360 
 quality. Multiplayer earns an 8.5. The multiplayer isn't fierce but is still worth trying. There 
 is no shortage of players, so the game stays interesting. And also the game offers arcade mode, 
 which is an on-rails shooter just like at the arcade. Hence the name ARCADE MODE! This is a solid 
 shooter that any FPS fan will love.
  
  This game earns an 8.5.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: isbjorn99
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 27, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I found this game extremely cheesy. AI is absolutely idiotic and non-functional. Your teamates 
 make sports-like cheers while your enemies spawn right next to you out of thin air and can't figure 
 out how to respond (so I just shoot them and put them out of their misery.) Seems like a lack of 
 imagination on the designers part. Play was very linear. Follow the path, watch the enemies spawn 
 from the usual hiding spots. Kill them easily. Move forward 20 feet and repeat. To make it interesting 
 enemies sometimes spawn out of thin air behind you- Not the way to make a game challenging IMO.
 
  
  Online play is a pathetic shadow of PC play. Not worth the trouble. Maybe I am spoiled by PC versions 
 of Call of Duty 4&5 online play. 
  
  Wii motion controls were interesting. I can't say I love them but they worked okay. They repond 
 a little slower than I would like.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatobi669
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This game I have heard about since it came out. Many have different opinions and I am no different. 
 I think this game is better than people give it credit for. Many take off points because the graphics 
 are not the best, but like I say... does it matter when your having fun? Campaign was pretty easy 
 in my opinion (all difficulties) . Though when you play online all gloves are off. A lot of grenades 
 and bazookas going off (in my humble opinion I think those are pretty cheap kills as one hit and 
 your dead) . Everything runs smoothly from what I have played. I have not played with the Wii Zapper 
 so I don't know if it has a significant impact on your online/offline play. So I can't rate that. 
 I could easily give this game a 10 but I don't really give them out like that. Though keep in mind 
 that this game is GREAT! One thing which bugged me a bit was the cross hair on this game. Doesn't 
 really impact the game but you might need some time to get used to it. I have not played call of 
 duty world at war yet but this is a great shooter if you want to settle on a cheap fun game (I 
 brought around 30 bucks new) . So in the end I recommend it to any Wii owner and to any shooter 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitrospace
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately I was desperate for an FPS one late Monday night; I knew that there would be a slim 
 selection of FPS titles for the WII. When something caught my eye "Medal of Honor Heros 2", and 
 "Medal of Honor Vanguard". Judging by the art on the box for "MOH Vanguard" ( a man holding a gun 
 walking into battle with a very calm, and expressionless face) I could tell it was a big pile of 
 stinky poo. So I decided to rent Hero's 2. I was pretty excited about playing with a friend; which 
 on the back of the game box claimed It could play more then one player. When I started the game 
 the game I immediately went to campaign mode to ease my FPS cravings. When the game actually started 
 up i was greeted to a very static cardboard looking, Insainly small map with enemy solders running 
 into walls, and even running into my own teammates; not to mention the random screaming of my teammates 
 "Nice head shot!", and "Good one", dont forget "Leave some for us"; screaming these things as if 
 the the teammates where having a blast in the battlefield. So I played a little further just to 
 humor my self when i noticed the magic appearing enemies. I would empty a room of enemies get my 
 self a little sanctuary and start sniping some enemies farther off when... BOOM BOOM... O look how 
 did that guy get here right behind me. So I decided to stare at the spot where I killed him... and 
 lone behold right out of nothing a enemy appeared... Yay!! Fortunately for me the AI is virtually 
 non existent. That is when i turned off campaign mode and decided to try multiplayer. Only to my 
 disappointment I could only play online, and there are no split screen options or co-op modes. 
 After laughing at the game for a while and inviting some friends over to laugh at it; I took the 
 game back that night wondering If all the people that had given it good reviews were blind.. or 
 really intoxicated on LSD. Yet Another Horrible WW2 FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampiraJen
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  MoHHeroes2 offers two main types of game play: campaign and arcade. Campaign is the first person 
 shooter aspect of the game. Now, one of the reasons I got this was to see how they dealt with a 
 first person shooter but only having one analogue stick. This is the PSP's major downfall, and 
 after playing a demo of MOH Heroes I was convinced that you could never play a game without two. 
 What this game have done is kind of interesting and clever. There's a sort of 'dead area' in the 
 centre of the screen where you can aim and fire, but move your cross hair towards the edges of 
 the screen and your character turns in that direction. Honestly, this does take some getting use 
 too. For a long time I found myself overcompensating and getting a highly annoying 'point the Wii 
 remote at the screen' message. You'll get this a lot before you adjust to it. Even when I did, 
 I still found some weapons handled a bit awkwardly, like the sniper rifle. And there were still 
 times when I wanted to shoot at someone and ended up doing turns like a drunken ballerina. That's 
 where aiming really comes in handy.
  
  It's hardly a new concept. In COD4 you pretty much rely on it if you want to land an accurate shot. 
 Here, you don't, you really just need to aim and fire, but it makes life so much easier. Hold down 
 A to take aim and line up your shot. It's actually amazing how much more accurate your shots become. 
 In no time at all I was landing head shots. Some of the physical movements involved in gunplay 
 works better than other. Firing an RPG has a nice touch, you hold the Wii-remote on your shoulder, 
 the pointer facing away, in style of holding and actual RPG. Aiming is a little awkward with the 
 analogue stick compared to the grace of aiming with Wii-Remote. Aiming a sniper gun is more awkward, 
 turning the Wii-Remote to the right to zoom in and to the left to zoom out again, especially when 
 you have to move it to change your aim. Throwing grenades is pretty cool though, swinging the Wii-Remote 
 as if you were throwing an actual grenade.
  
  The A. I, in both your enemies and your allies, is a little suspect, though. It's probably more 
 noticeable in your allies since you depend on them to help you. They rarely land a shot themselves, 
 and on more than one occasion I saw them aiming their guns in the opposite direction. The enemies 
 tend to just stand in front of you and shoot as if saying, "C'mon, I'm here! Shoot me!" Those that 
 do hide behind cover follow a very specific pattern when it comes to them sneaking out to take 
 a shot so all you have to do is be patient and wait for them to give you a clear head shot. Other 
 times I have seen the enemies shoot at me, but there's an obstacle in their way. Instead of moving 
 to get a clear shot, they just fire into whatever is blocking their way... unless their gun isn't 
 just sticking through the graphics.
  
  If you get bored of the main campaign, there's always arcade mode, which is... well, the game in 
 arcade version. All you have to do is point and fire. I like arcade shooters so I enjoyed this. 
 There isn't really any changes from the campaign levels, you still have do do all the same things. 
 This is okay for the most part, but gets a bit annoying at times. Sometimes you really don't care 
 about blowing up a U-Boat, you just want to shoot. My major gripe with this version would be that 
 your gun runs out of ammo pretty quickly, which means you spend a lot of time reloading your gun. 
 And it seems to take a little bit longer for your gun to actually reload than is normal, or even 
 fair, for an arcade shooter. We're only talking a fraction of a second, but as Master Millar said 
 to Solid Snake, it's the difference between life and death.
  
  Graphics are pretty good for the Wii. I don't know why so many people **** that the graphics are 
 bad on this console. Sure, they're not up there with the PS3 and 360 graphics, but that doesn't 
 make them bad. They look like really good PS2 graphics, and that's no bad thing. People are focusing 
 too much on things like graphics. They don't make the game, good game play does and with the exception 
 of one or two gripes, the game play's pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCHOGAMER2010
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This game, in my opinion is a solid 8. The controls are fabulous! The Wii has had trouble coming 
 out with an FPS that would do somewhat good with the controls. Most of the FPS on the Wii have 
 had problems with the controls. I believe that this game has done its part with heading in the 
 right direction with Wii FPS. This game uses the Wii's control capability's really well. The aiming 
 system is good and accurate if you can keep the remote steady. The graphics on the other hand are 
 not the best. A lot of the environments look the same and the textures are not that great. It seems 
 that there are a lot of the same colors, mostly dark in every level. The single player game play 
 is fantastic! For people who like games with a lot of action, this game is for you. You get very 
 involved with the action using the great controls - thrusting forward the nun-chuck and Wii remote 
 to hit a Nazi soldier who pops out of no where, or swinging your arm over your head with all your 
 might to throw a grenade. The game overall 
  is very immersing and will have you hooked. I have not played online too much but I have to say 
 that it is one of the best games online. 32 players at a time?! Now that's intense action. I'm 
 not sure how many maps there are but I know that the ones I've played have been really fun. It 
 sometimes seems as if the damage consistency is a little off but you really just have to hit them 
 in the right spots. For those of you that don't have it, I really believe this is one of the better 
 games for the Wii and is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathan94
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This is just another Wii game i couldnt bare to make it through. It has very lackluster gameplay 
 and to me the motion controls didnt add anything to the experience and found myself looking for 
 a gamecube controller. It is the definition of an arcade first person shooter that looks cool but 
 doesnt deliver. Im used the quality, intensity and touch of realism in call of duty games. This 
 doesnt have any of those quality's and i found myself struggling to continue play in the begining 
 just because i found it very unrewarding. Basically in the single player you just run around shooting 
 nazi's up and occasionally blowing up gun emplacements. The graphics are very ugly and undetailed 
 especially after playing Gears of War and Call of Duty 4. I eventually got used to the Controls 
 but if i played call of duty with them i would be now where near as effective. The canned death 
 animations and instantly dissapearing corpses round out the unattractive features. The environments 
 are static and unchanging except for scripted events. The only redeeming feature is the multiplayer 
 which destracted me for about 3-4 hours but is really not worth getting into especcially since 
 theyres games like Call of Duty 4 and Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wescash
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  32 player fun online with no friend codes, yay! The multiplayer is well done and works good, loads 
 fast, has a solid variety of levels and modes, and is easy to jump in and out of games.
  Fantastic controls. The controls are customizable in nearly every way and allow you to find the 
 perfect match for you.
  Nice music and graphics. Ambient soundtrack with all the standard gun noises and soldier cries.
 
  Arcade mode is a fun diversion. I've heard this is good with the wii zapper, but I have yet to 
 use it.
  
  Bad:
  AI can be glitchy and stupid. Soldiers appear out of nowhere, they run in circles, and like to 
 shoot walls. Fun to watch though.
  Not a huge variety of weapons (10 or so) . And lots of them are clones of one another.
  No vehicles 
 to drive. : (
  
  In conclusion - if you are looking for a good fps for wii, then MOHH2 is a worthy choice, especially 
 if you have an internet connection.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elite10001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  The game was fun. I mean really fun!!!!!!!! I loved how you used the Wii remote and put it on your 
 shoulder and locked in and fire away! boom! your dead! LOL! the campain was really short! It was 
 only like 9 missons i think! but also multiplayer was awsome! the game is addicting if your an fps 
 fan! But you might not like the campain! i didn't like it ethier. But multiplayers is awsome! theres 
 six types of maps in multiplayer. they were  port. there really 
 cool maps so if any on is and fps fan. no really an fps fan than get this game, TRUST ME ITS WORTH 
 IT! SO GET OF THE COUCH AND GET THE GAME DUDE AND PLAY IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! no really please get off 
 and get the game! my neighbor dick got the game. lol! i know funny name! but if you have a psp 
 or a wii get the freak game! ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ah ah ah ha ha 
 ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlopMeDo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  The game has an outstanding multiplayer game!! IT's amazing! Evan with Smash bros. and Mario kart, 
 this game is still one of the top online games for me.
  The singleplayer is definately not something you could breeze through and it's not freakin, crazily 
 hard either. That's perfect to me. The multiplayer is..... I can't describe.... IT SUCKS S*&^*&!! 
 Heh I'm just kidding! It's the best multiplayer game I've played on the WII. WOOOOP!! No lag. Good 
 amount of players on...... I'm just speechless. YOu should run out and plop right into the nearest 
 game store and buy it!!!
  It's one of the best!! It's so fun just to shoot your own guys in the head and they don't care.
 
  It's also funny how the Germans say things that sound weird in English like; "BARCELONA SHNITZEL!"
 
  I like  
 Well, almost.
  It still has it's flaws. Some of the levels can be anoying and it's cheap how many glitches you 
 can do online. One time, I was online and I was shooting the crap out of someone and I almost killed 
 him until he went through a freakin wall!!!!! I was like WHAT??!!
  Good game! Get it!
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: singe2241
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  The single payer is good but short and is nothing special. the difficulty is good but can get quite 
 hard at times. You can play the single player missions in an arcade style which is fun and it supports 
 wii zapper too bad you cant have 2 players doing this at the same time. the controls are very good 
 in this game and the graphic is mediocore because well lets face it it is the wii. The main reason 
 you should get the game is because of the 32 player online it consists of deathmatch, team deathmatch 
 and capture the flag it is annoying they didnt have any other modes. There is no splitscreen online 
 which is a pitty becasue that would have been really cool. The scoring system online is bad because 
 when you kill someone you get a point and when you die you get a point deducted (you die more times 
 than you kill) . One good thing about the online is you dont have to use the stupid friend code 
 thing (thank you ea) . 
  
  overall this game is ok and it could have been much better. It has a solid single and multiplayer 
 experience, so i would rent it mabye buy it. 
  
  If you do buy it, buy it for $20 or less. If i were you i would save up for a better console if 
 you are in to shooters because this is the wii and no good shooters are out or will come soon so 
 get a xbox/ps3 these are where the good games are.
  P. S xbox owns all consoles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DKing2188
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  The single player is good, and fairly long depending on how good yuo are with the wiimote. You 
 pretty much point at the screen and shoot, which makes it the most skill involving game on the 
 wii. Online is a dream come true, capture outposts and work with yuor team to achieve victory. 
 I absolutely love this it never get's boring this game is only comparable to star wars battlefront 
 renegade squadron for the psp but this is probobly better. Just check out renegade if you have 
 a psp that's the best online game for that system, but for the wii it's definatly medal of honor 
 heroes 2 it's like 25 bucks too best value ever. Wii deosn't have alot of good games but this is 
 one of those awesome ones that makes the system worth getting. My cousin has it i havn't bought 
 it yet cause i'm getting a psp but i play it everytime he comes over it's so fun really soething 
 to look forward too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut_032
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Since the console's debut, Wii owners have been hard-pressed to find a first person shooter fully 
 loaded with features that are easily found in games from the Xbox360 or PS3. Red Steel and Far 
 Cry were forgettable, Call of Duty 3 and Metroid Prime 3 were a step in the right direction, though 
 they lacked the online experience.
  
  MoH: Heroes 2 once again places you in the shoes of a soldier in WWII, which might be an instant 
 turn-off for some gamers who have grown tired of the genre. However, those who pass up this game 
 due to the WWII theme are missing out on a good example of solid controls. Yes, the story is easily 
 forgettable, and the core of the game is essentially running and shooting. But EA has found the 
 right formula for the job, and it simply works well. Logically your character's movement is done 
 with the analog stick on the nunchuck, and aiming is done with the remote. Zoom function is with 
 the A button, and the B trigger fires your weapon. EA has added in some nice tweaks into the game, 
 such as the grenade throwing, which will have you flick the remote to throw. The simulation of 
 the pump-action on the shotgun has you jerk the nunchuck before firing, but this feature isn't 
 forced on you, and can be turned off. Melee attacks are done by thrusting the remote and the nunchuck 
 in a rifle-butt-like motion. Zooming on the sniper rifle involves twisting your remote hand to 
 fine-tune the magnification; this gets a little tiring though. The only major problem I found with 
 the controls was in the way of switching weapons which had to be done with the d-pad.
  
  The best part about the motion controls is that it can be customized to suit your preferences. 
 The "dead zone" can be adjusted so that your screen wont move until the cursor steps out of a designated 
 area, which keeps your screen more stable. The turning speeds and sensitivity can also be adjusted 
 as well.
  
  The campaign mode is rather short, and your objectives never really amount to that much more than 
 shooting enemy soldiers. But then again, that's the point a war game, and also there is so many 
 ways to do it that the experience is always entertaining. Arcade mode is like a light-gun type 
 game, which works well for those who own the wii-zapper. 
  
  But the selling point in this game for me was the multiplayer. Why is that? Because friend codes 
 are not necessary in this game! That's right, now you can pick up and play against other Wii owners 
 without having to find out those dreadful friend codes. EA has a functional lobby system with user 
 names and friends lists, which are easily expanded by simply sending invites to people that you 
 have recently played against. The maps are based on the campaign environments, and support up to 
 32 players, another nice feature. The modes online are all standard game types found in similar 
 shooters. Online play is generally smooth, and doesn't suffer from noticeable lag even with 32 
 players. The community itself is fairly decent in size, though don't expect the same number of 
 players that you would find in say, Halo 3 or Call of Duty 4. It was an absolute delight to find 
 out that EA included online multiplayer without the clunky friend code interface found in other 
 Wii Online titles. Other developers simply must take note of EA's online system.
  
  The presentation in this game however isn't all that great. The graphics aren't bad by any means, 
 but they aren't great either. The game runs smoothly at 60fps and shows off decent environments. 
 However, the game's PSP roots show, with simplistic character models, and the lack of fancy dynamic 
 lighting effects found in other first person shooters. With games like "The Conduit" showing off 
 the Wii's graphical horsepower, it is arguable that the EA could have made a better looking game.
 
  
  While this game doesn't do anything drastically different from other WWII shooters like Call of 
 Duty and even from it's own series, the execution of the game play mechanics just made it an overall 
 fun game to play. The presentation may not be up to the quality that the Wii can produce with some 
 developer fine-tuning, but the solid control scheme and multiplayer interface makes MoH: Heroes 
 2 one of the best games for trigger happy Wii Owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfull15
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  If you like classic war games, then this is definitely a great game for you. There is a great campaign 
 mode. You are an ally and you must do numerous tasks, such as destroy U-Boats, snipe the enemy 
 turret, or maybe just tuning into a radio! This game introduces a new kind of shooting. It is a 
 first-person shooter, but to aim, you actually have to move your arms. It's much trickier than 
 other games, and it takes a while to get used to. The campaign isn't all that hard on green (easiest) , 
 but when you get to veteran (medium) and hero (hardest) , the game gets a lot harder. Another mode 
 is arcade. It is like a classic video game. You don't have to move on your own. The game walks 
 you through it, but you have to kill all of the enemies that pop out. It is a very fun mode and 
 it's a lot like the classic arcade shooters. The last mode - and my personal favorite - is online 
 multi player. You can choose to play either Death Match, Team Death Match, and Infiltration. There 
 are also 6 maps you can choose from. All maps are fairly large. Servers can hold up to 32 players, 
 and there's always a lot of servers. There is a neat ranking system. The more points you have, 
 the higher the rank you are. Points are counted by your kills - (minus) your deaths. The game moves 
 at a faster pace than other games, which makes it even more intense. There is a large array of 
 guns that you may choose from. To play, you can also use the Wii Zapper for more realistic features. 
 This game is very fun, challenging, and it will have your heart pounding and you at the edge of 
 your seat. Your should check this game out. You won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pesantez
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Great Controls, Good Lagless online, and a ok Campaign and Arcade Mode.
  
  Well i'll start with the great thing about this game. 
  
  The Controls: Simply Amazing, probably 
 the best controls in a FPS game for the Wii. Easy to memorize and doesn't try too hard to utilize 
 the Wiimote.
  
  Overall it's the best thing about this game: 
  Score 10/10
  
  Let's continue with the good shall we?
  
  Online Play: Virtually laggless and doesn't require 
 Friend Codes to play with another. Keeps records of all the best players and everyone can use there 
 own IGN (In game name or gamertag) . Has the basic Deathmatch, team deathmatch and capture the flag 
 gamemodes, all of which are pretty unoriginal, but hey they are good modes that should be found 
 in any FPS with Online. 
  
  Up to 32 players can play in a room, and at times it can be a real intense match going on. Whether 
 it's fighting to reach a certian death count or just playing til time runs out, every match seems 
 to feel alike at times from my experience, maybe perhaps it's because of how limited weapons and 
 maps we get to play with/on. Only 13 guns and 8 maps seems to get old fast.
  
  This is just my personal experience and it certianly may differ for others. Overall the online 
 for MOHH2 is great, it's just the physics of the game i loathe which i'll get to later on:
  Score 8/10
  
  Now To the Offline Modes.
  
  The Campaign isn't anything special and the 
 AI of enemies and allies are simply horrible. I'm going to say right now that if you do not have 
 Wifi capabilities, this game is not worth getting at all. There are only eight missions, all of 
 which arn't that great but some are fun nontheless. There are achievements that the game gives 
 you to do to try and enhance gameplay i suppose, but it's nothing special. Just stuff like *Kill 
 20 enemies with a pistol* and things along those lines.
  
  Now this game also offers another offline mode to play. And no it's not splitscreen multiplayer, 
 that is absent from this game. 
  
  Instead we get Arcade mode. All it is basically is campaign mode except you're on rails. It's a 
 mode i rarely play simply because i rather play the regular Campaign mode. But if you're a fan 
 of on rail shooters, take your stab at it and enjoy.
  
  Overall this games strong point is not the offline gameplay and im pretty sure everyone who has 
 the game would agree with me on that statement:
  Score 6.5/10
  
  Now on to my biggest gripe on the game. It's physics.
  
  If you're a halo fan, you'd probably 
 accept the physics of MOHH2 because it pratically feels the same in the sense that it takes fovever 
 to kill someone. With a gun that holds 20 bullets, it takes about 15+ bullets to kill someone. 
 Combine that with Regenerating health and man it can seriously take half a minute before a gun 
 battle finally ends. Me being a PC FPS and Call Of duty player, i simply loathe it. It really is 
 what holds the game back from being great for me. 
  
  Of course this is complete personally preference and who knows? Maybe you'll love the physics of 
 the game:
  Score 5/10
  
  10+8+6.5+5/4
  =
  7.35 ~ 7.5
  
  It's a decent game that i don't happen to think is great simply because of the physics, but i'd 
 say to try it out because what i prefer may be different from what you do. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masta_Jedi
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoy WW2 shooters, you should really take a look at this one. The game offers a great campaign, 
 with many different missions, each of them containing bonus objectives to be completed. The campaign 
 is kind of short, but if you are familiar with the series that shouldn't be a surprise. The sound 
 and graphics are pretty good for the wii, and the gameplay really puts the wii's motion sensing 
 abilities to the test. It might take some getting used to, but overall the moves you have to make 
 feel very smooth and natural (unlike some games for the wii where you struggle to do a simple movement) .
 
  The game also has a nice arcade mode, where you play through the campaign missions, but the character 
 moves by himself, and you just have to worry about shooting the enemy. In this mode the game counts 
 how many kills you had, and its fun to play with friends and see who can get a better result. There 
 is also an online game mode, which is pretty cool, but the bad thing is the game doesn't offer 
 local multiplayer (with two controllers) .
  Overall, it's a great WW2 shooter, really worth playing if you enjoy this kind of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diablo_66
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Medal of honor heroes 2. To be honest, its not innovative the whole world war 2 aspect has been 
 hundreds of times and mohh2 on the wii doesn't do much to make it any more exciting that it is.
 
  
  The story mode albeit hard is very samey. all the maps feature you killing hordes of enemies to 
 get to one place and then to another etc. the ai aren't that bright, but if you have the difficulty 
 on high then you can expect to die quite easily if you understimate them. Apart from that the story 
 isn't anything brilliant and really will feel quite stale and you'll maybe even regret going through 
 it. 
  
  Although the one player campaign may be nothing to go by, the 32 player online multiplayer matches 
 are something to behold. Joining halfway through a mssive struggle of capture the falg is excellant 
 and you'll soon find yourself completely owned if your not great at the game. that may sound bad 
 but you can play against other newbies and constantl going against better players will have you 
 learning new tricks and you'll gradually get to their level anyways.
  
  Thats pretty much it from this game, except an arcade mode that i suppose is aimed at the younger 
 audience to ease them into the game, but for any hardcore fans its nothing special and can be disregarded 
 as a waste of disc usage.
  
  in conclcusion the games one player campaign isn't great, but it can be fun depedning on what your 
 looking for. but this games real gem is the online multipayer. you get some great matches and the 
 fact you can play with 32 other players online is a great leap forward for the wii's dismal online 
 cpabilities. So really if you've got online and your looking for a good FPS game then this is it, 
 but if you haven't got online and your looking for a great shooter, then look elsewhere. and even 
 though I've given the game a relativly high score, its only because of the online and how great 
 it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beastboy947
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 7, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  first of all the online play are pretty much great so if your worried about that you van rest easy. 
 the downside is the single player campaign with seems like it was just an after though in the game. 
 this game feels like a half baked first person shooter were your by yourself 95% of the time. EA 
 put no effort in making you feel like you are part of a war and if you want a regular 1st person 
 shooter for the wii get resident evil 4with is much longer has better controls and is just more 
 fun. now about the controls they work well 70% of the time but there or spots in the game were 
 you use a machine gun mounted to the floor, now this seems like a simply thing to do point ya wii 
 remote and shoot right? actuly no EA decided to make u hold up both wii remote and nun chuck like 
 your actully holding the machine gun. this would be cool if it worked but of course it doesent 
 because with out use of the pointer its impossible to aim. it was so bad i had to change to wii 
 zapper controls even though i don''t have 1 just to be able to use the pointer. there are tons 
 of little glitches like this that make this game fustrating hard because the controls dont work. 
 its a good thing EA added the online multiplayer because the single player is short and you'll 
 feel like a 1 man army the whole time. so i would say pass on this game if you want a first person 
 shooter get resident evil 4 if you want a war game this is not it get call of duty or wait for 
 another game to come out. however if you're willing to pay 50$ for good online play then go for 
 it but even that gets old after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gam3rKidd
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  With Wii owners losing hope for a great first-person shooter for the Wii, EA gives us Medal of 
 Honor: Heroes 2. You may think its a cheap port from the PSP, but its way better than the PSP version 
 and is a great addition to the Medal of Honor franchise.
  
  This game has 3 game modes to choose from. There is a Campaign mode, Arcade, and Multiplayer mode 
 online via Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. The Campaign mode has 3 difficulty levels and will take about 
 5-6 hours to complete. It's somewhat short but it's a very fun campaign mode. The Arcade mode feels 
 just like the lightgun games at arcades if you are using the Wii Zapper but if you don't it's not 
 as much fun.
  
  Now it's get to the multiplayer mode. Well, it can go up to 32 players in one match. There are 
 3 games modes to choose from which are Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Capture the Flag. There 
 are 2 teams to choose from which are the Allies and the Axis. The online is very enjoyable and 
 will keep you playing for hours at a time. But there is a lack of communication between players 
 and by that I mean voice chat. There are so many moments where you just want to scream "OWNED!!!", 
 but no one can hear you...
  
  Now let's get to the controls. For one thing, they work very well. You aim your gun with the Wii 
 Remote and press the B button to fire your gun and when you are in sniper mode, you twist the Wii 
 Remote clockwise or counter-clockwise to zoom in and out. When you want to throw a grenade you 
 aim where you want the grenade to go and to a throwing motion with the Wii Remote as if you are 
 throwing a real grenade. When you are using a Bazooka, you put the Wii Remote over your shoulder 
 as if you were holding a real Bazooka and it works really well and adds more realism to the game.
 
  
  And last but not least the graphics. They're nothing like Super Mario Galaxy or Metroid Prime 3's 
 graphics but they're still nice and that's pretty much it.
  
  In conclusion Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 is a great game overall especially if you are looking for 
 a great shooter and multiplayer experience for the Wii. You should check it out anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CodeBlack3
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is a solid addition to the MOH series. In the game, your character is part of the OSS, 
 an organization in WWII. You go in with the Fifth Rangers, a division of soilders in the war. The 
 game has simple controls for the most part- B for fire, Wii Remote is aim, C-Pad for switching 
 weapons and stances, etc., but some of the controls like the bazooka are rather annoying They are 
 even more simple in the arcade mode, where all you do is fire, while the game controls your movement. 
 There are eight levels in the game, and I personally beat them all in about 5-7 hours. But you, 
 along with me, would want to go back to complete 100% in at least the easy difficulty, making the 
 game about 10-20 hours long. The three difficulties are very different, where the first is too 
 easy, and the last is too tough, making really only one decent difficulty. However, if you never 
 have played an FPS game, you might want to try the easy difficulty, and if you're a master, then 
 go right to the hardest- you probably can compete. 
  The graphics are very good for being Wii graphics, and can even top some 360 games. The sound is 
 great, like any FPS, and is also very realistic. Also, the music is great, just like most MOH games.
 
  The complaints for the game i have are first, it is a short game, and like i said, it only takes 
 about five hours to beat, if you're not going for 100%. Second, the game generally has you doing 
 lone wolf missions, and I personally like to fight with squads. Third, again with the difficulty, 
 there's only one decent level. Fourth, like I said, the controls can get annoying sometimes.
  Overall, it's a good buy, just make sure none of the above items would bother you. For those of 
 you who are family friendly- yes, the game is war so it will have guns, but I don't find this very 
 offensive. Second, there is no blood. For bad language, your men will sometimes yell out "Germans" 
 but they say it to where it sounds like "D*** it!" Also, in one of the missions, me and my brother 
 both heard the word d***, but he has played it for over 70 hours and not heard it before then, 
 so it's not very common. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Very good graphics; amazing, precise controls, even with motion detection; realistic 
 sound effects and weapons; an enjoyable career with enough difficulties to improve your fisrt-person 
 shooting skills; 32-person multiplayer, with no friend codes; arcade mode's pretty fun, and utilizes 
 the Zapper; you can keep track of your advancements easily.
  
  The Bad: So-so voice acting with annoying repetition; no local multiplayer; the campaign's pretty 
 short; graphics are a bit blocky on Wi-Fi.
  
  Medal of Honor, as of late, hasn't had a great track record. The franchise started with a spectacular 
 shooter to nearly rival Goldeneye on PS1, but like Call of Duty (mostly) , it's still stuck in World 
 War II.
  
  There's nothing wrong with World War II, it's a great idea to use it as a first-person shooter 
 setting, and many of the games based in it have been awesome. But it gets old.
  
  Not that that can't be overcome with spectacular gameplay, generally speaking. Yet I'll emphasize 
 again that tons of Medal of Honor games have been mediocre, if not just plain bad, recently.
  
  Fortunately, Medal of Honor: Heroes is a different story. Both Heroes games are on PSP and 
 turned out well, just like this one. In fact, upon release it was probably the best third party 
 effort on Wii that wasn't a port, and still is in those higher echelons.
  
  Not that third parties have put much effort into games on Wii, but this one manages to impress 
 regardless. Metroid Prime 3 isn't a shooter technically, but a first-person adventure, making this 
 the only quality shooter thus far from any company.
  
  The campaign is what you'd probably expect. You'll be battling through the Normandy Breakout, trying 
 to make it alive out of WWII with your allies. That's where WWII games have gotten annoying, they're 
 all basically the same.
  
  But on the upside, if you're new to shooters, the three difficulties (green, veteran and hero) 
 do a very good job of getting you better at the genre. If you beat green, veteran won't be a ton 
 harder at first, easing you into it, etc.
  
  However, the main story is extremely short, only a couple hours, in fact, though that number increases 
 including deaths and all the difficulties.
  
  The voice acting during this is actually rather poor. The guy who tells you about your mission 
 (you're apparently part of a secret organization along with being a soldier) gets very annoying, 
 very fast. Other AI characters repeat the same lines over and over. "Leave some for us!", "Doesn't 
 get much deader than that!" and, "Out of ammo, gotta reload!" get old within one or two levels, 
 and that's all you'll hear from them.
  
  Yet the sound and graphics in single player are top notch. There's naturally some very serious 
 war music, and it isn't overdone. The sound of guns, explosions, and targets being hit sound just 
 like they should. Guns and bombs feel like they're done the way they work in real life. And the 
 graphics look better than Gamecube graphics in general, fortunately. EA certainly didn't give Wii 
 a lousy port again, and that shows.
  
  In arcade you'll play through the same levels as in career, but you'll be on-rails, and focus on 
 shooting, reloading, health packs, and grenades. It's pretty fun, supports the Zapper (which makes 
 aiming much easier and more fun) , and allows for newer gamers to enjoy it too.
  
  The better you do on fulfilling all your objectives, the better score you'll get on the level. 
 This gives you a gold, silver or bronze medal, and advances your rank. You do in fact move up in 
 real life army rankings, which is pretty fun to see. In your records you can keep track of that, 
 the percentage of people you kill and your accuracy, and more. I personally like this addition 
 quite a bit.
  
  Unfortunately though, there's no local multiplayer. That takes away from the chance of bringing 
 everybody in to this game as a more mature welcome to the Wii, despite arcade mode. Plus, it means 
 you'll have to rely on Wii Sports for four player for now. Other than that, two player Guitar Hero 
 and Resident Evil are all you've got until Brawl.
  
  But then, (again, as of release) , Medal of Honor has the best Wi-Fi available. You could even still 
 say it does, because EA has their own Wi-Fi account, so no friend codes are required for the full 
 experience. You can get up to 32 person multiplayer going, which is as or more fun than the career. 
 It's no trouble setting up an account, a server, or joining a game already going, and there are 
 plenty of cool maps to pick from.
  
  You can't voice chat (since the Wii doesn't have a way to do that yet) , but you can call out for 
 help and such with the control scheme in wireless. It's good to see the developers thought about 
 that factor, even though voice chat would be better.
  
  The graphics in Wi-Fi can be a bit blocky though. The opponents and allies have chunky clothing, 
 even though the locales look the same. But that's just a nitpick.
  
  The absolute best part about the game, however, is the controls. Aiming is tight, and works as 
 well as Metroid Prime 3's in this respect: the way you dreamed of when the Wii was announced. It's 
 far, far superior to using two joysticks.
  
  But unlike Prime 3, the other controls are all flawless. Moving mortars, reloading, throwing grenades, 
 setting bombs, hitting people with your weapon, it's all done withhout a single mistake. Not that 
 Prime 3's were bad, but a little clunky once in awhile. These aren't. They're probably the best 
 controls on Wii to date.
  
  All the buttons work just right, too. Shooting is naturally assigned to the trigger, you can lean 
 out (by tilting the Wiimote) from hiding spots, aim down the site, crouch, target (in green mode) , 
 switch weapons, and again, the game won't make a mistake.
  
  Wii has received almost no support from third parties. Nintendo's done its best, as ever, to make 
 the best titles on its system, but one company can't make a spectacular game every month.
  
  Ubisoft's best was a decent Rayman, (thought No More Heroes was from them, Suda made it) and 
 Activision hasn't really given much effort to the Wii versions of its games.
  
  Capcom's ports of Resident Evil and Okami, on the other hand, are wonderful. Plus, they have Zack 
 and Wiki to their credit, with Dead Rising and Monster Hunter on the way.
  
  Sega hasn't done something AAA in awhile, but a few of their best efforts (Sonic and Nights in 
 particular) are on Wii, plus MadWorld and House of the Dead coming up, too.
  
  And fortunately, EA is a company that's giving good support too. Along with this, the best third 
 party game not from another system first, EA has brought the best versions of Harry Potter and 
 Madden to Wii, too, in many cases.
  
  Not that any of them aren't giving as much or more support to other systems, but they've given 
 us games that aren't awful ports from PS2 that wouldn't look good on a Gamecube.
  
  So if you like shooters, you have a Wii, and you want the best, this is where you want to go. Even 
 if that's not the case, this is one of the best third party attempts on the system, in case you 
 already got everything Nintendo has to offer. I'd certainly suggest it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NewPorkCity
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  In Medal of Honor games, the main focus is essentially split down the middle between the campaign 
 and the multiplayer. Like any shooting game for the Nintendo Wii, the controls will take time to 
 get used to, but I find it very satisfying when your aim is the reason you complete a mission. 
 In MoH: H2, the Campaign mode, while fun and even a little challenging at times, seems to be over 
 before it even started. Luckily for you, there are three levels of difficulty. The harder the better, 
 I've found. 
  When Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 rolled along, they announced that not only would it be Nintendo WFC 
 Compatible, but it would allow up to 32-player matches online, which sounds like it should be chaos. 
 Instead, it chalked up to be a very organized and impressive setup and execution online. It keeps 
 you entertained, and at many times, seeking revenge on "Wiikid385" (not a real screen name) . My 
 personal favorite place to battle online is the Monastery; not saying it should be yours. All in 
 all, MoH: H2 is a very enticing game, with a few exceptions due to spasmatic controls, and has the 
 best online experience for the Nintendo Wii so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithisil
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong - I like a good First Person Shooter any day of the week. Just don't expect 
 me to like the same game thrown at me over... and over... and over....
  
  The Good:
  The game offers a great online experience. If you're new to the Medal of Honor series, then you 
 might find this game fun and perhaps even a refreshing change from other historical shooters. The 
 controls are, for the most part, fluid, and the usage of the Wii Zapper (or remote) provides several 
 ways to play the game. You can almost have as much fun aiming your bazooka as you could blowing 
 Nazis to smithereens. Various actions like setting bombs and radio tuning become more intricate 
 and fun with the new control scheme as well. The graphics don't look too bad, either. Overall, 
 it's still a solid shooter with some great features.
  
  The Bad:
  There are two game modes, but you might as well just forget Arcade; it's almost the same thing 
 as normal mode, except you can't control your movement. However, if you like games like that more, 
 then perhaps forget the normal mode. Both have little that differs to offer in the end. Similarly, 
 this game has little difference from the PC games to the Wii. Sure, the Wii version has spiffy 
 controls, but come on... I can nearly play the games blindfolded by now.
  
  The Ugly:
  The AI is only slightly more intelligent than the gum you stepped on in the parking lot on your 
 way to purchase this game.
  
  It's not a terrible game, especially for those who like first person shooters or are new to the 
 series.... But something new would be a drastic improvement to this series. The online play can 
 also be very enjoyable, but not everyone has their Wii hooked up to the internet... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I already reviewed this on the PSP, but I played it on the Wii to see the difference. The single 
 player had more AI teammates in the very beginning, which was really exciting, but then they all 
 die and there's only three guys left, which is just how it is on the PSP. Basically, the first 
 level was exactly like it is on the PSP, except that they throw in like twenty guys in the very 
 beginning for the sake of trying to make it really exciting, and then they kill them all off automatically 
 so it doesn't really matter.
  The game has this on-rails shooting mode, but it's not very fun. It takes waaay longer to beat 
 a level in the "arcade" on-rails shooting mode than it does to beat a level in the normal campaign. 
 It's also way less fun, because the player just aims and shoots a machine gun with infinite ammo. 
 Basically, you go around the normal campaign levels, devoid of teammates or anything else even 
 mildly interesting, and you automatically move and look where the screen wants you to, and you 
 go from the beginning of the level to the end to complete various objectives that you'd complete 
 in the normal campaign when you get to walk around. From what I remember, and I hope I'm wrong, 
 you can't switch weapons or throw grenades. The whole thing is really painful, and all I could 
 do whilst I was playing it was wish that the level would end already so I could play the campaign 
 version of the very same level. The Wii needs a sensor bar because most TVs can't use light guns, 
 so lightgun-type games aren't very satisfying.
  So when I played the campaign version of the very same level, it was actually really fun. The level 
 itself was just like the PSP counterpart, as I previously mentioned, but the controls make it way 
 more fun. Aiming with the wiimote is more fun than tying to use PSP face buttons or the analog 
 nub. Throwing grenades, doing melee attacks, reloading and all that are way more fun using the 
 nunchuk and the wiimote than a standard controller. The controls take a mediocre game and make 
 it really fun. You can't sprint or jump, even though you can sprint on the PSP and jump in the 
 first Heroes game (but not Heroes 2 on the PSP) but you'll probably never feel like you really 
 need to sprint all that badly when you could be running and gunning, and you'll feel like you need 
 to jump even less.
  Despite great controls, the single player campaign ultimately isn't that great. The Wii has some 
 more stuff in the campaign than the PSP, mostly just minigames that couldn't be done on the PSP. 
 Pacific Assault, European Assault and Vanguard are Medal of Honor games with great campaigns, but 
 like the first Heroes game, Heroes 2 doesn't really care about being fun.
  The multiplayer, despite its epic proportions, is pretty bad. 32 players online is amazing on the 
 PSP, and it's the first game to do it on the Wii, even though others could have if they wanted. 
 It's just that, if you've played the multiplayer of any other FPS, you'll realize what makes Heroes 
 2 bad. The animations are terrible, even though the models look fine. Everyone moves stiffly and 
 looks just plain creepy. On the PSP, the graphics look amazing, but they don't really look much 
 better on the Wii, which makes them waaay worse by proportion.
  The multiplayer has just six levels, all of which are suprisingly small and uninteresting compared 
 to the twelve great-looking, well-detailed, humongous levels in the first game. Fifteen if you 
 count night time levels.
  Ultimately, the thing that makes the multiplayer not-so-great is the engine. It's hard to notice 
 how bad the engine is in the single player. In single player, you get a satisfying smack and the 
 screen shakes a little when you strike somebody. For some reason, in the multiplayer of European 
 Assault, Vanguard, and Heroes 1 and 2, all of which use the same engine, melee attacks feel like 
 they do absolutely nothing. There's no sound and the screen doesn't shake so it's impossible to 
 tell if you hit somebody. Melee attacks also do virtually no damage, so basically you might as 
 well forget that you can even do them in the multiplayer because you'll be wasting your efforts 
 when you could instead be shooting.
  Moving around also feels terrible in the multiplayer, which is still really difficult to tell in 
 the single player. Moving feels even worse on the Wii than it does on the PSP for some reason, 
 even though technically it's the same. Trying to shoot other players is really unsatsifying, especially 
 since you can't tell if you're even doing damage. Everyone regenerates so quickly that if you don't 
 hit them enough times fast enough, they'll regenerate and it'll be as if you didn't shoot at all.
 
  When I tried to play, I couldn't kill a single person. I've killed tons of people on the PSP, 
 but on the Wii I got smitten a million times. At first, I thought something was wrong with me, 
 but at one point I snuck up behind a guy and unloaded an entire thompson magazine into his back 
 whilst he was distracted with sniping. Every single bullet struck, but the guy just turned around 
 and killed me in one it with his pistol. I could have sworn I'd killed at least two enemies in 
 one match, but my score was -1! IF I COULDN'T KILL ENEMIES NO MATTER HOW MANY BULLETS I PUT IN 
 THEM, HOW COULD I POSSIBLY KILL MY TEAMMATES!?
  Basically, there's something terribly wrong with the multiplayer. It feels AWFUL, like they intentionally 
 wanted it to feel outrageously clunky and awkward. It's a disappointment that Call of Duty 3 did 
 not include multiplayer on the Wii, which they easily could've pulled off had they so desired, 
 because the multiplayer of Call of Duty 3 is great and would prove that Heroes 2 is inferior in 
 every way, in the department of the graphics, the engine and the multiplayer, and would show that 
 a much better multiplayer FPS could be done on the Wii. But they decided not to include any multiplayer 
 for some reason so they didn't get to prove squat.
  Heroes 2 is all the Wii got. No matter how the game looks or sounds, it's clearly in desperate 
 need of a new or better-developed engine. The animations of characters in multiplayer are robotic, 
 strange and disturbing. The game utterly lacks feeling and impact when firing guns at other players, 
 or trying to hit them with a melee attack. It's impressive on the PSP because it's a tiny little 
 portable game but manages to stick 32 human players into one game on sizeable levels, but even 
 on the PSP lots of problems are apparent. On the Wii, they're far more obvious because there are 
 so many other online FPSs to play on other consoles and on the PC that support lots of players, 
 so it's hard to forgive this Wii game of anything when much better games could just as easily be 
 done on the Wii.
  But what I really hate about the Heroes game is cheating. On the PSP, cheaters in the first game 
 can jump super-high, and in both games can run insanely fast non-stop, WAY too fast for PSP players 
 to shoot them without great difficulty. Infinite grenades is also really common, and even flat-out 
 invincibility makes frequent appearances. The Wii features some of these very same cheats, because 
 though a cheat like super-jump requires a cheat program in the first game, most cheats are done 
 by exploiting the poorly-designed game itself. It's virtually impossible to find a single game 
 online on either the Wii or the PSP where at least one cheater is not present. The voting system 
 is so subtle that it's almost impossible to vote someone out of a game, and even if you manage 
 it, they can just rejoin. I must say that everything would've truly been all right if both Heroes 
 1 and 2 didn't make cheating so easy for so many people. It's absolutely tragic how they could 
 not be bothered to fix these cheats in the second game, on either the PSP or the Wii. The Wii game 
 would still be mildly unpleasant without cheaters, but the PSP game would be amazingly awesome 
 without cheaters.
  You really must TRY this game before you decide that you want to keep it. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME 
 ASSUMING IT WILL BE EVERYTHING YOU HOPED FOR! I pre-ordered the first Medal of Honor: Heroes game 
 because I thought it would BLOW MY MIND by having an amazing campaign and an astonishing multiplayer 
 all on the PSP, but the campaign was painfully dull and the multiplayer was full of cheaters. I 
 was really disappointed, and have never made the same mistake with any game. The second game is 
 the exact-same thing, a dull campaign and a multiplayer plagued with cheaters and an engine that 
 feels all wrong when interacting with other players. Even without my ever-so-sad tale of foolish 
 pre-ordering treachery, I insist that everyone tries before they buy. Seriously. You might like 
 it but don't count on it. Most people who can say wholeheartedly that they like the game probably 
 know how to perform at least one cheat, if not all of the cheats at the same time. Fighting a guy 
 who runs super-fast and has infinite grenades when I'm fighting fairly is really difficult.
  I've gotten tons of entertainment out of Heroes multiplayer whenever there are no cheaters around 
 and when I'm not getting blasted by my own rocket-launcher-wielding "teammates" who literally join 
 my team with the intentions of killing everyone on it. Even with friendly fire off, explosives 
 can hurt teammates and they didn't bother to fix it, a problem that has been around since European 
 Assault. The campaign in the first Heroes game would get really boring after one level (if not 
 sooner) , and the second game does slightly better by giving the player goals and a more linear 
 path with enemies placed to suit such a linear path, but the second game is really devoid of teammates 
 and not much really happens aside from lots of enemy-killing, and enemies aren't all that clever 
 or fun to fight to make up for it. The AI is only fun to fight whenever the player has teammates 
 to make things exciting. Usually the enemy AI just cheats by spawning in outrageously close places 
 such as directly in front of or behind the player, attacking in high numbers and refusing to miss 
 with their submachine guns from a hundred feet away. Some teammates might've helped to balance 
 this but the game doesn't care to provide the player with very many throughout. It often seems 
 like it regrets to give the player any allies whatsoever. Ten years ago, this AI would've been 
 compared to Half-Life, and the comparison would've been "The AI isn't as good as the AI in Half-Life."
 
  Some tanks would have been nice but the game includes no vehicles whatsoever, not even AI-controlled 
 vehicles in the single player. A World War 2 game that doesn't involve grabbing a rocket launcher 
 and blowing up a tank? WTF is that?
  So the single player doesn't give you much to look forward to, and the multiplayer can sometimes 
 be extremely enjoyable but generally prefers to be frustrating and unsatisfying. The game feels 
 more worth it on the PSP because it's portable and nobody has tried to make any particularly interesting 
 portable FPSs, especially in the multiplayer department, so Heroes is pretty much as good as portable 
 FPS multiplayer gets, which is sad because even a port of an old PC game like Medal of Honor Allied 
 Assault, Call of Duty 1 or Battlefield 1942 would provide with a far better portable game. THEY 
 COULD DO IT, TOO! Allied Assault and Battlefield 1942 aren't system-intensive at all.
  The only thing the Wii version has over the PSP version is the really fun controls, but the multiplayer 
 for some reason seems even worse than it is on the PSP. Both contain cheaters, however, so they're 
 both pretty bad most of the time. If you don't own a Wii, Heroes 2 won't convince you to get one. 
 If a Wii is the ONLY ONLINE SYSTEM YOU OWN and you just REFUSE to play an online FPS on the PC, 
 then Heroes 2 is like your only option for an online FPS of epic proportions.
  
  So what am I saying here? Heroes 2 is KIND OF worth it on the PSP, but the campaign could've been 
 a million times better and you have to expect to fight lots of cheaters that you can't get rid 
 of. The Wii, on the other hand, isn't portable in any way, so Heroes 2 feels far worse on it, even 
 though it's pretty much the exact-same game. The campaign's controls are really fun in a way that 
 no simple controller could accomplish, and it has some extra features over the PSP, but none that 
 a PSP owner would miss. Especially the woeful on-rail shooting. The multiplayer's flaws are extremely 
 obvious on the Wii, and I found it impossible to enjoy the multiplayer on the Wii, but I don't 
 want to say that it can't be enjoyed, for the PSP version can be enjoyed, so surely the Wii version 
 can also be enjoyed.
  
  The Wii version claims to have 4-player support, but it does not have any such support. It even 
 turns off the controllers for players 2, 3 and 4 when the game starts. I don't know why they had 
 to do false advertisement. Split-screen would understandably be difficult because every player 
 would have to use their wiimotes on tiny little portions of the screen and it would be really cramped, 
 but if the players shared a screen and player 1 did all the moving, it would've been just fine. 
 I played some crazy Wii game that does this, where all the players share a screen, but player 1 
 controls the movement and the looking around, though a first-person perspective was all it had 
 in common with Heroes 2, and otherwise was unlike any other shooter because the players move around 
 small rooms to catch tiny creatures.
  Anyway, trying to have one player do all the controlling while three other players share his screen 
 and blast stuff would've felt really crowded and I can understand such an option being turned down, 
 but obviously that dreadful on-rail shooting could have easily supported four players on one screen 
 blasting guys, since the whole thing would be on-rails and there's already plenty of targets for 
 four players. I don't know why they didn't put four-player support into the arcade mode, as it 
 would have been extremely easy to implement and is the only feature that would be able to do a 
 four-player mode perfectly.
  
  Did you know that Heroes 2 in Australia utterly lacked multiplayer, but the box said that it had 
 awesome 32-player multiplayer? Yeah, that's really cool, and is clear evidence that the game was 
 totally uncared for. A game that actually had any love or attention put into it never would've 
 made mistakes as blatant as including no online multiplayer in Australia and then claiming that 
 there was online multiplayer on the Australian box, or putting 4-player support on the box and 
 not even including so much as 2-player support in the actual game. That just adds up with all of 
 the other problems the game itself has. You know, the first game had all of the same problems as 
 the second game, and they could have fixed the problems when making the second game, because they 
 were extremely obvious, but they didn't fix them. Not a single problem was fixed, not even the 
 buggy friendly fire where bullets do no damage to teammates but explosives do full damage to teammates. 
 Pretty much the only improvement they came up with was team balancing and the ability to disable 
 certain types of weapons, though when I played a game that disabled the bazooka I fought against 
 a guy with a bazooka who could fire it like a machine gun (except explosive rockets instead of 
 bullets) . A bazooka shouldn't even be in a game that doesn't have tanks.
  
  OK, I'll wrap this up. Single player is lame but on the Wii the controls are fun so they ALMOST 
 make up for it but not really. It would've been nice to have the fun controls in a campaign that's 
 actually good. The multiplayer can be fun, but the engine is bad, and interacting with other players 
 feels terrible, whether you're trying to punch them or shoot them. You can just walk through other 
 players (even enemies) , and as they get near you, they become invisible, making them way harder 
 to hit with a melee attack or any attack in general. Characters look lifeless as they hobble around 
 with their junky animations, and even if they looked perfect, that wouldn't make any of the previously 
 mentioned flaws any better. These problems all existed in the first game, and the second game fixed 
 absolutely nothing. The multiplayer is generally frustrating and is loaded with cheaters. Wii owners 
 might be interested in a multiplayer game with 32-player support, but it's a pretty bad game with 
 32-player support so it's hard to care about it.
  TRY BEFORE YOU BUY. Seriously! If you're actually considering buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Heroes 2 gives us a good story of what happened in World War 2. It was a war against 
 the the Axis and the Allies. Not only did it have good sound but the gameplay was great. Explosions 
 and bombs made me feel like I was part of the war. Although there wasn't that many weapons as I 
 thought there was. Only about 7 different weapons for each team. The good thing is that you could 
 hook up online to play against 32 random people or even your friends and sometimes it really gets 
 intense. What I didn't apprieciate about this game is that the single player mode was way too short 
 and there was no splitscreen multiplayer. There was also no coop which I hoped since before it 
 came out. What REALLY impressed me was that if you were holding a shotgun and shot a bullet out 
 then you have to pump your wii remote to reload. For the rocket you have to place the wii remote 
 against your shoulder as if you were holding an actual rocket laucher. Very impressive... With the 
 lack of short single player mode and no split screen, this game is totally realistic on the Wii. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: samet04106
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I didn't try Call of Duty-3 on my wii but I think MoH-2 is best WWII game on wii.
  
  Firstly, new gaming design and controller is good. Creators listened users and repair bad side 
 at first MoH. 
  
  Feel war in your home! Volume up! Stand up! Lock'n load. Now, You're ready to win war with your 
 friends, not the only you like MoH: Vanguard. 
  
  When you're reloading your ammo, you'll hear reloading sound. To set charges, turn remote clockwise. 
 Pull remote to shoulders to use bazooka. All these are for you to feel battle. 
  
  You'll find yourself in battle and never want to leave. If you can't pass a mission, then take 
 a break and go to ARCADE Mode. With this mode, you'll pass missions which you couldn't before. 
 This is another positive side of this game.
  
  Only at last mission, 5 minutes aren't enough. You HAVE TO spend your a month to pass that mission 
 in normal level. 
  
  Online 32-multiplayer gaming is really impressive.
  
  Lastly this is really worth to buy and play, but we all disappointed because of canceling Medal 
 of Honor: Airborne. We wish EA will product more game like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabocalde
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is so awesome. The multiplayer of the game is so cool 32 people online! thats so cool. 
 With really good weapons and all that it make the game worth it, if you have internet in your Wii.
 
  The campaign mode is to short but kinda fun. In multiplayer mode they are some glitches but that 
 really doesnt bother you cause you laugh at it. Like when you see some one floating in the port. 
 L0L I always laugh at it.
  The arcade mode is not so good, but is really good if you want to improve your aim.
  The Wii 
 Zapper also is a really good option to have in this game, cause its compatible and it has some 
 cool move ments like to charge your weapon and to melee some one.
  Other great thing are the granades, in multiplayer mode they ae vital alot of player use them cause 
 they explode fast so its a vey good way to kill some one. Also they work when you cant see your 
 opponent but you think he is in there so you try to kill him with a granade.
  Multiplayer has capture the flag, team deathmatch or deathmatch
  
  P. S. if you dont have internet 
 think it twice because the multiplayer is what makes this game so cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteel13
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  MOHH2 is a Surprisingly good game well much better than expected
  
  Graphics for this game are superb for the Wii a really gold mine with all the right shades and 
 the enemies uniforms how they visualy looks is really good also the guns look good too but there 
 is one miner problem, when you are playing you see the hands on the gun they look so weird it is 
 as if the skin colour has got pnomonia they just look so pale and they also look deformed. However 
 the Graphics are the best from a first person shooter on the wii.
  
  The Campaign has some problems it is a bit too simple and straight forward, it is also a bit too 
 short only 8 missions is not long and some of the missions should be longer. But shooting these 
 Germans are hell of fun knoking people out and all of that.
  
  Arcade in this game is good it is exactly like you are in the arcades while the computer moves 
 you all you have to do is shoot the suckers how fun is that. It has the same 8 missions as the campaign, i 
 have not really played arcade that much but what i have seen it is good.
  
  The sound in this game is marvelous when you shoot at someone you can hear each bullet come bursting 
 out from your gun, the diffferent guns all make different noises and when you hear the person you 
 have been shooting at get killed the noise they make as if a real person would die. The thing i 
 especially love is when you are running up some steps you can hear your boots hitting the metal 
 stairs. In middle of combat you can hear people shouting orders the whole game makes as if you were 
 there
  
  Gameplay in the game is good how you have heavier guns make you run slow and lighter guns you run 
 faster, how you reload for some guns look great and the Grenades give a good explosion to wipe out 
 enemies. When you zoom in with your gun looks great and feels great killing each person or just 
 see the them fall down, I also like the close range combat how you can thrust your elbow and smack 
 them in there face it is Cool and they are out for the count. I dont like how you run up some stairs 
 it seems as if you have got broken legs it looks weird and feels weird.
  
  Multiplayer is basically online which is the main part of the game, if this game did not have online 
 then it will get a 8.0 from me or even 7.5 online is a real treat. You can play up too 32 players 
 online and there are 3 games you can play the first is capture the other teams flag, next is all 
 against all and the last one is your team vs the other team. In the capture the flag game you have 
 too get the other teams flag 3 times whichever team ges it first wins, the secound game is that 
 you are against everone noones on teams you have 10 mins to kill as many people as you can and 
 at the end it is the winner of who gets the most kills and the last one is your are with your team 
 trying to kill the other team and the team with the most kills win.
  
  Overall this game is not for hardcore people who want to play a hardcore campaign because you will 
 be in for a dissapointment but still the campaign is still good but anyway to get this game you 
 have to have online that is the main thing it is the thing that keeps me coming back for more. So 
 anyone who loves playing first person shooters online then come and get this game
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -AntiHero-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I feel that this game is more like a game in between Nintendo 64/PlayStation one and Playstation 
 2's times graphically, more or less like they had ported a game that they wanted to make but didn't 
 want to make till the ps2 came out, then forgot about till now. Good idea behind it with the controls 
 like twisting the Wiimote to zoom in with a sniper, or to place a charge somewhere. Also using 
 the nunchuck to lean is a very fun feature, that i had loads of fun with. Grenade tossing must 
 be the most entertaining part of this game along with using the bazooka, which you have to actually 
 perform the motions to complete these actions. The multiplayer is a bit shotty, but in a traditional 
 EA sense, it feels rushed. They couldn't wait to market this game to all the people who just couldn't 
 wait to play an online shooter. The ammo in the Mp40's and Thompson's runs out way too fast, I 
 assume that it runs out faster than it takes the time to reload. The bullets are weak and it takes 
 nearly a whole clip to kill someone unless you peg them in the head, which in the fast paced multiplayer 
 style, it's very difficult to do because you can't see past the muzzle flash on some of the weapons. 
 The aim takes some getting used to since you can move the gun all over the screen a-la Resident 
 Evil 4 and it has to get to the edge of the screen before shifting the view to the area you're 
 aiming. It becomes a challenge at times, but nevertheless, for the first shooter online for the 
 Wii, it's fun and provides something to do on a rainy day. I would suggest paying for this game 
 after you've bought the other games you want more if you're buying for Multiplayer. For the single 
 player, upon playing the first couple missions, i realized it's a pretty fun single player. Not 
 hard whatsoever, but it feels awkward. Graphics are way better in the single player than the multiplayer, 
 which is a bit unfair. Think Medal of Honor Allied Assault for the PC in multiplayer, then think 
 of an Xbox WW2 game for the single player. I enjoyed what i saw, and had fun with some of the features, 
 although i won't recommend this game highly. The multiplayer logon is good, it's a different thing 
 where you login to a main EA server and then get to games from there, making a login name, then 
 a screen name afterwards. One problem i noticed was the differences in the guns. The K98 looked 
 funny, and the IronSights were a bit difficult to see as they were on the m1Garand. The thompson 
 looked fine, and the mp44 also did, but as i said they run out of ammo way faster than they reload 
 the clip. The Springfield rifle was done wrong, because the scope was off center like the British 
 Lee-Enfield when scoped and also didn't do a bolt recharge, instead a semi automatic. The sniper 
 was a Gwehr 83, instead of a K98 scoped which is what it should have been, but for the speed in 
 MP, it needed to be semi auto. The MP44 had a different name and different sights, and a slower 
 Rate of fire, but was a good gun in Multiplayer, and the BAR was about the same. Grenade Cooking 
 was a good useful thing, cause you could get some good kills off if you cooked right, also they 
 allowed for death nades. The Colt m1911 and Luger were probably the best guns according to physical 
 accuracy in the game, and were also very accurate to shoot with. in conclusion, i give this game 
 a 7.5 because it was good, but it could have had a lot of work and research done that would have 
 only taken 2 or 3 more months of excess work and would have made all the difference. The fire rates 
 and damage done for Multiplayer should have been different, and could have made multiplayer all 
 the better. Nevertheless, EA will continue to do its thing just as they did so far. Perhaps the 
 next game they make for Wii will be more improved if they notice the problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jomaster007
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 9, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  my problems with this game are many, the graphics are worse than most gamecube games, it doesn't 
 have any offline multiplayer, the arcade and onrails add-ons don't amount to much more than an 
 arcade game i would play a quarter to play, (yes i release they call it arcade, but even so i paid 
 for a console and i expect a little bit better than that) and the controlls are a litle to sensitive, 
 plus if you've played any other medal of honor or call of duty games you'll soon realize that other 
 than the controls, (which may a plus or minus depending on you opinion) this is still the same 
 ole shtick. but for those of you wii fps fans deeply dissapointed by this , (i'm one of you) don't 
 worry there is light at the end of the tunnel, metroid prime 3 was good, resident evil 4 controls 
 better than the original, this is still better than the last medal of honor for the wii, meaning 
 the will eventaully become as good as they once were, and some time next year the conduit is due 
 to come out, Have Hope! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermariobro9
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 6, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Heroes 2 is a good World War 2 shooter, but it's campaign mode is way to short and 
 easy in difficulty. There are also some positive things about the game though. The campaign mode 
 has some good levels, but it only has nine different levels. The controls work very nicely with 
 the wii and the wii zapper. Another positive thing about the game is it's arcade mode it's like 
 a classic arcade light gun shooter, but brought on to the wii thats pretty fun to do when you beat 
 the game. There is not many guns in the game, but the guns they have were the most popular in the 
 war at the time. It also has a wide variety of controls you can change. The online multiplayer 
 is what makes the game good. I is up to 32 player online from many different maps and is the best 
 part of the game. In online multiplayer it's like call of duty online battles which are very fun. 
 The game has no split screen battles like in most medal of honors. In all this is a good game that 
 will fulfill your gaming needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superchi1d
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  To Start with I shall explain about Single Player
  
  Levels= There isn't that many levels in Single Player and most be pretty easy except the last level 
 (won't go into detail 
  
  but..)
  Diffuculty: Easy is just very very easy! Medium is what most people should be able to complete 
 it on, Hero is what it means. 
  
  Aside from that there is a medal and a % awarded for each level, best being Gold 100%. On medium 
 it is relitivly hard to get 
  
  100% on all but it's worth a try.
  The thing that is worst about the Single Player is the AI (computer players) they don't randomly 
 spawn (meaning there in the 
  
  same place each time) and you can be shot for about 10seconds straight without dieing.
  
  ________
 
  Arcade
  ________
  It's the same as Single Player (practically) except without movement like in a arcade place (duh..)
 
  The levels are the same you just only do parts of them. A downfall is that it isnt a very good 
 arcade... you can't see guns 
  
  and it's only mediocre.
  You shoot Healthpacks for health and you have unlimited ammo it's just agian the AI let you down...
 
  
  ___________
  MULTIPLAYER
  ___________
  Simple verdict= BUY THIS GAME FOR MULTIPLAYER!!!!!
  Unfortunately it only supports Online multiplayer 
 but that is enough!! 
  There are 5 different maps ranging in sizes Sewers being small and my favourite for stacking up 
 kills and Base being Huge 
  
  (only fun with max people) .
  Ooh.. I forgot to mention you can have 32 people in each game!!! This is mental in a small map 
 but great fun in a medium map.
  Only downfall of Online play is Bazookas and Grenades. In a game packed with noobs (new rubbish 
 players) and a small map it 
  
  is just no fun even if your good at the game. You spawn run out of the spawn place and you get 
 some guy off your own team 
  
  shooting you with a bazooka.
  (That's why i mostly only play non-zook games) 
  Wep's
  There are a large variety of guns in 
 this game - i will now list them.
  All Guns can be used in Death Matchs but in TDM (team death match) and CTF (capture the flag) they 
 can only be used 
  
  by the appriote team (Axis's - Germans) and Allies - British. There oppsite nubmers are shown.
 
  
  Axis Guns Allis Guns
  
  Mp40 SMG Thompson
  STG44 HMG BAR
  Karbianer (spelt wrong) Rifle M1 Garand
  Shotgun ---- Shotgun
  Bazooka Sniper Bazooka
  Gewher 
 Rifle BOOM Springfield Rifle
  Grenade Handgun Grenade
  P11 Luger Colt .45
  
  I think thats all for now..
  Have a good time playing!
  BUY IT NOW!
  Its a great game.! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemarc924
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Now don't get me wrong, I like this game a lot. It has great controls, a limited but very fun online 
 mode, and no friend codes. But people act like this is the holy grail of Medal of Honor games, 
 but there are flaws from keeping it from this so called greatness.
  
  First of all, the single-player. I am sure anyone will agree that the AI is terrible. The only 
 thing there capable of is having incredibly uncanny aim. You can sneak behind enemies and stay 
 there for minutes without them realizing it, and there strategies are repeated over and over again. 
 You can literally run up to a mounted machine gun net, kill the guy using it, use it for yourself, 
 kill the next wave of soldiers that will always be your second objective counter-attack and come 
 out completely undamaged. Also, the levels are uninspired, (usually, the mine fields are kind of 
 intresting.)
  
  My only other thing is the Wii gimmicks. Some of them, admittely, are good, like pumping the shotgun 
 with the numchucks, or the mounted machine gun and mine detector concept. But things like putting 
 the wii-mote on your shoulder to shoot the bazooka and moving an artillery with the nun-chuck are 
 just aggravating. And don't get me started on the mortar. 
  
  Over all, it is worth the money you soent, but you have to play it with an open mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenRamoth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  So, I do love this game. It's fun, the controls are fluid, and shooting people has never been easier. 
 The campaign is like most Medal of Honor games, fun, and just the warm-up you need for multiplayer 
 mode.
  
  Please do note, that while this game has it's flaws, it's the only FPS shooter Multiplayer on the 
 Wii, and is really fun, especially since it's free, unlike XBOX 360 games, even those are fun too.
 
  
  So for the overall game, the sound is great, as it is for most MOH games. It's cool, and if proof 
 of MOH sound quality wasn't enough, MOH music was used by McCain for an ad on TV. So even if you 
 don't support Republicans, you gotta admit, that's pretty good for video game music.
  
  Graphics, well, offline, it's decent enough, when compared to other Wii games, but is definately 
 lacking when compared to XBOX or PS games, like Halo, Gears of War, etc. Online, the graphics have 
 been toned down even more, since considering the service is free, and it's EA, of course the servers 
 aren't going to be great. So to help lag problems, less graphics, although there can be some lag 
 problems, but not very much at all.
  
  Gameplay offline is like stereotypical WWII Medal of Honor games. Start off on a beach assault, 
 and work your way to the heart of some Nazi weapons program, and destroy it. Steal documents, kill 
 some baddies, blow up generators, man machine guns etc. You've done it all before.
  Online, now it gets fun. Especially since if you only have a Wii, this is gonna be your only experience 
 shooting other people online, without screencheating problems. It does take a lot to kill people, 
 but one hit KO's with Karbiners, shotguns, and the occasional multikill with grenades are very 
 satisfying. Man, I love blowing up people with grenades, and that's one thing halo can't beat. 
 Pull the pin, get the timing right, and with a flick of your wrist, it falls at an enemy's feet 
 and explodes, giving you an insta-kill. Of course, it's even more fun to kill enemies that are 
 standing on things, or in things, like up on towers, in bunkers, etc, since it's even harder to 
 kill them there.
  
  Well, so my summary, Offline is just the warm-up for the online fun that's awaiting you. So while 
 the Offline is great in itself, the Online is where it's at. So if you don't plan on connecting 
 your Wii online, then I would recommend skipping this game, unless you are a hardcore MOH fan.
 
  
  Oh yeah, as for would I play with the Wii Zapper or not, I'd honestly choose no. The Zapper is 
 great for the Arcade mode, and while that's fun, I think It's a little clunky for Online. For other 
 people, their preferences differ, so it's all just a choice thing. I use the Wii Zapper controls 
 while playing without the actually accessory, since I think it's easier that way, especially for 
 sniping.
  
  I've you've played online before, maybe you've seen me. I play as Farmoth, and I like shotgun above 
 all the other weapons, and enjoy stealing the opposite side's pistol, and kill them with that.
 
  
  Great game, good fun, Awesome online, Go buy. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_bobbypin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  first off if you dont have internet connection on your wii do not get this game, you end up sad 
 that you spent 50 canadian dollars on a 8-short-missions game... anyway, lets get to the reveiw 
 shall we?
  
  Graphics: wow it blew my mind what the Wii was doing, the graphics are great! at first they look 
 odd, they almost look like its a painting, the light reflecting off walls sometimes looks like 
 a smudge... but if you get past the slighty smudgey graphics its great 9.0
  
  Sound: Good sound, the usual "GRANATE!" from germans and the "take cover!" from the americans... the 
 guns sound nice, some of the guns make a pop sound, Thompson, STG44, Luger, MP44 are the pop guns, 
 the rest of the guns make a satisfying BOOM! or CRACK! sound :D 
  
  Campaign:... wow i mean 8 missions? COME ON! all the missions are simple... and once again the nutorious 
 "hero" (you) does everything for everybody, YOUR the one who has to snipe, YOUR the one who has 
 to set the demolitions, YOUR the one who has to kill the germans! ITS GETTING TIRING!
  
  Mutliplayer: MUAHAHAH! the best online i have seen in a long time, 32 person online?! IM IN! ... but 
 there is no local splitscreen multiplayer : ( its a fun experience that, if your a shooter fan you 
 must get this game.
  
  Glitch-eyness: the game isnt very glitchy, once in a while someone becomes invincable (i had it 
 happen to me once....50 kills no deaths :D: D: D ) but yea, not very glitchy
  
  over all, great game, worth the money IF YOU HAVE ONLINE CONNECTION WITH YOUR WII! thank you for 
 reading my reveiw, 
  
  im thomas_bobbypin cya!
  if you have any questions or comments please PM me!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruhdezee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I can say alot about this game. To start its good dont get me wrong. eh campaighn is lacking and 
 the controls are sometimes finnicky but its still good. these things give it a 7.0 out of ten but 
 he online multiplayer takes up to an 8.5.
  
  teh campaighn is another generic WWII cliche. do this do that beat Hitler blah blah blah. to be 
 honest the only thing that this is good for is introducing you to the controls and getting you 
 situated. after teh initial shock of the helter skelter controls you sink into a comfotable nich. 
 pointingand shooting is surprisingly... fun lol. i would have liked to see an optional function 
 to assign the grenades tosses to a face button like 2 or the left d pad leg but i can only dream. the 
 one thing that will have you coming bac k to teh one palyer though is teh fact that the many sidequests 
 are surprisingly hard to find on the first through so youll probobly go back and try to finish 
 them.
  
  heres the good part. multiplayer, and not like system link bc sadly they do not have that. online. 
 one of the wiis major problems is its online. MOHH2 trys to mend this with a CoD4 like online with 
 trackable stats and a messenger system. this is the first wii game ive been able to send a friend 
 request without a friend code. the online offers capture the flag, team deathmatch, and plain deathmatch. 
 i would have liked to see maybe a attack and defend or search and destroy but whatever i can only 
 wish. the massive 32 player matches can be bypassed if you want to do something different by making/joining 
 your own game but getting a game started can be long and hard. all in all the multipayer is what 
 you bought it for and thats why youll keep it.
  
  altoether id say get it if you have wifi or a close friend with wifi otherwise pass, and get something 
 else because teh only thing that seperates this from a mediocre game is the online and it sadly 
 shows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I am only giving this game an 8.5 because of its great controls and online. Rest is nothing but 
 crap. Arcade is the most weakest thing they could possibly think of. EA are lucky this time that 
 they got it right this time. The Campaign is very authentic in the beginning but gets boring after 
 a while. Once you complete 4 missions then if you continue, its like your dragging yourself or 
 you just don't have anything else to do. Otherwise the games plays and looks great and is mostly 
 enjoyed because of online play. 
  
  The graphics are quite impressive for a Wii game but its still very blurry like Vanguard. The weapons 
 look and sound very realistic. Some weapons like the sniper are very repetetive. I do recommend 
 this game only if you have internet to play online. 
  
  Thank God EA got this title right, Airborne and Vanguard were a complete failure. Keep it up EA. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atom1cPunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Medal of honor, Call Of Duty's little brother pulls off a great game and on the nintendo wii. Now 
 the wii is not known for its first person shooters or any violence the nintendo wii is a clean 
 system but medal of honor heroes 2 is a clean t rated shooter but has enough violence to pull it 
 off as a great WWII shooter for the wii. the campaign for this game has its ups and downs. Now 
 its has a regular campaign mode which has a call of duty feel but also has an arcade mode which 
 has a house of the dead feel which dont tell me wrong its a good thing but it could be alot longer 
 i beat the regular campaign in a day and the arcade mode took me about 3 hours on the hardest difficulty. 
 If it was not for the awesome multiplayer this game would have been on ebay already. This lag free 
 multiplayer goes up to an immersive 32 player limit. Which in my opinon is a very good number of 
 people for the wii besides the xbox 360 64 people multiplayer the more people the more it lags 
 so this is just great. All in all this game a decent campaign and a great online multiplayer with 
 an xbox live feel. I give this game an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marioman42
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  This game is a breakthrough for Wii online gaming. Other than that, the other two things it brings 
 to the table are HORRIBLE AI and "charisma". (Can't get That dumb Juno movie out of my head) Even 
 though the story mode has some fun things sprinkled in there, it can get pretty frustrating. With 
 mine fields and a piece of crap metal detector, you might as well be rolling around on the ground 
 
  screaming "BEEP BEEP BEEEEEEP!" And the infamous shooting from God nows were. It seems that Nazis 
 could Snipe not only with rifles, but MP40's, Lugers, anything. Even though, the story mode is 
 still fun and addictive, and will have you scrambling for medals and more kills on every mission 
 and difficulty setting. The online multi player is simply fun and addicting, unless you lag, which 
 then instead of the picture lagging, every time you shoot and hit someone, they flinch but will 
 never die. Despite all the crap that's shoved in this 
  WWII shooter, it's still a great one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scottins
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game I was expecting an ordinary World War II shooter. In some aspects that's 
 what it is but in other its not. 
  
  The first thing that surprised me was the multiplayer. Before I tried it I was once again not expecting 
 something good. I was thinking it would lag all the time and the server would connect and disconnect 
 a lot but it wasn't that at all. There is very little lag and when there is it only lasts for maybe 
 3 seconds top.
  
  The campaign is more of a training session than anything. It's to short and repetitive now and 
 then. I used it to learn how to play the game and practice my skills. 
  
  Good:
  -Multiplayer is solid (considering its on the Wii)
  -Works with or without Wii Zapper
  -The 
 character is pretty controllable and doesn't have seizures like in Red Steel
  
  Bad:
  -Campaign is short
  -Can't play against a friend who is right next to you
  -Arcade mode is 
 worthless (If you want to play a rail-shooter get Ghost Squad or play Time Crisis or even Virtual 
 Cop) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo3ForMe
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 30, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Heroes 2. I've got to admit, I fell out of love with the Medal of Honor series 
 after Call of Duty stole my heart, however after getting a Wii I thought I'd give it a fair crack.
 
  
  This game really made me smile. Some aspects of it are simply outstanding, the controls, for example, 
 are honed to perfection, giving by far the best FPS system in any Wii game.
  
  The motions aswell just add that little touch that feels like a mini-game in itself while still 
 integrated into the game. For example, you put the Wii remote on your shoulder, upside-down, to 
 fire a Basooka! Genuis!
  
  
  That said, as far as FPS games go, it isn't exactly deep. Shoot, shoot, shoot, reload, repeat. 
 Enemies disappear in-front of you, team mates simply appear out of no-where, the cover system works... ish 
 sometimes, and the rest of the time is a fiddly as all [cabbage]
  
  
  All in all the game is a very good FPS port onto the Wii, and definately adds some interesting 
 concepts. However if your looking for a revolutionary idea or a gripping shooter, stick to other 
 consoles, because this one will leave you wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlehaze416
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Heroes 2 is your one and only choice for a great, competitive online first person 
 shooter. Its' wii remote motion gimmicks aren't perfect, but most of them are good enough to limit 
 gameplay obstruction. Those looking for a more realistic experience can use the more difficult 
 wii zapper, and the game's arcade mode works great with the zapper's design. The campaign's AI 
 is bad, but not to the point that entertainment ceases, there is indeed a good amount of pleasure 
 in running up to crackhead Ai's faces and melee'ing them in the face while eating their rhthymic 
 bullets. The online is great, slightly redesigning the game's maps to make 6 great multiplayer 
 environments. The multiplayer experience itself has only one major flaw: the use of melee is nearly 
 impossible, you must be at the exact right distance or your punches will pass right through your 
 opponent. This doesn't get in the way of the fun, and all in all players will be left satisfied. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyauau
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 1:16 am PT
Review:  Like Call of Duty games, Nintendo has rarely got a multiplayer game involving war other than Vanguard. 
 Nevertheless, it should be the great single player experience.
  
  I like to start off with the new feature that goes along the Time Crisis saga is the arcade mode 
 which you get to shoot people while you automatically move around the level. The gameplay is truly 
 improved with hit detection cleared up and moving the experience to a new level. On campaign mode, 
 you get to move at your own pace and the biggest difference compare to Vanguard is you get to do 
 more with the motion controls. Setting bombs, tuning radios you name it although a few of the motions 
 make you look silly like using a rocket launcher.
  
  I'd say this is the first time after Frontline, Rising Sun and European Assault that they finally 
 update the visual especially when using component cables. You also get can update it in PAL60 if 
 you're living in Australia.
  
  The sound quality is also improved. Like all medal of honor games on Nintendo Gamecube and Vanguard 
 on the Wii that you get a better sound and music experience. With Dolby support, you'll get to 
 experience surround sound.
  
  I hate to say that the Australian version has no online play. But the single player experience 
 is more than enough and you could get your friends to play the arcade if they're not familiar with 
 the premise. If you're lazy but finish the game on the easy side, you can at least watch the cutscenes 
 which should be enough.
  
  I've already done Medal of Honor Vangaurd which is first on my collection. It's very thought out 
 that this game could improve on its faults but if you're an Australian, I'm afraid you have to 
 stick to Vanguard until another game with the first person shooting quality can deliver the online 
 shooting experience that everyone is waiting for. Hopefully it won't give me memories which Frank 
 Costanza in "The Fatigues" on Seinfeld about being a chef in the Korean War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majorpain98
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 9, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  sorry just not wat i expected totally lacking graphics its too slow paced and just overally too 
 easy i expected more. But multiplayer is one of its upper sides i just dont like the game it seems 
 like your always moving in slow motion and get no where weapons arent accurate as they should be 
 call of duty is definetly the shooter u want to get if your going to get one for the wii.
  DO NOT GET THIS GAME. That is my final call i barely play this and i cant believe i actually wanted 
 it the psp medal of honor heroes one has the same problem but i expected that from a hand held 
 system. This is definetly one of the best selling but worst game for wii ive seen so far so i repeat 
 do not get this game!!!! like it says at the bottom its all flash and no substance. If i told you 
 to get a game for wii it would have to be guitar hero 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoradude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Most people will openly admit the World War II shooter games have long since grown stale. Most 
 gamers are tired of seeing the Beaches of Normandy and some people have answered that call. The 
 Call of Duty series took a drastic new route by taking place in modern day and was a smash hit 
 among gamers. EA has other ideas though, instead of changing the setting of the game they have 
 changed the controls by bringing Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 to the Nintendo Wii with new ideas in 
 mind on how you play a WWII shooter.
  
  You play as an OSS operative Lt. Berg who is on a very special mission throughout the campaign's 
 seven missions. The Nazis are planning something big it appears and so you must fight your way 
 through soldier after soldier in order to find out the truth. You can do this in a couple of ways 
 too. The classic campaign mode is here, where you travel from one marked star on a radar to another 
 completing objectives along the way. It is nothing new to the first person shooter genre and is 
 everything you have come to expect over the years. The other mode to play single-player in is a 
 classic on-rails arcade shooter. You are given unlimited ammo to plow down endless Nazi soldiers 
 as the game moves your character forward through the mission. The levels are exactly the same as 
 the normal campaign, but focus more on the pure shoot and reload formula than strategically hiding 
 behind objects and leaning out at the right time to kill an enemy. The arcade levels in general 
 have literally hundreds more enemies to kill than the normal campaign giving it that old school 
 on-rails shooter feel.
  
  Aside from these two modes there is another, the online multi-player. One of the selling points 
 of Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 is to offer 32 player online matches, and it delivers for the most 
 part. The multi-player while fun for maybe half an hour a day is just the bare minimum compared 
 to other FPS games on the market. There are only three modes, death match, team death match, and 
 capture the flag. While this is fine alone, how most the players used it is not. After spending 
 a few hours online you will find that most games are set to continuously loop so there is never 
 an end, you just leave when you are tired of the teams. Another problem is team swapping, like 
 the never ending games you will often find games that allow players to switch teams at any point 
 in the battle. This can often times make things unbalanced and just takes away from the fun value 
 since you can switch to the winning team at will. 
  
  Overall, the most exciting part about the online is the system used itself. This title uses EA 
 Nation, which is a system that bypasses the tedious friend code system put in place by most Wii 
 games and allows you to friend and mail other users simply by knowing their user name. It has more 
 depth to it than that once you dig around some and is welcome with open arms to avoid any Wii friend 
 code use.
  
  Of course though, none of these things are the biggest selling point of the game. A new Wii FPS 
 means a new envision of the control scheme, and Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 perfectly nails this. 
 The controls are perfectly responsive and accurate and there are a variety of different control 
 schemes to suite any player. Depending on what gun you use also determines the controls at any 
 given time. While using a Thompson is as simple as you would expect, a Shotgun is an entirely different 
 story as you have to give the nunchuck a waggle to pump it after each shot. One of the more interesting 
 features is grenade throwing. Many Wii FPS titles have not been able to perfect the use of grenades, 
 often times so unresponsive or annoying that you will never use them. This attempt at it, like 
 the rest of the controls, nail it. To toss a grenade you simply target and lock on to any arena 
 on the screen then make a throw motion with the Wii remote. Depending on how hard you lunge it 
 will determine how far it travels. It is all fun and innovative to use and is certainly the best 
 point of the game.
  
  The production value of the game has its ups and downs. While in general all explosions, landscapes, 
 and objects look nice the game has a few problems. The character models alone look very bland and 
 very much alike no matter what army they are supposed to be representing. Another major problem 
 is characters at long distances. One objective in a mission has you using a mortar to destroy trucks 
 off in the distance. Around these trucks are massive amounts of Nazi soldiers who are trying to 
 stop Lt. Berg. All of the characters off in the distance resemble sprites with three or four frames 
 of animation more than a full 3D model. To make matters worse the frame rate takes some low dips 
 at this time making it all look even worse than original.
  
  Still, in the end aside from just a few minor problems Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 is a solid game. 
 While the campaign is short, arcade mode, and even to a lesser degree the online multi-player can 
 keep you going for a long while. Even if you don't deem the title worthy of shelling out 50 dollars 
 for, it is certainly worth a rental if only to play with the perfected control scheme. Hopefully 
 other developers will see what Electronic Arts has accomplished here with the nuncuck and Wii remote 
 and will follow suit releasing some very nice FPSes onto the little white box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex106786
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Heroes 2 comes as a bit of a surprise. Though the earlier Medal of Honor games were 
 excellent, combining the very best of scripted sequences and flat-out action, the formula was dragged 
 on a bit too long, eventually until the point in which the Medal of Honor series was viewed as 
 cheap cash-in on past success. The Wii seemed a perfect tool to liven up a tired series - unfortunately, 
 the first attempt, Vanguard, was not a success. A complete run-of-the-mill experience, Vanguard 
 was devoid of anything memorable or long lasting. 
  A little less than a year later, a sequel is released - Medal of Honor Heroes 2. Most gamers sensed 
 deja-vue, but upon actually playing it, most, I would have to say, were surprised. MOHH2 excels 
 in nearly every way it's predecessor didn't. How is this possible, considering it still runs on 
 the same game engine? Lets start with gameplay.
  The movement is generally the same as in Vanguard, though the speed as been bumped up a notch. 
 Looking around with the Wii Remote feels completely natural, but the improved gameplay is not as 
 simple as that. Many multi-platform games have had motion controls lazily slapped on to it's gameplay. 
 There is no sign of that here. None of the implemented motion controls feel tacked on at all, and 
 just about all of them are fun and satisfying. You'll make a throwing motion to toss a grenade. 
 You'll twist the Wii Remote to tune a radio, as you here other radio stations crackling out of 
 the Wii Remote as you pass them by. Overall, the gameplay is excellently tuned, and is generally 
 fun.
  Visually, EA Games has sharpened up the visuals, though not substantially. Textures generally hold 
 up well up close, but whats really worth mentioning is the environments. All the levels (though 
 there's no doubt you've seen to areas like these before - church, beach bunkers) look very nice, 
 and have some excellent lighting in them and a gritty feel. Colors are enjoyable to look at, and 
 there's also a very nice blur effect that fuzzifies distant and close objects not being focused 
 on.
  The sound is pretty much on par with the previous MoH games, which is in no way a bad thing. Its 
 not amazing, but MOHH2 has some very nice sound effects, from guns and explosives sounding exactly 
 the way they should. There's also some nice music that kicks in every now and then, which as a 
 very heroistic feel to it.
  With a fifty dollar price tag, one would be inclined to wonder what is included. Well, while it's 
 no Morrowind, MOHH2 will indeed keep you busy for some time. Of course, there's the standard campaign 
 where you must discover what Hitler is up to, for the Germans are researching new weaponry. Not 
 exactly going to win any awards in story telling, but it gives you an excuse to travel across familiar 
 locations shooting up clueless germans, who by the way, are very unintelligent. Enemys will simply 
 run to their pre-determined spot and fire away. That's about as far the AI goes. The camaign does 
 offer some fun and enjoyment, but it brings nothing new to the table. An arcade mode is included, 
 similar to light gun games such as House of the Dead, but this is more of a diversion at best. 
 The real star here though is the multiplayer. No, not split screen battles, but full-on online 
 32 people mayhem. While it's no Halo 3, MoHH2 is exactly what Wii owners have been begging for 
 with the Wii's obvious lack of online games, especially shooters. The online interface is very 
 easy to navigate, and finding a full game is done in a matter of minutes, and you'll always find 
 people online. The rank system is simple, if not too much - your score is kills subtracted by your 
 death. As far as gameplay, there is your regular modes - deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture 
 the flag. The maps are surprisingly very well designed, and anyone with any moderate gaming experience 
 is sure to have some fun here.
  So overall, forgettable campaign aside, sharp control and some excellent multiplayer make this 
 a great choice for any Wii owner.
  
  - Alex 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobain112
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 16, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  .Arcade mode is a very cool addition.
  .Fast paced 32 player online multiplayer is impressive.
  .Good use of the motion sensitive controls.
 
  .Online is virtually lagg free...
  The Bad:
  ... But when it does lagg its very frustrating.
  .Graphics online are dissapointing.
  .Wii Zapper 
 compatability doesn't work all the great.
  
  Medal of honor comes to the wii including three impressive modes. Classic Campaign mode, Arcade 
 and Multiplayer.
  
  Campaign: There are 12 long fun missions throughout the game and you play as a typical soldier 
 with who leads a team to victory ever mission. Sometimes the missions do get repetetive but fortunately 
 that doesn't excuse that its "fun".
  
  Arcade: This mode is made for casual gamers although there are difficulty settings for those hardcore 
 gamers out there. Surprisingly just the Arcade mode in this game is actually BETTER than Ghost 
 Squad on the Wii which is scandolous for twenty pounds! So in this game you get Ghost Squad along 
 with very strong multiplayer and great campaign mode!
  
  Multiplayer:32 player online multiplayer with a giant arsenal of weapons.
  Two teams, Allies, 
 Axis. There are three game modes, Deathmatch (ever man for himself) Team Deathmatch (Team VS Team) , 
 Infiltration (Capture the flag) Its very fast paced and fun!
  
  Overall this is a brilliant game but isn't really worth the money if you don't have Multiplayer 
 connection. However if you love WW11 games this one rocks!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael0134567
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 6:36 am PT
Review:  In MoHH2 you play as a soldier who has to help the OSS and he's a OSS agent. Your objective is to 
 stop the germans. You play through 8 Campaign missions trying to stop the germans.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very fast paced, will certainly keep you entertained and you'll never get 
 bored, the controls work almost perfectly except for the sniper controls which can be difficult 
 and annoying. Theres 3 game modes which are "Campaign" which has you trying to stop the germans 
 throught 8 campaign missions, the "Arcade" mode which is the campaign mode except where it moves 
 by itself and the "multiplayer" mode which is only online (no splitscreen) and supports up to 32 
 players in one game. The game modes are Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch and Capture the Flag. There's 
 little to almost no lag on my internet connection, so it'll vary on your internet connection. Unfornately, there's 
 no offline multiplayer of any kind. The arcade mode should've been at least 2 player co-op. The AI 
 in the Campaign and Arcade is terrible.
  Overall=9.5/10
  
  Graphics: MoHH2 looks sharp and great, the weapons look sharp, the environments look great. The only 
 thing bad about MoHH2 graphics are the soldiers which look really blurry and a little blocky and 
 the animations online leave something to be desired. Supports 480p and Widescreen.
  Overall=9/10
  
  Sound: The sound in MoHH2 is awesome, the sound effects are really well done 
 as they always are in Medal of Honor games, the voice acting is top-notch and there's alot of it 
 in the single player. When you're moving around, you can hear your every footstep. When there's music 
 going on the game, it sounds good. So overall, this is a really good sounding game.
  Overall=10/10
  
  Value: Medal of Honor Heroes 2 has a lot of lasting value. You've got your Campaign 
 which takes around 5 hours or so to beat and there's three different difficultys plus medals to 
 unlock. There's the arcade mode which is the basically the Campaign except it's on rails and then 
 you got online multiplayer which has a lot of lasting value, it's highly addictive and a ton of 
 fun. There's even leaderboards in the online.
  Overall=10/10
  
  Overall: This is one of the Wii's best shooters yet and the game is so awesome. I just bought this 
 game and I never rented it before I bought it and I was seriously impressed with this game and 
 I couldn't stop playing it. So do yourself a favour and buy Medal of Honor Heroes 2. Medal of Honor 
 Heroes is a really impressive shooter for Wii.
  Overall Score=10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  The Wii has gotten quite some rap because of some crap it offers in any kind of games, especially 
 first-person shooters. But Medal of Honor Heroes 2 for Wii does offer some comebacks for those 
 rs of the Nintendo Wii and/or some of its games. 
  
  The game, like most, is set in a WWII theme. You start off as just a normal soldier and what's 
 going on is you are trying to figure out what Vietnam is up to. To do this, not only do you have 
 to make your way to a certain point, but you have to sink three U-boats and steal any documents 
 leading towards information while looking for a radio to use to get some instructions. Now this 
 is just the beginning.
  
  The game also has sort of like an arcade. All that happens is you walk around with unlimited ammo 
 trying to shoot guys while in no control of where you go and the only way to get health back is 
 to shoot something with it. I that, and this game offers no other interest in the arcade except 
 that.
  
  The third and last thing is the online multiplayer. There is no way to play against someone else 
 in the room, but there is online play. There are just ordinary matches with unlimited respawns, 
 or there is just a basic Capture the Flag style. The maps are pretty good, but every one of them 
 except the Sewers had me wondering where I was going.
  
  There are many weapons in the game, but there are few ways to kill you and/or teammates during 
 the game. That is the Bazooka or just a . That doesn't offer much if you want to be a traitor, 
 but who really cares?
  
  The game is overall a great beginning for Nintendo's first really real series of first-person shooters. 
 Many things in the game could have been better, but this is just the beginning for Nintendo and 
 hopefully not the end
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobjnrjnr
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  It's been a long wait for the Wii to get some decent 1st person shooters, what with red steel being 
 such a disappointing mess.
  Firstly if you can't go online then this game should not come into consideration, the single player 
 isn't bad, but it's not worth sheeling out your good money for.
  Single Player:
  Many of the levels are fairly simple affairs, they are quite linear, in easy mode yo can pretty 
 much run and gun, only in normal and hard do you need to slow down and lean around corners. There 
 are annoying times however when you kill an enemy look away, and the turn back to find that another 
 one has spawned in the smae spot which is just lazy.
  
  Arcade mode is a nice addition, which plays like a light gun game, it's fast and i found it quite 
 challenging on the later levels.
  
  The main meat of this game is the multiplayer which is very good. I've had this game for around 
 two months and i still go back to play the multiplayer. The maps consist of areas from the single 
 player missions (7 in all) and each is well suited for a frag fest (except maybe base, as it is 
 a bit too large even with 32 players)
  The only real problem with the multiplayer are the bad graphics which was probably to be expected, 
 it is a fair trade off for smooth gameplay. And also any annoying team killers.
  
  In short for some multiplayer action there's nothing better at this moment in time on the Wii. 
 If you eant more of a single player experience then go for Metroid Prime 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo_Kelyn
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honour Heroes 2:
  In MoHH2 you take control of Lt Someone-or-Other working for some organisation in an attempt to 
 infiltrate, stop and generally mass slaughter Nazis as they attempt to set us up the bomb. It's 
 best you ignore this part of the game though.
  
  Vital Stats:
  Gameplay:- 7
  Visuals:- 6
  Audio:- 6
  Fun:- 5
  Replay Value: - 7
  
  At a Glance:
  + The core gameplay 
 is pretty much flawless.
  + 32 online multiplayer.
  + Squad members come out with the occasional funny.
  = There's an arcade mode.
  = Motion controls 
 usually work.
  = The AI might be bad, but it can also be quite amusing.
  - If you've played any WWII FPS you've already played this one.
  - No local multiplay.
  - You 
 can easily complete it on all 3 difficulties in one day.
  - The multiplay is limited and get old quickly.
  - The game just isn't very fun.
  - Weapons 
 are not particularly well balanced.
  - Visuals are bland and uninspired, literally just a few steps above, say, Perfect Dark (N64) .
 
  - An EA special: typically lazy production.
  - Occasional but truly annoying habit of getting stuck when trying to go up steps.
  
  The Meat:
 
  
  So, what is there to say about this game? I suppose the first thing to mention would be that at 
 its core this game is an FPS on the Wii, and it's one that works very well. Unless you go nuts 
 with the sensitivity settings you are unlikely to to go spinning out of control every time you 
 twitch too far in one direction, but neither do you turn too slowly. With this game and Metroid 
 Prime 3 I think we now have fairly conclusive proof that the FPS genre will work on Nintendo's 
 wee white box o' dreams. All we need now is for developers to to realise and approach the matter 
 with some imagination.
  Unfortunately, imagination is certainly something this game lacks. The story, the context, the 
 levels and characters, even the multiplayer options, are so abhorrently derived that it can at 
 times be a trial to stop yourself from breaking down and taking your despair out on the game disc. 
 For example, you start the game to find yourself taking part in an ever iconic beach storm. However 
 the particular stretch of beach you storm must be no wider than about 50 metres long and 4 -yes, 
 4 - metres deep (relatively) . Here you're taught the basics which consist of: point wiimote, pull 
 trigger, B-trigger plus wiimote flick to throw grenade, melee attack, hide when out gunned. Your 
 standard FPS staples are all there and they all work just fine. What I did like though was that 
 when in aiming mode (Z or A, depending on control scheme) the reticule disappears so you're actually 
 using the gun-sight to aim (which is for the best as the reticule is very large and therefore quite 
 ambiguous, meaning that you can never be entirely sure where you're aiming) . Add to this that you 
 can tilt the nunchuk to lean out from cover to take potshots and suddenly you've got yourself quite 
 an entertaining little mechanic.
  
  The real issue is that while the controls are mostly very intuitive and even border on the interesting 
 in places, there's not much that will compel you to use them. The single player consists of a couple 
 of hours spent gunning down waves of truly feckless Nazis (though it can be most entertaining to 
 watch them run in circles, run into walls and shot several feet above your head) in such settings 
 as a beach, a french town and village, the sewers, a port a monastery and a base, interspersed 
 with such objectives as "bomb U-boats", "bomb train", "take out AA batteries" and "Bomb base". 
 As such the campaign is barely worth mentioning as it is essentially just a way to familiarise 
 yourself with the controls before you head to the multiplayer lobbies.
  
  Before I move onto the main attraction I might as well cover everything in one fell, poorly flowing 
 swoop. Although I'm sure there is music in this game, I never noticed it. Any sound worth mentioning 
 comes from the SFX and voice work, however the only things you can really say is that the guns 
 sound like guns and the voice acting is, for the most part, not truly horrendous; in particular 
 the line "You don't get much deader than that", which is sometimes imparted by a team mate, is 
 very well delivered and usually gets a smile.
  The visuals are in pretty much the same boat. They don't push the system in the least and will 
 certainly not win any awards for artistic merit, but they don't obscure the gameplay any; you always 
 know what you're looking at.
  You also have the option of playing the campaign through in an arcade mode, but unless you're a 
 fan of the genre or very, very bored it's probably best you ignore this as it only serves to highlight 
 how unenjoyable this game can be.
  
  I have called this game important. Not only does it demonstrate that FPS will work on the Wii, 
 and work well, but it's also the first Wii game to feature a notable online multiplayer, supporting 
 up to 32 players at a time. And you know what? That works too. Once you've set up a profile it's 
 easy enough to jump onto the server, enter the lobby and jump into a game. While it can sometimes 
 take a minute or two to access EA's server, once you're in it's all very quick and almost completely 
 lag free. The one instance of lag I experienced lasted no more than a few seconds.
  It's just a shame then that while the technical side of this feature works fine it does seem to 
 have gone to waste somewhat. This is quite possibly my opinion and my opinion alone but, like the 
 single player, there is very little joy to be had from multiplayer matches. There are a total of 
 six maps, all of which you will have played through in the campaign, and three gameplay modes which 
 are, rather unsurprisingly: deathmatch, team deathmatch and capture the flag. And although there 
 are the usual tweaks available (rockets only, rifles only, no ammo refills and time limits etc.) 
 the whole thing get very stale very quickly. It doesn't help that weapons are balanced, quite noticeably 
 I feel, in favour of team Axis (the bad guys) , which isn't a problem in death match but can be 
 a serious drag in the team based modes. And talking of the team modes, given the lack of microphone 
 support (thank you Nintendo) it can be quite hard to actually play as a team. There is the option 
 of using set requests, such as "need back up" or "follow me", but the fact that bringing up the 
 request menu stops play means that before you can call for assistance there will be a very good 
 chance that you'll die.
  
  All in all Medal of Honour Heroes 2 is, at its very core, a solid first person shooter, the problems 
 however are two fold. 1: this fact is totally obscured by the rest of the content and 2: just because 
 it works, that doesn't mean it's fun. And that really highlights the biggest issue I have with 
 this game: fun. You will sit through this game and constantly sigh with an exasperation that borders 
 on melancholic. It's just so upsetting to see a developer take an essentially good foundation and 
 do absolutely nothing with it.
  That said, I would still recommend this game to any Wii owner because so long as you can peer past 
 the all consuming mediocrity what shines through is so very promising. Both FPS and large online 
 multiplay have a future on the Wii, and that is something to hold on to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thimitry
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Though i have not played Vanguard i have played other shooting games like 'Halo' which i found 
 very enjoyable. When i started playing i found this game very exciting. Thoug after abou 15 hours 
 it started to become tedious and i had to stop for a week and come back to it for it to become 
 enjoyable again. When I found out it did not have online multi player in AUS i still boought it 
 thinking it would be the same fun but it really disappointed me. After i had finished all the leves 
 (which by the way didn't take me that long) i started to play in a harder mode but i felt like 
 i was just repeating everything. This game was very good at first but it's lifespan wasn't that 
 long and sorry to you that disagree but i don't think it was worth the money. But other people 
 have different opinions. Anyway thankyou for reading, thimitry :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Finally, a true sequel. It doesn't copy from CoD and has perfect control. The levels are fun to 
 navigate and even though they are long, and there are some difficult parts, it is a very fun singleplayer. 
 The controller needs some getting used to, but is good when you do. The music is classic MoH, but 
 the graphics are so-so. They do a well job of conveying the bleak and war torn locals well, and 
 even though the story is almost non-existent, it is still good. You need to go from the beach into 
 the heart of the city. You're playing as an OSS agent, not an infinity soldier, so the scenarios 
 are extra interesting. 
  
  This is more like Frontline than like any of the following games, so it separates itself from the 
 pack. There is an arcade mode which controls your movement, adds more enemies, and plays as an 
 on-rails light gun arcade shooter. It is a very fun mode. There is no split screen multiplayer 
 (which really disappoints me) , but there is wifi. It is the best FPS online on the Wii (which isn't 
 saying much) . It is still a lot of fun if you only have a Wii, but if you have Halo 3 or CoD 4, 
 those have better online multiplayer modes. 
  
  Overall, this is a great game. It is better than most WWII FPS's and all MoH fans will enjoy it, 
 because it is a lot like the original games in the series. Buy MoH H2 and enjoy an action packed 
 thrill ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aryoshi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: They aren't the best you've seen, but totally not the worst. Of all the FPS games on 
 Wii, this is up there with MP:3, and that's saying a lot. Everything is very well detailed, basically 
 there's no lag during campaign, which lag was a big deal on Red Steel. This squishes RS with a 
 big metal boot however.
  
  Sound/Music: Well, the sounds are awesome. Who wouldn't get a war game and not expect to hear the 
 wonderful sounds of gunshots firing everywhere, explosions of the grenades, Nazis shouting in German 
 to eachother while your team freaks out and such? As for the music, it is also pretty good, plays 
 the right tunes in the right spots.
  
  Difficulty: There are three different difficulty modes you can set in this. They are, however pretty 
 hard, even on easiest (Green) . Online, expect to have a pretty low score, everyone is very good 
 from my experience.
  
  Gameplay: Yes, another in the series, you're thinking. It's not JUST another though, it's obviously 
 one of the best MoH games you can find. I mean seriously, the fact you can actually do the actions, 
 and even use the Zapper in this! Now allow me to go over what is what. You have Campaign mode, 
 which is .. pretty obvious, speaks for itself, traditional campaign in all WWII FPS games. Arcade 
 mode is like Resident Evil: Umbrella Chronicles, which is an arcade (duh) styled rail-shooter where 
 it moves by itself, you shoot as you go along. You can unlock medals through this aside from Campaign. 
 Now for the online, it's the most lag-free WiFi experience I've had on any Wii or even DS game, 
 period. It's almost perfectly lag-free on any server you join. The server is run by EA rather than 
 Nintendo, thus making it so you can create your own profile there and take part in the leaderboard. 
 It keeps records of your reputation, wins, losses, and so on. The three modes offered are Deathmatch, 
 Team-Deathmatch, and Capture The Flag, all of which will keep you playing for a long time. All 
 of this put together, makes this game practically endless. (By the way, my profile name is aryoshi, 
 if you're interested in going head to head with me)
  
  Controls: The most interactive Wiimote/Nunchuk controls you'll find on any FPS for the Wii I think, 
 pretty much you get to do everything. I know MP:3 was pretty interactive, but this is even moreso. 
 The controls are a bit harder to get used to if you use the Wii Zapper, due to the fact you have 
 to do a lot of reaching to the top of the Wiimote to do actions and such. But during battle, it's 
 easy to catch onto. If you plan on using the Zapper, I'd recommend you play with the Nunchuk attached 
 to the Zapper.
  
  Overall: If you want to spend all night eating pizza, drinking soda and playing a good FPS you 
 can actually take part in online, then get this. That, and/or if you're into WWII games and want 
 to add this to your collection. Trust me, you will NOT be let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  Overall i thought the game was very good. Until i realised that the 32 player online and multiplayer 
 mode was cut from the Australian version of the game. this made me very mad as in the manual book 
 it said that there was a online mode so then i was like oh maybe i have to finish the story mode. 
 well i finished that in 3 hours and then went back and looked and i still wasn't there so i went 
 onto the internet and found out that there was no online or multiplayer. I wasn't happy as i learned 
 that every other country got it. but you get over things very fast. Now to review the game well 
 i liked the use of the wii zapper and i also liked the acade mode. very nice. i bought call of 
 duty 3 and wasn't satisfied but even without the online mode its still the best shooter maybe besides 
 metroid corruption. I have much fun blowing the crap out of germans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This game appeared on the shelves backed up with warm reviews. The hype and premise gave great 
 promise, unfortunately for me this game just did not deliver. 
  
  The Wii is a machine that holds a lot of potential when it comes to inventive gameplay and this 
 game certainly attempts to capitalize on this with various gestures allowing you to perform a variety 
 of tasks. The trouble with this is that for this type of game it only serves as a gimmick and does 
 not not really enhance the gameplay or create its own unique style. The consequence of this is 
 that it falls from the "niche" area it should occupy and ultimately has to be compared with the 
 many other FPS games out on the market that look and play a lot better on other platforms.
  
  The graphics are grainy, bland and lack style. You could compare this to an FPS that was released 
 on a PC 5 years ago and it would still look dated. Animations are poorly done which detract from 
 the realism that we are so used to with modern titles, which leaves you feeling detached from the 
 game. 
  Game play is moderate, but it is a far cry from the complex AI and responsive controls enjoyed 
 on the PC. While it is a nice to experience the gameplay on the wiimote the enemy do not really 
 offer anything truly challenging to your aiming ability. Hit detection is also so poor that you 
 will soon lose interest in precision aiming and just opt for the run and gun approach. 
  
  I was mainly interested in the multi player option for this game as this was the real selling point. 
 Again I was bitterly disappointed. Multiplayer gaming is very advanced now and there are a lot 
 of games that offer a first class experience. This game however more than short changes you. There 
 are very few maps, serious lack of gameplay modes, not enough variety in guns and no atmosphere. 
 The fact there is no chat or team speak also ruins the online experience. 
  
  All in all, the game compared to other FPS games is poor at best. For a Wii FPS is does stand out, 
 but just because its the best of a bad bunch doesn't mean its a good game. FPS games belong on 
 the PC not on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spitt78
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Heroes 2 is a WWII FPS. Basically, if you've played one of these games, you've kind 
 of played them all. MOHH2 sets aside from this, though, with it's fun (albeit hard to adjust) controls, 
 solid graphics, and excellent online multiplayer.
  
  From the very moment you start the game, you're faced with killing Nazis, which is no real surprise. 
 This is where one of the game's faults comes in-the enemy AI (and teammates' AI) is horrendous-you 
 can see Nazis running toward you, but they don't actually stop and shoot you until they reach somewhere-behind 
 a crate, for example. However, at the same time, you're also greeted with one of the greatest things 
 about the game-it's graphics. While they look muddy at times, for the most part, they are very 
 solid and everything runs smoothly the whole way through. But, once again, you're faced with a 
 minor problem at the start-you'll look around for a while, then spend about 5 minutes tweaking 
 the sensitivity and things like that to your liking, as the defaults start way too low.
  
  The sound of MOHH2 is amazing-gunshots sound realistic, and all the music is fully orchestrated. 
 It's a joy to listen to.
  
  There is another version of the campaign mode called Arcade mode. If you think Time Crisis or some 
 other on-rails game, then you've got MOHH2 Arcade mode. It takes you through the entire campaign 
 mode, only on a rail. You have unlimited ammo in this mode, but limited health, which you technically 
 don't have in the normal campaign mode. Arcade mode is a fun diversion.
  
  The absolute greatest thing about this game, and obviously the thing that EA put the most work 
 into, is the game's multiplayer. When you hit the multiplayer option from the main menu, a blue 
 screen comes up saying EA NATION and also "Initializing Connection..." Once it's connected, you'll 
 be asked to put in your EA Nation username and password, or create an account if you don't already 
 have one. Once you're signed in, you create a profile for your online character. Once this is done, 
 you're taken to a lobby listing all the games currently available for you to play. Once you've 
 selected one, you're immediately tossed into the action with up to 32 players. This mode is extremely 
 fun, featuring Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Iniltration (Capture the Flag) . You can also create 
 your own multiplayer online game, and customize everything about it, from name, amount of players, 
 map, and even which weapons are allowed in the game. This game's multiplayer is the best multiplayer 
 the Wii has seen thus far. It's AMAZING.
  
  Overall, Medal of Honor Heroes 2 is a great game with good graphics, incredible multiplayer, fun 
 motion controls, and a great orchestrated soundtrack. In short, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asswipe_the3rd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  The fisrt mission sort of hides the games flaws that you don't really get to see until later missions. 
 Flaws such as constantly respawining enimies, somewhat bad hit detection and bad AI. these are 
 only the major ones that I have noticed. There are a few smaller flaws but they don't do much to 
 the gameplay. The graphics are good considering it's on a Wii but I felt that there could have 
 been a slight improvement to them. the controls are very good and well designed for what you are 
 doing, but sometimes they can be frusturating. Great online play but the point system is geared 
 towards better players because for every death you have you lose a ponit and every kill you make 
 gains you a point. for the money I would say it is good for people who want to have a good online 
 game for the Wii or are fans of the MoH series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTRGRZA
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  We get like two WWII shooters evvery quarter of every year for like the past decade. Its hard to 
 tell one from the other at this point. That being the case, the expectations for Medal of Honor 
 Heroes 2 were quite low, but a lot of people were surprised to find that this is truly a solid 
 shooter for the wii that is setting some standards for all FPS' to follow on the Wii. ) The story 
 is your standard wartime fare. You are John Berg, the leader of a squadron that works for the OSS, 
 which is sort of like a CIA from the 1940's. Your job is to infiltrate enemy territory and rescue 
 as much information as possible on Hitler's plans to win the war. The gameplay is pretty standard. 
 Your and your sqadron will fight Nazis through some standards locals, like a bombed city, underground 
 stronghold, and of course, the beaches of Normandy. Any attempts at going Rambo hear will end in 
 tears. You need to find some cover and use standard wartime guns such as the M1Garand and the Thompson 
 to name a few. What really keeps the game from being completely mediocre is the control scheme. 
 Everything, from your horizontal or vertical speed to how sensible the control is to movement, 
 it's all customizable. The controls are sharp and work well. Some motion sensitive adjustments 
 have been added to. You shake the remote to reload (what shooter on the wii doesn't?) and you shove 
 the controller forward for melee attacks or throwing grenades. This has been used in other games 
 like Call od Duty 3, but they work better here. Another neat addittion is that you can use the 
 nunchuk to peak around corners while you are ducking to get a good shot of your opponents. Speaking 
 of opponents, the AI could have used some better work. A lot of times you'll be standing in front 
 of an enemy and he'll only run to a different position and start firing there. That's just stupid. 
 Also included in the game is an Arcade mode, where you can play the main story as an on-rails shooter. 
 You can still control how you stand, but the game tells you what weapon to use. You'll have unlimited 
 ammo as well. Just as with the campaign, you can select what difficulty you want. This feature 
 also makes use of the wii zapper, although using it is very frustrating at times. It works just 
 well with the remote by itself. While the campaign isn't terribly long, the online play is the 
 best feature of the game. Up to 32 players can go at it in rounds of deathmatch, team deathmatch 
 or capture the flag. Plus, it doesn't use the Wii's annoying friend codes. EA uses its own system 
 to run this. This is by far the best online experience the wii has to offer. The only problem is 
 that you'll constantly get frustrated at the fact that you keep shooting at your opponents and 
 even though you hit point blank, they just won't die. What gives? Overall, the story may be derivative 
 and the AI is mediocre, and while the Arcade is fun while it lasts, the online support is the real 
 selling point of this game. If you're looking for some fast-paced action or just looking for a 
 worthwhile online experience on the wii, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Heroes 2 is your typical First-Person Shooter. Story is pretty simple, your a good 
 guy who has to stop the Nazis. Nothing special about it, what is special about the game though 
 is it's gameplay. This game makes use of the Wiimote very well which will make traditional FPS 
 controls feel "outdated". Gameplay is fun and fast and put in the solid online this game provides 
 and it's definitely the best Wii FPS game to date.
  
  Graphics: Graphics in the game aren't bad but they're not great either. There's nothing in the 
 graphics department that will make you go "Wow" but it's decent enough to look at.
  
  Sound: Sound is quite good. From bullets coming out of guns to grenades exploding on the ground, 
 this game has really good sound effects. It really makes you feel like your in a war zone. Online, 
 you can push certain buttons to send messages to your team mates and the way the character speaks 
 is also pretty good.
  
  Value: This is definitely worth every penny you pay for but only if you've got an online connection 
 for your Wii. If you don't and/or you're living in Australia, then this game won't entertain you 
 for long because single player is quite boring. The main reason you should be buying this game 
 is for the great controls and solid online but mostly, for the online.
  
  Overall, this game is definitely a must own for Wii owners who want a really good FPS. This is 
 the FPS every FPS loving Wii owner has been waiting for and if you're one of them then get this 
 game as soon as possible. But make sure you have an online connection for your Wii because online 
 will be the main reason why you'll be playing this game a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 16, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 for the Wii has good controls, but pretty much everything else is just 
 awful.
  
  Story is that basic WWII stuff you've seen in countless other games. This one is set in northern 
 France in late 1944 or early 1945, but anyway after the successful beach landing in Normandy. That's 
 all you need to know, because you're just moving forward in a linear pattern while shooting Germans 
 along the way.
  
  There is no widescreen support and the graphics are horrible. This game would have been great in 
 2001, but now there's no excuse: Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 is ugly. Details in the character models 
 or environments are nowhere to be found and the color palette is brown and boring. Wii is capable 
 of delivering a lot better graphics than this.
  
  Surprisingly the sound is top notch. Music is powerful and fully orchestrated as you've come to 
 expect from a Medal of Honor game. Sound effects are great creating the atmosphere of a battlefield. 
 Unfortunately there's not much happening on the screen to back up that great sound design.
  
  Gameplay is boring: move forward in a linear way and shoot Germans. That's it. Controls are 
 good and mostly intuitive for the Wii. Motion gestures are responsive and it's actually fun to 
 throw grenades, aim down your sights, find the right radio frequency and use the rocket launcher. 
 Only bad thing is that the tutorial for these different motion controls are represented in rapid 
 succession so you might forget something, when you again need it in later part of the game.
  
  Save system is functional using checkpoints, but in my opinion there should be more of them.
 
  
  AI is terrible. Your teammates know how to take cover, but that's it. You need to do all the killing 
 by yourself and the Germans are not much better either in creating resistance. This game feels 
 like you're playing a rail shooter.
  
  Multiplayer is for maximum 32 players. There is no party creating function so it takes some unnecessary 
 work to find the same game you're friend is in. Most of the game modes are team based, but there's 
 no way to communicate with your friends during a match. What's the point of having a team, if you 
 can't work together? Also your enemies can take an insane amount of bullets before dying. I once 
 shot nearly a 100 rounds to an enemy and still he killed me instead. When playing MoH: Heroes 2 
 online you'll quickly learn to aim for the head, because it takes a lot less rounds.
  
  Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 has good controls and is an attempt to bring functional multiplayer shooter 
 for the Wii. Unfortunately the multiplayer aspect is a miserable failure when you have games like 
 Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4 on Xbox360.
  
  If you have Wii (and only Wii) and you're looking for some multiplayer first person shooter action, 
 then Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 is worth checking out. Otherwise, just keep out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mj-Healy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  First person shooters on the Wii haven't made much of an impact (bar Metroid Prime 3) so far and 
 Medal of Honor Heroes 2 tries to stop that and puts up a good effort at that.
  
  A major pro for the game is the online multiplayer. You play across 6 maps in 6 different modes. 
 You use EA Nation to use the online which is a relief that you don't have to use those damn friend 
 codes. The controls in Heroes 2 work well, very well for that matter. Where most Wii ports fall 
 is in the controls department but EA have done a great job with the controls. The Wii Zapper can 
 be used as well but does not work as well. The controls work well with the gameplay, which is quick 
 paced and won't have you standing around planning tactics.
  Though the multiplayer and controls work well, the same can't be said with the single player. One 
 of the biggest flaws with it is the terrible AI. Who at times will fire straight into walls, get 
 stuck into the environment and run straight of enemy fire. The single player campaign is good but 
 hardly great. It's just the same old tried and tested gameplay you normally find in every World 
 War 2 FPS. You'll blowing up guns and mowing down endless waves of nazi's. It's length is about 
 6-8 hours and is what you except from a shooter. There is also an Arcade mode, which works well 
 with the Wii Zapper. It's a good addition, but it's not as good as the other modes.
  The graphics in Heroes 2 is a mixed bag. While overall the game runs smoothly and is quite colourful 
 for a WW2 shooter, the character models are poor and there is the odd pop-up here and there. The 
 music and sound is what you come to expect from a Medal of Honor with some good music that fits 
 the game well and good sound coming from guns and explosions.
  Overall, Medal of Honor Heroes 2 is still one of the best shooters on the Wii, with it's fast gameplay 
 and soild control scheme. While it still as it flaws, mainly with AI the end result is impressive.
 
  
  Gamplay: 8.5
  Lifespan: 7.0
  Sound: 8.0
  Visuals: 7.5
  
  Total: 7.8
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAB991
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Heroes 2 had no right to be good. When I first read about the game, I was extremely 
 skeptical. First off, it's a sequel to a PSP game (MOHH2 is also available on the PSP) . Second 
 off, Medal of Honor: Vanguard was a poor excuse for a Wii game. With the Wii being flooded with 
 poor ports trying to get nothing more than a quick buck, I approached Medal of Honor Heroes 2 with 
 extreme caution. Needless to say, it served as one of the Wii's most pleasant surprises.
  
  You take control of a British soldier as he fights Nazis. I don't remember the specifics of the 
 story; the plot was really uninteresting. From what I remember about the overall story (which was 
 beaten only about 10 minutes ago) , you lead British and American troops in WWII. It's not very 
 original and MOHH2 is another WWII FPS, but this isn't a game you play for the story anyway.
  
  What really makes MOHH2 special is its incredible control scheme. As the one man army (your 
 teammates are useless and you basically end WWII single-handedly) get to use an assortment of weapons. 
 There are the handguns, the snipers, the shotguns, a bazooka and standard guns you'd expect to 
 find in a WWII shooter. Each gun controls differently. Sniping is done by twisting the scope by 
 turning the Wii Remote and the shotgun involves pumping by moving the nunchuck in a pumping-motion. 
 Most interestingly is the bazooka which requires you to put the Wii Remote on your shoulder, turning 
 it backwards, and then shooting. It's really fun and adds a whole new level of immersion into what 
 may have otherwise been just a good shooter. Grenades are also thrown which is just as fun as it 
 sounds.
  
  It's not really fair to call MOHH2 an FPS, actually, and I apologize for doing so thus far. MOHH2 
 is really two games in one. The first game, the campaign, is the first-person shooter and the second 
 mode is Arcade Mode, which is a rail-shooter. The two are identical with one major difference: 
 in Arcade Mode, the game does the moving for you and it plays just like an arcade light-gun game. 
 They both follow the same story and levels, but they feel completely different still. The Arcade 
 Mode is an extremely nice side-mode, but if you're a fan of light-gun games, then you may even 
 like Arcade Mode more than the campaign and might just find yourself replaying it with your Wii 
 Zapper.
  
  Visually, Medal of Honor Heroes 2 doesn't push the Wii's limits technically. Playing the game, 
 it may be upsettingly easy to believe that it originated as a PSP title. The style is nice however, 
 and the level designs look like the intended areas and the drab color palate used is very atmospheric. 
 Sound-wise, the game is very nicely orchestrated and nothing is more rewarding than well-cued music 
 starting right when a particular mission escalates in difficulty.
  
  One major drawback of MOHH2 is its enemy AI. The AI has a certain place to be before it can start 
 shooting at you, and to get there they'll run right past you without even stopping to shoot once. 
 Also, walking right up to an enemy and shooting them right in the nose won't always count as a 
 headshot, but instead it'll simply knock their helmet off, If you were shot in the nose, the only 
 thing that should fly off is your face, not your helmet. Though there may be some slight frustration 
 with the AI (the complaints I mention aren't overwhelming) , it's easy to cool off by grenading 
 them and watching them fly.
  
  Medal of Honor Heroes 2 also sports 32-man multiplayer matches via EA Nation. These matches are 
 really fun, but the maps are a little too small to sport 32 people. Despite the levels, the online 
 games are just as addictive as either of the two game modes and can have you glued to your couch 
 for hours, regardless of whether you are being slaughtered or not. MOHH2 really would have benefited 
 from local multiplayer as well, but the online does help ease the pain somewhat. Next time, EA, 
 include 4-player split-screen multiplayer!
  
  All in all, Medal of Honor Heroes 2 overcomes its weaknesses with and is extremely enjoyable. Whether 
 the campaign, online multiplayer, or Arcade Mode is what you buy MOHH2 for, none of it would have 
 been possible without the phenominal controls that really show why people got excited for Nintendo's 
 little white box in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Early in the Wii's life I didn't have much faith in the Wii Remote as a tool for good first-person 
 shooters. Then Metroid Prime 3 came along and re-wrote the rule book on Wii FPS control, bringing 
 with it hope that the genre could have success on the Wii. Now, considerably later than it arrived 
 in the US, Wii owners have Medal of Honor Heroes 2 from EA - a game that tries to be both a first-person 
 shooter and a light-gun shooter. Is it another FPS for Wii owners to get excited about?
  
  In short, kind of. Anyone who played the awkward to control Medal of Honor Vanguard on Wii will 
 be pleased to hear that Heroes 2 features a completely reworked control scheme. You use the Nunchuck 
 to move and the Wii Remote to aim, but the key is how you can lock on to enemies using the Z button. 
 Sadly this is only available on the game's lowest difficulty setting and doesn't allow you to aim 
 within this locked on zone, so the game essentially becomes nothing more than pressing Z and then 
 holding fire down. Aiming without the lock-on takes things in the other direction, with targeting 
 becoming really tricky. Given Metroid Prime 3's rather excellent control scheme it's disappointing 
 that Heroes 2 didn't follow suit.
  
  With some persistence you can get pretty good with the Wii Remote controls and they really are 
 a big step up from Vanguard. Still, is the game itself any good? Although a long way from the modern 
 FPS experiences you might have become accustomed to on Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, this latest 
 Wii effort from EA isn't bad and benefits from being quite fast paced and action packed. Heroes 
 2 is more reminiscent of the Medal of Honor games on the PlayStation 2, which while dated today 
 is acceptable on the Wii. The biggest let down is the size of the levels, which are pretty small 
 and result in each level feeling a little like you're playing on a set rather than in a real location.
 
  
  The action doesn't last very long either, with the WWII era campaign being done and dusted in no 
 more than five hours, and that's with some fairly annoyingly placed checkpoints that force you 
 to replay sections over and over again should you die. In an attempt to give the game appeal outside 
 of the series' usual fans, EA has included an Arcade mode which is essentially a light-gun shooter. 
 Using the Wii Zapper here works pretty well, with the game handling all player movement. It's a 
 decent effort, but it's clear that the levels weren't designed to be played this way from the start.
 
  
  In most Wii games you'd be lucky to get a throwaway multiplayer mode as a token gesture, hardly 
 worth the ink used to print the feature on the back of the box, but Heroes 2 features a very impressive 
 online multiplayer mode for up to 32 players - a number that even dwarfs most other home console 
 shooters. Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch and Infiltration game types are available, although plain 
 old Deathmatch is the only game type I could get a game in - even during peak hours not many people 
 are playing online.
  
  How the game plays online depends entirely on the connection quality of the host and the number 
 of players in the game. I was sadly unable to get a smooth game when more than 20 players were 
 in the map, but when numbers dropped to around 12 things became very playable. If you can put up 
 with some lag then the larger games are an option, but prepare for a lot of player warping.
  
  Given that the Wii game has been developed in conjunction with the PSP version, I expected 
 the worst visually, and sadly I was proven right. Medal of Honor Heroes 2 looks about on par with 
 an average looking PlayStation 2 game, and certainly doesn't push the Wii at all. While this looked 
 great on the PSP screen, on your TV things look a little drab and uninspiring.
  
  Audio work is also solid, with the trademark Band of Brothers-esque musical score once again accompanying 
 the action. Production values aren't nearly as high as seen in the most recent next-gen efforts, 
 but cutscenes feature decent voice work and load times are fairly minimal. New to the Wii game 
 are numerous motion control gameplay elements, but they aren't key to the gameplay and only really 
 add novelty value to the experience.
  
  Although the controls in this Wii version of Medal of Honor Heroes 2 are superior to those in the 
 PSP version (if you can get the hang of them) , I found myself having more fun with the handheld 
 game. The small levels certainly felt more at home there and the visuals impressed compared to 
 what else the PSP had to offer. On Wii expectations are quite rightly a fair bit higher, and while 
 Heroes 2 isn't a bad game it fails to be the great FPS we wanted it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario2BM5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  This is a must buy Wii game for FPS fans, WW2 junkies, multiplayer fans, or just somebody looking 
 for innovating contols on the Wii. As you all know this is a WW2 shooter and you have to... you 
 get the point you just have to kill Germans and thats about it. There's an arcade mode, campaign 
 mode, and of course the multiplayer mode. Campaign just takes you through 8 levels the beach, port, 
 city, sewers, monastary (spelling?) , bombed city, village, and the base. Campaign you can just 
 finish from 5-7 hours to complete each diffuculty with all of the misions complete and all of the 
 awards. Arcade mode is an on rail shooter and go through all 8 levels and you can crouch by pressing 
 the Z or press down on the D-Pad. i would rcomend playing the campaign first and then the arcade. 
 Multiplayer is what you going to spend most time on. There are 3 modes to choose from daethmatch, 
 team deathmatch. Ther is also 32 Player online!!! HOLY CRAP!!!!!! this is what the Wii needs!!! 
 There is no voice chat but you can give commands by press 1 and press one of the buttons to give 
 commands. Overall this game is a must buy and I TOATLLY recommend it to any Wii owner. My Score 
 is 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastertimx
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game because the sales person at gamestop recommended it for its great online. 
 If i knew what i knew now i would have never bought it. Let me tell you about this game. First 
 off MOHH2 is a WW2 game ( of course) this genre has been done so much, yet i still find enjoyment 
 in games like these. I thought call of duty 2, and 3 were great, even medal of honor airborne. 
 So i was naturally interested in this game. So i bought the game and let me tell you what the game 
 is all about. First off there are many modes, theres a campaign mode, which is a mission based 
 story, an arcade mode which is an on rails shooter mode of the campaign mode, and an online multiplayer 
 mode. So i thought wow this game seems packed with goodies, or so i thought. I read about the story 
 and that you play as a soldier who is doing secret missions during WW2, it seemed interesting so 
 i wanted to try the single player. So i tried the campaign first. Now the first thing i noticed 
 were that the graphics were bad, i mean the whole thing, environments, people, everything looked 
 bad. But i anticipated this seeing as how its on the wii, i didn't expect call of duty 4 graphics, 
 but even still the graphics were bad for even the wii. It looks like a mid generation ps2 or xbox 
 game. I also noticed the sound, unlike the graphics however the sound was good, bullets sounded 
 like bullets and you can hear bombs and shouting in the distance. The sound was fine and the music 
 was nothing bad, but nothing special. So then after checking out the graphics, and sound i decided 
 to actually start playing the game. At first the controls seemed weird, but after you get use to 
 the wiimote and nunchuck feel, it's really easy to shoot, crouch, run, ect.. but the controls still 
 had issues even though most of the control scheme worked. For example when you zoom in, you twist 
 the nunchuck to lean around corners, this would be helpful, however when ever i zoomed in and wanted 
 to shoot straight, sometimes the character would lean left and right even if i kept my hand steady. 
 Also the aiming of the gun seemed botched, you zoom in similar to call of duty, but the reticle 
 was never really accurate in this game, and even when it was right on a target it sometimes didn't 
 hit them anyways. So i trudged through the single player and enjoyed it a little, even though no 
 big war moments happened like buildings collapsing next to you or, bombs falling from planes. The 
 single player was just run to this spot and kill everyone with the occasional blow up this anti-aircraft 
 gun, or get secret documents. Nothing new, and everything looks bad while your doing it. There 
 are some glitches where enemies will disappear behind walls. Unacceptable. And on top of all that 
 the entire story was bland and forgettable, no big flashy ending, no cut scenes or anything like 
 that, just a guy blowing stuff up, and thats the end. After that i decided to try the arcade mode, 
 this was surprisingly more fun. The game seemed to be more fun on rails than free roaming. This 
 mode was still ugly, and the aiming was still weird, but there were no glitches, and gave you limited 
 health to make it more suspenseful. The arcade mode was short, but enjoyable, but that would be 
 the last time i had fun in this game. I then tried the online mode. The online mode is just terrible, 
 its sooo bad. This was the highlight of the game and its trash. First off it is the very basic 
 multiplayer, few maps, few weapons, and only a few types of modes. No voice or type chat, and no 
 split screen multiplayer or co-op. you can't even invite friends to join you. I tried a few matches, 
 note that all the maps online are rehashes from the campaign mode. All the problems from the single 
 player are here too, except the aiming is a whole lot worse. I walked up to someone point blank 
 with a shotgun pointing right at their face and shot 3 times, and the person did not die. It is 
 like that with every weapon. machine guns can hit a person dead on and have every single bullet 
 miss, how can someone release a game with a really bad shooting mechanic, and in a FPS no less. 
 Getting a kill seemed like luck. After a few matches of point blank shooting and far away sniping 
 i turned the game off. The online sucks plain and simple. if you have cash to burn you may be better 
 of buying a different game, get COD4, or MOHA, but stay far away from this crap unless you find 
 it for $5, then just play the on rails mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEguitarhero08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  MOHH:2 is a solid game. There are 3 main modes to the game: arcade, campaign, and online.
  
  Arcade mode: (8/10) The arcade is a fun addition to the game. If you truly don't feel like 
 shooting and looking around for Nazis in Campaign mode, play arcade! It's an on-rails shooter. 
 The rails stop at a certain point, and you must shoot everybody you see. You continue until the 
 mission's over.
  
  Campaign mode: (4.5/10) Campaign mode is terrible. You go through 8 missions-challeging, but short- 
 and stop Nazi forces. It's a typical WWII campaign. 
  
  Online mode: (9.5/10) This is where the game shines. So you beat campaign and arcade, now what? 
 32-player online!!! There's 6 maps, and 3 game modes (deathmatch, TEAM deathmatch, and capture the 
 flag.) I prefer team deathmatch, but it doesn't matter. Anyways, you get to pick from 2 teams Allies, 
 or Axis. Then choose your weapon, which range from a Thompson to a M1 Bazooka. Then fight! 
  
  Overall: 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  This is a tough game to review for a number of reasons.
  
  1. the lack of a hard core FPS for the Wii.
  
  2. The graphics.
  
  3. The control.
  
 
  4. Online play.
  
  So I will go in reverse order, because it's my review.
  
  4. The online Play.
  
  Works and works well. Just set up an EA account or use your current 
 EA account. You then get an interface very similar to most PC games, where you can join or create 
 games plus a couple of extra features like friends etc.
  
  The games runs well and I really enjoyed my time online. I even played a sniper only game, which 
 for a console I reckon may be a 1st. My only gripe is that some of the guns are pretty ineffective. 
 Take the shot gun, probably one of the more effective close range weapons. But not in Heroes 2, 
 you can blast away and actually run out of ammo and still have no effect. Very odd. At one point 
 there were 4 of us running around in a circle shooting each other, this happened a number of times 
 whilst online. 
  
  3. Control
  
  A first for a Wii fps. It works just how you would want the Wii mote to work. Use the nun chuck 
 to run and side step. And the Wii mote to turn, point and fire. 
  
  To snipe you press the "A" button to raise the scope and here's the odd (but works) part you twist 
 you wrist to change the zoom of the scope. You can lock the zoom with the "C" button. So find how 
 far you want to zoom, lock and then target.
  
  Using a Bazooka is different again. You put the Wii mote over you shoulder so it is pointing behind 
 you. Odd, but it works and with practice works well.
  
  Grenades are easy, just select grenade and flick you wrist and the grenade goes flying through 
 the air.
  
  Melee is pants though. You thrust both the Wii mote and nun chuck forward to hit some one. It may 
 be me, but I hated it. I would have preferred to flick my wrist to hit.
  
  It is nearly as easy to control as Resident Evil 4, which is the standard that needs to be met.
 
  
  2. The Graphics.
  
  This is where the game so of lets you down. I expect the very best know because of the 360, PS3 
 and PC capabilities. I don't expect the Wii to get to their standard, but I do expect the Wii to 
 match and better the excellent Resident Evil 4 in looks. 
  
  This game looks like a 5 year old PC game. The graphics aren't bad though, thats what make it hard 
 to review. You can see they tried to give you good looks, but the Wii just isn't up to it. Look 
 at Resi 4. It looks stunning even though the resolution is low, well this tries but because the 
 resolution is low every thing looks very grainy. Bad guys are hard to see at distance. 
  . 
  1. the lack of a hard core FPS for the Wii.
  
  The Wii has some of THE worst games on 
 the market. I mean they truly are dire. If it wasn't for the controller this console would not 
 have sold pure and simple. And producers insist of banging out more and crap that they think the 
 "family" would enjoy, so those hard core gamers like myself dumb enough to buy a Wii end up learning 
 how to hulla hoop or bowl a virtual ball down a virtual alley.
  
  So a game like Heroes, that works is going to go down well. COD and Far Cry have failed and failed 
 badly to work. 
  
  Had this game come out on 360, PS3 or PC it would have been laughed of the shelf into the bin. 
 But because Wii owners don't have an FPS that is playable, with online and actually uses the Wiimote 
 well enough to play the game Heroes 2 is a winner.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  "Medal of Honor: Vanguard," released in March 2007 for the Wii, was so subpar that little was expected 
 when its follow-up arrived nine months later.
  But "Medal of Honor Heroes 2" might be the most surprisingly good game of 2007, even though it 
 debuted at the end of the year.
  The differences from its predecessor are immediately noticeable. The graphics are sharper with 
 deeper colors and the play control is tighter.
  And here's the best part: "Heroes 2" is the Wii debut of a first-person shooter with online multiplayer 
 - and Electronic Arts nailed it.
  Unlike the glitchy online mode of EA's "Madden NFL 08," the mesmerizing multiplayer for "Heroes 
 2" handles up to 32 gamers in the same match with no lag.
  It feels like a top-notch PC multiplayer game, with the point-and-shoot aiming of the Wiimote providing 
 even more accuracy than a computer mouse.
  The multiplayer maps are entertaining and varied. The bombed-out city is perfect for one-on-one 
 or a handful of players, the sprawling military base with plenty of hiding spots is designed for 
 large team deathmatches, the village is a sniper's paradise and the close quarters of the sewers 
 recall the frenetic bloodbaths of "Quake."
  In the multiplayer and single-player modes alike, "Heroes 2" is much more hectic and fast-paced 
 than most games in the "Medal of Honor" series. Players must learn how to use their surroundings 
 as cover or die. It's no "Gears of War," but still a fun challenge to master holding "A" on the 
 Wiimote to aim your gun while tilting the nunchuk to duck in and out of cover.
  "Heroes 2" provides a plethora of control schemes, so everyone can find one they like.
  Only 
 the easy setting, Greenhorn, allows lock-on targeting. The other modes require gamers to aim with 
 the Wiimote. This can be difficult during a heated firefight, but best prepares you for the multiplayer, 
 which bans lock-on.
  There's even an optional on-rails Arcade mode meant to be used with the Zapper gun attachment. 
 It's the same as the single-player experience, but eliminates the need to control movement with 
 the nunchuk.
  Motion controls are subtly slipped into the single-player and multiplayer modes. Most work well, 
 but it's a shame that throwing a grenade is a clumsy process that takes too long to be effective, 
 especially in multiplayer.
  The single-player mode's most-annoying quirk is its dumb artificial intelligence - Nazis stand 
 in the open while non-playable Allied soldiers are right next to them, but they don't even notice 
 each other.
  Fret not, because long after you complete the run-of-the-mill single-player missions, the multiplayer 
 will keep you coming back. "Heroes 2" arrived with little fanfare, but the multiplayer makes it 
 one of the few Wii games that deserves to be labeled a "must-have." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrownMustardGas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  It was clear to me that this game was different from the rest of the medal of honor series. Not 
 just the game play, but graphics, story, and online. Yes, i said online. Finally a title the really 
 gets Nintendo wi-fi on its feet. Not to mention that it has 32 person online multi-player. Online 
 gameplay is clearly where this game shines. However not all areas are as fortunate. 
  
  The one player area is not so hot. It resembles most of the other moh games but the use of the 
 wii remote spices it up a bit. Also there is no co-operative play or split screen death match for 
 the game is one player only. All the multi player games are online. However i found the story mode 
 a little more intriguing with the games use of achievements. Like xbox achievements these achievements 
 monitor how good of a player you are. Some achievements include getting 50 kills with a pistol 
 or 100 head shots or other fun stuff. The campaign mode also has three different levels of play. 
 Each one harder than the next.
  
  All in all this game is an over-all great. However i strongly recommend the online portion of this 
 game as that is where it rises above. 
  
  Hope i helped 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt4952
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! 
 SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! 
 SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! 
 SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! 
 SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! 
 SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! 
 SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! 
 SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! 
 SO COOL! SO COOL! SO COOL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcwsk8
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Heroes 2 is an excellent game. This is certainly a game to look into. The World 
 War 2 style creates a nice feel. I actually learned some things about World War 2 by playing this 
 game. It was enough to get a question right from Jeopardy. But you want to know about the game-play 
 I assume? Well the controls are unique and make you feel right in the game. For instance you throw 
 the grenades, lift the bazookas over your shoulder, and pump shotguns, all with the Wii remote. 
 The graphics are pleasing as well. It want make you sick to look at but it is still life-like. 
 For the main run you need to get in the car, drive to the store, buy Medal of Honor Heroes 2, drive 
 back, put the game in the good ol Nintendo Wii, and enjoy life, playing this game every day. If 
 you still are not convinced, this game has a 32-person online mode. I love to play online on Saturday 
 mornings right after I wake up. Starting the day with a great game puts me in a good mood and I 
 am sure it will you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great controls, great online multiplayer, extra arcade mode is fun
  
  The Bad: Campaign is about as boring and short as WWII games can get, underwhelming graphics, enough 
 with the WWII EA!
  
  I played the PSP version several months ago (check out my review for that version) and I was really 
 let down. The game was extremely tough even on the easier difficulties, and the campaign was short 
 and boring. All those things are still in the Wii version but it's more forgivable thanks to the 
 on-rails arcade mode thrown in, the great Wii controls, and the online multiplayer. While WWII 
 games have been done to death this game is no exception. EA struggled to piece together a stupid 
 story that we've heard millions of times over and the campaign levels feel like games of the past 
 and nothing like the newer games. After about 4-6 hours blowing through the campaign you can play 
 the same levels in an arcade mode, which makes things easier, and go online. While all this is 
 great and all it doesn't really improve on the genre and is good for a rental or something but 
 nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imask8r9999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Heroes 2 puts you in the middle of World War 2. from storming the beaches in France 
 to infiltrating German bases. You get a large variety of weapons. Aand for one of the first times 
 in the series you can use the German "Luger" pistol which is pretty neat. The graphics in this 
 game could not get better they are just detailed so greatly. The sound to the game is great, you 
 know when the bandolear of a M1 Garand flies out of the gun it sounds exactlly like it does in 
 real life, the bullets being shot out of the weapon sound VERY realistic. And for the first time 
 (as far as I know) you can arm Mortars! Another special weapon you can arm is the MG-42, Minesweepers, 
 and also AA guns (Anti-aircraft guns) . The difficulty of the game is extremly hard. Even when the 
 game is set on Green (easy) it is still very hard. A graet thing in this game for all you Wi-Fi 
 users, this game features an 32-player online multiplayer experiance! 
  Overall this game is simply great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTHAWx
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 is the best FPS on the Wii. Fact. However, that doesn't necessarily make 
 it a all round great game. 
  
  It's shining glory is its online multiplayer, which forgoes Nintendo's Wi-Fi connection system 
 in place of EA Nation. This system is more akin to what you expect to see on an PC online FPS, 
 providing a lobby, simplistic messaging system and player rankings based on kill ratios. This allows 
 a player to easily make friends with the people they play with in game and, for the most part, 
 writes off the much lamented Wii Friend Codes.
  
  While the multiplayer is the reason you should go out and buy this game, its single player modes 
 are stale. While playing you will definitely feel like you have been there and done that, especially 
 if you have played previous MOH or Call of Duty games. While the secondary objectives make for 
 some extra exploration to 100% the game, they rarely detract from the monotony of 'go here, shot 
 some Germans, blow stuff up' etc. Therefore, Heroes 2 adds little to the WW2 shooter genre.
  
  Slightly better is the onrails arcade mode. This makes for some quick and immersing playing, 
 without having to worry where to go and who's shooting you (basically because they are all in front 
 of you) . However, I have noticed some unrealistic elements, such as when German troops simply run 
 past you, meaning they disappear completely, rather than staying on screen. Also later stages will 
 put you in areas where there is zero cover and expect you to kill off 10 or so Germans all at once, 
 which can be frustrating at times.
  
  Both single player modes are let down by a lack of local multiplayer. There is no split screen 
 in this game, so you can't get friends round and have a couple of cans while attempting to riddle 
 them with bullets. The arcade mode could definitely have benefited from a 2 player option. If Umbrella 
 Chronicles can do it, so can this game.
  
  So what's left to say. Oh yes, the controls. They are the tightest I've seen for a WW2 game. They 
 are alot like COD3 on the Wii but are much more responsive. Unfortunately I can't comment on the 
 Zapper (I don't own one) but I have heard good reports.
  
  So why should you buy this game? If you love FPS, own a Wii and want to play online. However, if 
 you're expecting an engaging single player, then I suggest looking elsewhere - I suggest towards 
 Metroid Prime 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heimai96
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  *Campaign*
  The first thing I did after I opened up this game was play the first two levels of the campaign. 
 Why only two? They were boring and the AI was stupid. AI would almost always aim for you and not 
 your allies and would constantly run up to you and stand still while you shot them.
  
  *Arcade rail shooter*
  Highly addictive, especially if you have a zapper/home made zapper like 
 creation. Put it on veteran or hero difficulty and you will be addicted to it. This mode basically 
 takes you through the same story as the campaign mode, but the entire thing is on rails and the 
 AI are not nearly as idiotic, they actually hit you for one, deplete your health for another, and 
 even sometimes kill you! Also, your weapon is chosen for you, this presents a challenge while using 
 a pistol/shotgun against a large group of people.
  
  *Multiplayer online*
  VERY fun! No AI to be idiotic, highly addictive and very fast paced. Only downside is that the 
 death rate can be quite unpredictable at times, sometimes the same gun wont kill at same rate. 
 
  
  I remember absolutely hateing it at first, then I realized how good it was! Online is solid, rail 
 shooter is classic and provides lots of good play time. Beware! The game is only multiplayer OVER 
 THE INTERNET! You cannot play against someone else on the same Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman1995
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  There are three different online multiplayer modes available in the game. [1] Contrary to the back 
 of the North American box, there are no split screen or arcade multiplayer modes available. Also, 
 it currently seems that the Australian version has no multiplayer mode at all, which has been subject 
 of much criticism. [2] EA Australia & Electronics Boutique Australia have also recently removed 
 all references to a multiplayer aspect for Australia
  
  EA's official response to the no lack of multiplayer for Australia was this:
  
  "Medal of Honor 
 Heroes 2 for Wii does not support online functionality in Australia. We made an error in the documentation 
 and marketing materials. We are very sorry to have caused confusion for our customers. We will 
 provide a refund to anyone in Australia who wishes to return the game to EA because of the lack 
 of online functionality," [3]
  
  EA Australia has declined to comment on why the online element of the game was omitted from the 
 game, which has led games websites to speculate that the company did not deem it profitable to 
 host the local servers necessary for low-latency play. [4]
  
  Deathmatch
  
  The typical first person shooter multiplayer deathmatch mode. All players are on their own and 
 must kill or frag as many players as possible while also attempting to have as little deaths as 
 possible. The player with the highest score at the end of the round wins. The score is equal to 
 the player's total kills minus their total deaths. After each death, the player will spawn at different 
 spawn points on the map
  
  Team DeathMatch
  
  Is similar to the deathmatch mode except there are two teams against each other. Each player belongs 
 to a team and attempts to kill or frag members of the opposite team. At the end of the round, the 
 team with the highest score wins. The team's score is determined by the number of enemy players 
 the team kills.
  
  Infiltration
  
  Also known as capture the flag, this mode involves two teams facing each other. The objective is 
 to steal the opposing team's flag as often as possible. At the end of the round, the team with 
 the highest number of successful captures is the winner.
  
  
  Cheating
  
  Often times, players will use cheats, or hacks, in order to gain an unfair advantage over the other 
 players in a room. Such cheats that have been observed are "invincible" cheats (the player will 
 never die) , "Infinite Ammo" cheats (player's ammunition will never exhaust) , and "Disguise" cheats 
 (player will appear in the opposing side's uniform, despite the fact they are not on that team) . 
 But ultimately, the most commonly used cheat is the "Speed" cheat, which allows a player to move, 
 fire, and reload at a faster rate than normal and at times they even appear to be able to "fly" 
 as they run off of higher ground onto lower ground and temporarily glide while in air. This cheat 
 is most frustrating to players because 1) it is widely used, 2) the cheater will often run around 
 frantically making it nearly impossible for enemies to get a clean shot at him, and 3) the cheater 
 will also use a tactic where he will fire at an enemy, run to a safe distance, and them come back 
 to fire again (this process is repeated until the cheater has killed his enemy) . [citation needed]
 
  
  According to EA Game rules, no player is to use these cheats as they present the user with unfair 
 advantages. However, EA Games has not done much maintenance worth notice as at least one cheater 
 can usually be found in every room. Thus, it is left up to the players themselves to "kick" a cheater 
 out of a room through a voting process. This, however, is usually ineffective as most players do 
 not know a voting session is occurring, do not even attempt to vote, or cannot all vote all at 
 once since the time frame in which players have to vote is only a few seconds.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmeads
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  hi i recently bought medal of honor heroes two i think its a great game their are two single player 
 modes arcade where you are on rail and their are germans trying to kill before you complete your 
 objectives this can improve your aiming and reflexes its great for when you start or to improve 
 on certain places in the game. there is also campaighn mode where you move yourself and and have 
 a storyline . online is amazing you can play with 31 other people with 3 modes you can not do in 
 single player mode they are death match where your deaths minus your kills there is capture the 
 flag where you have to get as many flags as possible. are thnx for reading my review im now making 
 it long enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W3EZED
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  The graphic may be a bit choppy, but I was really impressed with the multiplayer action. There 
 is almost always a game with 32 players going on. The controls are good, unlike Red Steel, and 
 the action really feels like you are in the game especially if you have the Wii Zapper. If you 
 want a good, online game for the wii, this is the one to buy. The stages are amazingly big, but 
 there are not that many to choose from. Weapons on this game are okay except for the fact that 
 the people are bullet sponges.
  But if you want a good single player game, then this is not the game for you. The single player 
 part would only last you about from a weekend to a week. Oh and if anyone was wondering; there 
 is no split screen play. You cannot invite a friend over to play multiplayer. Overall the game 
 is made pretty well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcollector
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 11, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  The developers have done a great job using the Wii controls. The different gestures that are associated 
 with different types of weapons feel natural and work good with the exception of one or two. The 
 game supports 32 player online multi-player. Until a lot of other future Wii shooters support online 
 multi-player MOH Heroes 2 will be king of the hill for a good while. Combine those two aspects 
 and you have some solid gameplay.
  
  If you are looking for some multi-player fun on the wii this game has it. You have your basic matches 
 such as Death Match, Team Death Match and Capture the Flag. The servers are stable with little 
 lag and rarely disconnect. You can always find some one to exchange bullets with, at least until 
 the next Medal of Honor arrives.
  
  The game falls apart in the single player experience. The campaign story is mediocre at best. It 
 seems as though EA has ran out of ideas for WW2. The story is nothing more than an excuse to progress 
 from one level to the next. There is nothing memorable or epic about it.
  
  Unfortunately the enemy AI isn't very intelligent. In one of the levels my squad approached a barn 
 from the rear so I decided to approach it from the front instead. The enemy AI is scripted to approach 
 the barn from the front. Instead of them shooting at me they ran right by me to the back of the 
 barn. Than they realized I wasn't there and ran back to their spawn point. 
  
  The least enjoyable feature is the arcade mode. In arcade mode your player automatically moves 
 for you and all you do is shoot. If you want to play a fun rail shooter try Ghost Squad. Ghost 
 Squad makes rail shooters fun by being exciting. In Ghost Squad your player is always moving, taking 
 cover, peering around corners and other action sequences all the while you guess where the next 
 enemy will pop up. In MOH Heroes 2 you are thrown into plain sight of a dozen or more enemies and 
 have to shoot them all before they all shoot you.
  
  If you are really into online multi-players then you will probably want to keep this game for longer 
 than a rental period. If you want to play it for the single player campaign then you are better 
 off renting it. There is nothing memorable about the campaign story that would make you want to 
 play it again or even think about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freek666
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this one game for a long time now. Finally, a good FPS with a decent online 
 for the Wii. Well, now its just your average, run of the mill WWII FPS with no online. In case 
 your thinking that I've gone of my nut, EA has decided to cut out all online multiplayer features 
 in the Australian version of this game. This really brings the game down. I played through a couple 
 of campaigns and I wasn't surprised at anything I was doing. Shoot Nazi's, take and hold buildings, 
 plant explosives, the whole boring 9 (?) yards. I've done everything they asked me to do back in 
 the original Call of Duty. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The environments did look nice, but the guns looked really strange, kind of smooth and not very 
 realistic, Eg the thompson. Some blood would've been nice to see but of course that was lacking, 
 not even some splatter or spray when I shot them. I also noticed that some of the enemies I shot 
 down simply fell beneath the surface and that isn't what you want to see. You either want to see 
 them lying there dead for the duration of the mission, or at least stay there and then fade away, 
 not fall into an invisible hole. Overall the graphics were nice but a bit bland and a lot could 
 be improved on.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  It's a WWII FPS, so if you were expecting something new and fresh and different from all the other 
 WWII shooters there are, then you are extremely mistaken. As I said earlier everything I did in 
 it I did back in Call of Duty. It's just another WWII shooter and without online, its a boring 
 one at that. EA, I'm severely pissed at you right now.
  
  Controls:
  
  Most Wii games that are ports have tacked on controls that are buggy and don't really work. However 
 Medal of Honor Heroes 2 uses the wiimote to its full capacity. I did enjoy some of things I could 
 do, but some things were pretty useless. The melee, which involves thrusting both wiimote and nunchuck, 
 is impractical. In Call of Duty 3 melee was the down arrow button, and it would've been great if 
 they used that. Zooming in and out of the sniper rifle was awkward by tilting it, but the tilt 
 feature was put to good use in procedures such as setting explosives. My main problem was the sensitivity 
 of the wiimote. I set it up so its as sensitive as possible but I found that it was still dragging 
 along and it took too long to do quick turns and aim at enemies that are shooting you.
  
  Overall:
  
  Your standard, run of the mill WWII shooter that happens in France, who would've 
 thought. No online brought this game down from a standard WWII FPS with a decent online to a boring, 
 stereotypical WWII shooter with the same type of gameplay in Call of Duty. EA, get your **** together. 
 This isn't good enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waelzleb
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  A game that pushed almost untested ground for Wii. It shows us that FPS control is the most superior 
 for consoles on Wii. Gamers were starting to doubt the potential Wii had with FPS control, now 
 that doubt is gone.
  Another front that MoH: H2 pushes on Wii is the online play. yes there are problems like no voice 
 chat, but there is limited communication when you absolutely need it. Something I really ith they 
 included would be LAN. Splitscreen, and Coop.
  The graphics are average. The game was developed side by side with the PSP version and it shows 
 a little bit, but this game looks clean and has an amazing framerate.
  Campaign is suitable, though it does lack Coop and needs better AI, but it will keep you fighting 
 in strategic and man vs world style.
  This game is a must buy for any serious Wii gamer. Unless you want to continue with only Nintendo 
 giving you a prime gaming experience I suggest you play and support games like these.
  
  As a side note I hope EA will let this talented team of developers make another more original and 
 exclusive FPS for Wii that will awe us once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KarelTheSword
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  With all the WW2 games out there you might be wondering why you would want to buy this new Medal 
 of Honor game. It features all the stereotypical locations in a war game and doesn't put much new 
 on the table, or does it? The truth is this game has the best and most innovative control scheme 
 for a first person shooter ever. It really helps overset the drawbacks in this game, for there 
 are many. Now to break this review up...
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 While this does nothing new in the way of scenario, the sharp brisk controls will 
 have you tuning a radio by tilting the wii remote, zooming in with a sniper rifle by twisting it, 
 placing it on your shoulder to act as a rocket launcher, and even tilting the nunchuk to dodge 
 behind cover. You can even pump a shotgun with the nunchuk while firing with the Wii remote which 
 feels very satisfying. However, there is one big problem, The AI and spawn rate. The enemies will 
 spawn right before your eyes and are about as dumb as a post, often running past you to reach their 
 shooting location. However, with the massive amount of enemies they pile on, quantity over quality 
 will overwhelm you. This is the biggest problem with the game and could be fixed with a little 
 smarter programming and some tender loving care.
  
  Graphics: 7/10 The graphics dont exactly "wow" you. Character models of both allies and enemies 
 look particularly ugly and reminds you more of the gamecube then a next generation console. The 
 gun's look more realistic luckily, as they are based on authentic WW2 guns. Sadly, the scenery 
 is both un-creative and un-detailed but the graphics can be overlooked.
  
  Sound: 9/10 This game sounds absolutely great. The sound while loading your gun is the melodical 
 click of bullets which comes out from the Wii remote and also some of the gunfire noises come out 
 of the remote for extra immersion. The sound that comes out the Wii remote while tuning a radio 
 really sounds like a 70 year old radio and adds extra depth. The sound overall really draws you 
 in to the experience and was well done.
  
  Tilt: 9/10 This game features the best controls ever seen in a war game and although it has undeniable 
 "faults" it does much more right then wrong and is a very fun and immersive war game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathScape666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I was excited about Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 because of the great controls, 32 people online, and 
 no friend codes. It had three versions of play: Online, normal campaign, and arcade mode. I thought 
 that this would definitely be an AA or maybe even an AAA title to me. I thought wrong.
  
  First, let me just say that the single player campaign sucks. It's so unbelievably boring... Step 
 1: Shoot Nazis. Step 2: Repeat step 1. The game gets old quick, and it only lasts six hours to 
 begin with. I didn't expect much from the storyline, and I just thought I would point out that 
 it is kind of lame. The AI is so freaking stupid. One time, my allies were shooting at nothing, 
 saying, "Move, move! We need backup!" Or some crap like that. They were shooting the wall. All 
 the enemies were gone. Horrible AI. I've never seen worse in recent times.
  
  The arcade mode is boring considering all you do is shoot, shoot, shoot! You don't even have any 
 freedom. I wasn't expecting much from this, anyway.
  
  Now here's my biggest gripe. The online mode is mediocre. It lacks voice chat, which sucks. There 
 are only six places. There are only three different modes of play. The rocket launcher handles 
 horribly. The spawning points are sometimes right next to your enemy. The character models are 
 laughable at best, and it just isn't much fun. It's so darn repetitive constantly shooting guys 
 over and over again. There isn't much skill involved at all. Also, playing with 32 people online 
 sucks! Too many people in small, enclosed areas just doesn't work.
  
  Overall, I have to say that this game is another generic first person shooter with terrific controls. 
 That's the only thing it has going for it. No friend codes are cool, but when the online mode sucks, 
 it just isn't worth coming back to.
  
  Speaking of the terrific controls, there are some negative points to it, as well. The controls 
 for aiming the gun are amazing, but everything else isn't quite as good. For example, sometimes 
 you'll have to shake the Nunchuck in a certain direction to move a giant machine. The analog stick 
 would've been much easier. It works, but it's unnecessary. Take advice from Super Mario Galaxy: 
 Don't force motion sensing controls. Use them only if you think it will be more fun/work better 
 than normal controls.
  
  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption actually has you do more than shoot enemies, and it has amazing atmosphere. 
 It's a heck of a lot better than this World War II shooter.
  
  Speaking of which, World War II shooters get tiring after awhile, which explains why I enjoyed 
 Red Steel more than this game. Yes, I know people think that's kind of weird, but the single player 
 campaign was much longer and different. To be fair, it might have to do with the fact that it was 
 the first first person shooter for the Wii. That probably has a lot to do with it.
  
  
  I'd recommend just waiting for another online first person shooter. One that fixes the many mistakes 
 Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 had. With some extra effort put into it, Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 could've 
 been one of the best online shooters, ever. Too bad it isn't.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  World War II shooters have been getting too common in the gaming industry but this game manages 
 to actually be a good one in a long time. The frame rate stays locked at 60 FPS and you almost 
 never see any slowdown. The single player campaign is good and what you would expect from a WWII 
 game. The A. I seems like it could have been improved a little bit more though. The real draw of 
 the game is actually it's multi-player. First off, EA has nailed the controls perfectly. without 
 going into too many details, there are so many customizable options that almost anyone can "crank 
 the knobs" to where they are most comfortable. This and the fact that it offers 32 player multi-player 
 online in which most games on the other consoles lack, is a great milestone on Wii. It's a shame 
 that the game only offers 6 well made maps with 3 modes and only 2 of those maps can play a CTF 
 match. There are some other small problems with online but they are not bothersome enough to even 
 mention. The sound effects are really good and they "pack a punch" and give each gun it's own personality. 
 The graphics actually look really good although the movement sometimes looks really awkward like 
 when going up the stair the character model looks really "jittery". Overall, if you were looking 
 for an online FPS with great controls on Wii, this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innocent_J
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  At first I thought a real life FPS on the wii would be horrible, but I was wrong.
  
  This game has fast and fun gameplay. The controls are solid and pretty easy to pick up. 
  
 
  I don't think the game is long enough. Ive been playing for a couple days and I'm already almost 
 done. But during the action you get so into it, then all of a sudden you realize that you've reached 
 the ending of that stage.
  
  The Arcade mode in the game is a very very good addiction in my opinion. If you just feel like 
 shooting people and not thinking about objectives and things to do, this is the mode to play. 
 
  
  One bad thing in the game is the horrible AI. Man it's pretty bad. If there are two enemies in 
 front of you, and you shot one in the head. The other will just stand there and keep shooting at 
 you. They come in at the same time, bend down at the same time, stand and shoot at the same time. 
 This is in pairs of course.
  
  The soldiers on your side often repeat the same lines, when they just shot someone down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFS102
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Heroes 2 is yet another WW2 shooter. But MoH has set a new bar for shooters on the 
 Wii. With the first major on-line play available MoH is definitely a game worth trying for Wii 
 owners.
  
  The single player for MoH is not anything outstanding, but it does provide some satisfing moments 
 none the less. You take the role of Lt. Berg and your job is to destroy a weapon that Hitler is 
 creating for mass destruction of the world. The story is very simple and could use some improvement, 
 but I'm not complaining and I don't think you will either. The campain is also quite short (5 hours 
 or less) , but it will provide solid gaming throughout and is an overall good experience. 
  
  For all of you who need something different from a first person shooter, you should try out 
 the arcade feature of MoH. It lets you play through the single player campaign, but instead of 
 a FPS, it's an on-rails shooter. It does all the moving for you so you don't have to do a thing. 
 It's a good add on to the game but thats about all it will ever be.
  
  All that is good, but the game would'nt be what it is with out the stellar online play it has. 
 Up to 32 people can compete with each other to see who is the best of the best. It is incredibly 
 fun and easily the best online available for the Wii. This is what truly makes the game what it 
 is, and you will not be disapointed when you pick up and play.
  
  Overall the game provides a great experience. The graphics are nothing special, but all that is 
 made up for by sharp controls and addicting online play. MoH: H2 is definetaly something you should 
 try and I reccomend it to everyone who like a good game.
  
  Overall Score:
  
  8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hassam7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  I really like this game eventhough it is no different from any other MOH game it is still very 
 entertaining and has great missions (eventhough there are only 8) I love the games arcade mode also, 
 it is really a very competitive thing and is something new in the MOH series. 
  
  The graphics are really clear and crisp but the Nazi's are really undetailed but the game has really 
 great visuals.
  
  The sound of gunfire and bombs and stuff is very impressive and it is very realistic.
  
  The 
 controls of the wii Zapper are outstanding like, the way you reload the gun (you have to pull the 
 wii zapper up which is pretty cool) and the way you through the grenades (you have to hold B and 
 swing your Zapper like your really throwing it) . 
  
  The gameplay is really fast paced and it keeps the action going on.
  
  Something that I really 
 hate in the game is the A. I. Your fellow soldiers use a whole cartridge to even hit an enemy soldier! 
 And enemy soldiers will risk their own life in getting cover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packster
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor has gone downhill since vanguard, but Medal Of Honor Heroes 2 is a step back to 
 victory!
  
  --Gameplay --
  The gameplay controls are extremely fun, they react quickly and responisvly, and once you get your 
 hands on a bazooka on this game, controling it is as fun as it gets, Its freakn' awesome! Yet, 
 there is sort of a light-gun feel, feels like it weighs about 2 pounds, whatever, still awesome! 
 You have a choice of using 2 controls schemes, normal, with just the Wii-remote and Nunchuck, which 
 I prefer, or the Wii Zapper, which is an extreme amout of fun, but is lacking fun controls schemes 
 from the other one. may I suggest the non-zapper controls with the zapper? Oh yeah!
  --Graphics --
  The graphics... are Decent, the guns and locations look pretty good, and the character 
 models dont look that good, but the game is a good improvment from the recent games.
  
  --Sound --
  As usual, in a Medal of Honor game, the Sound sounds great and realistic, the other 
 troop's in-game lines are good and dramatic, but they repeat the same thing over and over.
  
  --Story Mode --
  Story mode in this game is fun and addictive and gives you alot of variety 
 in Controls, a decent, expected storyline, that really you wont give a crap about. There are like 
 9 levels, and they are lengthly enough, maybe an hour or less, or more, per level, prbably atleast 
 10 hours. The AI in teh game are eqivalent to a retarted monkey, but they get the job done. There 
 are three modes of difficulty, Green (the easiest) features a LOCK-ON mode, and the next three 
 do not.
  
  --Replay Value --
  There is also an Arcade Mode, wwhich is a point and shoot sort of thing that the game controls 
 your character by itself, all you have to do is shoot the crap out of stuff, it replays the levels 
 you have already finished in story mode.
  ONLINE -But online mode is what is the best of replay, and maybe the best feature in the game, 
 and best online on the Wii. Capture the flag, Team deathmatch, it has all you need in an online 
 game, and it works well and lag free. No friend codes either! :D wah-whoo! It is really fun and 
 adds hours. and hours off replay, the first time I played it online, I looked at the message board 
 and I was playing for 6 hours!!: O!! Say what? thats right.. Its hard not to...
  
  --Closing Comments --
  Get this game. NOW!
  
  online, sweetness controls, the game you need 
 for the Wii.
  
  NOW!
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 7.5
  Sound: 9
  Replay: 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bannamanag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  You're probably thinking, "not another medal of honor game". I've wasted enough time with vanguard 
 so i'm not even thinking about heroes 2. But let me tell you. It's not perfect, but it's WAY better 
 than vanguard. But if you don't have online capabilities, forget this game. The online play is 
 very addicting and fun. Most the maps are pretty cool and you don't really get tired of them. The 
 online play can entertain you for hours. The character models look a little bit worse on online 
 than campaign. The campaign isn't really all that interesting. If you like FPS's, get this game. 
 I doubt you'll be dissappointed. The game isn't perfect though. They maybe could have spent just 
 a little more time on the graphics. The controls are AMAZING.
  
  Graphics: They're pretty decent and get the job done. But if they have a sequel tune them up even 
 more.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay is pretty fun. it won't let you down
  
  Sounds: The sound is very good on this game. I won't ask for a whole lot more.
  
  Controls: 
 Very good. Everything feels right.
  
  replay value: If u have online it will definitely hold you off til SSBB
  
  the good: Good controls, 
 fun online, sweet grenade throwing system, sound, entertains for a long time
  
  the bad: Like gamespot said the campaign is very similar. Graphics could be a little better. The 
 melee doesn't work to save your life. We can only hope heroes 3 is being made. That would be SWEET! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh_99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Medal of honor heroes 2 is a great game, and it is has the best online seen on any wii game so 
 far but it lacks two key components.
  
  The first one is the single player mode. The single player mode has only eight different levels 
 and it can be beaten in under 10 hours. The good thing there is the arcade mode (which is an on-rail 
 shooter) that adds replay value to the game if you dont have online.
  
  Also the biggest thing this game is lacking is local multiplayer. On the back of the box it says 
 that there is local multiplayer but there isnt any at all. I would not of cared if they delayed 
 this game for 2 months just to add this in, because it would have made this game a whole lot better.
 
  
  All and all this game is great if you have online because you can play for hours against others 
 all around the world. If you do not have online I reccomand you rent it first because you can beat 
 it in one day.
  
  Oh yah i forgot to mention.... NO FRIEND CODES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoffgod
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  There is absolutely no reason to expect anything greater than mediocrity out of Medal of Honor: 
 Heroes 2. Its a third party first person shooter on the Wii, a genre highlighted by the 
 average Call of Duty 3 and low lighted by dreck like Far Cry: Vengeance and the earlier Medal of 
 Honor game, Vanguard. Also, its a Wii version of a game which started life as a PSP game, 
 a terrible combination which delivered to Wii owners the underwhelming games Alien Syndrome and 
 Heatseeker, amongst others. Finally, its a Medal of Honor game. Since touching greatness 
 with Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, the franchise had delivered nothing but middling games before 
 falling into outright badness with the aforementioned Medal of Honor: Vanguard. Therefore it comes 
 as a total surprise that Medal of Honor: Heroes 2, in a year populated with the likes of Bioshock, 
 Halo 3, and Call of Duty 4, is one of the best first person shooters to come out in 2007.
  
  To begin with it should be said that Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 is, at its base design, a very 
 average World War II shooter. It has you play as Lieutenant Berg, an American special ops agent 
 who is, for some reason, working for the British OSS. You go into France shortly after D-Day in 
 order to stop Hitler from acquiring a nuke and the story basically plays out like every other World 
 War II FPS to come out this side of Wolfenstein 3D. All you really need to know is that the Nazis 
 are bad folk and you need to shoot them. Its a throw away story, but for being as unambitious 
 as it is it isnt bad and, most importantly, it doesnt get in the way. There are no 
 needless cut scenes, no overwrought drama or anything of the sort to get between you and the simple 
 joys of shooting Nazis, which isnt all that hard. Youll get torn to shreds if youre 
 careless, but the enemy AI is nothing to marvel at. They tend to be a bit on the slow side in terms 
 of reacting to you and not too good at taking cover. However, theyre also rather accurate, 
 making them no pushover, and they never feel cheap or do particularly boneheaded things. The best 
 way to sum up the AI is inoffensive.
  
  Another area where Heroes 2 doesnt really accomplish much is the visuals. The game is very 
 plain, thanks to its unambitious style, another thing based off of every other World War II FPS, 
 and its low resolution textures. Its not much to look at, but like the story, it also doesnt 
 get in the way. The game isnt pretty, but its not ugly and looks better than quite 
 a few Wii games out so far. The audio is equally unobtrusive. The sound effects for the guns and 
 explosions sound good and the voice acting is competently done. However, its generally unspectacular 
 and the one-line comments from your comrades, such as Leave some for us! or Doesnt 
 get much deader than that!, tend to be said too frequently and can be a minor annoyance. 
 Once again, something in Heroes 2 that doesnt excel, but it doesnt get in the way 
 either.
  
  Where Heroes 2 begins to excel is in its depth. Heroes 2 sports three game modes: Campaign, Arcade, 
 and Multiplayer. Campaign is, once again, your typical World War II FPS, taking you through eight 
 levels spanning typical fare for this type of games, such as a beach, a city, a Nazi base, and 
 the same city as before after it was bombed to bits, accomplishing main objectives with side objectives 
 which are optional but add to your completion percentage. Arcade mode takes you through the campaign 
 levels, but instead of a typical FPS it plays like a light gun shooter with infinite ammo and health 
 packs you have to shoot to gain more health. For whats essentially a bonus mode, the Arcade 
 mode is very well done, throwing enough enemies at you to keep things intense with enough health 
 packs to keep it from being impossible, and throwing in different weapons for you to use, such 
 as a rocket launcher or a sniper rifle, at certain points to keep it from being just pure mindless 
 blasting. The final mode is multiplayer, where the game really finds its legs. The game supports 
 up to 32 player multiplayer with three modes: deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag. 
 The multiplayer runs very smoothly without any noticeable lag and, like other EA offerings, it 
 doesnt use friend codes. Overall it makes for a very frenzied online experience that makes 
 up for its lack of modes with how excellently it balances run-and-gun with strategy, creating a 
 compelling and infinitely enjoyable game. The only real addition which could be desired it voice 
 chat, but thats a failure of Nintendo to offer the feature, not EA in its offering. Overall, 
 this is the best online game the Wii has to offer to date and will likely stay that way for quite 
 a while.
  
  The next area where Heroes 2 really excels, and what makes Heroes 2 a great Wii game, is how it 
 uses the Wii controls. The most important part of a Wii FPS is the aiming, and Heroes 2 nails it 
 better than any other game out so far. Yes, its even better than the highly touted Metroid 
 Prime 3 controls. The default settings work very well, much better than, say, Red Steel, but the 
 real key to its brilliance is how customizable it is. The options allow you to set to your liking 
 the size of the dead zone (the area in the middle of the screen you can aim in and not move your 
 view) , the aiming sensitivity, the vertical look speed, and the horizontal look speed, creating 
 a totally customizable experience making the aiming as fast and sensitive as you like. The elusive 
 potential of the Wii to create a FPS with aiming which can rival a mouse is realized in this game. 
 Its a triumph and does a lot to turn an otherwise average game into a great one.
  
  But the use of the Wii controls doesnt end there. Other elements incorporate the Wiis 
 motion-sensing capabilities with success across the board. For example, whenever you man a machine 
 gun emplacement, something youll do frequently to fight back counterattacks, you hold the 
 Wii remote and nunchuck upright in front of you, as if you were holding the handles on a MG42 machine 
 gun. When using a rocket launcher, you flip the Wii remote onto your shoulder, as if it were the 
 barrel of the rocket launcher, aim with the analogue stick, and press B to fire. When manning an 
 artillery gun you rotate the nunchuck in circles to turn the aiming wheel to aim the gun left or 
 right and then pull back quickly on the Wii remote to fire the gun. Its even included in 
 little things, like flicking the Wii remote quickly to reload, tilting the nunchuck left or right 
 to lean around corners or out of cover while aiming, or tilting the Wii remote left and right and 
 listening through the Wii remote speaker to zero in on a radio frequency to receive secret messages. 
 Overall, the use of the motion controls create a much more immersive, intense, and enjoyable experience.
 
  
  Another control scheme worth noting is the Wii Zapper controls. This control scheme works with 
 all game modes using a simplified control scheme to fit with whats available while holding 
 the Wii Zapper. However, that very simplification is what makes this control scheme inferior to 
 the other control scheme. Due to the limitations the Wii Zapper shell puts on the movement of the 
 Wii remote, many of the aforementioned motion sensing functions, such as the machine gun aiming, 
 the rocket launcher aiming, the radio channel finding, etc, are instead designated to the analogue 
 stick. While it works, its not as fun as otherwise. Another problem is, despite being generally 
 inaccessible while holding the Zapper, changing weapons is designated to the left and right buttons 
 on the d-pad in this control scheme, making changing weapons a pain and near impossible to do quickly. 
 Thats not to say theyre useless, however. They work well and the Zapper shell does 
 add more of a gun-like feel to the controls, which some may desire while playing Arcade mode to 
 create a more light gun-esque experience.
  
  Overall, while there was no reason to expect this to be the case, Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 is a 
 great game and one of the best offerings available now on the Wii. The shortcomings in visuals 
 and originality are more than made up for with the depth and replay value the game offers as well 
 as the ingenious and clever use of the Wiis capabilities. If youre looking for a 
 great FPS, youd do very well to pick up Medal of Honor: Heroes 2.
  
  Pros:
  - Great online multiplayer
  - Great replay value
  - Excellent Wii controls
  
  Cons:
  
 - Another unoriginal WW2 FPS
  - Average-at-best visuals
  
  Bought for: $50
  Recommended pick-it-up-at price: $50
  
  Verdict: A great game which wont 
 disappoint Wii owners or FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkthemaniac
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 17, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor has been around for a while now. They were probably the first to hit it big with 
 the World War 2 FPS franchise, but ever since Frontline, it has been on a steady decline. Heroes 
 2 may have some good, even great ideas, but the online play fails to be anything more than imbalanced 
 and frustrating, and that's basically this game's only hook.
  
  The campaign is one you've all seen before, so there's no point in talking about it other than 
 to say that Medal of Honor is going to die very soon unless they mix it up a little.
  
  Now, for the online play. In order to organize my list of grievances, I will make a list:
  
 
  1. The weapons are imbalanced. There's really no point to using anything more than the SMG, Sniper 
 Rifle or Rocket Launcher. The HMGs are pretty weak and the rifles are godawful, which is a huge 
 dissappointment, since they're my favorite guns, especially the Kar.
  2. You can start with any weapon you want. I know that it tries to borrow from Call of Duty, but 
 with so many people that have rocket launchers, it's not that fun, which brings me to my next point.
 
  3. The rocket launcers are an abomination. In the campaign, I remember that you couldn't move 
 with the rocket launcher out. Well, by way of glitch or just change of rules, you can online. Also, 
 since rockets explode, you'd think a perfectly viable strategy would be to ruch a rocketeer to 
 make him unable to fire, since he'll kill himself as well. Sadly, the rockets don't harm the user, 
 which is dumb as hell.
  4. You start out with grenades. This is a problem since it makes invading an enemy base very difficult 
 since the respawns can just chuck grenades, which has happened before. They're too powerful to 
 start with.
  5. The avatars make decieving movements. Once, I shot a guy in the knee, and he crippled over in 
 pain. When I got closer to get an easy head shot, he fired his gun from his bent position. This 
 means that while his avatar was crippled over, he could still see fine. That's just stupid and 
 confusing.
  6. Let's say you fire 16 MP40 slugs into some guy's legs. You then retreat for 10 seconds, come 
 back, and finish the clip. The overall effect would be that of shooting 16 rounds into someone, 
 since their health recharges. This is a problem since there's no health bar. It's just red on the 
 sides, and it's difficult to judge how wounded you are. It seems as though they were trying to 
 make it more "realistic" by not having a life bar, but they end up making a game where it's possible 
 to be shot 100 times over the course of 5 minutes and survive. What's wrong with a health bar? 
 Maybe, if you had a health bar, you would be able to see how little damage the rifles do. They 
 basically covered their poorly thought out rifle damage balance by making your guy's into tanks 
 that can withstand 2 clips if needed.
  7. There's no team respawn points, or an option to spawn near allies. This makes it possible to 
 spawn next to a group of enemy soldiers. This racks up your deaths pretty quickly.
  8. It steals too much from Call of Duty. The red area outside the screen and starting with any 
 weapon are CoD ideas. Get some originality, EA.
  9. The game is less about cover and more about running in circles to dodge gunfire. Cover is pointless 
 since you can never really tell if you're sticking out at all, so it becomes the "Shoot first or 
 die jumping" mentality that plagues so many games. Also, you can't jump.
  10. No matchmaking system. You can't find people of your skill level since there's no ranks. This 
 makes the game frustrating since you'll be up against elite players as a noob and won't be able 
 to get any better.
  
  The sad thing is that the game lags very little. I just wish they thought about these problems 
 more.
  
  Another sad thing is that for the most part, the controls are great. Crouching and changing weapons 
 may be a little awkward, but pretty much all of the action-specific movements are great and responsive. 
 If you feel like using the Zapper, its a lot of fun. However, you'll ditch it while online pretty 
 quickly since it does slow your aiming. Also, Arcade mode is a fresh distraction in the Medal of 
 Honor series.
  
  The game has so much potential, but falls flat on its face in execution. Nevertheless, it still 
 manages to be the 2nd best FPS on the Wii behind Metroid Prime, granted that there's only five. 
 It gives good hope for future online shooters, but it's really not that great. I may have been 
 kinder to this game if Medal of Honor mixed it up a little. I've yet to play an awesome Vietnam 
 game. Hopefully, their next attempt is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunar52
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  I rented Medal of Honor Heroes 2 (MOHH2 for short) in late November and it was just amazing. The 
 graphics weren't the best I had ever seen but the game play, controls and online multi-player more 
 than made up for it. The campaign is also good when your not in the mood for playing online. There 
 are a few problems though such as not that great AI.
  
  Game Play/Controls: 10
  
  The game play and controls in MOHH2 are incredibly well done. Probably the best on the Wii and 
 definitely the best for any FPS. From aiming by pointing the Wii Remote to tuning a radio by twisting 
 the Wii Remote, It's all there in MOHH2.
  
  Campaign: 9.0
  
  I haven't played through the whole campaign. But so far I'm enjoying it. It's the same old story 
 but it's still good. The only bad thing is the AI because they're really easy to kill and they 
 move in a weird way. All in all the campaign is pretty good.
  
  Online Multi-player: 10
  
  The online multi-player in MOHH2 is the best part along with the game play and controls. From 
 being in unions and having tournaments against clans or just playing with random people there is 
 alway something to do online. It brings great replay value to the game.
  
  Overall Score: 9.5
  
  MOHH2 is a great game with great game play, controls, campaign, and online 
 multi-player. The only flaws are not so great graphics and bad AI. If I were you I would close 
 this review and go out and buy it.
  
  Thank you for reading.
  
  -Lunar52
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  It would be hard to blame someone for being skeptical about wanting to purchase this game, after 
 all, it's a port from a PSP series and portable to console ports usually aren't good. But, EA seems 
 to have pulled it off pretty well. Medal of Honor Heroes 2 isn't great, but thanks to good multiplayer 
 and controls, it's one of the better Wii shooters.
  
  STORY - The Nazis are making a rocket. Go kill them so they can't use it.
  GAMEPLAY - The gameplay 
 in Medal of Honor Heroes 2 is broken into three modes, Campaign, Arcade, and Multiplayer, but first 
 I'll talk about the controls. The controls are done amazingly well in this game. This is definitely 
 the best control scheme for a shooter the Wii has ever had, plus you get quite a few options for 
 alternate button-presses, and gestures so you can tune it to your liking. The game stresses less 
 the importance of pushing buttons, and more the use of gestures, anything from adjusting how far 
 you're zooming in on your sniper rifle, to pumping a shotgun will use gestures. But, perhaps most 
 importantly, you can adjust your bounding box (how far at the edge of the screen you have to point 
 your Wiimote to turn) , which is most certainly a more than welcome feature.
  The Campaign is a little light on pretty much everything. First of all, it's pretty repetitive, 
 every objective, and mission will pretty much be the exact same thing, though occasionally you'll 
 do something new like use a flak turret or make your way through a mine-field. Second, everything 
 is small-scale, even compared to Vanguard or Frontline, there's almost no scripted events, so the 
 game won't be giving a cinematic, Saving Private Ryan-esque vibe that, say, the first level of 
 Frontline gave. These two problems (especially the lack of scripted events, which is what the Medal 
 of Honor series has become known for since Allied Assault) are extremely disappointing, and ultimately 
 make for an un-engaging experience.
  The Arcade mode, however, is a bit more entertaining. It plays out like any on-rails lightgun arcade 
 game, you can't move on your own, but it's up to you to point, shoot, reload and hop in and out 
 of cover. You can get into some pretty frantic gunfights, and it ultimately is just a way better 
 casual experience, and is much less repetitive.
  The multiplayer is where it's at, though. 32 players over Wi-Fi with almost no slow downs is pretty 
 mindblowing, but added on top of that are leaderboards and the ability to make your own server 
 instead of using a match-making system. The game modes aren't anything spectacular, you just get 
 Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Capture the Flag, but the sheer scope of the matches, especially 
 given the console, makes them really fun. 
  
  GRAPHICS - Medal of Honor Heroes 2 looks decent. The environments are done well and are pretty 
 varied, you'll see places from a sewer, to a beach, to a bombed out city. The models however, look 
 pretty bad, sort of like how the would look on the PSP (hmm... laziness? Could be) and textures 
 look pretty washed-out and low-res up close.
  SOUND - The sound in Medal of Honor Heroes 2 is great. The battlefields feel pretty alive, as enemies 
 and allies will yell things out, and all the weapon sounds are fairly well done. One problem I 
 had is that the music is pretty forgettable, which is surprising considering the fact that it's 
 a Medal of Honor game. But, there was one aspect of the sound design I thought was perfect, and 
 that was the sounds that come out of the Wiimote. Reloading, pulling grenade pins, and your heart-beat 
 when you're hurt all come forth from the Wiimote, and it's one of the only games to use the Wiimote 
 speaker how it was meant to be used.
  
  VALUE - The singleplayer will take about 4 hours to beat, but it's worth replaying the missions 
 on arcade mode (which will probably take 3 or so more hours) and the multiplayer is so damn fun 
 you could be playing it for a long time, especially if you only own a Wii.
  
  TILT - Despite a bad singleplayer, and mediocre graphics, Medal of Honor Heroes 2 is a pretty good 
 game. The multiplayer will hold your attention for a long time and the sound, namely the sound 
 design is almost perfect, and on top of that you have lots of customization in terms of controls. 
 The noticeable lack of scope, cinematic feel, prevent it from truly living up to the Medal of Honor 
 name, but it's still a good shooter for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casual33
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  I have to admit I am shocked to see the overwhelmingly positive reviews for this game. I had the 
 opportunity to play this for a couple of hours and that was more than enough time to realize how 
 poor it is. The graphics and gameplay are horrible, I felt like I was back playing my xbox or N64. 
 This is probably the Wii's fault but regardless, I'd rather dig out the N64 and play Goldeneye 
 before turning this game back on. I've been playing COD4 on the 360 at home and after playing this 
 game I almost threw up in my mouth. I actually had to look up when it was released because I couldn't 
 believe a game like this could have come out so recently. If you really want a good shooter pick 
 up Halo 3, COD 4, or Gears of War. Don't sacrafice gameplay, graphics, sound, etc for a nifty controller 
 and a little Mii character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I have only been playing these games for a short while and MoH Vanguard 
 I for the Wii is my only true comparison. That being said let me begin.
  
  I will break this review into three sections feature, single person play, and multi player.
  
 
  New Features: New features, well the most noticeable for Wii players is the ability to play online 
 (to be covered later) there is also and arcade mode that can be fun but I think the most noticeable 
 game play features are the changes in WiiMote actions. In Vanguard there wasn't a lot of imagination 
 in the controls basically point and shoot (especially with the bazooka) but now you will look funny 
 to anyone not familiar with the game but it does make it fun. There is also the ability to play 
 at 3 different levels of ability (I am on the beginner mode) and an arcade mode which I have only 
 played once.
  
  Single Player: These are the missions you go on similar to Vanguard, unlike Vanguard you have the 
 arcade mode which is basically a kill em all let the insert deity of your choice here sort them 
 out (the PC version of the saying) the game moves you forward and you have unlimited ammo so go 
 kill kill kill. Other than that basically the premise is that you are an OSS operative assigned 
 to an airborne unit to carry out a main mission and several side missions. The graphics (IMHO) 
 haven't improved since Vanguard (this is a Wii game after all so graphics are not top priority) 
 but they are still good and playable. I have cleared the first 3 levels and am working on 4 and 
 each level has its own challenges and quirks.
  
  Multi Player: Or as we call it online mode. This is where the game earns its nuts, and before I 
 get any dig, dings or bullets this is a Wii game it will not compare with Xbox or PS3 so please 
 cut me a break o it. The first feature I like is the fact this game is played on the EA servers 
 so it is not as restrictive as the Nintendo servers may be. There are 3 basic game modes for online 
 mode
  .
  1. Deathmatch: as the book says everyone for them selves. This is my least favorite mode (basically 
 because I suck at it) but it is fun just to run around and blast everyone.
  2. Team Deathmatch: this is a team version of Deathmatch a little easier for noobs because you 
 have a team to work with.
  3. Infiltration (capture the flag) : this is by far my favorite online game you are teamed with 
 other to accomplish a mission (capture the flag) .
  
  All these games can be accessed by going to the lobby and joining in. You also have the ability 
 to start your own game and have your friends come and play.
  
  Overall I give the game an A for its playability and online play. I have seen on some of the boards 
 that people have complained of lagging but in the last couple of weeks that I have played I have 
 not noticed any.
  
  Pros: Online play, Fast paced, Multi player
  
  Cons: No communications (talk capability) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaptain_insano
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  before i start out i want u to think of all the bad games the wii has had.... now think of the good 
 ones.... now think of how much nintendo has learned since the begining. Medal of Honor Heroes 2 
 is a very solid FPS. it has an exceptional campaign, and a very good online multiplayer for a wii 
 game. let me also mention this is the first FPS on the wii to go online!!!! this is new! and i 
 highly encourage u to buy this game just to try out the multiplayer. thats where i found most of 
 the fun in this game. this isn't and Call of Duty or a Battlefield.... but it is a game that deserves 
 some credit. especialy since it is nintendos first antempt at an online FPS. if ur not gonna buy 
 it, at least rent it. u'll like it.... :D
  
  P. S.......... (unless u are a hardcore medal of honor fan/player, u won't play this game for more 
 than 2 months...... just throwning that out there.... hope it helps make up your mind wether or not 
 u are foinf to buy this game....) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Durffen
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  Before Medal of Honor Heroes 2, there were a few FPS games on Wii that didn't quite succeed, i. e 
 Call of Duty 3, Red Steel, and the past Medal of Honor game, Vanguard. Those games showed bad examples 
 of FPS Wii games. After Metroid Prime 3, EA Fusion took the smart route, and developed Medal of 
 Honor Heroes 2 to be a true Wii FPS experience. With the unveiling of Medal of Honor Heroes 2 at 
 E3, many were excited, and some were skeptical. Being shown along side with the Wii Zapper, definitely 
 added some hype. Although, There were some assets that brought down the hype, many gamers, including 
 myself, are disappointed to see that some games are still stuck in World War II, and that the game 
 was announced to release along side a PSP version, really made some gamers worry that it would 
 just be another PSP port. But after EA announced that it was in fact being built from the ground 
 up for Wii, hope was brought up.
  
  Medal of Honor Heroes 2 puts you in place of OSS Operative John Berg, who works behind the lines, 
 rather then the full out open battlefield, so even though it is just another World War II game, 
 it actually puts you in a different position in World War II than most games do, which is sorta 
 cool cause it's something a little different. You will find you're typical World War II objectives, 
 such as finding a radio to contact another operative, planting explosives to blow up Nazi Anti-Air 
 units, et cetera. The Campaign alone will take you around 6 to 8 hours. But the Arcade mode add's 
 a little extra fun and more gameplay time.
  
  Now, lets get to the actual gameplay. As you likely know, there are full customizable controls, 
 including a customizable Dead zone box, which makes it to where ever you point you're cursor, is 
 where the screen moves. A small dead zone, means that you can barely move the cursor to make the 
 screen move, and a larger dead zone, means you would need to move the cursor to the other side 
 of the screen to make the screen move. This is fully customizable both vertically, and horizontally. 
 There are two different types of controls, Elite, which is plain Wii remote and Nunchuk combo, 
 and Wii Zapper, which is obviously, the Wii Zapper. Choosing between the 2 changes button placement, 
 and adds some different motion functionality here and there. Example, Wii Zapper, Z on the Nunchuk 
 is to aim, while with Elite controls, the A button is to aim. I find both control schemes enjoyable, 
 and had a good time using both. There are also many innovative motion controls, such as pulling 
 the Wii-mote back and forth for Shotgun pumping, which can be switched to Auto-pump. Snipers have 
 the choice if they would rather twist the Wii-mote to zoom in and out, or to push it forward. There 
 are more innovative features in the game that i don't want to ruin.
  
  Now, here is where Medal of Honor Heroes 2 shines. Online play. The game supports 32 players online, 
 uses EA's own servers which means no friend codes, all you need is an EA account, which can be 
 created for free straight from the game itself. The online play, most of the time is lag free, 
 and plays pretty well. You have access to a full friends list, EA Messenger, and you're Kill - 
 Death record, you're overall score (kill death spread) , and an online leader board. There are 3 
 different game types, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Capture the Flag.
  
  The online mode does have it's flaws here and there. Meleeing is in the game, but is nearly never 
 needed for online play, being as you just walk right through you're enemy's. Voice chat would have 
 been a great feature, instead there are only quick commands like "Need Backup!".
  
  Heroes 2's visuals are also not half bad, considering the game does run at a pretty steady 60 frames 
 per second, with some nicely detailed environments here and there. The game still has room for 
 improvement in the graphical aspect, with some pretty bad detailed soldiers. But, to be honest, 
 I can't say i expected very much in visual terms, but the game is still not a half bad looking 
 game. It supports 480p and 16:9.
  
  Sound, like in most Medal of Honor games, is pretty top notch. Gun fire does not sound half bad, 
 along with explosions, but they could have givin' the soldiers better lines.
  
  Overall, Medal of Honor Heroes 2 is a true FPS experience for Wii, and is definitely one of the 
 best games to come to Wii, especially in third party terms. The game's online play will keep you 
 hooked, and coming back to it for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowman6251
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  That's exactly what this game is. Great multiplayer, horrible campaign.
  
  Campaign mode is basically everything you've ever seen before in a WW2 FPS. Run around slaying 
 countless amounts of nazis except in this game the nazis are absolutely retarted. They run past 
 you, they pretty much stay in their one pre-programmed spot and they couldn't shoot you if you 
 were the size of a planet. Simply put if this game did NOT have the online it has it would be in 
 the bargain bin instantly.
  
  The redeeming aspect to this game is its online. 32 player online with no friend codes on the wii! 
 Its about time we got an online shooter and a good one at that. Now the reason the online feels 
 so great is because there's no competition. If you compare it to other FPS off the wii this is 
 nothing special at all but because it has essentially no competetion on the wii this pleases me 
 greatly. There's only 6 maps and you can choose to spawn with a rocket launcher if you so choose 
 (but rockets are nothing special in this game. An MP40 can take one out pretty easily) but hey 
 its a start. Beatdowns are essentially useless unless you're completely out of ammo and speaking 
 of ammo you're guns tend to run out of it pretty fast. Its fairly rare to kill someone without 
 having to reload (machine guns, not rifles) if you walk twords eachother head on, both seeing eachother. 
 Grenades are tricky to use at first but are actually very effective once you learn the real methods 
 of use. You don't want to just chuck grenades at your enemy as it will likely not work. What you 
 want to do is pull the pin out and "cook" the grenade then throw it so it explodes right as its 
 in the vicinity of the enemy. This allows for more accuracy than say in Halo where you throw it 
 and it waits x seconds to detonate, but this comes at the price of having to hold it in your hand 
 and wait until the time is right.
  
  Regardless the game is fun (assuming you're playing online) and very competitive. If I finish with 
 a negative score I flip out because I want to climb that ladder to the top, but good luck with 
 that Stonecold has a ridiculous score of over 20,000. as of right now I'm only at 501.
  
  I give this game an 8.5
  
  you didn't (or won't) buy this game for the campaign. You got it 
 (or will/might) get it for the online and it does a good job of intense action on the wii. There's 
 only 6 levels but they are well designed and fun and there are only 3 game types but who plays 
 oddball anyway? All in all the only thing I really don't like about it are sniper games at the 
 ports but hey, that's not their fault. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballplaya13
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Pretty dissapointing to me. Online play is pretty good, but campaign is a letdown. Bland missions 
 with the same weapons lead to the letdown. Nothing new is brought to the table, gameplay wise. 
 Hit detection can be irratic, saying that you zoom in on their head or chest and shoot, they may 
 start jumping around as if they, ve been hit in the foot. The best part of the game is the control 
 layout. The controls make it more fun to fiddle with a radio or reload a rocket launcher than to 
 kill the bad guys. Overall, its a pretty good game and could be fun for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ojharvey
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Let me just say right away the controls are great. Having played Metroid Prime before it, these 
 have built on that foundation and as a result you end up with a very tight control scheme. The 
 only thing that would make it better (aka nearly perfect) would be a gun accessory and from what 
 I've heard Nyko's Perfect Shot will be available soon to make that a reality.
  
  The single player mode is pretty solid. Sure it's a little on the short side but definitely a worthwhile 
 experience. The added bonus of medals, promotions, etc. add a good amount to the replay factor.
 
  
  The arcade mode is a fun addition and it's a nice break from the typical single player approach. 
 Couple of issues with camera angles at times but overall a good experience.
  
  The online mode is spotty at best. Yes, it's easy to get into a match, yes, there is little downtime, 
 yes, there is virtually no lag, and yes, you can have 32 freaking people online at one time. However, 
 it's not that much fun or at least not as fun as it should be. It's next to impossible to kill 
 someone quickly and accurately. I've unloaded multiple clips into someone only to be the one to 
 die. I'm not an expert but I've played other games online with decent success (Ghost Recon and 
 COD 4) and this game pales in comparison - maybe the collision detection is the issue?
  
  The offline multiplayer mode.... well, there isn't one. Despite the back of the box claiming up 
 to 4 people can play. How can you have a game like this nowadays with no offline multiplayer mode? 
 In my opinion that's a basic requirement and combined with the fact that the online mode is so 
 spotty, I wouldn't recommend this as a purchase unless you're just dying for a decent shooter on 
 the Wii. (of which there are few) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King-Yoshi
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Though not as good as Vanguard in my opinion, Medal of Honor Heroes 2 certainly is a great Wii 
 shooter and definitely one of the better ones out there.
  
  Graphics: Definitely the best of the war shooters on the Wii so far and also one of the prettiest 
 looking games overall on the Wii. The frame rate for the most part held up very well and everything 
 just flat out looked great, from the soldiers to the guns.
  
  Controls: Excellent controls to say the least. The movement was very simple and aiming was far 
 easier on this one than on any other Wii shooter I've played to date. Also, the crouching controls 
 were good and the grenade controls were flawless and very accurate. One note though, the controls 
 did change from Vanguard and it can be a slight adjustment at first. Turret controls were cool 
 as well.
  
  Story: The story was no different than those of other war shooters, but all of the missions were 
 very fun and challenging as well. I only played this on medium difficulty, but I can say that this 
 game was very hard, especially the last mission which is absolute chaos. One complaint though, 
 the game is pretty short and I beat it in about 6 hours or so.
  
  Lasting Appeal: I only rented the game to play through single player, which was very good, but 
 I preferred Vanguard over this thanks to the splitscreen multiplayer. I never played online, but 
 arcade mode was pretty dull and I was disappointed in the lack of multiplayer on this one. I certainly 
 would recommend anyone who enjoys war shooters to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crankypinoy
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  In Medal of Honor you play as some OSS agent trying to stop a rocket. The single player mode is 
 horrible. Sometimes you might find your allies shooting a wall while you try to complete your mission 
 or find them doing nothing at all when there is an enemy right beside them. This game is extremely 
 short. There are about 8 levels and each level takes about 10 to 20 minutes to complete. This game 
 does give you an arcade mode which allows you to shoot while the game moves you around which is 
 a lot more easier. As you may know already you can use the Zapper for this game. The best part 
 of this game is the online. Online is very fun and exciting and can have a maximum of 32 people 
 depending on the map. The 3 games for online are team death-match, death-match, and capture the 
 flag. Oh and I forgot about the controls the motions you have to do for actions are actually responsive 
 and easy to do. For example to shoot a rocket you must lift the Wii-mote over your shoulder and 
 fire away or when you want to reload your shot gun you need to bring your hand towards you then 
 back.
  If you are unable to play online the DO NOT get this game but for the rest of you who can you may 
 want to buy it or atleast rent it somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilj0e777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  So far, the Medal of honor series hasn't been so great. But Medal of honor 2 is an exception. If 
 you ask me, the controls are superior to any FPS... Though I'm used to traditional FPS's, such 
 as Halo, timesplitters, and such, I'm getting used to the controls. They made the controls very 
 creative, such as the bazooka, where you hold the remote on your shoulders, and shotgun, where 
 you pump the nunchuck like a real shotgun, and much more. Though it has very good controls, They 
 should've worked on the graphics a little bit more. But still, the wii doesn't really have good 
 graphics, but I guess that the graphics are pretty good for the wii game. There are 3 game modes. 
 First, there's campain, where it's pretty much the same as other World war 2 games. It is quite 
 enjoyable, and It's just fun, and challenging. Second, there's arcade, which is the same thing, 
 except that it moves for you and you just shoot to your content. This is good for beginners, or 
 for those who loved the games in the arcades, such as the house of the dead series.... except not 
 zombies. In multiplayer, I mean, everyone has been praising multiplayer, I don't really think it's 
 all that great. Everyone looks really weird, and most of the time, as soon as you respawn, you 
 die. I mean, it's a mess, and very confusing. I appreciate the efforts of EA, but they should've 
 made it better, because I was quite dissapointed. But It's a good start for the wii. Overall, I 
 think that Medal of honor is a must for any wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ww2gamereviewer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Heroes 2 is a game where you play as another OSS agent who is trying to stop a V2 
 rocket on some random island. You get to fire a cannon, mortar, plant explosives, aim your weapon, 
 pump a shotgun, use a mkine detecor, use a radio, and throw a gernade with the nunchuck and wiimote. 
 The graphics are pretty good espically the weapon models. The levels are pretty long with tons 
 of enemys who make good shots. There are 8 levels. The online multiplayer is probley the biggest 
 highlight of the game. There are 3 kinds of matches deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the 
 flag. You can play on 6 of the 8 levels in the game. Rifles like the M1 and Karbinear arnet very 
 effective so dont use them. The best are submachine guns and sniper rifles. The game also has an 
 arcade mode. You play through levels in the game trying to kill enemys. It feels like a shooter 
 atan arcade like House of the Dead or something. But there are flaws. As you probley have heard 
 the AI sucks. Its horrible. There arent many levels and its very easy to die. Its hard to have 
 a good accarcy % inb the game casue of the wiimote. Graphics probley could have been better. But 
 otherwise the game is pretty game. I strongly recommened buying it. \,,/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  You're reading this review because you want to know one more person's take on this new and interesting 
 shooter for the Wii. Yup, we know it's absolutely nothing new in the sense of gameplay -- WWII 
 shooters have been done to death -- but Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 (MoHH2) is also being touted by 
 many critics as having the very best console FPS controls to date.
  
  Okay, well, forget what you've read before -- both good and bad -- the game's controls are good 
 in the sense of how much customization you, the player, are afforded, but don't expect to jump 
 right into the game and it give you the feeling of wielding a real gun. If you do as most folks 
 have suggested and max out all the speed / sensitivity settings for the controls, and minimize 
 the dead zone, you'll likely find yourself staring at either the ground or the sky when you first 
 start playing. The controls are going to take some getting used to, and it may take a while before 
 you find control settings that work just right for you. 
  
  That said, even when you've gotten the controls where you want them, you will still find that you 
 can easily lose control. What I mean by that is, when, for instance, throwing a grenade, if you 
 gesture too much with the Wii-mote, the sensor will misread your command and tell you to aim the 
 remote back at the screen; by the time you catch your bearings you'll end up a victim of your own 
 device if you've already pulled the pin on the grenade in order to cook it before tossing.
  
  There are other such issues as well, and you'll have to learn to work around them. In the end, 
 the controls, in my opinion, are nothing special. Fusion did their job and they don't really deserve 
 special credit for that. The reason MoHH2 is such a big deal is because Fusion is one of the few 
 developers, it seems -- outside of Nintendo's own studios -- that have seen fit to make a decent 
 game for the Wii.
  
  I do give props, however, to the development team for making the most out of what was likely a 
 shoestring budget. There's no motion capturing apparent in the game, and character movements look 
 ridiculously archaic for a $50 console game. The character models, too, are quite blocky and appear 
 as though they could have been something from a late N64 title.
  
  Those graphic issues aside, the background textures are fairly crisp and detailed, all but the 
 water, which looks rudimentary at best. But what saves the graphics, ultimately, is the framerate, 
 which is lightning fast. There is no noticeable difference in the frame rate online than that of 
 the campaign mode gameplay. If you've got a good connection, online play is going to be a really 
 smooth ride.
  
  And that's where MoHH2 proves its mettle. It's a tad flawed, mainly due to a few minor glitches 
 and a general lack of support, but MoHH2 is nothing short of uber addictive. If you enjoy fraggin', 
 you'll lose many, many hours of your life to this game. It's mindless fun that true shooter fans 
 will greatly enjoy. The hit detection and damage aren't realistic, but everything is balanced well. 
 And though there are only a small handful of maps and options to choose from, there's more than 
 ample opportunity to have continuous fun with this game.
  
  If you're considering MoHH2 for any other reason than online, then I suggest considering it as 
 a rental. If you're ready for online and can look past the games flaws, MoHH2 is a machine built 
 to last.
  
  EDIT: After spending yet more time with the game online, I just want to add a comment or two. The 
 main thing I would like to mention is, due to laggy players online, you'll be forced to, most times, 
 lead your shots. So, if the reticule is in red over an enemy, you'll have to shoot about one or 
 two inches to the left or right (depending on which way they're moving) in order to actually get 
 your shots on target. It's really weird and not very satisfying when you have otherwise good aim. 
 
  
  Another point I feel worth mentioning regards new glitches that have been cropping up. One particular 
 glitch in the Port map, previously considered harmless, now seems to offer a possible sniping vantage 
 point that could put other players at a disadvantage.
  
  Anyway, these issues -- mainly the laggy players -- definitely put a damper on the experienece. 
 I've still been having a good time with MoHH2, and I'm leanring to work around the game's problems, 
 but for $50 I shouldn't have to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Easily one of the top games for the Wii. Medal Of Honor Heroes 2 is a highly addictive, action 
 packed and intense FPS. There are three game modes, arcade, campaighn and multiplayer. Arcade is 
 very fun. It is an on rails shooter where you shoot the German targets. Campaign is somewhat difficult 
 but is exciting and makes you feel like a hero. It doesn't have alot of levels but each level is 
 long enough and challenging enough to satisfy. The best mode hands down is multiplayer online play. 
 You can have up to 36 players at a time with three different game types (capture the bag, deathmatch 
 and team deathmatch) . There are plenty of people on when you sign in. There are hundreds at any 
 given time. This is the mode you will play day in and day out. The Wii Zapper is a great asset 
 too. They say it sucks and is a liability but this is false. You need the Zapper for the ultimate. Theworst 
 and really only bad thing about this game is the graphics. The graphics aren't terrible but there 
 certainly not great. The scenary is very nice but the people look fake. But honestly the gameplay 
 is so great you wont even care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amvis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is made by its online play. The campaign in alright, but the online play is what makes 
 it good. The control setup is the best control setup I have seen for first-person shooters on the 
 Wii. It makes the most use out of the controlers that I can think possible. This game is not a 
 multiplayer game that has split screen multiplay. I thought it had such and online play, but it 
 online has online play. It has an arcade mode as well which it really fun. It helps pass the time 
 when you get bored. Now the online play hardly has any lag which is very nice. The only thing that 
 I have had problems with is with people cheating online. I have had one encouter with such when 
 the person put their modem on standby and could basically do whatever they wanted to. So watch 
 out for those kind of people who have nothing better to do in life. All in all this game is worth 
 its money. You will not be disappointed.
  
  God bless.
  
  Amvis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supafly43218
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  People complain that is it the same WWII game they have seen for years... but aren't they ALL like 
 that? Each and every medal of honor/call of duty game is simply same guns, new levels, and more 
 enemies. But the question is, is that really all that bad? I say NO!!! For the wii, it has EXCELLENT 
 controls, some of the best ever seen in fact. The multiplayer is fun and sometimes you forget that 
 your actually playing on a wii console and not on your computer. The graphics are good for what 
 the wii is able to deliver - it brings bloom and shadowing effects and all the same that is seen 
 on the original xbox.
  
  My conclusion is.... BUY THE GAME IF YOU OWN A WII. It's an excellent multiplayer game if its your 
 first mutliplayer experience for the wii. The controls are excellent as well and bring a new experience 
 to playing the old, traditional world war II game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gandalf5000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  I was really hoping that Heroes 2 would be alot better then MOH vanguard (a title that disappointed 
 me) and in many aspects it is. Heroes 2 has some awesome graphics and game play, showing that great 
 FPS action shoot em up games are completely possible on the Wii. Some small things annoyed me in 
 the way that made me think "these are problems i should have seen coming"
  
  For starters, it really kills the mood when a damn dirty Nazi you just got a head shot on disappears 
 not even 2 seconds after hitting the ground. This is not a big deal but its kind of annoying and 
 looks very cheap. I also hate games that have non stop spawns of enemy's, if you mow down a bunch 
 of people, its retarded to have more just appear out of no where and start shooting at you. 
  
  The difficulty was kind of stupid as well, your basically running around shooting and getting 
 shot at hoping you dont die and praying that you can mow down enough baddies so you can go lean 
 against the wall and get out of "almost dead danger every things red vision". Team mates get kind 
 of annoying after a while, shouting the same things over and over again through battle. This is 
 yet another you against the entire Nazi army game where you run around shooting everyone without 
 dying and doing typical WWII type objectives.
  
  One thing i did enjoy very much was the controls for this game, for example to use the bazooka 
 you point the wii-mote behind you holding the remote on your shoulder and tilting the nunchuk and 
 moving the wii-mote to aim. Manning machine guns is fun but kind of irritating and sloppy. but 
 once you get the hang of it things get smoother.
  
  arcade mode seemed useless as i hate rail gun shooters on consoles. If i wanted to play a good 
 rail gun game id find a decent arcade with time crisis or something and pump some quarters into 
 it. Rather then spending 40-50 bucks for a Wii game that does not deliver as much as a real arcade 
 game would.
  
  over all this game is pretty awesome if your still into the whole WWII game genera (it should be 
 its own genera) . If your not and still want a reliable shooter for your sweet ol Wii gam system 
 then look no further. altho, id take metroid prime 3 over this :-P this game still deserves a good 
 playing, maby a rent or find it somewhere used. Unless your a hardcore MOH fan, this game is everything 
 you would expect a MOH game to be, not much more, and not much less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caossbr
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  The game proved that the wii can play online, multiplayer is the best mode in the game. It doesnt 
 support 4 players like the box says. (only online mode) . In offline mode there are some bugs, bad 
 respawn (sometimes the enemy will keep respawning in the objectives that you must reach some place) , much 
 shots to kill an enemy, if you shoot with a sniper very near an door or wall it will hit the door 
 or wall, not the guy you're aiming. Sometimes the squad who's with you will disappear or guard cleared 
 places when they have to advance. Its a good FPS, but not the best for wii. Controls are good in this 
 game. As cover, shoot bazooka, artilhery mortar and machine gun ,you have to do motions like tilting 
 the wii-mote and/or the nunchuk, hold the wii-mote like an bazooka to shoot, and other motions. The 
 COD3 single player was better. for me the red steel keeps as the best FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrummerDude1010
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  Medal of honor Heroes 2 is definitely a great shooter for the wii. It has tons of control options 
 and decent single player modes. The best part about this game however, is the online multiplayer.
 
  First of the single player modes it the regular career, which you will most likely spend most 
 of your time other than online. This mode gives you full control of your character, which is definitely 
 a very good thing considering how much customization you have. There are various meters for you 
 to adjust things like sensitivity, and you can customize the dead zone size (area you can point 
 at without having the screen move) and it all works really great. The campaign will last you a 
 few hours and will allow you time to get used to the controls before it starts getting challenging. 
 The motion controls are great, and it is pretty fun yanking the remote back to fire shots, and 
 the shotgun is one of the most fun weapons because you actually do a pumping motion to reload. 
 As well as the shotgun, there is also the sniper rifle and bazooka with motion controls. You twist 
 the remote to zoom in/out and you put the remote on your shoulder to mount the bazooka, which is 
 also a satisfying move to perform. 
  The other single player mode is arcade. In this mode, you automatically move, so all you have to 
 do is point, shoot, and reload. It goes through the same levels as the other single player mode, 
 but its not as enjoyable. Its good if you have never played a FPS on the Wii before, or if you 
 want some simple fun, but the other mode is much better.
  Now to the best part of the game. The online multiplayer is definitely great, as it supports 32 
 players and runs almost lag free. You can use all the guns that you can use in the single player, 
 and you have just as much customization over the controls as well. You have all your basic modes, 
 and there is no friend codes restricting who you can play. The only minor issue is that is sometimes 
 feels that it takes a while to kill someone, although this is only a very small problem.
  Medal of Honor Heroes 2 sounds great, plays great, and is a great game in general. The Wii zapper 
 controls make it just that much more fun as well. The single player could be a little longer, and 
 co-op would have been fun, but this is definitely a game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinno441
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Allow me to start out my review by saying this. WWII shooters SUCK. Now that I've gotten this out 
 of the way, allow me to tell you that this game is an exception to what I just said.
  
  The Good:
  -Tight controls
  -Unique controls
  -Graphics are pretty good
  -Intense online
 
  -A break from friend codes
  -Two different campaigns
  
  The Bad:
  -Graphics are good, character models are PS2 level
  -There are sometimes when you just need voice 
 chat
  -Six levels for online
  -Two campaigns, one of which is boring, the other of which has no substance whatsoever
  -You 
 can only choose pre-designated sayings if you want to talk to your friends online
  -No splitscreen? Blasphemy!
  
  Medal of Honor games have gone really down-hill in the past 
 couple years. Frontline, while it may seem broken today, was a great shooter for it's time. Medal 
 of Honor Heroes 2, brings the franchise to life hitting most of the right notes to make this a 
 pretty good game.
  
  The single players of this game suck. I cannot tell you any clearer, STAY AWAY FROM THE SINGLE 
 PLAYERS. The first singleplayer campaign is like any other Medal of Honor game with some control 
 twists. The twists being that you get to use cool controls to perform small tasks like finding 
 a radio channel, detecting for mines, and controlling artillery. This doesn't help the campaign 
 though, as you will fight hundreds of drones that will always repeat the same action of ducking 
 and covering, making the singleplayer longer than it needs to be. The other one is the same campaign, 
 except its an onrails shooter, a pretty bad one at that. My recommendation is to steer clear of 
 singleplayer. You gain nothing from it, no story, nothing worth unlocking and the onrails shooter 
 version will only entertain the new FPS player.
  
  The multiplayer is tight. The controls allow you to aim more precisely making every second even 
 more important than it would be in an analog controlled game. There is no splitscreen multiplayer, 
 meaning if you have friends over to play like mean, you'll most likely need to set up multiple 
 EA Nation accounts. The online is a vast improvement over other Wii online games. Nintendo has 
 allowed EA to use their new online system, EA Nation, which allows for no friendcodes, and allows 
 for a little more freedom. The only downside is that no voicechat is available and that you can 
 only send pre-set messages to your friends. Getting into a game is easy considering you can join 
 ANY game in progress at the time. This allows for a lot of freedom and exploring as not only do 
 you not have to worry about being penalized for leaving a game, there are multiple options that 
 allow for you to find which type of game you like best. Deathmatch, team deathmatch and CTF are 
 the different modes you get to play in, with multiple options that can keep a game going for a 
 long time. The only downside to this is that there are only six places to play in.
  
  The graphics are clean and have a little bloom to them to make them look better than a handful 
 of games you'll see on the Wii. The character models aren't all the great and watching someone 
 running up stairs is terrible to see. The framerate doesn't dip all that much, and when it does, 
 it is noticable, and can lead to your death. Luckily, this doesn't happen a lot so you don't have 
 to worry.
  
  The sound is what you'd expect from a WWII game. The standard Medal of Honor war themes that get 
 really boring after a while. No more, no less.
  
  Controls are the highlight of this game. You can choose from zapper controls or normal controls. 
 Seeing as I don't have the zapper, I wouldn't know if it adds much to the gameplay or not, most 
 likely it doesn't as using the Wii-mote and nunchuk combo works just fine. The controls are like 
 Metroid Prime, with the exception that there is a lot more customizable options and there are some 
 damn unique uses for the Wii-mote. For instance, when aiming with a bazooka, you put the Wii-mote 
 backwards over your shoulder and use the nunchuk to aim. The controls add a lot to this game and 
 indeed separate it from it's analog using brethren.
  
  In conclusion, Medal of Honor Heroes 2 is a buy. Buy it for the frantic multiplayer action that 
 rivals that of many other online games. More importantly, buy it to experience the amazing controls 
 and the rebirth of WWII FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wanderer5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor have been a series in which started out great but went downhill for a while. Lucky 
 with Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 (and also Airbrone) the series has gotten better. In Medal of Honor: 
 Heroes 2 you play as John Berg from the OSS who need to stop Hitler from deploying his new rocket, 
 the V2. 
  
  What one of the great things about Heroes 2 is how this game is using the Wiimote and Nunchuk. 
 Similar to Metroid Prime 3 control scheme, you point the Wiimote toward the screen and move it 
 around to aim. There are many things that the Wiimote and Nunchuk is needed. For example in order 
 to use the Artillery, you wheel the the Nunchuk clockwise or counter clockwise to move it, while 
 you pull the wiimote forward to fire. Overall while there are a couple flaws with some of the techniques, 
 it still a great control scheme.
  
  The graphics aren't really anything special, but this game has a lot of nice blooming effects. 
 However textures look a tad ugly and the character models don't look great either. Like some of 
 previous MoH games and other WWII games (like Call of Duty) , this game has great sound. Through 
 some of the sound effects are kinda weak.
  
  This game also has a good amount of lasting value. The single player has 8 levels, which all all 
 of them could take about 6-8 hours to beat. There is also Arcade mode which is a rail shooter version 
 of Heroes 2. Finally one of the biggest things about this game is it online multiplayer. The Wii 
 haven't been having good online games, but Heroes 2 has change that. There are three modes which 
 are Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Infiltration (Capture the Flag) . All of these modes are really 
 fun. There are also hardly and laggy through this online. 
  
  However the online has some flaws and compare to games like COD4, Halo 3, and UT3 the online is 
 a little weak. There is the lack of voice chat. You can still type in short messages to your team, 
 but typing on the Wii is pretty slow. Another thing is that there could have been more maps, through 
 the six maps that are in this game are quite nice actually.
  
  Even if some flaws held the game back a little, it still really fun thanks to the fun online and 
 great control scheme. In the end Heroes 2 is the best Medal of Honor game in years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrupted19
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  The first wii shooter online, and its a hit! Every now and then you have to wonder about wii going 
 anywhere online. This is the best online game i have ever played, and yes i have played halo. Unlike 
 some games, medal of honor requires strategies. Sure you can just go balls out and possibly use 
 an old technique, Kamikaze, but this game is so much more than that. The 32 player online multiplayer 
 WITHOUT FRIEND CODES is ridiculously fun. I truely didnt even bother playing the campaign at first 
 because i was so sucked in by the online multiplayer. If anyones questioning or thinking about 
 getting this game, do it. Without a doubt the competition is fun, the campaign is fun, making friends 
 could not be easier, and the game has easy controls. I say its about time the wii came out with 
 a first person shooter that could not be any more fun. If you really want to hear something amazing. 
 I would pick this ten times before playing halo 1, 2, or 3 unquestionably. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kai-Setoshi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Heroes 2 is a very great game ..
  Not only does it set the Standard for FPS Controls on the Wii
  Its also the First Online FPS 
 for the Wii
  
  Campaign -
  Very Short , i completed it in about 5 Hours .. and while it isnt the best part of the Game , it 
 delivers .. for example , it features Unique Gesture Controls that you wont see Online or in Arcade 
 Mode , you will find yourself moving the Nunchuck in circular motions to turn turrets , and Holding 
 the Wiimote/Nunchuck parallel in front of you while monitoring a Gatling Gun
  
  Arcade -
  A Unique Feature to the Wii Version , you basically go through Campaign Mode but the catch is you 
 will be On-Rails .. Great for those that enjoy On-Rail Shooters i guess , but i dont use this Mode 
 to often since its just not my taste 
  
  Multiplayer -
  Where the Game really shines , it uses EA Nation which means no Friend Codes (Thank God) .. so 
 instead you make a free EA Nation account to use , but once thats all out of the way you enter 
 the Online Interface in which you can look at the Leaderboards , your Profile and of course the 
 Lobby .. now you should already know what the Lobby is but if you dont it basically shows EVERY 
 Single Game going on , and you can freely Jump in and out whenever you like .. Lag is basically 
 non existent for most people (Hence Most) .. each Game can have a Max of 32 Players , which is 
 pretty Awesome although can be VERY chaotic
  
  And thats basically all , Online is alot of Fun and very Addicting
  Now if you dont have Wi-Fi 
 then i dont really suggest this Game since its not worth it just for the Campaign and Arcade Mode 
 , but if you have Wi-Fi then i highly reccomend a Purchase
  (Oh and Note that on the back of the box it Advertises a Wiimote with a 4 on it , stating that 
 it has 4 Player Split-Screen , FALSE .. so just letting you know ahead of time)
  
  All in All i hope you enjoyed this Review , and i hope it helps you ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheese_Wow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Heroes 2 for the wii is the sequel to Medal of Honor: Heroes 1 for the psp. Though 
 this may be the 100th WWII title in the past 5 years, the controls for the wii, breath life back 
 into this dead husk of war. And lets not forget the main reason people bought this game......32 
 player online multiplayer. Oh yes! If you played Medal of Honor: Heroes 1 (MoH: H1)
  then you'll know what to expect from the online, and the campain, those of you who don't play FPSs 
 that much may want too look into this game.
  
  Graphics 5/5: Superb for a wii title, though other people who expect everything coming out of an 
 LCD screen to be as realistic as watching the news may give it a lower score. This is a good looking 
 game., but somethimes the fire from the barrel of the gun makes it hard to aim, but hey its still 
 looks good. The only problem i found was the awkward way the characters moved in Multiplayer.
 
  
  Controls 4/5: Good, smooth, controls. Using the zapper may make it more challenging to control 
 the game, because it does seem MUCH easier to not use the zapper during online play. Using the 
 zapper function takes away ssome of the fun things in the game though, So in some parts you may 
 want to use the elite controls to do some of those kick ass gestures. For example, while using 
 the zapper controls, you can't fire the bazookas in that really cool way. But luckily if you do 
 use the zapper, you can change the controls while using the bazooka (which feels alot better than 
 not using the zapper) , controls don't change much though, but still very fun. 
  
  Single player Story 4/5: In this mode you use all of those fun little gestures that you use in 
 multiplayer, along with others like using the motor launcher. The AI in the single player will 
 make you sit back and laugh, because the main thing they do is, crouch, stand up, shoot, crouch, 
 stand, crouch, peek, peek, stand, shoot, repeat. And that is on Veteran XD. The only reason you 
 may die on veteran level is becasue you get outnumbered and are out in the open. Using the radio 
 is incredibly fun, while looking for the signal, you can catch a radio show in german, listen to 
 hitler make one of his famous speeches, and listen to some good ol' fashion german music. But don't 
 listen for too long, you only have a few seconds to find that signal. Just make sure to keep your 
 wii mote speekers on. Haven't finished story mode, but i will update when i do *edit* remember, 
 if you get angry at the fact that you can't pass a mission. you can always come back to it later 
 if you reached a checkpoint.
  
  Arcade mode3/5: Your basic, onrail shooter. I won't go into much detail becasue i'm sure you've 
 all read about it by now. I'll tell you this though, its kind of boring when you start out, but 
 it gets more enjoyable as you progress through the missions, which you must unlock by doing that 
 mission in story mode. Overall Arcade mode is a good add on, but i probably would have rather them 
 brought the "Skirmish" mode from MoH: H1, for those days when online just makes you mad.
  
  Multiplayer 4/5: 32 players at once is nice, but it sometimes gets bad when you get killed every 
 5 seconds. But thats only if your not that experienced. I would reccoment NOT to use the zapper 
 during multiplayer, because its more of a burdern here. There is lag here and there, but its not 
 like halo where sometimes the person jumps around your screen. so far i've only seen 1 person who 
 looked like they were cheating, and that was at the begginning of the game. he had 41 kills and 
 0 deaths. He would not die even when we outnumbered him 4 to 1. I know video games arn't like real 
 life, but COME ON! i'm sure 4 full clips to the chest and face would kill some one holding a pistol.
 
  
  all in all Medal of Honor heroes 2 is a MUST HAVE for any fps fan for the wii, even if this is 
 the 200th time playing a ww2 game. This game gets 8 shots to the head, out of 10.
  
  [] === [] ======  Reviewed by Sun Assassins - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii_rocks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer: The best part about this game is definately the multiplayer. There is no split screen, 
 despite what the back of the box says. Only internet connection is available. The matches have 
 up to 32 players. There are six maps: a church, a city, an urban village, an underground sewer 
 system, and a base. They are all pretty good sized, but the sewers map is a little small. Unfortunately, 
 there is no voice chat. Your only means of communication is by choosing one of the seven pre-selected 
 commands (I need help, hold posistion, enemy spotted, affirmative, negative, move out, retreat) . 
 There are 3 playing modes: capture the flag, deathmatch, and team deathmatch. Personally, I think 
 the multiplayer is great, despite its setbacks. It is unarguably the best multiplayer game for 
 Wii.
  
  
  Graphics: what you expect from the Wii, not good, but not bad. The frame rate never gets choppy. 
 Some of the animations look weird, though. 
  
  Sound: Gamespot says its good, but i don't really care, so i won't get into it.
  
  Controls: 
 You can use either the Wii Zapper or the standard wiimote and nunchuk. You shoot with B, look through 
 your sights by pressing A, crouch by pressing the down button on the D-pad, and move with the nunchuk's 
 analog stick. Aiming is done just like any other Wii game, by pointing at the screen. Some of the 
 funner and more interactive controls are reloading by flicking the Wii remote, throwing grenades 
 by making a throwing motion with the remote (my personal favorite) , and using a melee attack by 
 thrusting the wiimote and nunchuk forward. Some of the other interesting controls are using both 
 hands to operate the 50 cal., cranking to aim an artillerary gun, firing a mortor, setting explosives, 
 and tuning a radio. Two bad controls are pumbing a shotgun manually (tiring) , and zooming in by 
 twisting with wiimote (hard and annoying) .
  
  Lasting Value: This game will last for a long tmie. The multiplayer lobby is always packed, and 
 it doesn't seem to be dying down.
  
  Overall: The campaign is short, but is fun while it lasts. Arcade mode is good for when you want 
 to seem something new, or if mowing down hundreds of enemies is just your thing. Multiplayer is 
 excellent. If you're Wii's not hokked up to the internet, do so now or don't get the game.
  P. S. I'm not sure how often I've spent playing, so I just made it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m4573r_n1nj4
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Medal of honor comes back in time for the holidays, In a good way. Many like myself grow tired 
 of MOH's recycled overused game engine. Well you will be pleasantly surprised with the new revamped 
 MOH: heroes game. Right away you will notice a significant upgrade in the controlling scheme. FPS 
 controls that are very precise and not restricting to the current viewable screen. Turning is easy 
 and features are intuitive. Unlike other Wii games, there is no need for tedious friend code swapping, 
 thats right Wii owners, you finally get a piece of the online pie. mm mm mm! There are 3 problems 
 i have with the game, keeping it from a ten. First is the obvious ps2 graphics (not so bad) 2nd 
 is the sniping, zooming in and out can be a challenge. Last isn't something that effects me but 
 im sure its pissed off some other people. the back of the box says it's 4 players but in reality 
 it is only multiplayer online. No split screen people.
  
  Anyhow, If you like shooting things online, Go for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhekimci
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  After reading the critics' reviews and player reviews, watching gameplay videos, and reading up 
 on the game's features, I could not resist the hype, and rented the game. I have to admit that 
 I was slightly disappointed when I first started playing the game, because I have an Xbox 360, 
 too, and I am inevitably spoiled by the graphics and the processing power of the 360. 
  
  The first thing that strikes an owner of both systems is the dull graphics. Unfortunately, the 
 characters and the environment feels like a revamped Quake 2 engine is rendering them. You see 
 clouds in the sky, but they are not moving. You see Allied soldiers' faces, but they are almost 
 identical and card-board-like. The animation is not great either. 
  
  The next thing that disappoints is the lack of numbers of enemy soldiers. The first level starts 
 off on the beaches of Normandy yet there are a handful of Nazis shooting at you. This is true in 
 most cases throughout the first two levels. 
  
  The third problem is the AI as most people have already reported. I'm not exactly sure whether 
 we should call it the AI or something else, but there's just something not right with the way that 
 you get into a gun fight with Nazis hiding behind crates that are literally two feet away from 
 you. So rather than just smashing each others' heads at an arms length, it looks like there's a 
 dozen adults kneeling and standing up constantly on the opposite sides of a wooden box, while shooting 
 with automatic rifles and all sorts of guns. However, this is usually more obvious during close 
 range battles. Yet you'll get used to it the more you play. 
  
  All of the above is a little bit hard to swallow after having played Call of Duty 3 on Xbox 360 
 where there are a million Nazis and Allied soldiers opening fire from all directions, and explosions 
 and people dying all around you, where the graphics are drop dead gorgeous.
  
  Nevertheless, I kept on playing and playing and the game just grew on me. There's no doubt about 
 it that the controls are the star of this show. It takes a while to really find your most favorite 
 settings with the controls as you update the horizontal look speed, vertical look speed, your dead 
 zone area, and aiming accuracy, but once locked in, you're set to have an incredible time despite 
 all of the game's short comings. It all feels natural after a few hours of playing, and adjusting. 
 This IS the future of aiming and shooting gameplay mechanics. You've got it all: aiming, shooting, 
 reloading, leaning, zooming, melee, crouching, weapons switching, hand-grenade throwing, etc. 
 
  
  It's not only the basics, but also the additional controls for non conventional weapons and other 
 equipment. The bazooka controls, the machine gun turret, the artillery, the radio fine tunning... 
 It is just amazing, and so natural. Yet you can customize all of that if need be.
  
  Even though the graphics during the game are not so attracting, the overall quality of the presentation 
 throughout the game is top notch. Menu graphics, and design, mission briefings and voice overs, 
 music... It's all really well done.
  
  One other cool thing about this game is that although the Wii does not have the "achievements" 
 system built-into the platform, the game manages to provide you with a very similar mechanic that 
 makes it even more fun to go out of your way to accomplish more than just the required tasks during 
 the game. You get rewards for killing 50 or more enemies with each weapon. You get rewards for 
 completing secondary objectives. You get rewards for not dying once in certain difficulty levels, 
 etc.
  
  The multi-player has been one of the focal points of this game, but I've not experienced it long 
 enough to be able to comment on it yet. However, I'd like to point out that the EA Nation system 
 that is used for the online multi-player interface is absolutely fantastic, and I've not had any 
 lag whatsoever.
  
  The last thing I'd like to mention is how much fun the arcade mode is. It just brings back the 
 memories of good old times when we used to play the "point-at-screen and shoot everything with 
 your plastic gun" days. It's something even your girlfriend would enjoy. I'm very tempted to buy 
 the Wii zapper to play this mode, and other games that are coming out in the near future with zapper 
 support.
  
  I would recommend renting this game first to see if you'll like it or not. Play it for a few hours. 
 See if it feels right. Customize the controls. Play online. Play the arcade mode. Win some of the 
 rewards. Play at veteran level. If you like the world war two genre shooters, there are a lot of 
 reasons why you'll want to keep the game. Yet there's a chance that you may not be able to get 
 into the whole deadzone thing soon enough. However, if you liked the controls of Metroid Prime 
 Corruption, there's no way you will not love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NigressSutra
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost let me express the one thing that has ticked me off the most about this game: 
 NO MULTIPLAYER ALTHOUGH NOTED AS 4 PLAYER ON THE BACK OF THE BOX!!!
  
  Yes, there is no true multiplayer, so unless all your friends have Wiis or you don't mind dealing 
 with the idiotic teenagers online then you will be playing arcade and campaign only. With that 
 said, the overall single player arena is not all bad. The controls are a little wacked... they really 
 could have figured out a better way to switch weapons. I wish there was more in the way of control 
 configuration and aim adjustment. Also it seems as though this game wasn't thoroughly tested... but 
 enough on the negative. Positively speaking this game can be a good shoot 'em up. I enjoyed the 
 arcade mode and even campaign. It's an ok shooter for the Wii for now.
  
  To summarize: Unless you are a major MOH fan or just really want something other than Ghost Squad 
 to shoot at, than go ahead and buy this. Otherwise... TOTALLY RENTAL! Gamefly all the way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 for the Wii is not an innovative game. It does not introduce a single 
 concept that has not been explored before in at least one other game on the Wii, so if you're expecting 
 the evolution of the Medal of Honor franchise, you may be a tad dissapointed. Your character is 
 still an Allied super soldier of sorts, and he still walks through linear environments slaughtering 
 Nazis from a first person view point. Nothing new there. What MoH: H2 does do, though, is introduce 
 a fantastic new control scheme that makes obliterating armies of Nazi soldiers a breeze, not to 
 mention that it splashes a fresh coat of paint over the stale concepts. 
  
  Control is really where MoH: H2 shines, although they are still not perfect. The Wii remote's IR-sensor 
 is used to point at the area of the screen at which you want to aim. You can set the horizontal 
 and vertical sensitivity, as well as the size of the bounding box that determines how far you have 
 to move the remote off to the side before your character will turn. Turn the settings all the way 
 down and your kids (if you really want your kids playing an intense FPS) or gaming-impared relatives 
 will be able to play the game easier, but experienced players will want to turn the settings almost 
 all the way up for literally pixel perfect accuracy. 
  
  So the aiming is great. Movement is handled with the nunchuck. The analog stick moves around the 
 environment, the C button sprints and the Z button does a light melee attack (both oddle during 
 multiplayer only.) Tilting the nunchuck left or right will make the character tilt his body left 
 or right to get a better view when zoomed in. Zooming is accomplished by hitting the A button, 
 while shooting is mapped to B. The D-Pad crouches, reloads, and changes weapons depending on which 
 direction you press, and it all feels pretty good, even though hitting up to reload can stretch 
 your fingers a little. In the single player campaign, the only way to melee is to thrust both the 
 nunchuck and the remote forward. This is spotty at best. 
  
  Other motion controls are implemented throughout the campaign, with varied results. When sniping, 
 you must twist the remote left to right to zoom out or in. It's kind of inconvenient at first, 
 but it's not too bad after a bit of practice. Grenade throwing requires that you aim at a certain 
 part of the screen, hit B to lock the destination of the grenade in place, and then make a throwing 
 motion with the remote to release the grenade. That can get slightly annoying because oftentimes 
 the throwing motion will put your remote sensor off the screen, prompting a message telling you 
 to point your remote back at the screen. Other motion controls include: turning the remote left 
 and right to tune radios (fun for about 1 second,) twisting the nunchuck clockwise or counterclockwise 
 to aim a mortar (very fun and cinematic feeling,) and moving the nunchuck in the described fashion 
 while aiming at the screen with the remote to fire turret guns (pretty fun if pinpoint precision 
 isn't neccesary.) 
  
  The audio in Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 is not fantastic or moving, but it is good enough to get 
 your heart pumping during an already intense battle. The gunshots and whatnot are really the typical 
 WW2 stuff, which is good enough for MoH. 
  
  So the single player campaign is fun and all, but there is actually a ton of extra content in MoH: H2 
 that makes it better than the sum of its parts. The biggest feature is of course the multiplayer, 
 which supports a whopping 32 players online, but strangely no splitscreen play at all. The online 
 play functions very smoothly for the most part, and with the Wii's precision aiming, there's usually 
 no point in blaming your death on a bad frame rate or shoddy aiming. You'll get a nice selection 
 of weapons in multiplayer, and a decent selection of modes in Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and 
 Capture the Flag. I usually stick to Team Deathmatch because I prefer the team based gameplay, 
 and CTF seems to have an odd glitch. It seems that the person who grabs the flag is invincible 
 while holding the flag, which is strange by itself. But the worst part is that the person holding 
 the flag doesn't have to return it to his base; he can just run around and enjoy being invincible. 
 TDeathmatch and even regular Deathmatch are both fantastically addictive and well thought out considering 
 that this is the Wii's first huge online release. Oh, and no friend codes!
  
  Other extras include the Arcade mode, which will be fun for anyone who loves light gun shooters 
 or for those family members who can't get a handle on the story mode. Arcade follows the same story 
 as the story mode, but I found it to be less fun overall because of the fact that you have less 
 control and that reloading in Arcade mode sucks. You have to point the remote off the screen, which 
 basically translates to flailing your arms around for a second or two in order to get the game 
 to recognize the fact that your cursor is no longer on the screen. It's still a fun diversion though. 
 Finally, there are medals that you can earn during the single player portions of the game, which 
 function sort of like achievements on 360 games (only there is no point tally.) It's a pretty fun 
 system, but I can't see anybody really striving to get them all.
  
  Oh, and there's one other small issue that annoyed me. The game came up with a message informing 
 me that my batteries were running low, pausing the game in the process. I didn't have any replacements 
 for the batteries, so I decided to keep playing on those batteries. A message came up about (I'm 
 just estimating) every 5 minutes informing me that I was running out of batteries, and yet I was 
 still playing. This message is really annoying in multiplayer, when it will pause your game every 
 5 minutes or so and make you cannon fodder for the second it takes you to hit the A button and 
 dismiss the message. I'm not upset about the fact that they warn you of low battery, though. I'm 
 upset about the fact that I've been playing on those "low" batteries for about 2 weeks now, and 
 they still haven't run out. Clearly, they weren't too low.
  
  Overall, MoH: H2 is a great bargain. It comes with a fun but derivative single player campaign, 
 an arcade mode that is surprisingly long, and some very well executed deathmatch style multiplayer, 
 all held aloft by overall great controls. FPS fans, don't miss your chance to see the next evolution 
 of shooter controls, even if the concepts aren't quite up to snuff with the innovative controls. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkzolman
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Wow, what a waste. The box says 4 player support, but thats a lie. The graphics are blurring and 
 bland. When playing online, the characters look like they are floating along opening and closing 
 their legs. If you aren't using a machine gun, you won't kill anyone. The controls are glitchy. 
 This is just a pathetic game. Half the time I died playing online, I respawned directly in front 
 of an enemy only to be instantly shot in the back. Yes I own a Wii, but it gathers dust when this 
 crap is the best they have to offer. Give me a real FPS with real FPS controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon2754
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazingly fun, most enjoyable FPS I've played to date, simply because of the controls. 
 I can't wait to get the Wii Zapper and play online! However, the AI in the Campaign is kind of 
 weak. Enemies will always run right by you, because they're scripted to run to one location, and 
 they won't shoot until they get there. That can get very annoying. Also, the fact that enemies 
 just pop into place after certain triggers adds an unrealistic level of difficulty, due to the 
 fact that enemies will suddenly spawn right behind you. But the controls and overall gameplay more 
 then make up for it. They're smooth, and the feel of simply leaning out from cover to gun down 
 your nazi foes is extremely satisfying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickMach9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Whenever a FPS is released (or soon to be) for the Wii, my mind automatically goes back to Red 
 Steel and the nightmare it was. My concerns for all Wii FPS's are the controls. I'm sure the button 
 controls will be fine, but the X &Y axis' are the most important. You don't want to be running 
 around in circles or shooting the ground or the sky, right in the middle of a conflict. 
  
  MOH: H2 does a perfect job. The controls of this game are just unbelievably engineered to fit the 
 Wii. They dont feel as constrictve as Metroid does at times . The sensitivity is all adjustable, 
 as are most control preferences. The weapons are fun to use and the use of motion sensing is done 
 great! The nunchuck allows you to zoom/lean, like any good FPS should. The sniper controls are 
 a blast and even the bazooka is pretty interesting. 
  
  The game play gets pretty intense at times. Certain levels make you feel like you're part of a 
 huge battle, with explosions and gunfire all over the place. This, IMO, makes up for the lack of 
 graphical power. I have yet to play on the net yet but that can only be more fun.
  
  Overall this is an amazing game, super addictive and a great addition to the Wii portfolio. If 
 you like FPS games and are looking for a Wii game that you aren't embarrassed to like, I strongly 
 recommend Medal of Honor: Heroes 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PresidentEvil-
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  MoHH2 is a very big step up from Vanguard, which is completely horrid. This game includes a Campaign 
 mode, Arcade mode, and 32-player multiplayer! Now, how the heck are you going to get 32-players 
 you ask? Well, there are no FCs in this game, and it goes on the better EA service. This is my 
 review of MoHH2.
  
  Presentation: 
  
  The general presentation in this game is good, nothing more, nothing less. The menus are easy enough 
 to navigate through, and the features are overwhelming. The online menu is a bit glitch, but it 
 gets the job done. Getting into whatever type of game you want to is very easy and takes almost 
 no time at all. The only complaint I had with the menus is that if you are using the Wii Zapper, 
 then you have to use the A button to select things on the menu, which is kind of pain. EA should 
 have definitely realized that the B button would have been better for the Wii Zapper controls when 
 it came to menu navigation. Besides this slight drawback, the presentation works, that's all that 
 needs to be said.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Whenever the topic of graphics comes up when dealing with this game, it usually leads to people 
 flaming this game beyond all recognition for the fact that the graphics aren't good. I agree to 
 a degree. The Wii's graphical capabilities are a lot better than what this game achieves, as we 
 found out with games such as Metroid Prime 3: Corruption and Super Mario Galaxy. However, when 
 play this game, I think that it feels more like a 'starter game' for online games for the Wii. 
 This makes me think that EA put a lot of work into the gameplay of the game, and less work into 
 the graphics. The graphics leave you with a sense that, since the gameplay is dead on, that the 
 developers wanted to make the gameplay perfect, and not worry about the graphics as much. I'm not 
 saying that the graphics aren't good, however. The lighting effects and gun effects are pretty 
 good for a WWII shooter, and like in most WWII shooters, the sun never seems to come out. In some 
 places you will see leaves flying down all over the place, in others you will see potholes in the 
 street and puddles on the sidewalk. The graphics and environments are good, but at times you think 
 to yourself, "Wow, these could and should be a lot better." The graphics get what has to be done, 
 done, but nothing really special and outstanding.
  
  Sound:
  
  The guns in this game make sounds that guns make. The people in this game make the sounds that 
 people getting shot in the face make. The only sound that really jumps out at me as being really 
 good is the music. When an intense part is going on and your health is low and your Wiimote is 
 shaking, the music becomes intense. When you are trying to find a game online a nice orchestrated 
 work repeats itself. It's pleasant, but if you play online as much as me, then it becomes annoying. 
 Just find a game quick. The sound is good, but I feel it could be better with some more unique 
 orchestrations, and maybe some different screams and orders from your soldiers and the Nazis.
 
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  The gameplay is very interesting in this game, and there is a lot to talk about. For starters, 
 control. The regular control in this game is fantastic once you get the hang of it. You use both 
 the Wiimote and the Nunchuck. The Wiimote aims your guns, switches your weapons, zooms your weapon 
 in, etc. The nun chuck is used for movement and crouching. If you use the Wii Zapper for anything 
 other than Arcade mode, you will be sorry. It just doesn't work for this game because the game 
 requires too many buttons, and to access the buttons you have to move your hands around and click 
 the buttons you want on the Wiimote. Then you have to move you hands back and readjust your aim. 
 All this in the middle of an intense firefight! I don't think so! There are two main control schemes. 
 One is for the Wii Zapper and one is regular. The regular one is obviously better, since the Wii 
 Zapper doesn't work for this game. (I found something very interesting. If you use the Wii Zapper 
 control scheme without the Wii Zapper, the controls still feel pretty good!) Also note that you 
 will be making weird hand gestures to set bombs and other stuff in this game.
  
  The amount of different game modes in this game are vast. Naturally, you have your main single 
 player campaign. This is broken up into three difficulty levels. 'Green' is the easiest, 'Veteran' 
 is medium difficulty, and 'Hero' is the hardest. The single player campaign is broken up into 6 
 different missions. The campaign is over fairly short, and will probably take you anywhere from 
 3-8 hours. The campaign is fun and all, but there are better things to take up your time. Once 
 you are done with all 6 missions in campaign mode, you can do them all over again, but this time 
 with a twist. The Arcade mode in this game is just like a rail shooter in an arcade [hence the 
 name 'Arcade' mode] . You don't need to move in Arcade mode, so this will be a great time to actually 
 use the Wii Zapper. I personally feel this is what the Wii Zapper was made for; rail shooters. 
 You go around each mission area, stopping in places to shoot bad guys, switching weapons every 
 now and then, and shooting health packs to refuel your health. The Arcade mode is fairly addicting, 
 and will definitely keep you coming back for more. Another mode is Multiplayer mode. The game doesn't 
 support offline multiplayer, but it does support online play for up to 32 players. This is the 
 most players in an online for the Wii thus far. The online component is pulled off well. There 
 are 3 different game types that include Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Capture the Flag. Each 
 one is pulled off beautifully in all 6 of the single player campaign mission areas. Some mission 
 areas don't have every game type, but most of them do. There are no friend codes in this game, 
 and the lobby hosts a friends list, the ability to create your own game, passwords, and many more. 
 The online is jammed with content!
  
  The 6 mission areas that are playable online and in single player are:
  
  * Base
  * City
 
  * Missionary
  * Port
  * Sewers
  * Village
  
  Other features of the game include options menus for editing all your controls, volume, and other 
 things of that nature. There is also a menu for awards, records, and achievements.
  
  The weapons in this game stay true to the WWII era and the Medal of Honor franchise. There is obviously 
 your M1 Grand, Thompson, and BAR. The full list of weapons:
  
  * .45 Auto Pistol
  * BAR
  * Gewehr Rifle
  * Grenades
  * Karabiner
  * Luger Pistol
  * M1 Bazooka
  * M1 
 Grand
  * M12 Shotgun
  * MP40
  * Panzerschreck
  * Springfield
  * STG-44
  * Thompson
  
  As you can see, there is a good selection of every type of weapon, whether it 
 be submachine guns, sniper rifles, or your standard grenade. The gameplay in this game is dead 
 on perfect in almost every way.
  
  Lasting Appeal: This game will take you about 10 or so hours to beat everything in the single player. 
 Sure, this is fun, but the online play is where this game truly shines. You can play 3 different 
 modes in 6 different maps with up to 32 people. This game, like many other online shooters, gives 
 you a lot of online action. You are definitely going to get your moneys' worth if you have Wi-Fi!
 
  
  Conclusion: If you have don't have Wi-Fi, this game is a decent first person shooter that shows 
 off the Wii Zapper with the game's arcade mode; but if you have Wi-Fi, this game excels and really 
 shows a Wii game can do online.
  
  Presentation: 7.2/10
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 8.2/10
  Gameplay: 9.7/10
  Lasting Appeal: 8.5/10
  
  Final Score: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machod_19
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  overall this game is the same as all the other Medal of Honor games but its way better. The major 
 differences is the Wii motion controls and the 32 player online with the Wii. At first when i heard 
 about the 32 player online i couldn't believe it. This is proof that 3rd party game developers 
 for the Wii can deliver good products and not only Nintendo. I wish the single player or whatever 
 you want to call it had a deeper story and it was longer. I am not sure if its just me but i like 
 lengthy single player modes, that challenge you and make you want to play the single player over 
 and over again. Almost everything is Wii motionized like turing on the radio which i think is great 
 and all Wii games should have more motion controls than just the minimum. i also wiched that the 
 A. I. was better and not so easy, but with online play i don; t really care because sometimes online 
 can be challenging and very fun. So, at a conclusion this game is great and is one of the best 
 Wii games ever, my favorite parts are the online and the use of the Wiimote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_ianb
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  The multiplayer is good online not the best ive seen though. and the single player is over quickly 
 and no offline multiplayer. some stupdi motion controls get vanguard instead its better.
  The arcade isnt fun what so ever i really didnt like it and zooming in aand out with twiting the 
 wii remote is annoying. pumping the shogn is fun but u find urself going all out using it and die 
 quite soon. Then u get board whith the shotgun and u dont use a rifle till the 4th lvl wich before 
 only use machine guns wich gets boring. the game hets really repetive too.
  
  
  Ian 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gameslayer3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  First off if you don't have online then don't get this game unless you LOVE war games and only 
 have a wii in which case you should rent it. Ok so this game dosen't use friend codes. You just 
 make a EA account (which is very easy) and then make a persona and your ready to play! Ok so here 
 are some tips when you first go online. 
  
  1. You may want to do a few levles of the in game campaign. (SP) Its a great way to get a feel 
 of the game and how to use the weapons. (SP)
  2. Now that your online find a unranked match. There are icons to the left of the name of the game 
 in the lobby and if there is no EA then its unranked. Go there and mess around with weapons (SP) 
 and when you find one your good with stick with using it. Also find a type of match you like while 
 your at it and a good stage you like and are good at. (if you like doing good)
  3. Go to ranked matches and play your heart out!
  4. HAVE FUN
  
  Now on to the rest of the 
 review. Ok so online has 6 stages in it. Port, Monastry (if i spelled it right) , City, Village, 
 Sewers and Base. The most sniper friendly seems to be Ports for the snipers out there. There are 
 three types of modes you can do in these stages, Team Death Match, CTF and Death Match. Ok now 
 last off a sad part is theres a decent amount of lag, if you see it then leave and find another 
 server to join. Will thats pretty much all of online so on to graphics and such.
  
  Graphics: Not good, not good at all. Its like a cross of Gamecube and N64, if you see the guys 
 online move they look funny as heck but you know what? Graphics don't matter as much as gameplay 
 to most people. 
  Sound: Good but not great.
  Value: If you have online then its worth every penny, if not then you wasted some money.
  So 
 thats my short review, i hope it helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ejdman
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  WOW! Never played a game for the Wii online that was this good yet. Yeah there is MSC and B W II, 
 but they don't compare!!!! The whole online concept is my favorite, just being able to play with 
 many, many people at once (32 players max) and there being so many fun options such as Capture the 
 flag, death match and team death match. Anyone who cannot but this game, at least rent it , and 
 then I guarantee that it will be the number one thing on your Wish list. It also has some amazingly 
 fun maps, the usual church, village, underground and city. But this time they have added a LOT 
 OF FUN AND NEW THINGS TO THESE AMPS. but THE GAME LACKED A FEW MINOR concepts such as better graphics 
 which would have made it easier to tell which team your shooting at, more or better communication 
 options. Yes, these would have added to the games fun and playability, but they definitly do not 
 take away. If you can, buy it as soon as possible, and if not rent it and then you will have to 
 buy it, its that much fun!! Peace out and I hope you guys read more of my reviews! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii60_Link_Fan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  YO this is Wii60 and im here to review Medal Of Honer Heros 2, Medal Of Honer Heroes 2 is part of 
 the long running World War 2 seris Medal Of Honer. Medal of honer is a MUST GET of you like FPS 
 and have a wii.
  
  MoHH2 is a WW2 shooter like no other. The Wii version comes with a great feture called arcade mode. Arrcade 
 mode is a shoter on rails. all you have to do is shot those damn nazis. i love this mode but could 
 have been better if it ahd online leader boards
  
  MoHH2 also comes with another feature called campain. oin this mode you get more freedome then arcade. You 
 are a OSS agent that has to do a mission that last 8 levels. campain is not that impersive but you 
 need to try it out its fun but gets old, not the best feture of the game, speaking of that.....
 
  
  MoHH2 Comes with a epic 32 online multiplayer. this mode pretty much made everyone buy this game. it 
 comes with great maps based o the campain like, sewer, village, city and more. multi has 3 modes
  CTF, DM, TDM. this makes this game great and if this game only had multi it would still rock
  
 
  MoHH2 is a great game but couldev been better if there was more effert in the modes besides multiplayer
 
  My Score:9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxned
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  While many are starting to get a little annoyed at WWII shooters, this game really makes you want 
 to keep killing hitler's army over and over again. The basic storyline is that your a member of 
 the OSS, and your main objective is to take out a weapon of mass destruction known as a V2 rocket. 
 Single player really had some rough patches, including barely any music, amazingly dumb AI, and 
 it is a bit on the short side. Nonetheless, the levels make the campaign interesting and enjoyable. 
 One factor that keeps the game from being like its predecessors is the controls. After they are 
 slighty tweaked in the options menu with the huge amount of cusomization, they are almost better 
 than PC controls. As for online play, the game really shines. Personally, I have put in around 
 30 hours of fun, action-packed online games with up to 32 players. One factor that occasionally 
 can be annoying about online is that it occasionally takes far too long to kil your enemy. 
  As for graphics, they are one of the best on the wii. Of course, they dont come close to Super 
 Mario Galaxy but they still look good and a smooth 60 frames per second makes the games graphics 
 much better.
  Explosions, Gun shots, voice acting and other sound fx are awesome, but there is barely ever any 
 in-game music. Its sad to see this, because I really like the MOH music.
  In addition to Campaign and Multiplayer, there is also Arcade mode, which is perfect for Nintendo's 
 Zapper. The game moves your character while all you have to do is shoot. Its fun while it lasts, 
 but it wont last as long as the campaign and especcially the mulitiplayer.
  
  Pros
  +Fast-paced, no-lag, multiplayer.
  +Smooth graphics, 60 FPS
  +Best FPS controls.
  
  Cons
 
  -No in-game music.
  -Only 3 multiplayer modes.
  -AI is pretty damn dumb.
  
  Final: 8.7 (moved to a 9) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arob5001
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  As stated in the gamespot review, the campaign is semi-short but still entertaining. No beating 
 around the bush... the aspect of the game that shines is the 32 player online capability. Create 
 an account, Log in, and get ready to play in minutes. Almost no lag whatsoever. Personally, i think 
 the graphics of this game are great. Online has all the campaign maps fit into arena type areas. 
 You can play CTF, Death match , or team death match. I find myself playing mainly Deathmatch because 
 in TDM , it is difficult to tell who is friend and who is foe. The gun set is the orginial war 
 game gun set. Got your m1 garand, your thompson, along with your german weapons as well.
  All in all, i think this game is amazingly fun and a game that every wii owner should look into.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidBeoulve
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  I've played the single-player campaign a bit, but given how alike it is to previous offerings, 
 I just can't bring myself to plod through it. Worth noting is a "rails" mode which allows you to 
 go through the game moving you along automatically, supporting more than one player versus AI.
 
  
  This game shines, however, in its THIRTY TWO MULTIPLAYER MODE.
  
  It just feels good to say that about the Wii.
  
  Sniping, protecting your flag, ownzoring the 
 enemy, team tactics, they're all here. No vehicles, planes or truly giant spaces, unfortunately, 
 but this game is a blast and there are plenty of servers with folks to play with.
  
  My 10yo daughter managed to figure out a good spot to surprise people at and took out the one guy 
 on the enemy side who kept stealing their flag. Then folks started following her around, and since 
 she'd been on the enemy side before switching and knew their base, she made a flag run. She described 
 her "parade of DOOM", 10 players, almost the whole team, ran with her, and they mowed over the 
 resistance. She got the flag and brought it back.
  
  After that, the enemy was in disarray so she sneaked in and got the flag again. Then she guarded 
 her flag and killed people who tried to get it - PC owners note: folks on consoles are truly impatient, 
 rarely do you see someone patiently guarding the flag room by themselves, so my 10yo's tactic worked 
 great here.
  
  Then folks got tired of losing and started leaving the server. Ownage. By a 10yo girl and her team-mates.
 
  
  If this story sounds fun / funny / awesome, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  When the Wii first came out and I played Red Steel I was like ugh is this the best the Wii can 
 do with a FPS. Then I played MP3 and I realized the system was capable and I wondered if the system 
 could ever go online and then this game was released. This game will not rip anyone away from XBOX 
 live but at least now the Wii shows it is able to go online.
  
  MOH2 would be a very average game on the 360 but with the Wii controls and the only online shooter 
 available this is a must play for Wii owners. The controls are very solid and the game has good 
 replay value despite a very short campaign (about 4 hours) . The game does entice you to replay 
 it to go for the XBOX like achievements. I could definitely see myself putting at least another 
 go through on the harder difficulty. MOH2 also offers an arcade version of the campaign that the 
 Wii zapper works well with. It is an onrail version of the main campaign. Fun if you are just in 
 the mood to shoot stuff without having to think. There are quite a few problems with the campaign 
 such as idiotic AI and enemies that respawn right in front of you. This game won't win any awards 
 for innovation as far as WWII shooters are concerned. But like I said the controls are so much 
 fun to use that you will probably be addicted at least for awhile. The Wii remote is used in very 
 cool ways especially for a third party developer.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty basic but fun at least as an alternative to the COD series or Halo series 
 depending if you have XBOX live or not. If not then this game is for sure playable online for the 
 Wii. I found little to no lag which is nice and I could find a game very easily. MOH2 is by far 
 the most arcade like WWII shooter I have ever played. That can be good or bad depending on your 
 taste. For me I am a little more hardcore and want a game with more precision and competitiveness. 
 I have a few gripes with the multiplayer. Here are a few of my complaints: no radar for the enemy, 
 very hard to tell good guys from bad, way to many shots to kill opponent, very bad spawns, too 
 few a stages, stages are entirely to small for 32 players, and the best guns are the short range 
 ones. There is almost no need to use a sniper if you want to have big scores. But for some reason 
 I find myself playing this game online quite a bit. Maybe because it is more relaxing just running 
 around shooting and not really having to use much strategy. This is an online game that I may play 
 until about 1000 kills where as I will be playing COD4 and Halo 3 an unhealthy amount.
  
  Overall it is a good first online effort for a FPS on the Wii. If you are just a Wii owner and 
 like shooters than this game is easily worth a purchase. If you own a PS3 or XBOX360 then you will 
 probably just want to rent this game because it is definitely fun for a weekend. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noct
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Objectively reviewing this title is a bit difficult in my opinion.
  On one hand, this is probably the best shooter I have played on the Wii so far (as long as you 
 don't count RE4) , on the other hand, that really isn't saying all that much. Put simply, you wouldn't 
 want to play this game on any other system, and if you have other systems you might want to skip 
 it altogether.
  
  MOHH2 is definitely an enjoyable game, but that is solely because of how well they have utilized 
 the Wii's motion controls, not on account of it actually being a solid title overall. It seems 
 almost redundant pointing that out since many Wii games would obviously be completely ridiculous 
 on any other system, but when you look at a title like this, you don't necessarily expect that 
 to be the case. I'm a pretty big FPS fan myself, and I can honestly say that I would not play this 
 game for more then five minutes on any other console. With that said, playing this on the Wii is 
 a unique experience, and if you are willing to ignore some massive flaws in the game, you'll probably 
 have a pretty good time playing it.
  
  The professional opinions of this title have been somewhat surprising to me to say the least; take 
 the review on this site by Aaron Thomas for example...
  The terrible AI was mentioned, but I don't think he really communicated just how bad it really 
 is. I'm rather used to less then intelligent adversaries that will stand in place while you riddle 
 them with bullets, but if Axis soldiers truly reacted as ridiculously as they do in this title, 
 WWII would have ended much faster then it actually did. Part of the problem with the AI here is 
 that they put far too much emphasis on taking cover behind objects that are generally much smaller 
 then they are, leaving them completely exposed. Not only will they remain behind these objects 
 regardless of whether or not you are shooting them, but in most cases they will actually just sit 
 there allowing you to casually saunter up to them and assassinate them at point blank range. 
 
  
  Another issue is the wildly inconsistant accuracy to the AI's shooting ability. Some infantry can 
 hit you from 100 yards away with a machine gun while others will be standing less then three feet 
 from you and unload an entire clip into the air without giving you so much as a scratch. Their 
 distance from you and caliber of round also seems to have little if any effect on the damage inflicted 
 as well. The enemy seems to do the same amount of damage from a foot away as they do from a football 
 field down the street, regardless of what gun they are shooting at you with.
  
  Unfortunately, you can expect the same level of intelligence from your allies as well. This is 
 a little more forgivable since you can generally just make up for their inept combat ability by 
 killing the enemies yourself, but it definitely distracts from the realism a bit when you witness 
 them taking cover behind the exact same crate as an enemy and somehow managing not to hit him regardless 
 of the fact that he is mere inches away. Add to that they will often yell out "Leave some for us!" 
 while they empty clips into the back of a wooden box with an enemy standing right next to them 
 in plain view.
  
  There are several other issues with the allied squad behavior as well, such as them often huddling 
 together in a group doing largely nothing while they wait for you to trigger the next scripted 
 event by killing certain enemies or reaching a waypoint. They will also shoot directly into walls 
 and run right out into the open as bullets rain down on their position. I also experienced more 
 then one occasion where I had several enemies firing on me that were in clear shot of them and 
 they did absolutely nothing to help me.
  
  Another shortcoming that seems to be getting a pass here from reviewers is the level design. Not 
 only are the levels completely linear, there really isn't all that much to see and do along the 
 way. Most of the environments are completely dead with no animation anywhere outside of the characters. 
 You won't see any birds or clouds moving on the horizon, you won't see any lights flickering, and 
 you won't be interacting with anything apart from the occasional radio.
  
  There are also some pretty surprising collision detection problems and clipping issues at play 
 here too, as you will often see people fall right through the ground after being shot or walk right 
 through each other when in close quarters or surrounded by obstacles.
  
  Mildly retarded soldiers not withstanding, there is a lot to like about this title, including the 
 extremely fast pace to the action and excellent use of the Wii's motion sensing technology. There 
 is certainly no shortage of guys to shoot at, and if you are willing to look past them appearing 
 from thin air or piling out of a building like it was a clown car, you'll enjoy tearing through 
 them with the wide selection of period weaponry. The guns themselves have a great feel to them, 
 with nice recoil and sound effects, some of which come directly from the Wiimote's internal speaker 
 and really add to the immersion factor of the title.
  
  While on the subject of immersion, this is where MOHH2 really shines. Not since I spent weekends 
 at my local mall playing Virtuality games have I felt this close to actually being a part of a 
 game's environment. Know that I am exclusively playing this using the Zapper peripheral, and in 
 another disagreement I have with the pro reviews, I think it really adds to the experience and 
 realistic feel of the game. It definitely takes some getting used to, and while there is certainly 
 still some room for developers to get the aiming mechanism to line up perfectly with the Zapper 
 itself, the controls are more then usable and make you actually feel like you're holding a machine 
 gun in your hands at times. I have played three out of the four titles sold under the moniker of 
 being Zapper-enabled, and this is definitely the coolest use of it so far. I'm seeing a bit more 
 of the "aim at the screen" message then I would like, particularly when reloading, but apart from 
 that the control scheme works great and is a blast to experience.
  
  The game also includes an arcade mode, which is basically just an odd-rails shooter thrown in to 
 make better use of the Zapper, and while it is definitely a worthwhile inclusion to the package, 
 it doesn't hold nearly as much excitement as the campaign mode does in my opinion. It's a fun addition, 
 but not nearly as flushed out or enjoyable of an experience as a full-on rail shooter such as Resident 
 Evil Umbrella Chronicles is. While on the subject of the arcade mode, one particular omission really 
 bothered me. Despite the four player label on the back of the package, this mode features no multiplayer 
 at all, which annoyed me to no end since I specifically bought the title to have more two-player 
 Zapper games at my disposal.
  
  As far as presentation goes the game is pretty solid, with more then adequate graphics and excellent 
 sound effects. They actually managed to take the same bland grey environments we've seen in a dozen 
 other WWII shooters and make them nice to look at on the Wii's somewhat limited hardware. It is 
 obviously not CoD4 you're looking at here, but apart from the enemies seeming a bit lacking in 
 details, the game looks just fine and sounds great.
  
  It's a rather short game overall, clocking in at only around 6 or so hours to play through, but 
 the inclusion of the arcade mode and actual online multiplayer should lengthen the experience a 
 bit.
  
  As anyone who has read any of my other reviews probably knows, I do not really play games online, 
 so if you're looking for any insight into the multiplayer experience here you will have to look 
 elsewhere, but if you have access to online-enabled FPS games on other systems I can't see this 
 title having any real value. Using this control scheme is just fine against blatantly stupid computer 
 controlled AI, but I can't imagine it would be nearly as much fun against any real competitors. 
 Just turning around completely is somewhat of an arduous task where you have to move your aiming 
 reticule to an edge of the screen and wait while the game turns you around. This would obviously 
 be offset by everyone else struggling with the same controls, but it seems to me that it would 
 be pretty frustrating to be taking rounds to your back while you waited for the game to turn you 
 around completely.
  
  Overall, MOHH2 is an incredibly immersive game that will be a great addition to any Wii library 
 provided you don't compare it to the other shooters currently being played on the more powerful 
 consoles. If this were on any other system it would be a laughable game unanimously panned by critics 
 for its shortcomings, but reviewed solely as a Wii title it can be a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 973849
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Right when the wii was announced, gamers across the country praised the idea of a first person 
 shooter on the wii. Well needless to see they (and me) were all dissapointed with the wii's first 
 showing of shooting games. Now as i say this, i still stand by the fact that there is still fun 
 to be had with games like red steel and so on. This was a rather dark period of time for hardcore 
 wii owners, as the only truely spectacular game at launch was Twilight Princess. Zelda lasted me 
 quite a while, but after that, the next time i really played my wii, was for RE4. Great Great game. 
 But still this dream of a great FPS on wii seemed far off. Then, due to Nintendo's lack of advertisement, 
 a little game called Metroid Prime 3 slipped in under the radar of casual gamers. It gave the best 
 first person shoot control for any console at that time, and acted as building blocks to the best 
 controlled shooter of the generation. 
  
  First things first, Medal of Honor Heroes 2 is far from a perfect game. Obviously the biggest flaw 
 is that we ARE fighting Hitler for the 100th time. Unfortunatley for this review, the story to 
 MoH flew right over my head. I'm not really sure whats going on in the missions except that the 
 goal is to kill hoards and hoards of Germans. Which by most people's expectations for ww2 shooters 
 these days is ok. It really takes the seris back to its roots, as in you are not as much a small 
 part of a big army, but a beast in a small group. You must do everything on your own, because the 
 few soldiers you have at your side arent smart enough to tie their shoes. It can make the game 
 more entertaining, but is frusterating at the same time. The controls are what will you keep you 
 interested in the game. They are the BEST fps shooter controls available for any console system. 
 And yes i have played COD4 and Halo 3. Both terrific games but get squashed by MoH in the control 
 department. The sheer speed in moving across the screen, can be overwhelming at first, but after 
 you get used to it there is nothing better. You are going to want to crank the sensetivitey all 
 the way up , and make your dead zone as small as it can go. One problem though. When you hold A 
 to zoom in, the game makes you drag your cursor to the side of the screen to move it, which can 
 be annoying and akward after you have just been moving so fast before. The graphics for MoH are 
 some of the better fps graphics on wii. It doesnt match up with corruption, but the gun models 
 are very nice, andthe enviroments are fairly detailed. the charecter modles are rather bland though, 
 and could have used a bit more detail. The campaign is not exactly where this game shines. Even 
 with the outstanding controls, you may still want to buy COD3 instead. It offers a very very deep 
 campaign and still gives you a decent control.
  
  The reason I (and i expect you) bought MoH was for the online play. And it does not dissapoint, 
 Moh offers the deepest most accessable, and most importantly the most fun online game the wii has 
 to offer. You log in using EA nation and off you go. Search the lobby for a game of your liking 
 and your in. The 3 games you have to choose from are, Death match (free for all) Team death match ( 
 team vs team) and capture the flag ( self explainitory) . I love a long 32 person team death match, 
 as it can get really intense really fast. Although if your in a mood for straight up killing and 
 no tactical then deathmatch is there for you too. I cant review on how good Capture the flag is, 
 as i have not played it enough. From what i have played though, it gets boring pretty fast. Those 
 of you looking for your hardcore wii online game. Your search is over.
  
  As I said before Medal of Honor Heroes 2 is not a perfect game. It has some buggy issues, a rather 
 uninteresting campaign, and some graphical blemishes. A seperate mode in the game called arcade 
 mode lets you play through the campaign missions on rails. It is really really boring and i have 
 not enjoyed it at all, but then again it is just an extra feature. But at the end of the day you 
 get a superb wii fps that can keep you busy for a long long time to come. Congrats EA you have 
 set the bar for wii FPS.
  8.7 rounds to 8.5..... BRING BACK THE OLD RATING SCALE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthmatt
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I salute EA for making the first playable online FPS for wii. This game over comes the obvious 
 limitations of the Friends code system by using EA nation to register users and set matches. The 
 controls in MOHH2 are great with the wii remote, but the game play feels very, very out of date. 
 This series needs to step back and do what Capcom did with Resident Evil 4. For an action FPS in 
 2007 not to have standard control elements such as jump is un-acceptable. The single player missions 
 are just right, but won't give you more than what you expect from a game like this. But there is 
 nothing to make the game stand out from the pack of other generic WW2 FPS. Arcade mode is a nice 
 addition, but without a co-op mode you will wonder what EA was thinking when it would seem so obvious 
 to get a buddy to join up. The lack of any off-line multi layer is a big negative for me since 
 the missions team you up with a squad of GIs. So its already part of the game that you have others 
 fighting along side you. Oh, your squad mates are brain dead and would rather hide behind boxes 
 or run straight into a hail of bullets than actually help you fight the enemy. The AI is pretty 
 dumb. A lot of times you will see an enemy run up to a box in front of a squad mate and both will 
 sit there like nothing is happening. Visually, you can see for yourself, but I didn't get this 
 game for the graphics so I'll leave that one alone. 
  Online multi player. Oh, what to say... Its a great start, and since nothing else like it exist 
 on wii, its top dog. But its far, far from great. The game play is very dated and the matches are 
 limited to six maps, two sides, generic weapons, and three match types. Death match is a re-spawn 
 fest so I'd recommend Team death match for the noobs, or anyone who wants to play more than 30 
 seconds without getting fraged. But again, the online experience feels very dated since I've played 
 better online FPS years ago. You think some things would just be standard in an action FPS by now 
 (like jumping) . 
  In the end, this game is a nice effort, but EA stopped far short of making an amazing single player 
 and online experience. If only they could learn to cook with a few more flavors than vanilla, we'd 
 have better games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Guy_07
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS- 8/10- I have to say that the graphics arnt amazing but i forgot how "okay" they were 
 when I was blowing up some AI or getting pwned online! The graphics are like a Ps2 ga e from 2006
 
  
  GAMEPLAY- 9.9/10- The game play is great. The campaign levels are cool BUT the AI can be extremely 
 dumb at some points. So far (have had game for 2 days) I have played 95% of the 50 hours on the 
 ONLINE part of the game! The online is saweet! There are 7 different levels ranging from small 
 to extremely large! The 1 thing that the online needs is a mic.
  
  CONTROLS- 9/10- The controls are great. There are many different motion controls ranging from twisting 
 the nunchuk chuck to lean - thrustingenuity the wii and nunchuk forward to rifle but someone. The 
 online has added a sprint button and quick rifle button to easily escape or kill an enemy. You 
 can also quik talk by pressing 1 and choosing what you want to say. There are way more controls.
 
  
  Sound- 9/10 - The is good. The music is pretty cool. My favorite sound is how the reloading sound 
 comes out of WII remote. On the online part of the game, when you give comand your guy will say 
 something like "retreat".
  
  OVER ALL- 9/10- IF YOU HAVE A WII THEN GET THIS GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-nosh
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is a well made game that will keep you in it no matter what. All the wii needs is a wire 
 less ear piece and mic and this game will be on of the greatest online game for the wii so far. 
 I think it is a great game and a must have to all wii holders. The story mode is not bad but your 
 AI is very low its like you have the whole war on your shoulder alone. But the story mode is just 
 the begining, the online play is were you will be most of your time playing this game. 32 players, 
 that is one hell of a start for the wii. And such great control sensitivity makes it even more 
 interesting. There is nothing missing from this game. All you would want is a mic and an ear piece 
 so you could rub the kill in your apponents face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Till now the wii was lacking in online games. With the other consoles having countless FPS after 
 another it was about time some one stepped up and delivered what the fans wanted. Heroes 2 comes 
 with just about everything you'd expect from an FPS theas days. The one player mode is much like 
 the past MOH. You play as a certain squad during WW2. Each mission has it's own setting and objectives. 
 The leavles are sorta linear to it guides you to the next shoot out but not to were you fell forced. 
 The Wii's controls work really great here and the crazy motions the game has you do work out and 
 are fun to do. Looking around corners is a snap with the numchuck and not having to extend your 
 arm to get a closer look is a nice welcome. But some like flicking the numchuck after each shotgun 
 blast might get tiresome on some people. Theres replayablity in each mission with the achievements 
 and the overall ranking. The only bad thing i can say about the single player is that the aim can 
 be to generous and the AI can be kinda dumb at times. The arcade mode is more for thoes who really 
 can't get the Wii controls down. It takes you all though the missions leaving you only to duck 
 and shoot. Some might like it and play it a few times but others will only want to play it once 
 then get back to moving on their own. The online mode is about as standard as it gets. You can 
 enter any open game and jump right in or create your own room. once you select your side and gun 
 it's off to the action. The maps differ from each other nicely and you can tone down the controls 
 as you wish. The frame rate keeps up great in the heat of action. So if your looking for a great 
 action Wii game give this a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Any time you hear that someone's making a Wii game that's also on PSP, everyone's first reaction 
 is "Well, I guess I'll skip that one." Because honestly, it's the truth. All multi-platform games 
 of any kind suffer a drop in quality. With titles like Assassin's Creed and Call of Duty 4 coming 
 out, you'll hear fanboys argue against this time and time again ... but it's fundamentally true. 
 The titles widely regarded as the best games in existance have always been exclusives, and the 
 most dissappointing high end titles have always been multiplatform, since at least one version 
 of the game has to be weakened to insure it plays similarly to the version of the weaker console.
 
  
  This remains true for Medal of Honor Heroes 2, but strangely, the Multiplatform Effect hits this 
 title a little softer than usual, which is what warrants it a great score. In effect, MOHH2 is 
 a shameless clone of better games that came before it, with a linear campaign and a pathetic story 
 wrapped up in graphics clearly dumbed down to insure PSP compatibility. But on the other hand, 
 its virtual cornacopia of Wii-exclusive features, distinction of the first FPS with 32 player online 
 multiplayer, and the amazing achievement of virtually perfecting first person controls to the point 
 of far surpassing control schemes offerered any other system, allows MOHH2 a substantial rebound 
 from the depths of multiplatform crappiness.
  
  The thing that makes the Wii version of MOHH2 so great, is the customizability of the controls. 
 For instance, I loved the controls of the game Red Steel. Other reviewers the world over hated 
 them .. they wanted the game to play much like a PC game. The developers of MOHH2 were smart enough 
 to realize that they needed to insure that the player could FULLY CUSTOMIZE their controls to insure 
 that everyone was happy with the way the game played, and that's exactly what happened. There's 
 not a single complaint about this game's shooting controls, because everybody can make sure it 
 works the way they want it to. I personally have the dead zone set up like Metroid Prime 3's standard 
 controls, but the turning sensitive much quicker.
  
  Beyond that, the game also makes ingenius use of Wii gesture controls ... they never seem to overwhelm 
 you ... but when they do come up, you'll find yourself quite entranced with the new aspect. Using 
 the bazooka has to be the best new control scheme, as the motions required for it definitely feel 
 like you're using a bazooka, since you have to throw your Wii remote over your shoulder and aim 
 using the joystick in a stationary stance.
  
  A Wii-exclusive addition is Arcade mode, which turns the game into a light gun title ala Resident 
 Evil: Umbrella Chronicles. It's a different enough mode for me to play separately and appreciate, 
 while fans of the wii zapper (do they exist?) can really get into it as well.
  
  The stand out feature of MOHH2 is the 32 player multiplayer online. Utilizing EA Nation, the game 
 circumvents Friend Codes to insure that you can add friends to a buddy list and search out different 
 servers with different maps. The games graphics take a hit here as well, as things become less 
 modeled like a PS2 game and more modeled like a PS1 game, but it's a solid deathmatch and team 
 deathmatch game, albiet simplistic maps and objectives.
  
  All and all, MOHH2 is really a must have title for FPS fans who own a Wii. It's far from perfect, 
 but until other titles come out that take a hint from what the developers have done with this one, 
 it's the stand out online FPS game on Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vectorman23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first game to have 32 players on wii. When I heard that this game was 32 players 
 online i couldn't believe it. So I got it and with the wii zapper. Ok first off when you first 
 play with the wii zapper online you might get frustrated. There is 3 game types for the online 
 multplayer gameplay. there is team deathmatch, infiltration, and deathmatch. Team deathmatch is 
 allies vs axis. Infiltration is just like basic capture the flag and nothing diffrent just a diffrent 
 name, and deathmatch is free for all. Then for the people who don't have online there is arcade 
 and campain. Campain is just mission to mission nothing really new there. Then there is arcade 
 which the wii zapper does it's most with this game. There is no split 
  screen matches. graphic are pretty good but kinda sucks. control screme is alright. This game is 
 a must play for people who have online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dxnets
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Okay, you probably wonder why this game has such a variety of mixed reviews. Well, it all has to 
 do with the shooting mechanics. For a sniper rifle, you have to twist the Wii-Remote to zoom in. 
 You can move your reticle left or right, but not up or down! Next is the Bazooka; I personally 
 love this weapon. You sling it over your shoulder and zoom into your target. However, there is 
 no zoom, not even a reticle, in online multiplayer. But, the blast radius is so huge that it makes 
 up for the lack of a reticle . 
  
  Now for the online. It is absolutely immersive, fun, easy, and creative. You can also just press 
 the Z button to melee instead of thrusting both controllers forward like in campaign. However, 
 the melee attacks do almost no damage because the character models are almost transparent when 
 you're up close. You almost literally can't hit them.
  
  For New Players- in order to do some real damage in online, I recommend either the BAR or the MP 
 40. For the MP 40, you just have to aim near their head and fire. Even if the reticle isn't red, 
 it will do some damage. Body shots will take a long time (several clips sometimes) to kill them. 
 I wouldn't recommend the Thompson because it's just like the MP 40, but with lower ammo. The BAR 
 will do damage if you aim at the upper body, and head shots not required to kill. 
  
  The Arcade mode is incredibly addictive. It is literally like playing Time Splitters in WWII scenery. 
 Add the WII ZAPPER into the mix, and multiply the fun by 5000! The Wii Zapper controls insanely 
 well and adds into the immersiveness factor of the game. Overall, this is a great game with plenty 
 of pros and some minor cons that others might think are major. It missed the 10 for me because 
 of the melee problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryrz3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  This is a really good game. When i put it in for the first time i was going to play the campaign, 
 but.... went to the multiplayer to see if it was as good as everyone said. I was amazed, runs incredably 
 smoothly and is so fun.
  
  I give it a 9.5 because of a week campaign. Its ok but is very very short and not much fun compared 
 to the multiplayer. However the arcade mode is a nice feature and good fun, mainly for less "hardcore" 
 gamers.
  
  Im looking forward for the next shooter to be released, Medal Of Honor: Heroes 2 has set the bar, 
 just as Call Of Duty 3 did early on. If Call of Duty 3's campaign and MoH: H2's multiplayer could 
 be combined, it would make one heck of a game.
  
  My in game name is Rampon, look for me tearing up the battlefield.
  
  WORTH GETTING!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jspeeder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I have been so immersed in the online gameplay that I have not even finished level two of the single 
 player! The box is sadly mistaken when it claims to be four player, something EA could be sued 
 for. The online play is anything and everything a Wii owner could ask for, it's fun, and it's massive. 
 The only down side to it is the difficulty in killing people, 2-3 ACCURATE shots from a shotgun, 
 and possibly two clips from a Thompson. The online play is routed through the EA servers, doing 
 away with those stupid and annoying friend codes that Nintendo seems to treasure. I have not the 
 chance to play with a zapper, so I cannot speak of the experience, although it seems cool. Sniping 
 is very fun, the twist-zoom is carried over from the games predecessor, MoH Vanguard, and sometimes 
 can be a hassle. The grenade launcher is fun, although a very unfair weapon for online play, with 
 a unique motion for zooming, putting the wii-mote on your shoulder, like a real launcher. The shotgun's 
 pump motion is fun, although a nuisance for close combat online, luckily there is an auto-pump 
 feature to be turned on and off. The game deserves four and a half stars, but since it's either 
 four or five, I give it a four, about nine out of ten, because the game is the best Wii game out 
 yet, and my favorite MoH since Frontline came out but the lack of two player, let alone four player, 
 especially when it says it has it, hurts the rating considerably. Luckily no cheaters to report 
 of online (although it is unfair enough as it is) unlike I hear of from the first game for the 
 PSP. Overall, if you own a Wii, THIS IS A WINNER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santanablu3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the best fps i own. just everything about it is just that good. the only thing 
 that's not there is the jump button but everything else make up for it.
  the story plot is pretty average of all ww2 games. and the control scheme is the best for the wii. the 
 graphics arnt bad at all and have a nice haze effect when use of the sniper.
  the multi-player is what make this game Gold. 32 PLAYERS ONLINE is enough said. there is massive 
 amounts of replay value in this game.
  the arcade mode is pretty fun, and can be very enjoyable with alot of friends over. but overall 
 this game is an instint classic and is worth 50 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nova_Mongoose
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  The Medal of Honor series has been mediocre for a long time. For this reason, I was skeptical when 
 I paid full-price for this game. However, that skepticism has been turned around thanks to it's 
 great controls and amazing multiplayer mode.
  
  Controls:
  fully-tweakable, completely spot-on and second only to a mouse and keyboard in terms of accuaracy.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Nothing too flashy but not horrid either. Frame-rate is smooth, effects are nice, but lacks detail 
 in some areas such as character models and textures.
  
  Sound:
  Typical WW2 shooter noises. Great recycled musical score.
  
  Gameplay:
  The A. I. is dumb 
 in singleplayer, quite a bit harder than the average MoH game. Motion controls are used tastefully 
 and add to the fun... and the challenge. Arcade mode is casual fare, fun but short-lived. Multiplayer 
 is addictive and reminescant of Counterstrike matches, wish it had voice-chat though.
  
  Overall:
  A winner because of it's outstanding online multiplayer and great controls. Campaign 
 is short but worthy of replay, Arcade mode is one-time only for me. Rent if not a shooter fan. 
 Everyone else should buy it!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimybrit
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  EA should do what COD4 did. They should start going into modern warfare. Even future warfare would 
 be fun. But nooo, they just have to have German enemies and Japanese bombings. Heres my review 
 for the second MOH game on the Wii.
  
  Graphics - 7.0 - The graphics were better than Vanguard but still kinda crappy. The graphics in 
 Campaign were best. Multiplayer second. Arcade was pretty bad. The explanation is probally that 
 the developers spent so much time on 32 player multiplayer.
  
  Campaign and Arcade - 7.7 - Campaign mode was'nt long but it wasn't short. It's pretty fun but 
 still, I'm tired of fighting Germans. arcade was fun, except for the graphics. One thing I also 
 didn't like was that the corpses disappear before they hit the ground.
  
  Multiplayer - 7.5 - Mutiplayer is pretty impressive. It is hard though and it is pretty glitchy. 
 One thing is that I'll shoot people over and over and they won't die and then they come along and 
 shoot me 5 times and I die. Also, it's too hard to tell who is and who isn't on your teamate.
 
  
  Overall - 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Yes indeed very hard to play this Game with the Graphics on the Wii. In my view looks like a Game 
 made 5 years ago. The Wii controlls are very good and there is some fun in the Game. But for me 
 i just cant over look the ugly Graphics sorry Nintendo looks does matter. Think this will be my 
 last Game for the Wii my kids still like the Wii and they can have it. For me its the PS3 are the 
 360. on Heroes 2 for the Wii i would say rent it frist are wait for a price drop at full price 
 just not worth it my views thanks Mars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: august_king
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I'll borrow the format used from Gamespot for this short review.
  
  The Good: Fast framerate, good graphics, unique controls
  
  The Bad: Limited maps, inconsistent 
 weapon damage (except for grenades and the rocket launcher) , too many spawn points near each other- 
 promoting spawn killing (which I guess is how the so-called best players rack up their kill counts- 
 spawn kills are for suckers) , no collision detection between players -meaning that you can run 
 right through each other. (This gets confusing in a close quarters firefight) , controls have to 
 be adjusted in order to have a decent level of success. (The default controls are decent but you 
 turn too slowly) Not many opportunities for snipers in most of the available levels. (I like sniping.)
 
  
  I'll start with the gameplay, since this is what's most important to me anyway. It's good and the 
 Wii controls are responsive for the most part, after you've made some adjustments that is. You 
 can only carry two weapons at a time and they can be swapped only for weapons of the same or similar 
 lengths. Sorry you can't carry a shotgun and a sniper rifle. The aiming is pretty simple, just 
 point your arm and shoot with the B button. For precision aiming hold down the A button. Sniping 
 is a little tricky because you have to twist your Wii remote left and right to zoom in and out. 
 You move with the nunchuck control stick and can strafe and lean around corners. You can crouch 
 by pushing down on the dpad and change the weapons you carry with the left and right directions 
 on the dpad. To throw grenades you select them (too bad you can only carry two in online multiplayer) 
 aim the target reticule and press B to lock on that spot, then you make a throwing motion to throw 
 it. You can cook a grenade before you throw it by holding the A button. The controls work very 
 well, but I wouldn't say that they are better than Metroid Prime 3 Corruptions.
  
  The weapon selection is limited and if your like most of the players online you'll stick to the 
 machine guns. They give you the best chance to kill your opponent. The pistols, rifles and shotgun 
 have inconsistent damage. Sometimes you'll take a guy out with a single shot from your shotgun, 
 only to have the next guy shrug off five, six, seven or more shots like they were spitballs. Some 
 may argue that this is because your aim was off, or you just suck. But they're full of it. I've 
 seen this happen far too often and my aim is damned near perfect. Headshots work rarely, most of 
 the time you'll just knock off their helmets and even with the helmet removed they can still eat 
 several more headshots until they go down. Also there seem to be one or two guys that are damn 
 near invulnerable on each map.
  
  Visually it looks pretty good, however there could have been more differentiation between the uniforms 
 you can choose from, and they could have added some gore or blood. The game is rated T for teen. 
 
  
  The sound is average, lack of voice chatter sucks.
  
  All in all a decent and shallow online experience and the best you're likely to get on the Wii 
 for the for the next couple of months.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: schnuerle
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is a real letdown.
  
  Lots of potential, but its got boring (even for a WWII shooter) and easy single player campaigns. 
 In Multiplayer, the graphics are simplified (worse than a bad Gamecube game) , the character animations 
 are twitchy and unrealistic, the control frustrating, the sound effects and music are missing or 
 unfinished, and there are some serious bugs (like invincibility if you pause while spawning) .
 
  
  The game box says 4 player, but there is absolutely no offline multiplayer on the console, and 
 no split screen of any kind (on or offline) .
  
  It is the first online FPS on the Wii, which is reason to celebrate, but it's not at all what it 
 promises, and not a reason to love it. Hopefully the next attempt will be better.
  
  I only own a Wii and am a fanboy, but this game is really bad. Only buy this if it's all you can 
 get and must play an online FPS on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B1kmatt
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  I have had my eye on this game since it was first announced and I was pretty excited, but I thought 
 that they could not pull it off. Then when it released I picked up a copy and I was blown away 
 by the online mode. For the first game that took the challenge of putting being a Wii FPS that 
 goes online did a great job because it has little to no lag and it had 6 levels and 3 playing modes. 
 Also I still has a decent campaign mode, a fun arcade mode, and has full support of the Wii Zapper. 
 One thing is for sure this game really pulls you in and some times you lose track of time and I 
 hope that other FPS's use this game as an example for how all FPS should be on the Wii and that 
 it is capable of a lot when coming to online too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sants412
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  And here comes yet another WWII shooter made for wii: Medal of Honor Heroes 2.
  
  Controls: I'm happy to say that this game is the best controlling console game I have ever played. 
 The wiimote is put to nearly perfect use and it responds perfectly. 
  Score: 9
  
  Online multiplayer: Very fun and competitive, but very shallow. You start off with your gun of 
 choice, a hand gun and a few grenades. There isn't any vehicles or aircrafts. There aren't many 
 people online in the lobby and there aren't a lot of matches to choose from. In fact, when I went 
 to go play and unranked match, there were only 5 different matches I cold choose from, none of 
 which I wanted to do. There is no headset and the Al should've been left out completely.
  Score: 7.5
  
  Campaign mode: I really, really disliked this. It was terrible. I played the 
 first level and didn't bother to go any further. It was dull and just terrible to me.
  Score: 4.5
  
  Overall, Medal of Honor Heroes 2 is a good game, and worth buying. If you're 
 looking for solid online multiplayer and you really don't care for a campaign mode then this game 
 is for you. You also have very innovative controls and unique new way of playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steinberger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say that Medal of Honor: Vanguard is my favorite game for the Wii, even more 
 than Metroid Prime 3, all thanks to it's controls. That being said, coming from Vanguard the controls 
 for this game were pretty disappointing.
  
  Controls:
  While the sensitivity and gesture registration have been tweaked to be better for this game, some 
 of the controls for this game are pretty awkward. The lean function lost the ability to move vertically, 
 I also preferred having it as the control stick instead of tilting the nunchuck. The movement of 
 the reload and zoom gesture to the Wii-mote often screw up your shots.
  
  Weapons:
  The sounds and graphics for the weapons are a great improvement for this game. I'm also glad the 
 lowered the ammo max to a more realistic level. The only problem I have with the weapons is the 
 fact that the first few missions have a significant lack of assault rifles and rifles. What's a 
 sniper to do?
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are a huge improvement for the most part over Vanguard. I'm very glad they brightened 
 this game up because in some sections of Vanguard it was just too dark to be functional.
  
  Campaign:
  The campaign is decent for the most part with some issues. The enemy AI in this game 
 are stupid. They rarely take cover or try to move around. But at least the Allied AI don't always 
 take all the best firing positions like they did in Vanguard. I also don't like how the enemies 
 appear and reinforce. It reminds me too much of an arcade shooter. The story is a little more interesting 
 and the narrator is serious to a comical level. Not much replay value.
  
  Arcade:
  This is my personal favorite mode. It's a lot more challenging than the campaign mode. It does 
 have a few glitches though. When you zoom in it only zooms in on the center of the screen instead 
 of following the reticle. This makes shooting far away enemies on the edges of the screen very 
 annoying.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Definitely the saving grace for this game in my opinion. Without this and the arcade mode the game 
 would have practically no re-playabilty. The online system is a dramatic improvement over the Nintendo 
 online system. The instant action rooms are great for just jumping right into the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rustymilk24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  this game has a real good fell to it and has some of the best multiplayer fow a WW2 game. what 
 i was most suprised about it was that the wii controller did not crush the game. I thought it was 
 the best with the wiimote. This is not a perfect game but it is near. if u have a wii or plan on 
 getting one, i would strogly suggest this game.9.5 out of 10. i did not really feel like doing 
 100 words so i will just do this for the rest of the review so so so so so so so so so so so som 
 sososos sos s sosos sos sos sos sos sos sos sos sos sos sos sos sos sos sos s osos sos sls os sos 
 s sosdms s oso so smos so so so so so so so so o soo s soso so o so so so so so o so sosm so so 
 o sso so so o so soso so so sso s oso so o so so so so so so o so so o sso soso o o so o sso so 
 oso o so o soo sso so so so so o so ss oso so so so o o so o o o so o so so o o so s o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmeat59
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Medal of honor hero's 2 is a very good game . Its not amazing , but still is a great buy . the 
 graphics look good however you can tell the game is based off of the psp game . 
  
  The controls are the best i ever used in a fps game. it feels more real then anything i tryed before 
 . For example when you use the bazooka . You lift the wii mote to your ears. when you fire you 
 hear the sound coming from the mote. you can also feel the rumble. I love how you can just point 
 and shoot. on a joy stick controller this game would be no where near as good .
  
  One thing i really dont like about the game is . The A. I. is very bad . also i find at times you 
 seem stuck cus there will be like 10 guys shooting at you non stop so the moment you show your 
 self you will be killed cus you got hit 20 times in line one second . the only thing the AI does 
 well is take cover .
  
  The online play is pretty cool. its similar to a pc game . you make an account with EA . then you 
 go online and you pick a sever out of a list and join the game . there is not much communication 
 in the online. the only way to talk is to use the record messages the game comes with .
  
  to sum it up this is a good start to nintendos online . but the game is not amazing . it controlls 
 very good . the graphics are not that great but dont hurt the game . the AI is as dumb as a bag 
 of bricks . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaszfro
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  I had a few stipulations going into this game:
  1) It's NOT HALO, COD, R6, or any other big name FPS
  2) It's on the Wii, first year (ish) , not 
 many companies are stepping up to the plate
  3) It's EA 
  4) the forgotten game behind MOH: Airborne
  5) It's "another" WWII shooter
  6) Heroes I (psp) 
 had decent reviews
  7) It's one of the few multi player games on the Wii
  
  
  Now to my "review":
  
  Single player
  ------------------
  +decent frame rate
  +no loading 
 times at a minimum (like all wii games)
  +Storyline was engaging, but yet another WWII game
  -Mix of voice and written briefings was drawn 
 out at times.
  -AI seems rather slow and dull..... but a lot of games FPS seem this way, big titles included.
 
  
  
  Arcade mode
  ------------------
  (It's the on rails, House of the dead like thing)
  +neat
  -probably better with the zapper
 
  -only 8 levels
  +3 difficulties ("gives" 24 levels)
  +More interactive then most Gun Con games
  
  keep in mind this isn't the focus of the game, 
 so having this mode .... at least to me.... was a bonus.
  
  
  Multi
  ------
  --EA nation sign up was a pain..... resorted to computer account signing up
  +interesting
  -lag 
 issues (rarely, in the 25+ games..... but for no more than 30 sec)
  -controller sensitivity settings were more an issue than lag (fixed and my "skills" improved greatly)
 
  (maybe hard wired wiis can reduce lag???)
  +NO Friend codes :)
  +Lobby makes joining/creating games a breeze
  +Interface (messaging / game sorting / friends) 
 was impressive
  +32 Multi player (ran the same from a full game to an empty game)
  -6 maps
  +different modes add more playability
  +decent frame rate
  +Quick map / lobby loading 
 times
  
  ++Only FPS that had Multi on the wii
  
  Summary:
  --------------
  *Graphics* (compared to other wii games) are top notch
  Ease of Use is there (minus EA nation 
 sign up -- for me)
  
  The *control scheme* is wonderful, yet odd at first play. HOWEVER, I was going at Axis and Ally 
 alike with ease. This is how FPS's SHOULD BE. The controls are an incredible way to take game play 
 to the next level, and MOH: H2 probably just set a standard that other games will have to match
 
  
  *Sounds: Rather interesting with the use of the wii mote speaker. Music is nothing that will blow 
 you away.
  
  The game is the tip of the iceberg of what the wii can do. 
  I know the game might be below standards of the other systems, BUT it's definitely as good as other 
 games on the wii.
  
  I CANNOT compare this to Metroid 3 (haven't played it) , but MOH: H2 is a great play and has the 
 same game life if not MORE than the other games on the wii.
  
  It'll keep me playing..... if anything BECAUSE OF the multi player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gravedigger45
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:20 am PT
Review:  The game is great it makes up for medal of honor vangaurd which wasn't terribl but had no online 
 which is becoming more and more important in the series as it progresses the multiplayer supports 
 up to 32 players that is more than halo 3 I do like halo 3 tho but this is a step up for nintendo 
 which is very important at this point because you can't survive off just metroid mario and zelda 
 tho it has yet so far but this will make the transition much smoother for people that are switchin 
 off there 360 and ps3 to play wii nintendo is finally releasing good games november and december 
 are its strongest months but this game I believe will move players toward interest in Wii especially 
 your hard core gamers who live to play live the graphics are good gameplay is great especially 
 for new users so I give it a 10 because this is a great game and a strong step forward for nintendo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic_rusher
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  A game that pushed almost untested ground for Wii. It shows us that FPS control is the most superior 
 for consoles on Wii. Gamers were starting to doubt the potential Wii had with FPS control, now 
 that doubt is gone.
  Another front that MoH: H2 pushes on Wii is the online play. yes there are problems like no voice 
 chat, but there is limited communication when you absolutely need it. Something I really ith they 
 included would be LAN. Splitscreen, and Coop.
  The graphics are average. The game was developed side by side with the PSP version and it shows 
 a little bit, but this game looks clean and has an amazing framerate.
  Campaign is suitable, though it does lack Coop and needs better AI, but it will keep you fighting 
 in strategic and man vs world style.
  This game is a must buy for any serious Wii gamer. Unless you want to continue with only Nintendo 
 giving you a prime gaming experience I suggest you play and support games like these.
  
  As a side note I hope EA will let this talented team of developers make another more original and 
 exclusive FPS for Wii that will awe us once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petercaviar01
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  well the first thing i did when i started playing the game was play the online multiplayer. i didnt 
 even know how to play the game but it was so easy to pick up and play that i was killing people 
 with ease, the aiming system is alot better too than the last medal of honor ... the controls are 
 very good like everyone says.
  the graphics are not that bad at all i like how the graphics are way better than the last medal 
 of honor game for the wii, they put in very good texture for the guns
  
  plus the online gameplay runs smoother when i play madden online i lose the connection really easily 
 but mohh2 is good online
  
  i think the game will get better with the wii zapper since i do have some problems aiming sometimes 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenarkallaptar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of Moh: H2 for the Wii, I wasn't really that interested. There is already Call 
 of Duty 3, and the ultimate Wii shooter on my list would have been Metroid Prime 3 Corruption. 
 However after hearing more about this game from reading previews and hearing about 32 player online 
 battles I decided to give it a try. I was blown away. 
  
  The game and controls blow away any other FPS I have ever played. When you start playing you begin 
 to be sucked into the game world with immersive controls such as crouching behind a concrete block 
 with "A" while leaning out from behind cover by leaning the nunchuk back and forth to snap a few 
 quick shots into the enemy, or pumping a shotgun by snapping the nunchuk up and down. The game 
 also fully supports the Wii Zapper, which is a gun shaped holder for the Wiimote and nunchuck.
 
  
  As for the game goes, you take the role of a soldier going behind enemy lines sabotaging the enemy 
 through means such as blowing up the German submarine pens etc. The gameplay is fierce and intense 
 and can be quite a challenge at some points in the game. The fights feel realistic, having you 
 dive for cover behind anything that you can find, and the enemy using strategic tactics as well. 
 Your bullets pack a punch to the enemy, and it only takes a few to bring down an enemy soldier. 
 You are not invincible either, and Ramboing your way through the levels will result in your death. 
 The health system is Gears of War style with you healing if you back out of the action. 
  
  Also included is arcade mode, which is a rail shooter that progresses your character through all 
 the levels without having to move yourself. This method of play would probably suit players of 
 all skill levels, and is fun to play by yourself.
  
  The graphics are very good for a Wii game, and while this game may not compete with some of the 
 new First Person Shooters, it's not left in the dust either. Sound is decent too with the reloading 
 sounds coming out of Wiimote. 
  
  This is also the first Wii game with 32 player battles. The battles aren't quite as good as your 
 popular FPS's (Halo, Gears, etc) but they are quite fun. The character models aren't as good as 
 the Campaign mode either, but they aren't that bad. The online is hosted by EA and there are online 
 leader boards and ranked and unranked matches. This is definitely a major selling point in the 
 game, and it was made well. The only problem I would have with it would be that it takes almost 
 a full clip of ammo to kill an enemy soldier, and sniper head shots usually don't kill the first 
 time.
  
  Overall this is the Wii game that Nintendo fans have been waiting for. If you are a fan of war 
 games or you just want a decent multi player game to play with, this is what you have been waiting 
 for.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
