-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mercury Meltdown Revolution
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/mercurymeltdownrevo/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent control system.
 abundance of levels.
 strong visual style.
 some good party games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No multiplayer.
 only five party games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 22, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 54 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 349 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ignition Entertainment
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Oct 15, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The PSP puzzler finds a natural home on Nintendo's console, where the Wii Remote finally gives you 
 much-needed tilt control. 

  Even since its starting point on the PSP, Mercury was always meant to be played with tilt control. 
 Deep in the vaults at developer Ignition Entertainment lay a motion-sensitive adaptor for the console 
 that never saw the light of day. So when Nintendo revealed that the Wii would offer a controller 
 with such a feature, a conversion for the console was pretty much assured. While Mercury Meltdown 
 Revolution is effectively the PSP game with a few new levels, the implementation of the Wii Remote 
 is faultless, refining the experience and making it more enjoyable than before. What's more, it's 
 a game with immense longevity, and if you're a fan of puzzle games, you shouldn't miss out.  

 
          Race, a mercury-take on Wipeout, is one of the five party games unlocked by playing through 
 the main game.     

  The basic principle of Mercury is to guide blobs of metallic liquid around a maze. Points are awarded 
 for speed and accuracy, meaning that you need to move quickly while preventing your mercury from 
 dripping over the edge. While those are the basics, there are a great number of obstacles to overcome 
 as you progress. For example, some obstacles will solidify your mercury or make it runny, others 
 will attract it or repel it, and the most annoying creatures in the game will eat your mercury 
 if you go near them. Once you throw in dexterity tests that involve escalators, moving platforms, 
 and a variety of surfaces, you have a fairly tricky puzzle game.  

  While all these features were also present in the PSP game, the attraction of the Wii version is 
 its intuitive and well-implemented control system. Holding the Wii Remote as you would a DS, you 
 tilt the controller to angle the maze itself, with gravity dragging the mercury along in that direction. 
 And that's pretty much it -- the only other controls are for the camera; the D pad is used to rotate 
 or pan and the 1 and 2 buttons are used to zoom in or out. It may sound like the most simple control 
 system of all time, but it fits the game perfectly and has been implemented incredibly well. The 
 controller responds to subtle movement without feeling twitchy, and you don't have to hold it with 
 spirit-level accuracy to keep the level flat.  

  Mercury Meltdown Revolution doesn't have a convoluted backstory that explains why you're rolling 
 metal around these mazes; it simply presents eight laboratories with 16 test tubes each to represent 
 all the levels on offer. They're made up of a combination of levels from the PSP game (but have 
 been reordered slightly) and brand-new ones created especially for the Wii version. The more mercury 
 you get to the finish line on each level, the fuller its test tube becomes, and you progress in 
 this fashion to open up the labs that are locked at the start of the game. This structure means 
 that you don't have to beat every level to get to the next lab, nor do you need to complete them 
 within the recommended time frame. Although most levels take no more than a minute to complete, 
 they usually require a bit of thinking and at least a couple of attempts to finish. Those who want 
 to reserve a spot on the scoreboard will need to play over and over to perfect their runs.  

  The designers of Mercury Meltdown Revolution have produced levels that are both inventive and 
 challenging. These levels also offer plenty of variety and a fair learning curve. It can be annoying 
 to play the same level over and over, but the puzzles themselves are logical. Crucially, the accurate 
 control system means that it's always your own fault when you fail. The most consistent challenge 
 in the game is to use coloured mercury to activate colour-coded gates and buttons. Red, green, 
 and blue spray points are dotted around many of the levels, while a chart in the corner of the 
 screen shows you how to mix colours. For example, you'll need to push your blob against sharp objects 
 to split it into two, and by combining two different coloured blobs you can create all-new colours 
 to solve many of the puzzles in the game.  

  As you play through the main game, you'll be able to unlock five party games. Far from being poorly 
 designed afterthoughts, there are a couple of really good minigames to be found in this mode. The 
 highlights are rodeo, where you must to keep your blob of mercury on a platform while a computer-controlled 
 fan tries to blow you off, and shove, which plays like a science-class version of bowls. There's 
 also paint, where you must use your mercury to colour more of the level than your opponent, and 
 metrix, which is a puzzler along the lines of Tetris or Lumines. Only one game called race, a poorly 
 conceived Wipeout-esque racer, fails to deliver. It's also a shame that, along with the main game 
 itself, the party games can't be played in multiplayer.  

          While Mercury Meltdown Revolution has a fair learning curve, some of its levels will certainly 
 test your balance and patience.     

  On a technical level, Mercury Meltdown Revolution is a solid if not ostentatious entry into the 
 Wii catalogue. The graphical style may be colourful and cartoonlike, but there are some nice touches 
 if you zoom in to look at the mercury itself. There are lots of little scratches on the surface, 
 while it rolls around the world in a convincingly realistic manner. Perhaps the most important 
 point is that the game has a consistently smooth frame rate, and while the menus are fairly basic, 
 presentation is solid overall. Audio effects tend to be perfunctory, with mechanical grinding for 
 the environments and a generic liquid sound for the mercury. One anomaly is that the mercury lets 
 out a little yelp whenever you drop any off the side; it feels strange that the designers chose 
 to give the mercury a personality trait in this way, but it kind of fits in with the cartoon feel 
 overall. The electronic music is mostly whimsical in nature, but there are recognisable background 
 effects if you're using a Dolby Pro Logic II sound system. The game also offers 480p resolution, 
 as well as support for the classic and GameCube controllers for any traditionalists out there. 

  While Mercury Meltdown Revolution is essentially the same game as its PSP counterpart, the Wii's 
 control system refines its gameplay, which makes it the definitive version as a result. The sheer 
 amount of levels gives the game plenty of longevity, while the quality of the design means that 
 they're always fun without being complicated. And while there may not be many party games, the 
 majority of the games are enjoyable diversions that you'll actually want to play more than once. 
 There's still room for improvement, particularly given the absence of a multiplayer mode, but Mercury 
 Meltdown Revolution is a great fusion of game and hardware, as well as the Wii's best puzzle game 
 so far.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lovehunter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  This game is fun and challenging. Graphics are nice. Music is catchy entertaining. And the levels 
 are very often challenging. There are 3 main objectives to fully complete a level. There is getting 
 100% of your mercury to the finish, getting all the bonuses, and completing it fast enough to get 
 1st place. This game offfers a ton of levels and different environments to take up your time. It 
 makes you think while not being drab or boring. The physics are what you are primarily going to 
 deal with and that what makes this game great. Can you complete every level with 100% completion? 
 I haven't... yet.
  
  Pick this one up. It's pretty cheap to buy and is well worth it.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_knight87
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  If you've played the original Mercury Meltdown for the PSP, you'll know exactly what to expect 
 here, as it's an almost direct port of it. 
  
  Your basic goal in each level is to guide your blob of mercury to the goal. Of course, it's never 
 as easy as that. There are many elements that are out to stop you from getting there, including 
 spikes, crushers, blobs of acid and giant hammers. There are also different coloured gates that 
 you have to get through, and in order to do this, it may mean having to use the scenery to split 
 up your mercury into separate blobs, and change their colour at colour stations. You can also combine 
 the two colours to makes a totally different colour. There will also be times where you have to 
 activate pressure switches that need a certain amount of mercury to use, go below that amount, 
 and you fail the stage. There's definitely a lot of variety in the stages, and each world adds 
 a new element to the mix to keep things interesting.
  
  Don't think this game is a cakewalk though, the later levels are fiendishly difficult, almost to 
 the point of insanity, and you'll have to use every ounce of wit and intelligence to pass them. 
 In order to get 100% on a level, you need to collect all the pickups in the level (most of which 
 are in hard to reach areas,) finish with 100% mercury and beat it in the fastest time possible. 
 Fortunately, you don't have to do all of this at once, which you will most likely never do, but 
 it still adds even more replayability to the game.
  
  New to Revolution is the inclusion of two entirely new worlds and a few mini-games. Sadly, the 
 mini-games are the weakest area of the game, as they're either just not enjoyable (rodeo) , or too 
 tedious to even bother with (racing) , which is a shame, as they definitely could have been very 
 well done.
  
  Graphically, the game is ok. The cel-shading and the garish colour schemes keep everything bright 
 and interesting, but they're nothing to shout about. The music is pretty bland to be honest. Levels 
 continuously recycle tracks from previous levels, and pretty much all of them are instantly forgettable.
 
  
  ost people who played the original will most likely feel cheated out of this game, as most of the 
 stuff has been directly ported, and that which HAS been added isn; t all that good either. If, however, 
 you didn't play the original, then this is still worth a look, especially if you like a challenging 
 puzzle game. You certainly won't breeze through this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tireyo643
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Mercury Meltdown Revolution for Wii is a great game for whoever might be bored this summer! Are 
 you not sure whether you should get this game or not? Read my opinion on this game! I like to call 
 this game the spawn of Super Monkey Ball for several of the following reasons. 
  
  1. You control a blob of liquid metal instead of a solid monkey in a ball all the time! (Melting 
 Monkeys would not be ideal for Super Monkey Ball!)
  
  2. Certain power-ups can make your blob of mercury react in different ways like heating, cooling, 
 and turning it into a solid ball at times of danger.
  
  3. The blob can separate into tinier blobs if you go through spikes, if your off the ledge a little 
 bit, and when you want to mix the colors of the blob to make a new color. (The color spectrum in 
 the game will be your best friend)
  
  Their are probably more things to say how different this game is compared to Super Monkey Ball, 
 but I think I got the main concepts of what you can do with the blob of Mercury.
  
  There are several minor flaws in the game that I would like to bring out. 
  
  1. The controls 
 are very awkward when you want to proceed on. You press 1 instead of 2.
  
  2. The Classic Controller can take away some of the fun due to the fact that the Wii mote is funner 
 to use because its DUH! motion censored! *Note: you hold the Wii mote vertically.
  
  3. The Levels can be very simplistic at times, but it gets more challenging and frustrating after 
 awhile like Super Mario Galaxy.
  
  4. There are not many mini-games to unlock but they are fun if you want to get away from the main 
 game for just a little bit.
  
  5. The music and sounds in the game can be very cheesy and cheap at times. However, some of the 
 music does fit with the puzzle solving criteria.
  
  If you can work around the flaws, it's a good game for the money. If you do not like Super Monkey 
 Ball or puzzles, this game might not be for you. All-in-all it's a solid challenging puzzle platformer 
 that is worth the money but is in no way revolutionary. So what are you waiting for? Have fun! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FullMetalWWant
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  There's been many Wii games that have came along that is worth 20 dollars. However, those games 
 are not that good to play. Mercury Meltdown Revolution is one of those 20 dollar games that makes 
 it worth your money plus more.
  
  Gameplay: First from the PSP and then the PS2, MMR for the Wii adds something to the gameplay and 
 that's the Wiimote. You play a small ball of mercury and you use the Wiimote to tilt the field 
 to move your mercury from one place to another. You can also change the color of your mercury to 
 open of locked gates to get some bonuses. 
  
  Sound: The music is really fun in this game. It's very simple and adds to the gameplay just a bit.
 
  
  There is one thing I would like to say. It may say it's a multiplayer game, but you have to unlock 
 them by playing Single player mode. And it's not fun.
  
  All things aside, MMR is a fun game not matter what problems it has. And for only 20 dollars, it's 
 a fun game for your Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Tweedy
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  There are a couple of different ways to think about the idea of perfection. Probably the most useful 
 ways to ask the pair of questions "How well does it do what it does?" and "Is that worth doing?" 
 How successful is an artwork in achieving its goal and was that a good goal to shoot for? Going 
 from that perspective MMR is one of the most perfect games you're likely to ever encounter.
  
  MMR is a perfect puzzle video game. It teases your brain as well as your hands, requiring you 
 to figure out what to do and then pull of the precise motions to do it. It takes full advantage 
 of the Wii remote to make a control scheme that is completely intuitive and very responsive. It's 
 got plenty of length and re-playability to make it a good value. It graphics are simple but very 
 effective, and the physics of the mercury blob are both cool to watch and fun to use.
  
  The most impressive thing about MMR, though, is the artistic purity of it. Ignition took a very 
 simply concept and milked it for all it was worth, using creativity to expand on their basic idea 
 and make it something that's fun to play for many hours. I wish more developers would put this 
 kind of thought into their games.
  
  My only complaint is that some of the levels are simply obstacle courses and not really puzzles. 
 A puzzle game should always consist of more than simply getting from A to B without falling off 
 the edge. Those levels are the minority, though, and there are enough total levels that they can 
 mostly be overlooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoracleofgame
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  OK, the PSP launched and soon a game called Mercury came out. A year later Mercury Meltdown came 
 out. An inferior PS2 port was released later. Then out came Mercury meltdown Revolution. The title 
 just keeps getting longer. That is the history of Mercury. But I'm talking about the latest entry, 
 Revolution.
  
  For those who do not know how this game works, it is simple. You have a blob of mercury, which 
 you try to get through weird courses as fast as possible without losing any of it. It is a simple 
 premise taken to it's maximum level with the wiimote. You simply hold it horizontally with the 
 D-pad on the left and tilt to move your blob. you don't actually tilt the blob itself, just the 
 map it's in. Any other controls are to zoom the camera in and pan it around, or pause the game.
 
  
  The puzzles are simple and pretty easy at first, but the way to solve them is not linear whatsoever. 
 Most of the time you'll control one blob, and get through the level via paint shops. These make 
 your blob a different color. Some switches require you to be a certain color. But the paints get 
 their challenge by making you mix colors. To do this, you have to hit a sharp corner at high speed, 
 get each blob a certain color, and make them collide. Speaking of separate blobs, sometimes you'll 
 have to control 2 blobs from the start. This number increases over time, and you'll very likely 
 get frustrated.
  
  Some of this game's problems come through in party games. 
  1. These games are meant to be played by many people, but there's no multiplayer.
  2. Some of 
 the games are good, but most feel uninspired.
  3. The only thing that these games have to do with the real game is the fact that you control a 
 blob.
  
  In the end, MMR is an impressive game with some flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: air_wolf_cubed
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  Lets get right to it and split it up into categories
  
  Graphics:
  
  Nice cel shaded style. Everything runs smoothly. 480p is great looking.
  Widescreen support. 
 
  
  Some details could still be a little better though
  
  Sound:
  
  Nice sound effects. There's not really any other types of sound though
  
  Announcer is annoying
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  There's a ton of levels to explore so you'll find yourself coming back a lot. Wiimote tilting is 
 very fun and accourate. Theres a lot of extra content to unlock. Gives you a good challenge. Classic 
 controller support for those who don't feel like tilting.
  
  No multiplayer. Not enough party games. Can get waaaayyyyyy too hard. Although there's classic 
 controller, there's no gamecube controller support for those who already have gamecube controllers.
 
  .
  .
  .
  .
  Overall this game is pretty good and fun if you like tilting the wiimote around and it will last 
 you a pretty good amount of time. Buy or rent, this game is great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Originally released for the PSP in 2005, Mercury Meltdown was an innovative puzzler that just didn't 
 seem at home on Sony's portable console. It was as if something was missing. Well, fast forward 
 to 2007 and Ignition Entertainment releases a home console version of the game on the Nintendo 
 Wii, aptly titled Mercury Meltdown Revolution. After sitting down with the game, and using the 
 Wii-remote to play, I believe that the game has found what was missing on the PSP, the ability 
 to be played with a tilt sensitive controller. This new and improved home console version with 
 motion sensitive control is definitely worth the price of admission.
  
  
  Graphics
  
  I played my review version of Meltdown on a 42-inch Sharp Aquos LCD T. V. and it looked pretty good. 
 It plays in 480p but it is not 16x9 as there were some small black borders along the sides. There 
 is no doubt that Meltdown does not push the limits of the Wii hardware but regardless the colors 
 are bright and vibrant and they manage to make the each level jump off the screen. They visuals 
 manage to seem somewhat cartoonish but yet it they are not overly childish or silly looking. Each 
 level is very specific, and as you get into the later levels they start to have a lot of multiple 
 paths, elevations and lots of moving parts. The game maintains a smooth and solid framerate and 
 the individual globs of mercury move around with a gelatin like ooze. Overall the game's visuals 
 do a darn good job, and except for the lack of true 16x9 support, there is nothing disappointing 
 with them.
  
  
  Sound
  
  The audio in Meltdown is not bad as it manages to compliment the theme of the game. I found myself 
 so involved in the puzzle aspects of this game that I originally found that the music really didn't 
 make that much of difference, but as time went by I noticed that there were a few times that I 
 caught myself taping my foot to the musical interludes that came out of my TV's speakers. That 
 definitely meant I was enjoying the music as I didn't go and turn it down, or even off, as I have 
 in many of the puzzle games I played in the past. Be forewarned though, the music is not anything 
 that will make you go "wow", as it isn't that prevalent, it is just that it manages to mix with 
 the overall gameplay so well that it is a compliment to it. As for the rest of the sound effects, 
 they are somewhat simple but they manage to get the job done. From the sounds of the teleporters 
 to the sounds of some mercury falling, all is wrapped up into one neat package. Overall all the 
 audio works well in Meltdown, and like the graphics you won't be disappointed.
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  Meltdown makes no bones about it; it is simply a puzzle game that offers numerous 
 levels for one to get through. It does not try to add some sort of storyline as to why you are 
 taking on said challenges as there is nothing that you can do to explain the game's premise. In 
 terms of the gameplay style, Meltdown brings back memories of original games like Marble Madness, 
 and most recently Sega's Monkey Ball series. But unlike these two aforementioned games, Meltdown 
 has you guiding a glob of metallic liquid around the various levels presented rather then guiding 
 a ball/sphere. I was somewhat cautious when starting to play this game for a few reasons, the first 
 and foremost being that I have never considered myself a puzzle expert. However as I ventured through 
 the various levels presented I found myself wanting to keep on playing as the game hooked me from 
 the start.
  
  The rules of Meltdown are simple enough to allow anyone to understand the game from the get-go. 
 The main premise is that you need to get as much mercury as you can to the end of each level and 
 this mercury will start to fill a test tube. The fuller it gets, the quicker you will open other 
 labs and other levels with even more test tubes. You are awarded points for completing each level, 
 and the quicker and more accurate you are the more points you are awarded. Should you not finish 
 the level in the time allotted that is ok as you can still finish it without much of a penalty. 
 Of course you will need to guide your glob of mercury through each level as quickly as possible 
 to get maximum score. Where the accuracy falls into place is that you will want to try as hard 
 as possible to keep all your mercury together without allowing any of it to drip off the edge allowing 
 as much as possible to be placed into each test tube.
  
  It seems simple enough, but there are many different obstacles thrown at you in an effort to make 
 the challenge tougher. Some of the obstacles will solidify your mercury while others will make 
 it even liquidier. There are even creatures that will try to eat your mercury. Along with the said 
 obstacles, you also have moving platforms, different types of surfaces and even escalators. All 
 in all you will find each level offering its own challenges and you will have to hone not only 
 your thinking skills, but your controller skills as well.
  
  Developer Ignition Banbury has made sure that this game isn't a cakewalk and it seems that they 
 have put a lot of thought into each level of the game. The learning curve is quite constant and 
 gradual as the further into the game you get the harder and more involved each puzzle gets. And 
 although the game gets trickier the more you play, you never get that feeling that the difficulty 
 just ramped up out of the blue. Oh, and for those reading this review who think that Meltdown is 
 just about guiding a single glob of liquid metal to the finish line while avoiding obstacles, you'd 
 better think again. Many of the levels have you controlling more then one glob of mercury, and 
 in different colors to boot, to solve the various puzzles which allow you to get to the end of 
 each level. This is just yet another example of the ingenuity of Meltdown's design and gameplay.
 
  
  If there is any big advancement in Meltdown over past versions, it is the game's Wii-centric control 
 via the motion sensing abilities of the Wii-remote. This game just screams for tilting abilities 
 and the Wii's special controller makes it easy for such possibilities to occur. Being able to tilt 
 the board in the direction I needed my glob of mercury to go couldn't have been more intuitive. 
 The Wii-remote managed respond to even the slightest of movements and didn't feel overly or under 
 responsive. Any mistakes that I made were due to my own actions. Along with the tilting control, 
 there are some minor button assignments that are utilized for the camera. The d-pad is used to 
 rotate the camera around while the 1 and 2 buttons are used to zoom in and out. These camera functions 
 are somewhat important as it allows you varying views of the level you are on and can assist in 
 your effort to get from point A to point B. Bottom-line, Meltdown was really meant for the Wii-remote 
 and it was a true joy to play the game with it.
  
  In terms of the length of gameplay, Meltdown is anywhere from 9-12 hours long depending on your 
 gaming skill. There are a lot of levels to play too. There are a total of eight laboratories and 
 a total of 16 test tubes to fill. There are well over 100 levels to make your way through in the 
 game. For those that have played the PSP version, a lot of the same levels are on tap for the Wii 
 version, but there are some new Wii levels as well, so there are some new levels for veterans of 
 the original game to experience.
  
  To add a bit more gameplay to the Wii version of Meltdown there are five party games that you can 
 open up. If you collect enough bonus items in the main game you can unlock these party games for 
 you to enjoy by yourself or with a friend, offline of course. The five games are Rodeo, Paint, 
 Shove, Race and Metrix. In Rodeo you have to stay on the level for as long as you can while a fan 
 tries to blow you off. In Paint your glob of mercury leaves a colored trail behind you and you 
 need to use this trail to cover more area then your opponent. In Shove you need to 'shove' your 
 glob of mercury to the center of the target for points while avoiding various hazards. In Race 
 you race against another player on a race course. Finally, in Metrix you place 3 blobs adjacent 
 to each other and once you explode 3 or more you fill a mercury gauge, score some points and earn 
 a few extra seconds of time. Fill the gauge and you advance a level and when time runs out the 
 game is over. For me the highlight of these five games was Paint and Rodeo. But in terms what will 
 be your favorite, I can't answer that because it comes down to personal preference.
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  Mercury Meltdown Revolution is a great puzzle game for the Nintendo Wii. The 
 use of the Wii-remote is so natural it is a wonder that this game was not released any sooner. 
 And being that this game is a truly budget title (you can find it for around $20.00) you really 
 can't go wrong by buying it. Take my advice, if you even remotely like puzzle games go out and 
 buy this game the first chance you get, you won't be disappointed.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeEatBrain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I have a very weird taste in games. Things I think I'll love I end up hating. Things I think I'll 
 hate I end up loving. I went into Mercury Meltdown Revolution expecting nothing. What I got was 
 a game that I spent 4 hours playing the first time I put the disc in without even knowing it. 
 
  
  I have never gotten this much enjoyment out of a game that I paid so little for. Come to think 
 of it, I can't think of too many games I have gotten this much enjoyment out of period. 
  
  The graphics are nothing to write home about. It's cartoony and "last-gen-y" looking but really, 
 who cares. The game handles fantastically (something I was kind of doubting, but was pleasantly 
 wrong about) and it's just fun. 
  
  It's not something you'll be investing hundreds of hours in, but for $19.99 you'd have to be a 
 Communist Nazi baby eater not to enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: severndigital
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  This game was very hard to find. I ended up having to order it off the internet, none of the local 
 stores had this. I checked everywhere local video game mom & pops to best buy and everything in 
 between.
  
  I said to my friend "this game is ether really bad, or really really cool". I am so glad it was 
 the latter.
  
  this game is great. I love the function of the wiimote. I really think other game makers need to 
 take a good look at this one, and start to utilize the functions as much as this game does.
  
  I read this in another review "don't buy the Wii just to play this game, but it is a really 
 great game to add to your collection" I completely agree. This game is fun to play and a great 
 challenging puzzle game.
  
  I with there was some sort of multiplayer and/or co-op game play. But taking turns on each round 
 seems to work just as good.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidominance
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I was going to give this game an 8.5, but since this review is written when the game has been out 
 for a while, and which will make it even cheaper, which will increase its value, hence the 9.0. 
 Make no mistake, by the time this review was posted, the game by no means managed to age or get 
 dated. The mind blowing puzzles that are in this game will take a while to age.
  
  Unfortunately, I didn't finish the game because it was a rental, so I can't write an in-depth review. 
 But I will write my opinion from what I managed to play nonetheless. The game has A LOT of levels 
 in addition to mini games (want to see how mercury translates in an F-zero racing game? Get this) , 
 so value is no issue, so thats off, its doesn't have multiplayers, so thats a bummer. But what 
 else does it have ? Well, incredibly designed puzzles that will actually make you use your mind 
 a bit, add to that the need of good reflexes and a somewhat steady hands and you're in for a hair-pulling 
 (if such expression exists) exciting experience. It is definitely one of the Wii games that utilizes 
 the system well. It has good audio as well and solid looking style and graphics, the mercury looks 
 rad for a Wii game. So all in all, if you enjoyed kororinpa or monkey ball, or say you love puzzle 
 games, or you are just looking for something totally different and fresh (provided you have a slightly 
 above average patience) this game will entertain you. 
  
  By the time you read this review the game would be old enough to be even cheaper which makes my 
 recommendation even stronger. So go get it now, if you are a bit hesitant, rent it, but unlike 
 kororinpa, a rental won't be enough to finish this game, because as mentioned, its has many many 
 levels.
  
  I would also recommend reading some other in depth player's reviews for more information, just 
 stay away from trolls :)
  
  One more thing: Avoid this game if you have anger issues, just like this game is solid, it will 
 need solid nerves, because the difficulty will ramp up severely when you get to the later stages, 
 hence I didn't manage to finish it :P. Also, avoid this game if you are looking for a party game, 
 unless you don't mind swapping the wii remote which can work in some instances depends on your 
 style of playing with friends, but at any-rate, rent it first to make sure its not suitable for 
 you, because it can be too good to miss.
  
  
  PEACE^^
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabz_95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Well most of us have seen this game on the Ps2 And PSP
  If you have played either well this is the definitive version
  Now you might just think that 
 theres some extra modes and some new levels
  But the fact that the game is so suited to the wii remote it just improves on the game so much!
 
  
  At first the graphics would look rather basic. But if you look in detail and zoom into your blob 
 of the wii remote then you can see marks where the blob has rolled about and the shadows and lights 
 of the other items reflect of your blob of mercury which shows how detailed the graphics of the 
 game is.
  
  But its the gameplay that makes the game amazing. Well you hold the remote to it side horizontally 
 and the main control method is tilting forward backwards left and right. The other buttons are 
 used to zoom in and out etc. But that the fact the the wii remote controls are so sensitive is 
 the reason why it makes the game amazing. Even slight tilits forwards and backwards will move your 
 blob and that can be extremely useful when your just about to fall off the edge of your maze.
 
  
  There are also some great physics in the game as it says on the back of the box. Realistic Mercury 
 Physics . For example if you slice your mercury in half then the blob of mercury moves and cuts 
 in half accordingly to how it would move in real life.
  
  Know at first the puzzles in the game will not be too difficult (if you want you can even use a 
 tutorial for the beggining) . But once you get to around the 3rd stage then its start to get tricky. 
 There are basic puzzles like dying your blob of mercury the same colour of a gate so you can get 
 through. As you can guess the puzzles get much harder and can be very frustrating. Still you don't 
 have to do the maze in time to complete it but you will lose points immensely if you don't.
  
  Not only are there 160 levels in the game, but there are 6 really fun party games here that 
 add replay value and at times can be very fun. Although the racing one is a wipeout pure carbon 
 copy i still loved it and found it extremely fun. So as you can guess, 160 stages and 6 really 
 addictive and fun mini games will give the game a huge amount of replay value.
  
  There are some cool sounds throughout the game as there are some pretty nice music tracks but oddly 
 as your blobs of mercury fall there is a comical cartoony soft scream. There are some nice little 
 extras like unlocking different skins for your blob of mercury aswell, like a basketball one.
 
  
  Overall this is the wii's best puzzle game so far and is extremely addictive but can be difficult. 
 Recommended for hardcore gamers and for people that like puzzle games.
  
  Real Score : 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DayveH
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  I'm a long time fan of Marble Madness, so this game caught my eye right away. This game certainly 
 has similarities, but the properties of mercury allow for some interesting twists in game play. 
 The use of multiple colors of blobs (and having to combine colors) is genius, but it makes the 
 game a little more complicated than I had anticipated. I had originally thought that my 5 year 
 old daughter would like playing this game with me. I think she'll pick it up pretty quickly, but 
 it may be better for her in a year or two. Great game overall, though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davesens
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that you'll keep coming back to again and again. It starts off with some simple 
 puzzles moving a blob of mercury around on a flat surface using the Wii-mote to simulate the tilting 
 of the surface. Open gates, solidify, break apart, control multiple blobs, ... There are endless 
 possibilities. The puzzles get a lot tougher as you go along. You will amaze yourself what you 
 will eventually accomplish. It's a game that requires fine hand control. It gets a little bit frustrating 
 when you hit a level that you just can't get through. Skip over those and come back to them later. 
 You will likely have picked up clues later on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Packfan104L4
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Although this game most likely will not appeal to the 10 and under crowd, this 20 dollar game packs 
 plenty of entertainment into such a simple concept. Basically, your job is to guide a mercury blob 
 into a goal, without dropping all of your blob off the level. To do this you hold the Wiimote sideways 
 and tilt it in every direction to tilt the level, which in turn moves your blob. This is exectued 
 perfectly and I have yet to find one problem (except if your batteries dies in the middle of a 
 level of course) .
  
  The only two problems I have with the game:
  
  -The learning curve - After the first two 16 level labs which the game is broken up into, the levels 
 get extremely difficult, which will most likely turn off the most casual gamer. If you're into 
 extreme thinking puzzles and are willing to perservere through some mind-benders, then you should 
 love this game.
  
  -The camera angles - They make it extremely difficult when you have to split your blob into two 
 pieces to mix colors, but one coloring station is WAY off the visible screen. You have to zoom 
 WAY out in oder to see otherwise you obviously won't be able to see what you're doing. It takes 
 some getting used to, but eventually can be overcome, since this concept is not seen in the earlier 
 levels.
  
  Overall, if you're not a casual gamer and are willing to think a little bit (I know, what a concept 
 for a game :p ) , buy Mercury Meltdown Revolution. You can't go wrong with the amount of gameplay 
 it provides for only $19.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason_jalet
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  When this game came out I remember it cost 60 as all the other Wii games cost. When it was reduced 
 to 44 I decided to buy it but I still feel like I've been ripped off somewhat.
  
  Gameplay: very fun and quite addictive -you move the Wii remote up, down, right and left and the 
 mercury ball responds to your movements. This works very well though isn't very easy to master. 
 You can also play with the Classic controller but obviously it takes away from the idea but it's 
 still fun.
  
  Graphics: a little cartoonish -I would've rathered they'd made the graphics a little more realistic 
 instead of designing cartoonish graphics. However, they are nice and simple, and the physics work 
 very well!
  
  Sound: the music is kinda boring with VERY cheesy tunes, however this doesnt take away from the 
 fun at all. Not too bad, but could've been improved a great deal.
  
  Lenght: there are more than 150 levels and a dozen of mini-games to play, so you'll be playing 
 it for a good while. The lack of multiplayer is very unfortunate and doesnt make much sense, but 
 however there is a lot of fun to be had.
  
  Overall: wait until this game drops to 20 or so, then go for it. It's a fun little game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSungazer
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Smooth! This game is pretty fun... if you can find it right now!!! I've never had this much trouble 
 finding a simple game like this. It was supposed to come out last month, then this month in a bunch 
 of places, and still won't come out in other stores until apparently next month... weird. Anyway, 
 you're basically controlling a blob of mercury in numerous types of puzzles trying to make it to 
 each one's finish line. Trick is, there are so many obstacles, color combinations of the mercury 
 needed for different tasks, and all sorts of other gadgets and stage variations that you need to 
 complete these puzzles, it's hard not to get hooked. Its very fun and extremely addicting. Hours 
 just start to kinda fly by when you're playing it and the puzzles can get pretty hard. The mercury 
 has just the right amount of physics applied to it so that it looks and feels pretty real. The 
 contrast of this with the cartoony environments and wide variety of music tracks (everything from 
 techno to jazz) makes for a great experience. I really enjoy playing this game. Well, good luck 
 finding it at this point in time, and if anyone reading this does find a copy I suggest you totally 
 get it, because for 20 dollars, you can't go wrong. SWEET! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Mercury Meltdown Revolution is a maze type puzzle game for the nintendo wii.
  
  The players aim in thi sgame is to get from 1 end of a maze to another, which is surprisingly fun. 
 There are around 126 (16 stages in each lab and 8 labs) mazes in total each getting slightly harder. 
 Thee are also 5 mildly entertaining mini games. This game can be pretty fun but does get very repetative 
 so i would recommend playing it in smal doses i. e for 10 min when you are frustrated with resident 
 evil 4 or zelda. The controls on this game are pretty simple which makes the game easy to pick 
 up and play. All you have to do is hold the wiimote on its side and tilt it in the desired direction. 
 The wiimote directly controls the stage with teh tilts not the ball of mercury. The game is pretty 
 simple but can get frustrating in parts i. e . when you cant lose any mercury at all on an especially 
 trick map. The game looks ok for a wii game but there are no stunning visuals, i did enjoy the 
 bright colours though and i feel that may appeal to children who want to play this game.
  
  All in all this is a solid wii port of a playstation 2 game, visuals are ok and the control mapping 
 is very intuative and fun to use. I would recommend renting though as i do not think it is worth 
 its full retail price. If you see it on offer though get it because you will have allot of fun 
 with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filreed
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  Having played only 2 other games to completion on my Wii back in January (Zelda and NFS: Carbon 
 in case you were interested!!!) I was beginning to question my purchase of the system. I am looking 
 forward to Super Paper Mario, but living in the UK means I've still got a few months to wait for 
 that. I decided it was about time to play a Wii game on my Wii.
  I purchase Mercury Meltdown with the intention of getting my wife off my back about the purchase 
 of the Wii (or plastic paperweight as she calls it) and, as she sometimes shows a passing interest 
 in puzzle games though she might even play on it!
  
  The aim of each level is to get your blob of mercury to the finish. Doing so increases your meter 
 to unlock the next lab. There are 8 labs in total, each containing 16/17 levels.
  There are 3 parts to aim for on each level if you want to 'fully' complete the game. Getting 100% 
 mercury to the finish, collecting all bonus items, and finishing within the par time.
  These 3 things don't have to be completed in 1 go (thankfully!) and it can take a few attempts 
 to get them all done, but at no time does this feel like a chore. Completing all 3 task on each 
 level will fill the meter to unlock the next lab quicker.
  
  The game fits with the Wii remote perfectly. The sensitivity setting is just right. Any time I 
 loose any mercury I know it's a mistake I made rather than the game. At the start the game eases 
 you in, with the first couple of labs getting you used to the tilt and camera controls. Some of 
 the later levels can get vey taxing . I've often spent a good few minutes just previewing the level 
 before I get started.
  
  The graphics are crisp and clear and fit perfectly with this type of game, I actually think they're 
 pretty good. It might not compare to Motorstorm, but then it doesn't need to.
  
  The sound is very good, with suitable beeps and whooshes to fit in with what is going on on screen. 
 I wouldn't sit down and listen to the music, but I have found myself occasionally nodding to a 
 track.
  
  This game goes for &pound;39.99 in the shops, but with a bit of online searching I managed to find 
 it new for &pound;22.99 (and no, not from ebay) . I'm glad I managed to find it cheaper as I think 
 &pound;40 is a bit steep for this game.
  
  Overall I'm really glad I bought this game and have had (and continue to have) fun with it. I wouldn't 
 recommend you purchase a Wii just to play it, but as an addition to your collection its great. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
