-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Metal Slug Anthology
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/metalsluganthology/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 First console appearance of Metal Slug 6.
 midgame progress can be saved.
 series still offers some of the most frantic 2D action anywhere.
 terrific comical art style stands up despite technical deficiencies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 New load times affect pacing.
 motion controls are a novelty at best.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  8, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.4, 54 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 656 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SNK Playmore
Developer: Terminal Reality
Genre: Compilation
Date: Dec 14, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The breakneck action of SNK's playfully over-the-top military shooter series still holds up, despite 
 compromised motion controls and additional load times. 

  After years of scattered, piecemeal releases on various home consoles, SNK marks the 10th anniversary 
 of the original Metal Slug by rolling up all seven Metal Slug arcade games into a single package 
 with Metal Slug Anthology. It's a must-have for Metal Slug completists, if for nothing else, because 
 it marks the first time that the relatively new Metal Slug 6 has appeared anywhere other than Sammy's 
 Atomiswave arcade hardware. However, those same completists will likely be bothered by the unfortunate 
 peppering of short-but-noticeable in-game load times found in all of the games. The Wii controller 
 isn't ideal for Metal Slug, and though there are five different control schemes that make varying 
 use of the system's motion controls, they all feel gimmicky. None are as responsive as a standard 
 control setup, making the use of a GameCube controller all but necessary. Yet even with these burdens, 
 the series' comically violent style and relentless action still make for a singularly awesome experience: 
 one as effective for fresh-faced draftees as it is for vets of multiple Metal Slug missions.  

 
          Metal Slug is kind of like Contra with a sense of humor.     

  From a distance, the Metal Slug series doesn't look too different from the countless side-scrolling 
 shooters that were pervasive during the 16-bit era. You run to the right, shooting and tossing 
 grenades at swarms of enemies while dodging their bullets, picking up weapon upgrades, and rescuing 
 POWs, with the action regularly punctuated by screen-filling boss fights. As generic as that might 
 sound, Metal Slug has always separated itself from the pack with a goofy sense of humor, nicely 
 detailed 2D graphics, and the kind of manic, sometimes punishing gameplay that leaves your hands 
 aching. You'll also regularly happen upon the titular metal slugs -- high-powered armored vehicles 
 that come in a variety of forms. At their most basic, slugs look like superdeformed tanks, but 
 they can appear as helicopters, jets, submarines, mobile suits, camels, donkeys, and more.  

  The games in this collection are mostly arcade perfect, right down to the bouts of slowdown you 
 would have experienced in the arcade. The only thing that disrupts the mood are the extra loading 
 screens that make the pauses between sequences linger for a little longer than they did originally. 
 It is a pretty minor point, one that only series veterans will notice. But because that's basically 
 the audience that would buy Metal Slug Anthology, it's still unfortunate. An inherent issue with 
 bringing arcade games home is reconciling the fact that you don't need to drop quarters into the 
 game to keep playing when you run out of lives. Limited continues can be too punishing for some, 
 while unlimited continues can eliminate much of the challenge. Metal Slug Anthology doesn't address 
 the issue. Instead the game sidesteps it by letting you choose whether you want limited or unlimited 
 continues. You can save your progress at any point in any of the games, a luxury that any arcade 
 player would have killed for after having run out of quarters midway through a game. Metal Slug 
 Anthology also features an optional autofire setting that lets you simply hold the fire button 
 rather than constantly tap on it, which is a welcome addition for the aging (or simply lazy) Metal 
 Slug fan.  

  There's a good half-dozen different controller configurations to choose from, and considering the 
 simple joystick-and-three-button setup that Metal Slug requires, it's surprising that none of the 
 Wii-controller-based options work quite right. The so-called "arcade configuration" has you holding 
 the Wii remote vertically and tilting it as though it were a giant joystick, using the C and Z 
 buttons to jump and fire, and a flick of the nunchuk to toss a grenade. You can hold the Wii remote 
 sideways, hitting the 1 and 2 buttons to jump and shoot, but again, you have to shake the remote 
 to throw grenades. There's even an option that relegates all controls to the Nunchuk, effectively 
 allowing for one-handed play. Metal Slug is challenging enough without gimmicky controls, and what's 
 worse, you'll likely have to refer to the manual to figure out how any of them work. Thankfully, 
 Metal Slug Anthology can also be played with the GameCube controller, which proves to be closest 
 to arcade controls, though surprisingly, there's no support for the classic controller.  

  Though the settings and the enemies you fight have gotten more bizarre as the series has progressed, 
 the basic gameplay formula has remained consistent. However, the quality of the action hasn't always 
 been as consistent. Metal Slug 3 is arguably the most ambitious, with a final battle that begins 
 with a dj vu fight against General Morden in his helicopter and ends with you fighting a gigantic 
 alien mother brain in space. Metal Slug 4, on the other hand, wasn't actually developed by SNK 
 and almost feels like a Metal Slug bootleg. Metal Slug 5 was better and made the nearly inconsequential 
 change of allowing your character to do a running slide, which was only useful for getting through 
 low passages in a few specific areas. It was a change that disappeared in Metal Slug 6, though 
 Metal Slug 6 has brought more changes to the series than the previous five sequels combined.  

 
  Metal Slug 6 changes things up from the start when you're given the choice between an easy and 
 a hard mode. The hard mode offers a standard Metal Slug experience, while in the easy mode your 
 standard infinite-ammo pistol is replaced with an infinite-ammo version of the heavy machine gun. 
 The easy mode also cuts the game short, ending before you get to the game's final level. While 
 there have always been multiple characters to choose from in Metal Slug, they've always been functionally 
 identical. Not only does Metal Slug 6 make Ralf and Clark from King of Fighters into playable characters, 
 it gives each of the six total playable characters in the game some unique characteristics, such 
 as unique alternate attacks, more durable slugs, and more powerful weapons. Additionally, characters 
 can now carry two weapon power-ups at a time and can switch between them on the fly. The sum of 
 these changes doesn't really affect the overall feel of the game and seems a bit like change just 
 for the sake of it.  

          The game is still good fun, but the changes in Metal Slug 6 sometimes feel arbitrary.  
    

  On a technical level, the switch from SNK's own NeoGeo hardware to Sammy's Atomiswave hardware 
 is immediately apparent. The hard-pixel look that was indicative of NeoGeo games is gone, giving 
 the graphics a kind of soft, dull look. While it doesn't have the crisp feel of the previous games, 
 Metal Slug 6 will automatically zoom the camera out during specific encounters, a little trick 
 that allows for even bigger boss fights. Metal Slug 6 also sounds quite a bit different from its 
 predecessors, with the rescued POWs featuring a new voice sample and music that sounds much less 
 synthesized. Considering the inherent throwback nature of the series, these changes, while a technical 
 improvement, make Metal Slug 6 feel less authentic.  

  Metal Slug Anthology is ultimately a great value. Along with seven full arcade games -- each rife 
 with alternate paths, hidden areas, and some clever Easter eggs -- you get music and concept art 
 galleries. You also get a confounding Q&amp; A with developers of the series, where they discuss 
 topics ranging from the underlying design ethic of the series to their personal casting choices 
 for a nonexistent live-action Metal Slug movie. While the traditional 2D action on offer in Metal 
 Slug Anthology might not seem like the best use of the forward-thinking Wii hardware, that doesn't 
 keep it from being a good deal of fun.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (42 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: stebbinsd
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Metal Slug is a classic. It first got its start in the arcades; the goal was similar to Contra: 
 Blast your way through a swarm of oncoming enemies and eventually kill the boss to finish the level.
 
  
  However, this game has a MAJOR flaw that Contra didn't: Contra gives you a limited number of lives; 
 once you run out of lives, you have to start all over.
  
  Metal Slug, however, does give you a finite amount of lives, but this limit means nothing. At the 
 old arcade, you had to put in more quarters if you ran out of lives; a ten-second countdown would 
 begin once you ran out, so you had to make up your mind about whether or not to spend the extra 
 coin quick.
  
  Metal Slug Anthology, however, doesn't require the extra coin, but nor does it make you start all 
 over. If you run out of lives mid-battle, just press the + button and you're right back in the 
 thick of things, with three "lives" to boot. By exploiting this, I was able to pass through all 
 of the Metal Slug games entirely in less than three hours.
  
  So, this game gets a 2.5 for the same reason that Tetris Worlds on the GBA got a 2.1 from Gamespot: 
 It breaks a should-be classic by making it way too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmario123
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Since 1996, the Metal Slug arcade series has been famous because of its fun, addictive, frustrating 
 gameplay. In all of the games, the story has been to stop terrorists, aliens, zombies, and even 
 the military. Metal slug contains: Metal Slug, Metal Slug 2, Metal Slug X, Metal Slug 3, Metal 
 Slug 4, Metal Slug 5, and Metal Slug 6. All of these titles have been ported over perfectly, so 
 nothing will bring down the fun factor. However, there is a bad thing that comes with this great 
 game. Confusing controls for the Wiimote+Nunchuk and the Nunchuk. Those 2 control schemes make 
 the game less enjoyable. But the Wiimote and the Gamecube controller's controls work perfectly. 
 For instance: to throw bombson the Wimote, you shake the Wiimote up and down. In all, this is a 
 game that will fit perfectly in anybody's Wii game collection. This game shouldn't be overlooked. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 18, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  *** METAL SLUG ANTHOLOGY ***
  
  THE GOOD 
  -You can play 7 Metal Slug games
  -Good graphics
  -Great sound effects
  -Good controls
  -Multiplayer option
  -Multiple control 
 schemes
  
  THE BAD
  -Not too much replay value
  -Angled shooting is frustrating
  -Boss battles are way too difficult
  
  OVERVIEW
  Metal Slug Anthology takes all the great 
 Metal Slug games from the arcade and puts them into one compilation game. In this compilation you'll 
 get to play Metal Slug, Metal Slug 2, Metal Slug X, Metal Slug 3, Metal Slug 4, Metal Slug 5, and 
 Metal Slug 6. The story is pretty much the same for each game. You have to stop an army (led by 
 General Morden in the first few games) , aliens, or a combination of both from taking over the world. 
 I remember playing the Metal Slug games in the arcade and enjoyed them but years later on the Nintendo 
 Wii I found myself not liking the games as much as I did in the arcade.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  All the Metal Slug games in the anthology have the same setup as far as the gameplay goes. In the 
 beginning you select your character. All the characters are the same except for the later Metal 
 Slugs (5 and 6) where they added different attributes per character. One great feature is that 
 you can play with a friend. Once you select your character you get a little bit of story and then 
 you start. Each Metal Slug game is a side scrolling shooter. As you progress through the various 
 stages you'll fight soldiers, vehicles, aliens and other enemies until you reach the end where 
 a boss fight awaits. As you kill enemies you'll have a chance to pick up better weapons (like laser 
 guns, machine guns, and missile launchers) , upgrades, and use vehicles (like the mini-tank) . Now, 
 you get to keep your weapons and upgrades until you get hit once. Then you will respawn with the 
 default weapon again. This makes it really frustrating when you fight the bosses of each stage 
 because they can be unfairly difficult. 
  
  The controls for this compilation are very good except for a few things. You can move, jump, shoot 
 your primary weapon, use your knife and throw grenades. You have the option to angle your gun to 
 shoot in all directions but this is difficult to perform for some reason. Also, some of the motion 
 controls don't respond correctly sometimes. Metal Slug Anthology offers a few different control 
 schemes to fit everyone's needs. The different control schemes are Wii remote and Nunchuk, Tilt 
 Wii remote (hold up like a joystick) , Wii remote sideways, Nunchuk only, and GameCube controller. 
 For me, the Wii remote and Nunchuk worked the best but you have options so I suggest finding one 
 that works for you.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Like the arcade games, the visuals are very good. The level design is decent too.
  
  SOUND
 
  The sound effects are excellent for this game. From the gun fire to the explosions to the screams 
 of terror, from the enemy, you'll really enjoy the audio for Anthology.
  
  CONCLUSION
  I would definitely recommend renting this game first. It is fun playing through all the Metal Slug 
 games but they can get repetitive really quick and because of this the replay value is low. Plus, 
 I was able to play through all 7 games in a matter of a couple hours. So, unless you are a die-hard 
 fan of the Metal Slug series I would only recommend a rent for this compilation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This is the most complete package of metal slug games ever made. If you have never played metal 
 slug, then nows the time, because you can experience them in order and see how metal slug has evolved 
 over the years. The package includes metal slug, metal slug 2, metal slug X, metal slug 3, metal 
 slug 4, metal slug 5, and metal slug 6!!
  Metal slug is the original version and first version of metal slug. Metal slug 2 is pretty much 
 metal slug but with all new levels and enemys, and the option to choose your charecter. Metal slug 
 X is a re-mix of metal slug 2, with a few additions. Metal slug 3 is the first metal slug with 
 a slightly noticable visual improvement. Metal slug 4 is also improved visualy and new locations 
 and enemys. Metal slug 5 is probably the best looking metal slug game, and it adds the ability 
 to slide on the ground (which I liked) .
  Metal slug 6 makes the most changes, but a few I with they never made. First off they made the 
 visuals less bright, making it look kinda dull. And secondly you can't hold the fire button to 
 shoot, you have to keep tapping the button for each bullet!!! and a few parts you will notice the 
 game will go silent. But there were some good aditions. Like when a big boss comes on the screen, 
 the screen scales back making you look smaller and the boss look gigantic! And you can store weapons 
 and switch between them on the fly. And lastly there are some new charecters and each charecter 
 has different atributes. All in all if you like metal slug, then BUY THIS GAME!!
  
  Good: 7 awsome games to play.
  enemys and locations have lots of charecter.
  Very fun and addictive.
 
  
  Bad: Almost all of the controls are bad. (no classic control option)
  But gameqube and nunchuck+wiimote controls options work good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Midnightmare
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  First of all: I've always loved the Metal Slug series more than any other arcade game series and 
 I've probably played through every single part for million times (okay, except Metal Slug 6) and 
 with every playthrough I loved them more. And I still do. So when I heard that the complete Metal 
 Slug Anthology is going to be released for Nintendo's Wii I nearly freaked out and couldn't await 
 holding it in my hands. I was very excited about playing it with the Wiimote though i would have 
 preferred a classical control scheme, but it was obvious that there wouldn't be only one control 
 system to choose from. Actually I didn't even expect very much, simply a collection of all Metal 
 Slug games to comfortably play it on my TV and it didn't need much to satisfy me. But in the end 
 I am rather disappointed by this port.
  
  To cut it short: You all know the Metal Slug series and there's not much to say about it. Not because 
 it is THAT simple but because everyone knows about the essential elements of this game: It's an 
 arcade side-scrolling shoot'em'up to the core. You run through levels as a comic hero and shoot 
 down every enemy that comes in your way. Sounds simple? Yeah, but look at those overwhelming 2D-sprite-arts, 
 look at the details and the variety! There are no words to describe the charm of Metal Slug, you 
 have to play it. And the best way is to look for an original Neo-Geo arcade and throw in a few 
 bucks just for kicks. Definitely playing it on a console can't be that funny. And this is one problem 
 of the Metal Slug Anthology for Wii, the control schemes have been ported very well and there are 
 plenty of options to control this game but it simply doesn't have the charm of such a big arcade 
 machine.
  
  But in addition to that there's a big problem: performance, the Wii port is too slow. The framerate 
 of the Wii port is way below the original framerate which makes it playable for someone who is 
 new to the series but rather annoying and unfamiliar to someone who has been playing this game 
 for years. Maybe it's nice to put every single Metal Slug game (actually seven) on one disc and 
 even add a few achievements like galleries and music (hell yeah!) to it but... You know, it doesn't 
 feel like the original, mainly due to the bad performance. If they had improved that, i would have 
 given one and a half point more, but after all regarding Metal Slug it all comes down to gameplay. 
 Sorry, but for a die-hard fan of Metal Slug this is not worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike0193
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  PLUS ! it has a special Metal Slug just for the Wii ! this new never before released Metal Slug 
 for Wii has better looking 2D graphics and still has the awesome action. If you like arcade games 
 and shooters, this is an awesome one for your WIi collection! I surely enjoy playing 2 player co 
 op with friends and family. Better yet, although you always may die, it's never game over. Which 
 is great since it's impossible to never get killed once. The classic action in this game is awesome, 
 fast, and fun. You have to concentrate so that you could dodge the bullets! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn_Watson
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  The Metal Slug arcade machines are notorious for being unbelievably hard. It's not uncommon to 
 find yourself feeding well over $10 into a machine just to finish the game. Multiply that by 7 
 and you might come close to even $100 if you are playing with a partner.
  
  Instead, invest your dough in the Metal Slug Anthology. The games are perfect arcade emulations 
 and you get infinite continues. They are still very, very hard and you'll never finish a single 
 level with all of your stats intact, but it's a fun ride nonetheless. Some of the games can be 
 a bit samey and you'll finish them all in about an hour. But for chaotic, button-bashing mayhem 
 with loads of explosions and firepower, you can't go wrong with Metal Slug.
  
  Graphics A
  Sound B
  Gameplay B
  Lasting Appeal B- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SegaFan_Ssk
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  It's great to know that even with this new generation of consoles, that there is still plenty of 
 games and services that are available to satisfy the retro gamer in all of us. With the introduction 
 of Xbox Live Arcade and the Virtual Console over the last year, and with game discs containing 
 a large collection of classic titles becoming more mainstream; the greatest games from years past 
 have returned to the spotlight, some decades after their initial release. Even though it's less 
 than a year old, Metal Slug Anthology is easily one of the best collections of classic games available 
 to date. It's simple interface makes it the kind of game that anyone can pick up and play with 
 little exposure, but challenging enough to give even veterans of the arcade a tough time.
  
  For those who have never played a Metal Slug game, it's essentially a run and gun sidescroller 
 (much like Contra) ; you run through levels shooting anything-or anyone-in the way. The games use 
 three buttons for the most part; one for shooting your main weapon, one to jump, and one more to 
 throw grenades. You also have to rescue prisoners throughout the game, who will reward with power-ups 
 and bonus points, and the occasional grateful prisoner will lend you a hand with enemies by firing 
 something similar to a Hadouken (likely a nod to SNK's long line of 2D fighters) . There are also 
 vehicles available for the player to hop in and wreak more havoc; they can range from the iconic 
 Metal Slug (a very unique tank) to planes to subs and even battle mechs in the later games. The 
 main story of the game revolves around the adventures of the Regular Army about 20 years into the 
 future; usually it involves taking down a rebel force led by the evil General Morden, but the rebels 
 also team up with aliens and savage tropical tribes in later iterations.
  
  The collection itself contains Metal Slugs 1 through 6, and Metal Slug X (basically Metal Slug 
 2 with some new enemies, bosses, and a couple remade levels) , as well as unlockable art samples 
 and music to give you an in-depth look into the various themes of the series. Aside from many fans 
 seeing Metal Slug 4 as a questionable title (feels like a bootleg, they say) ; all the games in 
 this collection are AAA material. The emulation used for the collection is excellent; each title 
 is a perfect conversion of the original arcade title (right down to some slowdown during some really 
 intense moments) . The load times between levels and scene changes have been lengthened slighty 
 from the originals, but unless you're an arcade purist then you'll hardly notice them as they're 
 still quite brief. A major complaint I have with the Wii version is the addition of motion controls; 
 there are five control styles to play with, but only one of them can actually be deemed as practial 
 (use the Wii-mote like you would for a NES game on the VC) . Even then you have to shake the Wii-mote 
 to throw bombs, which I really don't like because I can't really throw them fast enough as I could 
 with pressing a button. The motion controls are little more than a gimmick and are completely pointless 
 for players that actually want to beat the game, and the fact that the Classic Controller isn't 
 compatible necessitates the need for a Gamecube Controller; which is a shame because I would've 
 loved to try this with the upcoming Wii Arcade Stick (a variation on the Classic Controller) for 
 the authentic experience.
  
  The graphics style is a mix of serious and humourous tones, all done in a really nice 32-bit engine 
 which gives the games an anime art feel. They have aged quite well, and even the original Metal 
 Slug-a 1996 game-can hold up to other modern 2D games that are present in Xbox Live Arcade, or 
 other platforms. This is a prime example of a series proving that 2D games can keep up with the 
 modern age of graphical power. The audio is comprised of a lot of hard rock and sci-fi BGM's and 
 sound effects, and I find that they are really well done. Some of the tracks are a bit... odd, but 
 surprisingly catchy anyway, and in a way they add to the satirical nature of Metal Slug. The voiceovers 
 are quite clear and sound great; the prisoners saying Thank You! , and rebel soldiers screaming 
 in horror when they realize you've come back to the life add more to the total experience.
  
  In the long run, it is a shame that you will require Gamecube controllers to get the best experience 
 out of this collection, but if you were a Gamecube owner before the Wii then the $50 price tag 
 is well worth it. Really, if they hadn't tried so hard to implement motion controls and just add 
 Classic Controller support then this would be a perfect 10. The games included are the cream of 
 the arcade crop, and if you're an arcade junkie then you'd be crazy NOT to buy any of the versions 
 of this game. Metal Slug Anthology will give you endless hours of entertainment by yourself or 
 if you have a friend to recruit (co-op play is always better) in the fight against General Morden; 
 even when it tells you MISSION ALL OVER! , it has only just begun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Review: Metal Slug Anthology (Wii)
  
  Most Classic games can be had by downloading them off of the Virtual Console on Nintendo's Wii. 
 But way back at launch SNK hadn't declared they were going to release their library on the Virtual 
 Console so they released this collection on the Wii at launch. But is it worth the time of Wii 
 Owners, especially knowing that this collection is eventually going to be released on the Virtual 
 console now
  
  Story:
  You are solder in the middle of a war against an enemy nation, take the fight to them either alone 
 or 4 buddies in seven of the highest octane shoot em ups games ever made. But is there more to 
 your enemy's army than it appears?
  
  Graphics:
  Graphically the game looks as good as one would expect it too, a beautifully detailed 2d side scrolling 
 shooter perfectly emulating it's arcade counterparts with nary a slow down in sight (which was 
 a major occurrence in Metal Slug X on the Playstation and a slight occurrence while playing Metal 
 Slug 4 and 5 on the Xbox) , and while the graphics are starting to show its age in a couple of the 
 games, everything is still looks great and feels right at home for the series. That said the game 
 plays so fast and frantic that you really don't get too much time to sit and enjoy the scenery 
 or its beautiful backgrounds.
  
  Music &amp; Sound:
  The music and sound effects from the game are good and enjoyable and are a perfect replica of the 
 arcade versions of the game. but as with the game's frantic pacing, all of it usually gets drown 
 out by the sound of gunfire, from either yourself or your enemies. Fortunately you can unlock the 
 music to enjoy it without the gunfire.
  
  Control &amp; Game play:
  While the Graphics and sound are perfect replicas of their Arcade / Console originals like in most 
 game series compilations, where most series compilations fall short is in control, and I am happy 
 to report that that is not the case here. And what is more you can choose from 1 of 3 different 
 playing styles, controller style on the Wiimote, Wiimote with motions or Wiimote with nun chuck. 
 Each handles well but to be honest I found my self playing the game with the wiimote in controller 
 style because it was the most comfortable for this classic gamer to adjust to, but I found each 
 mode to play well while being responsive and offered a different approach to classic side scrolling 
 Shoot em up if there was a problem at all with any of the control methods it was when things were 
 getting hairy on screen while playing in the wiimote and nun chuck mode, but even then it was something 
 that is only slight and barely noticeable. Now like I said earlier the game play is fast and frantic 
 and is fully enjoyable especially with pals.
  
  Design &amp; Fun Factor:
  While everything else was an well done package including the control scheme (all 3 of them) , something 
 I found greatly disturbing was that there wasn't much in the way of unlockable content when it 
 came to the game. A cut scene, the Gameboy Advance Metal Slug that was released a few years ago, 
 you know something else other than soundtrack and production screens and art. The major attraction 
 for vets of the Metal Slug series is that Metal Slug 6 is included in this game for the first time 
 here in the USA.
  
  Well folks every game in this compilation is coming to the virtual eventually and considering that 
 each game will be at least the cost of $9 or $10, and this compilation is only $40 to start, Metal 
 Slug Anthology is a steal, and it offers different ways to play the game which probably can not 
 be said about the Virtual console Versions. Fans of the series, and classic gamers this is a must 
 have, for people looking for something other than mini games to play with your friends this too 
 is for you. Everyone else will want to rent since you can cruse through the game in a weekend but 
 you will love every minute of it.
  
  Graphics
  7/10
  
  Game play
  8/10
  
  Sound
  7/10
  
  Fun factor
  10/10
  
  Tilt
  8/10
  
  Average score
  8.0
  
 
  Metal Slug Anthology:
  
  Pros:
  Great control
  Frantic and fun game play
  Only $40
  First release for Metal Slug 6 here in the USA
  
  Cons:
  Not a lot of unlockables
 
  Wiimote and nun chuck controls can feel bogged down in big fire fights
  A graphical touch up on a couple of the games would have been nice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sa_mccormick
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, I have bought a number of Metal Slug titles on a number of different platforms; 
 theyre great fun and full of character in small doses. They definitely have many brilliant set 
 pieces and always manage to put a smile on your face.
  
  My problem with the series is that there is no reason to try and stay alive (and dying is extremely 
 easy!) , as you get unlimited continues, so finishing the game is effortless. Also, as the score 
 reset every time you continue, there isnt that pull making you want to try again to get a better 
 score or to get further.
  
  The controls arent brilliant in this release, as there isnt enough buttons on the wii remote 
 (without the nunchuk) to cover all of the necessary moves: you end up shaking the wii remote to 
 throw grenades, which doesnt feel natural and it is difficult to move using the D-pad whilst shaking. 
 This title was made for the Classic Controller; its a real shame it's not compatible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyauau
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 8:00 am PT
Review:  Metal Slug Anthology is one of the rare games that the arcade style games comes out right in pretty 
 much every way since its such a military fun game.
  
  The gameplay is bizarre but fun. The goal in all Metal Slug games is to destroy anything and everything 
 around you. In later games they sometimes force to become allies in order to take on a more deadly 
 boss at the end of each game. If the Wii controls are too hard to grasp, then the Gamecube controls 
 are at your disposal.
  
  The graphics is particularly good especially in interlace/progressive scanning TV. The bad thing 
 is the loading time but that's pretty much it.
  
  The sound is better but all over the place. It's thankful that you can adjust the audio so you 
 can have either the sound effects or music or both. It would've been better in Dolby Pro Logic 
 2 but that's just me.
  
  The value is good but annoyingly frustrated if you limit the continues to unlock the hidden extras.
 
  
  This game should be enjoyable for people who wants to move away from such serious action in the 
 army. From the quote of Seinfeld in "The English Patient" Elaine: Quit telling your stupid story 
 about the stupid desert and die already. Die! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RapMatster
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  I thought that Metal Slug Anthology was a very fun and great game to play when i first tried it. 
 But as a began to play it more, aobut up to Metal Slug 3 it got really boring. The reason of this 
 is because every Metal Slug they made is exactly the same. Just the maps and enemies may be different 
 but nothing else is. So if u were to buy this i would start from last to first because the newer 
 the better. The Ups Were:
  ===========================================================
  1. The Graphics are good. 2. The combat is fun. 3. The game is overall fun.
  
  The Downs Were:
 
  ===========================================================
  1. Gets boring of doing the same thing in every level. 2. You Die like 10 seconds. Another real 
 down to this game was the dieing. This game could be extremely hard if you didnt have unlimited 
 lives because its so hard to dodge all the bullets, so it causes u to die every few seconds. Just 
 think if u were playing this in an arcade, it would be impossible. I would still recomend this 
 game, as long as you dont get bored fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PresidentEvil-
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I rented this game recently. I have to say, this is a great game. Not because it 
 has graphics, not because of the sound, but because it is the definition of a fun arcade game. 
 Now, some may argue that Contra is better than Metal Slug, and that may be true for many, but in 
 my opinion, Metal Slug is lightly funner than Contra. Read on to find out why.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The game has great gameplay. Anyone that picks this game up will know how to play 
 it. This is one reason why this game is so fun, it is easy to learn and play. All you do is shoot, 
 shoot up, jump, and throw bombs. Simple, yet fun.
  
  Now with the Wii, it is different. Basically, you will have good control. You can have classic 
 arcade, tilt the Wii remote, nunchuck only, using the GCN controller, and using the Wii remote 
 regularly. This is a big addition to the game. But, there is a problem. Nothing makes this game 
 a must-buy for the Wii. Using the Nunchuck is hard and to me, unplayable, using the Wii is even 
 harder and confusing. I use regular because that is the only thing that will make me use what the 
 Wii can do. Which for this game, not much.
  
  I give the gameplay a 7.0, because Metal Slug has fun arcade gameplay, but it does nothing for 
 the Wii version.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Of course, the graphics in this day are not good, but they simply don't have to. These games are 
 old, and looked great back then. I don't have a problem with the graphics, and I like them. Nice 
 special effects, to. Not much to say about the graphics. They are the same with all 7 games.
  
  I give the graphics a 7.0 also. It has old graphics, which may turn a few off, but overall 
 good graphics for a game as old as this.
  
  Sound:
  
  Great arcade like music. Like many arcade titles, no voice acting, which is fine because there 
 is basically no talking in the game. The only problem, which is not really a problem, is that the 
 sound overall doesn't stick out, with will not give it a high rating as it could have been. Overall, 
 decent sound.
  
  I give the sound a 6.0, because it doesn't do much to wow the player.
  
  Value:
  
  I got to tell you, this is one of the best rents of my life. Why? Because you 
 can easily beat this in one playthrough. It takes about 1 hours, give or take, to beat each of 
 the 7 games available. The gameplay options definitely boost, but the only people really to try 
 that are the people who bought the game. Also, the multiplayer. Two words: very fun. You can always 
 have great fun playing with a friend. This is the best way a person will play this game a long 
 time, and probably the only way.
  
  I give the value an 8.0, because it is a 7-8 hour game, it has different control options, and the 
 great multiplayer.
  
  Tilt:
  
  There is not much to do in the game. There are 7 games all together, which are given to you without 
 unlocking them, but there is also a gallery section and many more unlockables. You unlock these 
 by getting tokens, 4, each time you beat a game. But, not much tilt to have here.
  
  I give the tilt a 7.0, because of the many unlockables.
  
  Overall, this game should be a rent 
 and nothing else. Metal Slug fans should definitely buy this game, but no one else. Multiplayer 
 is awesome, and overall the game is just good. To me, a game better than Contra overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srbbnd
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  The question your asking yourself is should I waste $40 dollars on the Metal Slug Anthology. The 
 answer of course is yes. If you are thinking about getting the Metal Slug Anthology then you probably 
 grew up in the arcade wasting quarter after quarter on the old weathered down SNK game console 
 with games like Samurai Shodown.
  
  The controls are OKAY. This is the largest problem with the Wii version. Throwing grenades is a 
 pain. The biggest problem I encountered was trying to jump and throw grenades. Although flicking 
 the controller to throw a grenade is a good idea it ruins a lot of the action.
  
  The second problem is load times... I expected Metal Slug to run extremely fast on the Wii, but 
 I was wrong. Load times are quite annoying every time you change sections in Metal Slug.
  
  With those being the only problems Metal Slug is a fun experience for hack and slash action with 
 friends. However, if you did not grow up playing Metal Slug you probably will be disappointed. 
 This anthology is for the true fans... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillingRemmie
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  Aaaah Metal Slug. I always wanted the metal slugs but never bought em and now they came in ONE 
 package on the WII :D This is so awesome. Its giving an 100% classic/old school feeling. This is 
 so far one of the best games on the Wii. The controls are the best if you use the Game Cube controller 
 or the Wii Remote sideways controls. You'll only use the motion-control option if you want too 
 suicide. The difficulty is pretty hard and not for p*ssys. Otherwise it'll be very frustrating 
 and annoying. The action feels so great! The blood guts over the screen and you see the enemy really 
 die :P (joke)
  Lots of variations in the  and levels. MUST HAVE IF YOU ALWAYS 
 LIKED CLASSIC OLD-SCHOOLGAMES :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Metal Slug Anthology was a really fun game to play that was made up of seven different games from 
 the series. I loved the 2-D shooter style of gameplay and it came off great, especially with 2 
 players. The missions were fun and sometimes challenging. With all kinds of different weapons and 
 vehicles to use, each mission has it's own fun and can sometimes be very rewarding to play. I beleive 
 it would have been better if there were more missions within each game because each of them only 
 had 5-6 missions and it didn't take very long to beat them. I thought the contorls were great and 
 it gave you plenty of choices on how you want to control including an old-school joystick style 
 in which you hold the remote up-right and use it like a joystick. Over-all I would recommend this 
 game to anyone who is a fan of 2-d games and wants to have some fun playing them with a friend. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 19, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  Metal Slug Anthology is a compilation of 7 previous metal slug games, one of which is actually 
 available for the first time (Metal Slug 6) . The gameplay is essentially the classic side-scrolling 
 formula mixed with what makes a Metal Slug game what it is. There is humour, a multiplicity of 
 weapons, endless barages of enemies and certainly lots of blood. One thing that sets the Wii version 
 of this game apart from others is the amount of possible control schemes, totalling at 6 or 7. 
 Some of them really offer new ways to play, while others are serve as gimicks that can only be 
 amusing for a short amount of time. Along with your basic gun you can gain many different upgrades 
 and even throw grenades. The graphics, while they are simplistic and completely made of sprites, 
 it was intentional and still manages to add to the humour element in some cases. The game is also 
 very difficult. It is easy to get the hang of but even then the enemies and bosses can be too much. 
 Luckily in this compilation if you are not up for the challenge, the option of having unlimited 
 continues is offered. If you are looking for something different than all of the other Wii titles 
 thus far, and dont mind a good old-school shooter, than Metal Slug Anthology is the perfect choice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoffmabo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 20, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that you play when you feel you have nothing better to do with your day. It isn't 
 a bad game, but it isn't a good one either. I like playing it because of the old school feel, and 
 my local pizza joint used to have this arcade game (which I would play all the time) . If you're 
 looking for a good old schoool 2-D shooting game, then go ahead and pick this up. If you woudln't 
 think it'd be any fun for you, then sure don't go out and buy it. But if you're into the old school 
 arcade style games, then pick this one up. I've always like Metal Slug, never really got the story, 
 but I've always liked them. Can't say why, maybe it was the prisoners, they were always really 
 cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxCOM
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 26, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Okay Metal slug Anthogly (MSA for Short) Brings all of the 6 arcade metal slug games to the wii. 
 the gameplay is a over the top shooter and the main idea is too shoot almost anything in sight 
 there are several differnt weapons like the basic pistol a machine gun a shot gun a flame thrower 
 a grenade luancher, ETC. It uses the same graphics and sound engine as it did in the early 90's 
 but still we have fun wit it. the series has improvements game to game and you can keep your high 
 score in each game. And you earn score by shooting a person which is 100 points each. And then 
 Collecting stuff which vary from 10 points to one thats 50,000 points. Each game is about 45 Minutes- 
 1 hour. So when you replay them it ends about being about 10 to 12 hours. Any way this is also 
 the first Home console in the USA apperaince of Metal Slug 6 and as you might suspect this game 
 is old school and you will die alot mainly cause it's one shot you are automaticly dead. espically 
 during Bosses who you basicly just hammer until there dead which can take minutes after minutes. 
 And most of them use a lock on attack and have differnt stages like it will start shooting a locked 
 on slow attack. And then they will make you dodge some Machine gun fire then they will send beams 
 on the ground and air. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superzone
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Every gamer who's a fan of action shooters knows that the Metal Slug games are some of the best. 
 The weapons, over-the-top blood and guts, and humorous moments made the Metal Slug series a benchmark 
 in arcade history. Some of the games have been made available for the Xbox and the PS2. Now you 
 can get SEVEN games in one package for you Wii for just 40 bones. Talk about a good deal!
  
  You get seven games: Metal Slug 1, 2, X, 3 ,4 ,5, and 6. The gameplay is top notch. Shoot soldiers, 
 aliens, tanks, planes, giant warships... you know the drill. It all works great. You can have a 
 buddy join you in co-op play, too. There are also several different ways to control. A couple of 
 them work great, but the other ones are kind of lame.
  
  The graphics and sound quality is great. The hand drawn characters and backgrounds look awesome. 
 Metal Slug has always been one of the best looking arcade games around. The music is cool, too. 
 Each level gets a tune that suits the environment and situation perfectly.
  
  The extras packaged in with the game are decent, but there aren't enough of them. You get some 
 cool art galleries, music, and an interview (text interview, not a video interview) . I wish there 
 would have been more in the extras department, but you'll have to deal with what they give you.
 
  
  Overall, Metal Slug Anthology is a must have for action fans. $40 will get you seven awesome games, 
 some decent extras, and one hell of a shooting experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Note: This is not a review of each individual game in MS: A, but instead a review of the package 
 as a whole.
  
  Good: really all the MS games rock, co-op play, difficulty levels
  Bad: frequent load times, games are all short, weak presentation, strange control schemes
  
 
  Metal Slug Anthology is a compilation of seven games including: Metal Slug, Metal Slug 2, Metal 
 Slug X, Metal Slug 3, Metal Slug 4, Metal Slug 5, and Metal Slug 6. If you want to know what these 
 games are like, think games like Contra or Gunstar Heroes. Metal Slug is a sidescrolling arcade 
 shooter that is really frantic and fast paced. SNK has brought a bunch of Metal Slug games to Wii 
 with new controls and some unlockables as well.
  
  I'll start with the control options available for Metal Slug Anthology. There are six different 
 control schemes, and all are available for all the Metal Slug games on the disc. The main control 
 scheme is a basic hold your Wiimote like a NES controller style in which you use the D-Pad for 
 movement, 1 button to fire, 2 button to jump, A button for changing weapons, B trigger for Alt. 
 Attack, and you flick the Wiimote to toss a grenade. The second control style in which you hold 
 your Wiimote like a NES controller has you tilting the controller left/right to move, A for Alt. 
 Attack, 1 for grenade, 2 for fire, right on D-Pad to change weapon and up on D-pad to jump.
  
  The next control style is simply using the Gamecube controller. Control stick moves your character, 
 A button makes you jump, B button is to shoot, X button is to throw grenades, Y button is MS attack 
 (MS 4,5,6 only) , Z button is to pause, and A+B is MS attack or MS 1,2, X,3 only. Metal Slug 6 has 
 slightly different GCN controls.
  
  The last three control schemes all use the remote and the Nunchuck. One of them is extremely strange 
 in which you hold your Wiimote from the top and use it like a arcade stick. It feels extremely 
 awkward and most players would much rather use one of the more simpler control types. The next 
 control type has most actions done with the Nunchuck except for changing your weapon and your alternate 
 attack which are done with the remote. And finally, the last control scheme uses the Nunchuck for 
 movement and alternate attacks, and changing your weapon and the remote is used for jumping, shooting, 
 and throwing grenades.
  
  Those were the six control schemes and hopefully you got a good idea on what they are like. Some 
 of them are extremely awkward to use, and probably the best is to just use the remote like a NES 
 controller. Each control type you set it to though, has a small flaw. But, even with some control 
 problems once you're used to it, it's easy to control and easy to pick up and play making it an 
 enjoyable experience.
  
  Other than the control schemes, some small changes have been made. The graphics and sound seem 
 the same. The graphics are about NeoGeo quality, which is where most of these games came from. 
 They look pretty good considering the time it came out. Some look about Gameboy Advance or Nintendo 
 DS quality. The detail is really good for a 2D game and even though the graphics are dated, that 
 doesn't affect anything because it's still fun to play and looked great for its time. As for sound, 
 the POW's have small bits of voices, mainly they'll just say Thank you! over and over again. I'm 
 not sure if that was added or not. The music is great but nothing spectacular.
  
  Another thing is that the games can be really easy. There are difficulty options available and 
 their is even an option that allows you to have infinite lives. If you're playing on easy with 
 infinite lives, the game seems really easy and is almost boring because there is no challenge what 
 so ever. I suggest you play with limited continues, and then even if it is on easy, it can still 
 get really intense. Difficulty settings, and infinite lives are available for all the games.
  
  Arguably the best part of this game is the co-op play. A friend can jump in the battle and 
 help you out. It's fun because it can make the game quite a bit easier if you're on a tough difficulty 
 setting. Also, at the end of each level it will give each players total amount of points and say 
 which one did better, which will have you trying your hardest to be better than the other player.
 
  
  As for extras, there isn't really all that much to see besides an art gallery. It all depends on 
 how much you like Metal Slug games and if you like sidescrolling shooters or not. No graphical 
 changes have been made but there are some nice features to be seen in these games and all are fun 
 to play. It's a great Wii game that is also ten dollars less than your average Wii game and is 
 one of the better compilations out there. Not a must buy, but at least a must rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ncjpr1993
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I just rented it a few days ago, and wow. 7 Metal Slug games on one disc, for the Wii. This is 
 without a doubt one of the best series ever, and the most detailed 2D game I have ever seen. For 
 those of you who are new to the series, Metal Slug is an action/adventure side-scrolling game, 
 that allows you and your friends to play as multiple characters. The games go up to 2 players simultaneously, 
 and supports 5 different control setups. I already spent over 100 hours playing this game and have 
 not unlocked everything or got tired of it. The game also has some things that make you laugh, 
 and some that make your jaw hit the floor, a very good example of this is turning into a zombie, 
 and puking blood rather than throwing a grenade.
  
  The bottom line is... Definatly a must buy for any console it is on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thulhu
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  For the month or so I was guarding the money in my savings account as I awaited the arrival of 
 the Wii, there were two games I knew I wanted to buy; Zelda and Metal Slug Anthology. At the time, 
 MSA was slated as a launch title. Much to my chagrin, this managed to change in the week or so 
 before the launch of the sought-after game system. Fortunately, Twilight Princess was enough to 
 tide me over until this puppy finally came out. And it was worth the wait.
  
  The value of the game itself really needs no explaining; all Metal Slug games in one disc for less 
 than normal Wii software MSRP. It's a steal, really. But the value is not the only thing that makes 
 this game great.
  
  Metal Slug is still THE shooter for arcade fans, from both technological and gameplay standpoints, 
 and it all translates to the Wii with flying colors. The graphics are just as sprite-y and pixellated 
 as you remember them and love them for. The sounds are so-so, as they always have been, but all 
 of the iconic Nazi screams and weapon effects are still there in great volume. Unfortunately, judging 
 from the narrator's vocal queues, you'll no longer be wielding a 'rocket lawn-chair;' it seems 
 the guys at SNK went the extra mile to make the (audio) conversion over to a good ol' meat-n-potatoes 
 rocket LAUNCHER. I hope I'm not the only one that preferred it the way it was.
  
  A much-debated aspect of this new package's popularity has been the motion controls. There are 
 about six different control schemes if I remember correctly (doing this off the top of my head) , 
 and odds are if you don't find the first or second of the six perfectly suited for gameplay, you're 
 a para-palegic, or an amputee (no offense to the game-playing para-palegics or amputees out there -- 
 you do what you gotta) . However, the extra control schemes in no way hinder the value of the game 
 itself; in fact, some of them are stupidly endearing. One of the configurations has you holding 
 the Wiimote and the Nunchuck up like two arcade joysticks, and you tilt them as you would the aforementioned 
 sticks on an actual arcade machine. While not particularly playable over long periods of time, 
 the control schemes make for a wicked fun distraction after a solid four hours of Slugging with 
 the default scheme.
  
  In the end, MSA is great because of its sheer volume and timeless playability; everything added 
 in just makes it that much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katamari
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  If you feel up to a challenge then this collection of action packed, 2D side scrolling games are 
 for you. I love these old school games and let's face it, games like these now-a-days are pretty 
 much non-existent. Oh sure, some of the recent Contra games come to mind, but there just not the 
 same in 3D. Something about the frenzied action in a Metal Slug game will drawn you in. The action 
 on screen gets so crazy at times And the detailed animations. They are just beautiful. But these 
 games are hard and will take a lot of patience to get through. You can set the game on infinite 
 continues if you like (for wimps like me) or be hardcore and give yourself limited lives. You have 
 the usual difficulty settings, easy, normal and hard.
  I still use easy ( have I mentioned that I suck) and have a hard time. They should label the hard 
 setting impossible !! Have I mentioned these games are hard?! You get a variety of controller set-ups, 
 5 using the Wii remote, and you can also use your Cube controller. After having tried all the controls 
 I was only able to find one that I was somewhat comfortable with. And lets' talk about load times. 
 Why is it that if we are in the next generation of consoles does there have to be loading screens? 
 While not painfully long, I just want to get to the game and start playing okay? Enough ranting. 
 There are some cool unlockables. Skins, concept art, text commentary, and soundtracks. And supposedly, 
 according to the game manual, there are special bonus items that await the true Metal Slug champion. 
 You know. The player who sets the continues on limited and beats the game!! And there-in I believe 
 is the appeal of these games. You are challenged to finish it. To see what the next level holds. 
 To see what the next animation does. And at 40 greenbacks for 7 very awesome games you just can't 
 go wrong. I challenge you to become a Metal Slug champion. And then let me know what special bonus 
 items you receive , because I, most likely, will still be sucking at these games!!! METAL SLUG!! 
 AGGGH!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Anyone who has set foot in an arcade over the last ten years likely knows about Metal Slug, one 
 of the flagship franchises from the once-thought defunct SNK. Known for its simplistic gameplay 
 and comical visual style, its one of the most beloved 2D games this side of Samurai Shodown. After 
 seeing limited releases on different consoles over the past seven years, SNK Playmore finally brings 
 it all together with Metal Slug Anthology to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the series. The 
 Metal Slug games are 2D side-scrolling shooters in the same vein as Contra or Gunstar Heroes. What 
 sets Metal Slug the Metal Slug series aside from those games is its comical hand-drawn super deformed 
 characters and vehicles and frantic gameplay. The first game gained popularity in the arcades and 
 remains sought after to this day ten years and six sequels later. Metal Slug Anthology is a compilation 
 of seven almost arcade-perfect ports of these games including the first release of Metal Slug 6 
 in North America and Metal Slug X, a remixed version of Metal Slug 2. Conspicuous by its absence 
 is Metal Slug 3D which was released in Japan in 2006, but depending on who you talk to, that could 
 be a good thing. While this compilation caters to fans of the series, it also comes with the normal 
 issues associated with releasing arcade ports to a home console, being that any of the games can 
 be beaten in half an hour or so. Whats more is that these games are intended to be quarter munchers, 
 which brings the problem of having unlimited continues which will allow you to simply breeze through 
 any of the games. Your typical Metal Slug game begins with choosing a character and running and 
 gunning through five levels while taking out enemy soldiers, tanks, vehicles, and bosses. In the 
 case of the first six games, characters all play similar to one another and only offer a cosmetic 
 difference. Note that I only mentioned the first six games, more on that later. While your character 
 comes standard with a handgun and grenades, youll be able to pick up weapon upgrades by saving 
 POWs and killing certain enemies through each of the games levels. The power-ups range from conventional, 
 yet bad ass weapons like the heavy machine gun, rocket launcher, and flame thrower to more outlandish 
 offerings like the drop shot which shoots bouncing balls of pure death, enemy chasing missiles, 
 and the appropriately named iron lizard which hurls explosive lizards at everything in its path. 
 While most of the enemies youll go up against are an opposing army lead by a familiar looking 
 dictator, each game will contain a twist that will have your characters going up against zombies, 
 aliens, ninjas, and other varieties of crazy creatures. As is the case with any classic arcade 
 shooter, youll have a boss battle at the end of each level which will take more than a few shots 
 and a few lives to dispatch. The staple of Metal Slugs gameplay lies in the different vehicles 
 that youll be able to commandeer to bring the pain to your enemies. The most common is the series 
 namesake, the Metal Slug tank which is equipped with a Vulcan cannon and explosive shells. Each 
 game in the series introduces newer and crazier slugs with each iteration which include, but arent 
 limited to planes, helicopters, camels, donkeys, submarines, and assorted mecha. Finding and piloting 
 these slugs is half of the fun the game provides. There are other portions where the normal gameplay 
 mechanics are thrown out of the window, as is the case with the final level of Metal Slug 3 which 
 becomes a top-down shooter in some areas. These gameplay changes, in addition to the hand drawn 
 and wonderfully animated characters, bring out the charm and creativity that the series is known 
 for. One thing everyone possibly has on their mind is how you would control games like this using 
 the Wii remote. Metal Slug Anthology attempts to make use of the motion sensitive controls of the 
 Wii remote and actually succeeds in some cases. The default configuration is set to use the Wii 
 remote directional pad to control your character, the 1 button to shoot, and the 2 button to jump. 
 Shaking the remote lets you throw grenades. There are more unconventional methods of control, with 
 one being that you can move your character to the left and right by tilting the remote in the corresponding 
 directions and using the A and B buttons to shoot and jump. The saving grace to all of this is 
 that the game is compatible with the GameCube controller, which in reality is the best solution, 
 though its a mystery why the Wiis classic controller wasnt included in that design decision. 
 Given SNKs prosperous history and turbulent last days before its rebirth, Metal Slug games have 
 continued to be released. After SNK closed, third parties got a hold of the license to attempt 
 to continue the series, which caused the quality of the games to slump. The first four games in 
 the series, Metal Slug, Metal Slug 2/X, and Metal Slug 3 are the clear standouts in terms of creativity 
 and humor. Metal Slug 4 was the first non-SNK release which, thanks to the inexperienced team working 
 on the game, rehashed characters, bosses, and environments from the previous games into a game 
 that seems piecemeal compared to the other installments. Another element that failed to carry over 
 was the trademark humor, creativity, and destructive environments that served as series trademarks 
 for so long. Thats not to say that Metal Slug 4 is a bad game, per se, its just a disappointing 
 offering when compared with the other games in the series. Metal Slug 5 marked the first offering 
 by the newly resurrected SNK-Playmore and made up for the mistakes of the previous game by having 
 you fight all-new enemies, all new bosses, and all in brand new environments all while taking the 
 series back to its roots. Metal Slug 6 is the newest game in the series and it introduces a host 
 of new features. While some are for the best, others just seem to be for the sake of it. First 
 off, this is the first Metal Slug game to not run on the old SNK MVS hardware and was designed 
 for the Sammy Atomiswave. The first new feature fans will notice is that the game starts by giving 
 the option to play the game on normal or easy mode. Normal mode follows the normal arcade traditions 
 of the series, while the easy mode arms you with a heavy machine gun with unlimited ammo and stops 
 just before the games last level. The second thing fans will notice is due to the change of hardware, 
 the games hard-pixilated look is jettisoned in favor of smoother, higher resolution sprites. While 
 it helps to make the game look more current, it also takes away from the series old school charm 
 just a bit. The new hardware also allows some really neat scaling effects that will pan the screen 
 in and out to get up close on the action or to fit the games screen filling bosses into frame. 
 In addition to the overhauled visuals, the game also got a makeover in the sound category offering 
 the same epic musical score, only sounding fully orchestrated and less synthetic this time around. 
 The character sound bytes have also been redone and in some cases, sound better than the previous 
 installments. Other new features include adding the ability for each character to carry two weapons 
 at a time and the ability to switch them up on the fly. Another huge change with Metal Slug 6 comes 
 with character selection. While in the past, choosing one of the games characters was only for 
 appearances sake; this installment goes beyond by giving each character special traits and abilities. 
 One character can use tougher slugs, which keeps them from blowing up as fast, while another has 
 powerful bullets or grenades. This game also marks an appearance by Ralf and Clark of Ikari Warriors 
 and King of Fighters fame as selectable characters. While Ralf acts strictly as a new Metal Slug 
 character, Clark has a special move where he can perform a backbreaker on enemies which multiply 
 in score when he performs the move on multiple enemies in succession. While the addition of these 
 characters isnt really necessary by any means, its still pretty cool to have them there. While 
 these games are essentially arcade perfect, the experience is marred by frequent load times that 
 only seem to get worse as you get to later games in the series. Most load times seem to be uncalled 
 for and are oftentimes seen after beating a level just a couple of seconds before the screen fades 
 to black. Fortunately, the design seems to prohibit load times from occurring in the middle of 
 action which warrants a personal thank you from me to the developers. Still, the fact that a 2D 
 game has to suffer from frequent load times in the first place is rather disappointing. Metal Slug 
 Anthology serves as the perfect compilation for anyone who has been a fan of any or all of the 
 games in the series, or action fans in general especially given the extra concept art, music, and 
 interview to be unlocked by beating the games. The combination of the cartoony visuals, humorous 
 situations, and out of control storylines with each game is enough to entertain anyone willing 
 to give this game a try. It more or less comes down to the question as to whether gamers would 
 want to purchase this game for the Wii or wait a couple of months for it to be released on another 
 platform. If theres anything crippling about Metal Slug Anthology on the Wii, it would unfortunately 
 be the control schemes offered. The game finally brings the arcade experience of Metal Slug home 
 only to be hampered by the non-arcade controls of the Wii. On the other hand, anyone willing to 
 put a new spin on the old school gameplay will be pleased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyInvader101
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  The Metal Slug series is a series of games about one guy (or two in co-op) killing a lot of people 
 by themselves, and of course saving the world. It started in the arcades and 10 years later, SNK 
 releases this, a collection of all 6 metal slug games. But after all these years, does metal slug 
 still hold up as an amazing sidescrolling shooter? Well Sort of....
  
  The plot in Metal Slug (any of them) is never really stated. But after playing the games over the 
 course of my life, i have decided that it is about you, a secret agent of some sort, trying to 
 overthrow an evil force trying to take over the world, oh and in the end of most of the games, 
 Aliens come, sometimes they ally with this enemy, or you ally with the enemy to overthrow the aliens. 
 Make sense?
  
  The gameplay in each metal slug is essentially the same. You go through a level, shooting anything 
 that tries to kill you, saving POWs, and then at the end of the level, killing the boss. You also 
 might find some vehicles, whether it be a Metal Slug (the tank on the cover) , A Camel with a mounted 
 turret, or a mini mech. You have to be careful though, with one measily hit you die, but never 
 fear, you have lives and continues! These lives and continues come in handy, seeing that even on 
 easy mode, you will have troubles beating the game. Each game usually has around five levels to 
 beat, each one taking around 10 minutes, exept for the last one. Some of the last levels are ridiculously 
 long and are nearly impossible to beat without infinite lives. Which brings me back to the lives 
 issue. You can decide whether or not to have limited lives, or unlimited lives. While Unlimited 
 lives garuntees that you will be able to beat the game/s, it isnt that much fun. With unlimited 
 lives, you really have no worries, you can just run through the level without even really trying. 
 While having limited lives is harder, it is worth it, seeing as you actually have to try. The game 
 also includes Metal Slug 6, which was never released in AMerica. MS6 features some new gameplay 
 , but not really anything good. It gives each character Stats, and s speacial, some of them are 
 extremley cheap, others have not point (such as being a skilled Vehicle driver) . It also has the 
 weapon storage sytem, which is actually pretty nice, normally when you pick up a weapon, your old 
 one just goes away and when you have wasted that weapon, you go back to your pistol. But with this, 
 you can store two weapons (excluding the pistol) and bring them out whenever you want (as long 
 as you dont die) . One othe rbad thing to note are the new load times that seem to slow the games 
 fast action down. Another thing i would have liked is online co-op and scoreboards, that would 
 have been cool but seeing that the wii has a lack of online now, we dont see it.
  
  Now lets get onto the controls of this game. The game has six different control types (i believe) , 
 but only three are worth using. t is quite disapointing that the control types are bad, even the 
 one worth using are pretty bad. The defult control type is Wii remote only, hold the remote like 
 a normal controler, use the D-Pad to move and use 1 and 2 to jump and shoot. But where does that 
 leave grenades? You shake the remote to throw grenades. It works but i would have liked to see 
 it work better, sometimes it doesnt respond and it isnt that unique of a control. Another Control 
 type is a normal gamecube controler, it works, but is unoriginal. But if you can use a gamecube 
 controler, why cant you use the wii's Classic Controler? I would rather use that then the gamecube 
 controler. Another conrtol type uses the Nunchuck, move with the analog, use A on the Wiimote to 
 jump and B on the wiimote to shoot, and again, shake it to throw a grenade. This control type is 
 also pretty decent, seeing that pressing the B button for a long time starts make your finger hurt. 
 The other control types, i wont share, it really isnt worth it. They usually have you tilt the 
 wiimote to move and they just dont work, they dont respond fast enough in this fast paced game.
 
  
  The graphics in the game have not changed, they use sprites. They dont excactly look ugly, they 
 look pretty good infact, the blood looks nice and they look more animated if you know what i mean. 
 The backrounds look very nice as well, with animations in them as well. But somethings just look 
 pixely and ugly and other things could have better effects. For example, there is an enemy that 
 doesnt die in one hit. When you shoot him, he does one animation and one animation alone, it would 
 be nice to see him do something else aside from hunch down and groan.
  
  The music is upbeat at times, when the action is big and slow paced when you are being more stealthy 
 . It is suiting for the game, and that is all that matters. Sound effects are pretty nice as well. 
 They suite whatever they are being masked over. But at times it can be annoying, for example, a 
 guy that takes more than one hit to kil will just use the same groan over and over again untill 
 he dies. It is quite annoying.
  
  The game has every Metal Slug game, a pretty good value at that for $40. While the games are short, 
 the fun is big and co-op is a blast. But there are somethings missing. Where are those two games 
 from Metal Slug 3 on Xbox? Those were nice games, why didnt they include those? Or the Metal Slug 
 game on GBA? While the game is addicting and fun, there is a large chance that you will get sidetracked 
 by bigger and better games out there. Overall Metal Slug Anthology is a must have for any fan. 
 For newcomers out there just keep this in mind. It is a fast paced sidescrolling shooter that is 
 short, fun, and hard (with lives) . The game has mediocre controls and is $40. In my opinion, the 
 game is a bragain really, 6 games usually marketed for $50, now costing $40. But really you just 
 have to decide if Metal Slug is a game for you. If it is, great, buy it, if its not, thats too 
 bad. Im sure there are typos in here so tkae note of that, and if they really bug you, PM me and 
 i will do something about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slimjiminat0r
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 11, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Wait. Back? What the heck is Metal Slug? At least that's what Im picturing most people thinking 
 when they read that first sentence. Well lets flesh that out a little bit.
  
  This year is Metal Slugs tenth anniversary. In 1996, a little company called SNK studios put together 
 one of the best 2D, side-scrolling action shooters to ever hit the arcade scene. These games, all 
 seven gloriously animated adventures, were some of the most greedy, quarter-eating endeavors that 
 you could choose to embark on at the arcade. The concepts in the game were simple and addictive.
 
  
  Metal Slug games are centered around three main ideas: make the action fast, make it pretty and 
 make it easy to learn yet hard to master. Sure, these all sound like staples that any action developer 
 shoots for, but by being minimalists and, you know, actually doing these things, SNK has succeeded 
 in making some of the most pleasing, timeless and, sadly, unheard of games of our arcade generation.
 
  
  By choosing either Marco or Tarma, or later anyone from an ever-growing cast of characters, playing 
 can launch into Metal Slugs hectic action in seconds. Metal Slugs action is one thing: shooting. 
 By mashing whatever button you have assigned to be your trigger (which can be a lot of different 
 buttons, but well touch on that later) you can unleash a flurry of bullets at your cartoon animated 
 enemies and the environment you fight them in. In each mission, usually six to a game, your sole 
 goal is to burst through each level and destroy everything in it. This is both very fun and very 
 difficult.
  
  You see, SNK has tossed players more than enough means to dispatch of the enemy. Your pistol ammo 
 is unlimited. Rescued POWs, which are plentiful, reward you with new guns and grenades. Metal Slugsbouncy, 
 all-terrain tankscan be found randomly throughout each level and will help you dole out damage 
 like its going out of style. You can even have your friend hop in at any time to help you blast 
 away the legions youll come up against.
  
  Staring back at all this fun and merciless killing is the Hard part of Metal Slug. Now I capitalize 
 Hard for a reason. Metal Slug is no breezy walk through Flanders Field. One enemy bullet, one 
 little scratch from their kniveslet alone a barrage of bouncing explosives from one of the boss 
 enemieswill have your character on the ground with a groan and a death. Its an arcade game, remember? 
 Its meant to be frustratingly difficult. The Wii version, however, doesnt ask you to plug quarter 
 after quarter into it, so the name of the game becomes mastery. Each time you set out into one 
 of Metal Slug Anthologys games, youll be allotted fifteen credits, each one giving you a ticket 
 to another three lives. Now lets do the math: fifteen times three is forty-five. You have forty-five 
 lives to get through one game. Sounds like a lot, but that will really only carry you somewhere 
 into the second level on your first run through a game. Dont even hope to make it to the fifth 
 of sixth levels until youve owned the game for a few days.
  
  Before I get to carried away in the punishment-is-pleasure gameplay that I love Metal Slug for, 
 lets talk about the fact that this title has the word Anthology in it. This disc is a veritable 
 treasure chest for Metal Slug fans. You might even call it Metal Slug Booty. I do. You dont 
 have to.
  
  Anyways, this is not your typical anthology. Youre not just given a smattering of titles, only 
 one of them any good while the rest are just tack-ons. This disc is every single Metal Slug. All 
 seven of them. Even the previously unreleased number six. If youre going to get technical on me, 
 you might say that its missing the 3D Metal Slug released in Japan last year, but Im not going 
 to count half-hearted 3D evolutions. Case in point, if you like Metal Slug, even just a little, 
 this game will last you forever. Not to mention that if youre a big enough fan to have sought 
 out the rare editions of Metal Slug 3 and Metal Slug 4&amp;5 on the Xbox or the PS2, you paid forty 
 to fifty dollars for each one. Just for one game. Metal Slug Anthology is only going to run you 
 forty and you get the whole kit n caboodle. Seven games with adjustable difficulty and drop-in/drop-out 
 co-op? Yes please.
  
  Now why was this game released on the Wii? What could a console system with gyroscopic sensors 
 in the controller do for a ten year-old 2D arcade shooter? Well, to be honest, not a whole hell 
 of a lot. Metal Slug Anthology does sport 5 different controller configurations for the games, 
 each with a left handed option which is handy (har har) , but youll probably only end up using 
 the config that allows you to hold the Wiimote sideways and play it like an NES controller, with 
 the d-pad to move and the 1 and 2 buttons serving as fire and jump respectively. The only real 
 Wii function this game sees is in the grenade throwing, and it aint that pretty. Players have 
 to shake the controller to toss them nades and it becomes obvious pretty quick that this method 
 just isnt responsive enough. Yeah, its neat and with good intention that they jammed some Wii 
 functionality into good ol Metal Slug, but it really didnt need it. That, and youll find out 
 that shaking your controller doesnt let you throw grenades as fast as a button press, and youre 
 going to need to crank those things out at a steady pace in order to beat a lot of the later bosses, 
 something that gets really tough to do while youre shaking your Wiimote around and still trying 
 to mash shoot and jump on it at the same time. Its not like it robbed me of any of my fun while 
 I played though. Youll get over it.
  
  The other controller configs consist of using the Wiimotes sensors to tilt the controller to move 
 your character. Again, they are an interesting addition and fun to try out once or twice, but these 
 new modes wont be your guiding light to beating any of the games. Theyre experiments and curiosities, 
 not pillars of gameplay.
  
  So before we close up shop on this little reading session were going to inventory the good and 
 the bad of this Holy Grail of a Metal Slug collection. We have golden co-operative. We have beautiful 
 2D animation. We have humor and frenzied gameplay. We have seven games that are hard enough to 
 last and fun enough to come back to. We have dorky controls, but they get the job done. Really, 
 what were looking at is the Wiis first hidden gem. This game will be overlooked now and sought 
 after later and if you know what you like, youll get it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 9, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  So many gaming anthologies are just an excuse to take cheap licenses and cash in on gamers' nostalgia, 
 however MSA really stands apart from the crowd. The Metal Slug arcade games were always a ton of 
 fun, and to my taste the best side scrolling 25cent shooter. The slugs made everything so much 
 fun! I know that some people now won't find funky bouncy tanks all compelling, but the gameplay 
 is what comes in and makes the humorous aspects more than window dressing. First of all, these 
 games are HARD. I don't know about you, gentle reader, but I miss truly hard games. Second, these 
 games are each fairly long, and while none of them break totally away from the mold, each iteration 
 is worth playing through. Nintendo did a great job giving you an absurd number of control options, 
 so I find it impossible that everyone won't find a scheme that they love. The graphics look as 
 good on the Wii as they ever did in an arcade (a no brainer, that) and the sound is a lot better. 
 I would play Metal Slug over contra or smash tv or any of the other ports any day, and given how 
 much gameplay is packed into this anthology, those other titles don't come CLOSE. Add the 39.99 
 price tag and unless you hate this kind of game, it's a must-buy. I really appreciate this release, 
 and while it's not something you sit down and marathon for a week, it's going to provide mind numbing 
 diversion for as long as you care to engage in it's fanciful-yet-fearsome action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skaluv
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 9, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  Metal Slug is a Japanese arcade institution. It encapsulates the fun of non stop action and quarter 
 guzzling difficulty that is expected from side scrolling arcade games. It waves this banner proudly 
 and as such little has changed during the entire series. This is a good thing however because the 
 game has always been the pinnacle of it's genre.
  
  This collection delivers on just that the entire run of the game series. The game is difficult 
 although some might call it easy considering on free play mode you can continue from where you 
 died indefinately. The games use of weapons, vehicles, and environment interactivity reward you 
 for continuuing through frustrating sections and also prevent the game from getting too repetitive.
 
  
  As with most collection games the designers have included a library of production materials that 
 can be unlocked through gameplay. Nothing special there.
  
  My main problem with the game is its controls. I love my Wii but I would really like to see the 
 classic controller become an standard alternative in most games. The controls while innovative 
 are uncomfortable at best and should of been shifted to the classic controller.
  
  Despite that one criticism the game is very much playable. When you consider the number of games, 
 enjoyment factor, and last gen price Metal Slug Anthology becomes an obvious choice as a game that 
 should be in your Wii library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GnarlsB
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  It has been ten years since the original Metal Slug hit the arcades, and still to this day there 
 has not been a 2-d shooting game with more humor, action and crazyiness from anywhere. As a SNK 
 fan of King of Fighters and Fatal fury, I came across a Metal Slug machine in 2003 in a arcade. 
 The game was Metal Slug 3 and quite frankly it is the best of this collection and probably the 
 best experience I had in my arcade machine history. Now in 2006 I was a little lost with the Metal 
 Slug saga for years, but when SNK announced they were making a Anthology for Metal Slug including 
 all seven games, I almost wept for joy. Now the best part of the Anthology is all the games are 
 here and their full 2-d glory, but the worst part was they were not arcade perfect.....
  All of them had loading times, (but I can handle this) , No Hit-flash in some bosses (again no biggie) , 
 but it really makes you feel this package feels like some bootleg you could've gotten in some swapmeet 
 because of the poor presentation and bleh extras. It would've been nice if they would've included 
 combat school or fat island from the Xbox port of Metal Slug 3. All we get is some nice artwork, 
 a text interview and music Mp3s of the games. I did not buy this game for the extras so if you 
 own all the games in boot-leg or you just have them all, there is really no reason to buy this 
 Anthology. But for fans like me, trust me buy it for the games not the extras. Up to this day since 
 it has came out I have been playing a really long time. The games really never get old and it is 
 a perfect game to play with a partner. With seven Metal Slug games you really can't go wrong, if 
 I had to put them in order which are the best to worst it would be:
  Metal Slug 3
  Metal Slug
  Metal Slug X
  Metal Slug 5
  Metal Slug 6
  Metal Slug 4
  Metal Slug 2
  Now 
 for the pros and cons of this collection
  Pros+: Some of the best arcade games right into your home; Fast pick-up and play scheme; Some of 
 the best 2-D animation you will probably see; Much of the game's humor and uniqueness in art will 
 make you love it for a long time; Music sounds good in half of the games; You have the ability 
 to put between Unlimited and limited continues; All the games are highly addicting and you'll be 
 coming back for more.
  
  Cons-: Lots of control schemes, but sadly only one or two will only be good use of you; Presentation 
 falls flat, feels boot-leg; Not really Arcade-perfect as the box says; Some games are way too short; 
 Graphics sometime feel a little dated.
  
  Overall: This is a must for people who love Metal Slug and don't have the games yet, but beware 
 the Anthology has it's flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkMaster7991
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Yea the game is fun but the new Metal Slug 6 is sooooooo short. 2 levels!! I couldnt wait to play 
 it and it had 2 levels and a to be continued.. Well they had the orginal and the other 5. Its great 
 and a must have for any gamer if u stay in free play. This was a game like hard-core gamer would 
 really enjoy. Not causual or anythng. But it had a mode for all not including the family one. I 
 just was disapointed how short some of the games were. But overall the game is great and a must-have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyo__man66
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Oh, Metal Slug. What fun times i've had with you. Playing you first at a Arcade back in the day, 
 such good times but times have changed though, no more arcades : ( but it doesnt mean that the whole 
 franchise is gone. But now I bought my newly-fangled Wii system and METAL SLUG IS BACK!
  BUT WAIT! now all 7 of the titles are on the disc! Including 6! which hasnt been released in the 
 arcades! so now you dont have to fork 500+ clams on out-of-date Neo-Geo cartridges when you can 
 buy it all on one disc at a reasonable price!
  
  What is Metal Slug? Why are you **** about it?
  Metal Slug is a game made from Nazca team in 
 1996. The game was so popular (still is) that SNK (now known as SNK PLAYMORE) made a good move 
 and bought the company. After that fans enjoyed the predessors of Metal Slug 2/X and the greatest 
 of them all: Metal Slug 3. Also, Im making such a big deal of the games because of the Nostalgia 
 it brings and remembering all the classic 2d games and how much fun they brought to games alike.
 
  
  Whats the game like? How does it look?
  The game is kinda a cousin to Contra (another great game) with it's side-scrolling action and shooting/grenading 
 everything in your path also, The graphics are beautiful with it's colorful backgrounds and wonderful 
 sprite animation that give the game more appeal
  
  but moving on with these stupid questions This package contains Metal Slug,2, X (remake because 2 
 had slowdown) ,3,4,5, and 6 and with interesting gallerys and an interview with the original team.
 
  
  Gameplay (9/10)
  shoot. shoot. shoot. is what all metal slug is about just having a blast shooting down the Morden 
 Soldiers and rescuing the POWs hopefully giving you powerups. You dont have health (in every metal 
 slug tradition) but in some occasions when your in the Metal Slug or the other vehicles you are 
 granted health. but it's a fun time trying to see if you can overcome challenges with beating a 
 level with a single life. The gameplay is amazing because it doesnt really get repetitive because 
 your focusing on your current situation. But beware, this game can be tough, and sometimes your 
 enemies can pull a sneaky one on you. But, Since this game is for the Wii, It's gotten the innovation 
 touch with flicking the Wii mote makes you throw grenades. Not really innovative but it works fine. 
 But alot of the control schemes are kinda difficult and can make the game alot more frustrating 
 espicaly the Arcade mode. Noobies beware. But my word is to ignore the funky control types and 
 just go for the default one. it works best.
  
  Graphics (10/10)
  Metal Slug was special ever since it's release because of the wonderful graphics it had. With it's 
 cartoony look, it made gamers laugh when slaughtering the troops in the colorful battlefield. All 
 the sprites are animated just beautifully and the charaters are hand drawn by the wonderful programmers. 
 Also, at the time everything was going into the 32-Bit era and games like Super Mario 64, Final 
 Fantasy7 or NiGHTS Metal Slug stayed to it's roots of 2d sequel by sequel. The graphics are just 
 beautiful to look at
  
  Sound (9/10)
  Also the sounds have always had an impact on the fans with it's wonderful melodies such as the 
 metal slug theme and the series has always had a epic feeling to it and has had alot of good tunes 
 over the series. And the sound effects alwyas put in a good laugh when your killing the troops 
 the release a funny grunt or when you shoot a mummy it makes a funny scream! also the game's announcer 
 (x-5) was the most halarious announcer when he say RAWKET LAUNCHAER! it makes me laugh every time 
 i pick up the weapon. The sound is one of the best parts of Metal slug just because of the wonderful 
 artists from the SNK team
  
  Although, what i've said that the whole game is great and all it does have some faults. The menu 
 isnt really interesting to look at and has some barren menus while some load times effect the game 
 sometimes Metal Slug 3 feels like a NEO-GEO CD version of Metal Slug 3 with all of it's pauses. 
 The good thing is that theyre not long but can be irritating when your itching to go into battle. 
 Also, Metal Slug 6 can be insanely hard on Hard mode which can frustrate noobies because of it 
 cheap bosses.
  
  Tilt/Overall (9/10)
  I cant even explain how much I love the series and how happy i am it made it on the Wii. And now 
 every body can enjoy it because of the option of Limited or Unlimited Credits. This is a great 
 2-player game (AND IT DOES NOT PLAY 4 PLAYER IT IS A PRINTING ERROR) that you and your buddy can 
 enjoy reviving arcade history. So buy this game either if you want a new game or just want a taste 
 of the great Arcades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quetzalcoatl45
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  Overview:
  Metal Slug Anthology is a Collection of 7 Arcade Shooters Dating Back to 1996.
  Now to mark the series 10th year, SNK-Playmore Has released this Collection with horrid Menus and 
 Not many Worthwhile extras, but the games themselfs make up for that.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Simple yet Addictive. What a True Shooter should be
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Hand-Drawn Animation 
 Is a nice touch but is has not held up well over the years in this era of CG Games.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Arcade perfect, But a few quarks here and there.
  
  Value: 10/10
  For $40 
 USD you can't got Wrong.
  
  Tlit: 10/10:
  Im a Huge Metal Slug fan Since 1997!
  
  Overall: 9.4/10
  
  Rent or Buy?
  If like Run-n-Gun Shooters or are looking for a casula Game, 
 Buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ice_radon
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  In commemoration of the 10th Anniversary of the Metal Slug series, SNK has released what we all 
 have been hoping for, all 7 games are included in this collection. Thats right, 1-6 and then Metal 
 Gear X also. Before this, it was actually impossible to play all of these games outside of an arcade, 
 which most of no longer exist. If you were questioning as you should be if these games are all 
 in tact and faithful to the originals, I can safely say that, yes they are pretty much dead on 
 as far as graphics, speed and sound go. But there are also some issues that really hamper this 
 game from being the best launch title on the Wii.
  
  First things first. All the games are here, they play great with the Wiimote and using the Wiimote 
 horizontally almost as a NES controller works very well for this collection. If you have ever played 
 Contra back in the day and liked them, you will love this game even more with 10x more craziness 
 and 10x the fun. Getting into this collection is easy and makes for a great time with a few friends. 
 And for $39.99, you cannot go wrong. Especially when Metal Slug 3 &amp; 4 or 4 &amp; 5 on the Xbox 
 was 39.99 each. Well that was the good, now for the bad
  
  The first thing you will notice when starting up Metal Slug Anthology is that well, the game select 
 screen is quite bland and looks like they forgot it the day before it went gold and needed something 
 to throw in there. They could have made it so much more nostalgic to the seasoned players as well 
 as more inviting and to get a new player jazzed up about how this game still holds up today, and 
 is just as fun as it was back in 1996. It would have been nice if they would have actually put 
 an extra couple of minutes just to flesh it out a bit more.
  
  Next is me asking the question; Who came up with these controller configurations? The default 
 controller set up with the single Wiimote isnt bad. But then they have where they want you to 
 use the Nunchuk only, or be tilting the Wiimote to move your player left or right, or the worst 
 is the one where they want you to use the Wiimote and the Nunchuk. They are overcomplicating the 
 control schemes here and they seem quite forced overall. And then there is the GC controller, but 
 you are still better off going with the horizontal Wiimote. My one question iswhy didnt they 
 include support for the Classic Controller? Wouldnt of that made the most sense? All they really 
 needed was the default Wiimote horizontal mode and then they Classic controller mode. Thats it. 
 I mean someone there had to think about using that classic controller for this game. It couldnt 
 of been that hard to put it in. I mean they put all the effort into making crappy controller schemes, 
 2 good ones would have been fine by me
  
  Next, no extras. For a 10th anniversary, come one, nothing extra here? I mean I know its not quite 
 a popular game 10 years later in 2006, but man, for fans of the series, this would have been a 
 real bonus to see some developer interview videos, a little mini documentary on this series and 
 then just some fanart or something. And then even a cooler box or something would have made it 
 extra special, but there is nothing here
  
  Here is the real kicker. You know how when you went to the arcade or played games before dinner 
 at a restaurant, how you used to ask your parents/girlfriend/boyfriend for quarters to keep pumping 
 into that machine before the 10 seconds ran out. Yes, you all remember that adrenaline rush. Well 
 in this game, there is none of that. You can die infinite times and just keep restarting and restarting. 
 There are no limits, even you cant set any limits to try and break them, or if you want you and 
 a friend to have like 8 quarters each or maybe have each only play on one quarter. So now, you 
 can just sacrifice yourself to get through a really tough area really quickly by just dying. Along 
 with that, there are no new modes or any type of multiplayer other than the standard classic in 
 the orignal games, and no online like the Xbox versions that came out a few years ago. I am aware 
 its prolly half nintendos fault with Nintendo having no online plan and just flying by the seat 
 of their pants againGC 2.0? Who knows, but some online would have been nice, even if it were only 
 with the craptacular friend codes system.
  
  Alright, my rant is now over. This is a great game if you are looking for all 7 original games 
 perfectly emulated and all together in one package. But there are some real short comings that 
 dont make this game stand out like it could of. I think with a bit more elbow grease, this game 
 could have went from being good to superb and actually get new players hooked on an old classic.
 
  
  Controller, no support for classic controller
  Crappy title screen
  No extras, developer interviews, history, fan art
  No quarters option, makes the game much too 
 easy
  No competition or time attack sorts for gameplay with friends
  No online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAt0m
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 22, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that I have never played any of these games prior to buying this Anthology. 
 I can definitely see what all the hype is about after playing these games for a few hours. They're 
 really fun and great for casual gaming. The graphics are decent, but nothing amazing. One does 
 have to keep in mind that these games date back to 1996. The sound wasn't that bad for the majority 
 of the games, but now and then it would get really bad. The occasional long moments of silence 
 can really take away from the gaming experience. Although each one of these games can be completed 
 in about an hour, I still feel that for $40 you're getting your moneys worth. It was a really good 
 idea for the game designers to have so many options for controls, because that makes for excellent 
 replay value. Overall, I feel that anyone who enjoys side-scrolling violence will love these games 
 (especially for the Wii) . Metal Slug is an excellent series, and any fan (old school or new school) 
 would probably love this Anthology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Argonaut125
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  What more can I say?
  
  The Game itself really varied on what game you choose
  
  but trust me DO NOT START ON 4
  
  or do it so you can lower your expectations
  
  Overall 
 it's a great collection and a must buy for Wii owners
  
  and trust me the Wiimote deal really isn't that bad.
  
  The occasional loading time may get 
 you frustrated but the infinite credits for those of you who suck at this game will make the pain 
 go away
  
  Gameplay: Fun if you liked games such as Contra
  Graphics: Dated if you play 1 but gets better around 3 and 6
  Sound: memorable music, I can remember 
 the tune still
  Value: 7 games for $40? Awsome!
  Tilt: Most good?
  
  And that's pretty much it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capcom49
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2006 3:54 am PT
Review:  As a hudge Metal Slug fan who played all of them in the arcade this was a treat! This game is action 
 packed and fun. If your a Contra fan you'll love this game. The controll's are easy, there are 
 8 different ways of playing, wierd enough the classic controller doesnt work for this game but 
 a gamecube controller does. This game has all the main Metal Slug releases and some extras that 
 are easy to earn. As a 2-d game its graphics are amazing and so is the sound/music. This is a good 
 game to get especially for a low price. Each game can take about 30 minutes to an hour, so it definitly 
 has replay value in each game. I so far have been playing this game crazy, and its 2 player mode 
 is fun. I would recommend this game for everyone, it has something in it for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_holic
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 18, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  A great bargain with 7 metal slug games in one disc with only $44.99 CDN but I didn't know SNK 
 can make it this bad. I think this is my first time playing a metal slug game that has so many 
 loading times. The game has to do a few loadings in the middle of each stage. Each stage doesn't 
 progress smoothly through the end. Sometimes the loading process just comes out of nowhere and 
 sometimes the screen doesn't scroll when all the enemies are killed already. Also, you can not 
 choose the classic control method. When you want to throw a grenade, you have to flick the wiimote. 
 Yes, the new wiimote is a great new way of playing but please, game developers, don't abuse the 
 idea. The graphic is just like any other metal slug games, which is excellent. I feel disappointed 
 because it feels like SNK has a lot of room for improvement on this one. They could've made it 
 a lot better, but it's still a bargain with 7 metal slug games with this price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magnet8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Metal Slug Anthology is a fun collection of the series. The gameplay might be simple-blow up bad 
 guys and run and gun through the levels, but it is fun and addicting. It gets even better if you 
 have a friend.
  The inclusion of Metal Slug 6 is cool; the game itself is nice, but it's starting to feel like 
 the series should stop now that it's ahead. All the other games are fun, and they are direct ports 
 of their arcade counterparts.
  The graphics are tried-and-true to the series-it's not the nicest thing to look at, but they get 
 the job done and there are some nice effects.
  The sound is starting to age, but they still have that nice touch and add to the chaos that envelopes 
 the screen. Those death screams never get old.
  The controls are a little hard to master-it gives you a number of options, whether a more Wii-gimmicky 
 control or classic style. The gameplay itself is easy to understand.
  The series is known for its difficulty, and you can easily see why. However, this adds to the challenge 
 and the value.
  All-in-all, this is a great game and one of the games you should definitely buy or ask for from 
 Santa. Supposing that you've never played any of the games, now would be a good time to start. 
 If you want a good value for your dollar this holiday season, then this game should be on the top 
 of your list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7Xfan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 16, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I was very anxious to get this because I love the 2d side-scrolling shooting games. Astro Boy, 
 Gunstar Heroes, Metal Slug, Alien Homonid, and Contra that kind of stuff. It's probably my favorite 
 genre of game.
  
  So anyways like the good old fashioned arcade games its something you'll get good at then get competitive 
 with memorize all the levels try to go back and get perfect scores etc.
  These games were arcade games so they'll only take about 30-40 minutes to beat for an unexperienced 
 player (who has unlimited continues, I can't see many comleteing these games in under 10 continues 
 (which is the hard difficulty.) .
  Graphics and sound are alright Metal Slug 6 obviously looks best with lots of extra little details. 
 But these games aren't don't really go by graphics and sound to judge how good they are. There's 
 never a bit of slowdown that I've noticed, and the action can get absolutely ridiculous, I bet 
 only the die hards can keep up with it. Sound is prety bad sound clis aren't great quality its 
 just blah, music is fine and fitting though.
  
  The game play though is timeless and having all these games only makes it so much more valuable. 
 While I haven't unlocked everything it seems to be lacking a little in that department. Shouldn't 
 take long to unlock everything.
  However again the value here is playing through all these games with a friend (up to 3 other friends) 
 and then playing it with them on harder difficulties and then getting higher scores, and then trying 
 to go without using a continue or something insane like that. That's what Metal Slug is all about 
 and it's very good at it.
  
  An awesome compilation with every game playing just as they should. Solid. Lots of replayability, 
 great with friends, great to master alone, and the one thing I have yet to mention is it has many 
 whacky uses of the Wii controller that make it very fun. You can also plug in a GC controller if 
 you think that would be most comfortable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wreslur
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  If you're not familiar with metal slug chances are you won't even be looking at this review to 
 see if your favorite arcade games/console remake anthology was transferred correctly. This game 
 includes Metal Slug 1, the sequel, the remake to the sequel with slight changes (better IMO) all 
 the way up to 6. Although there is no Widescreen and 480p support I'm glad because they would have 
 to strech pixels and mess with the game/framerate. The controls are the best part about this game 
 because they are so many customizable options on how to play it, it's impossible to say the controls 
 are bad. Personally I went with the wave bird or the tilted Wii-Mote, I found these the best 2 
 ways to tacle the hectic gamesplay. I would recommend this had there been one port, but since there 
 are 7, it's a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_DarkDrop
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 15, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  The biggest Metal Slug collection to date should please any Metal Slug
  fan. And if your new to the Metal slug series your in for a nice treat.
  
  For those of you 
 that haven't played Metal Slug before think of
  it as a cartoony Contra.
  
  You get 7 Metal Slug games in one that there should be enough for any fan to run out and buy it 
 especially with a 39.99 price tag.
  
  If your new this Metal Slug can be easily played by new comers with the option of Free Play you 
 can have endless continues and play thur the game and once you feel that you got the hang of thing's 
 you can switch to limited continues to play it the way it was originally made to be played .
  
  Graphics
  I find the graphics really good and feel like I'm playing back at the arcade like 
 the old day's more so then playing them on the Neo Geo.
  
  Controls
  I personally like using the Wiimote controls where you use as if your playing a VC (Virtual console 
 ) game but you can flick the controller forward
  to throw grenades which gives that nice Wii feel.
  There are many other control scheme's for 
 instance there's one where
  tilting the controller one direction will make you run that way
  there many control schemes to 
 pick from so you should be able to find
  you can be comfortable with
  
  Sound/music
  I've always found the music and sounds
  in Metal Slug to be excellent. The music seems to fit 
 the chaos of the game nicely.
  
  If you enjoyed Contra or just have downloaded Gunstar Hero's for the VC and enjoyed it you will 
 be sure to like this. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
