-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Metroid Prime 3: Corruption
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/metroidprime3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fantastic environmental puzzles are among the best of the series.
 Great boss fights require you to use every game mechanic at your disposal.
 Atmospheric levels are a pleasure to explore.
 Various gameplay elements mesh nicely into a seamless whole.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some of the contextual actions don't control all that well.
 Streamlined controls make things a little too easy and a little less adventurous.
 Doesn't do much different than the previous two Metroid Prime games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 9.0, 71 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 8,384 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Retro Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Aug 27, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Slick controls and great boss fights make Corruption a worthy end to the Metroid Prime trilogy. 
 

  If you expected Metroid Prime 3: Corruption to be a high-quality continuation of the series, you'd 
 be right. And yes, the Wii controls are terrific and intuitive, so if you hoped that controlling 
 bounty hunter Samus Aran would be a dream, that wish has been granted, too. All told, even though 
 Corruption's easier battles and conservative design sometimes seems like less of a sprawling Metroid 
 adventure and more of a straightforward first-person shooter, it's still a great action game that 
 does exactly what you expect it to do, no more and no less.  

  Of course, the five years that have elapsed between the original Metroid Prime and the trilogy's 
 final hurrah is an eternity in gaming, so even with its smooth, Wii-specific controls, there is 
 a strong sense of familiarity here. While Metroid Prime spectacularly ushered Metroid gameplay 
 into a 3D vision, Corruption is content to be a solid successor. Yet you shouldn't let some spurts 
 of predictability dissuade you from checking it out, particularly if you are a Metroid enthusiast. 
 Corruption offers its own formula tweaks while staying true to its roots, and like the previous 
 games in the Prime series, it sends you on an atmospheric journey of discovery and enjoyable boss 
 fights.  

           I... have... the power!      

  This sequel is aptly named. Samus and her fellow bounty hunters are struggling to repair an organic 
 computer that has been infected by a mysterious virus. As always, these things are never what they 
 seem, but rather than risk spoiling any sensitive plot points, we would rather safely say that 
 the ensuing adventure sends Samus across a number of lush alien worlds and bizarre landscapes. 
 (Not that the Prime games have ever strived to set standards for gaming fiction.) There is a plot 
 here, but it's never been about the destination: It's about the voyage. As before, there is a ton 
 of written backstory to discover, all dispersed among strange, imaginative worlds. You'll also 
 meet up with a number of old acquaintances, friend and foe alike.  

  But all that is part and parcel of a terrific series. The obvious change here is in the controls, 
 and Corruption leaves behind the methodical maneuvering of its GameCube brethren with an intuitive 
 and configurable scheme that sets the standard for first-person shooting controls on the Wii, despite 
 Corruption's battles not being all that challenging. (More on that later.) All of your aiming and 
 turning is done with the remote, while moving and strafing is handled by the Nunchuk. It's been 
 done before, of course, but not to this degree of success. Almost any player will be at home with 
 the "advanced" scheme, where moving the remote moves your targeting reticle but also turns your 
 point of view as it approaches the edge of the screen. The other schemes require your reticle to 
 hit the screen's edge before turning commences, which is more than a bit annoying. You aren't stuck 
 free-aiming at your enemies, though, since the Z button allows you to lock on to your target.  
 

  Suffice it to say, Metroid Prime 3 takes on characteristics more akin to a standard first-person 
 shooter than its predecessors did. The good news is that moving about is less frustrating and plodding 
 than before. Your enemies fall faster, boss encounters require less controller fumbling, and there 
 is an overall ease to travel and movement that the series lacked before. It's a double-edged sword, 
 however, because while most Metroid Prime hallmarks -- object scanning, careful exploration, complex 
 puzzle-solving -- remain, Corruption feels less like a probing adventure than a regular shooter. 

           Only grapple the ones you love.      

  But a highly enjoyable shooter nevertheless. When it comes to blasting stuff, Retro Studios kept 
 things simple this time. Samus begins with the trusty arm cannon and soon gains the use of homing 
 missiles. These are, more or less, the weapons you will keep for the duration, though not as you 
 are given them. As you progress through Corruption's 20-hour campaign, you'll earn cumulative upgrades, 
 so the standard fire becomes plasma fire, which evolves again come the next power-up, and so on. 
 You never lose any abilities with a new upgrade, so once you've earned the ability to melt through 
 ice, you aren't in danger of losing it later. But don't expect a barrage of constant enemies; nor 
 should you expect much of a challenge from the standard foes. Yet even without a sense of challenge, 
 shooting feels great in Corruption. A lot of this has to do with the smooth controls, but even 
 more of it is due to the good variety of alien and mechanical monstrosities you do battle with. 

  The biggest addition to the shooting is that of the Phazon Enhancement Device. The PED allows you 
 to enter hypermode by holding the plus button. In this mode, Samus' attacks do outrageous damage. 
 But she has limited phazon in her reserves, so once it's all gone, all you can do is wait for it 
 to replenish. You've got to pay attention, since entering hypermode depletes Samus' energy, and 
 you also run the risk of overloading her with too much phazon and being forced to fire it all away 
 lest she bite the dust. Another new element is the nova beam, which is a great cannon upgrade in 
 and of itself, but is also used in conjunction with the x-ray visor to shoot at enemies and objects 
 through solid walls.     

   

  But this is Metroid, so of course you'll need to use your wits as much as you use weapons that 
 turn alien scum into goo. Environmental puzzles are generally as good in Corruption as they've 
 ever been, and you'll need to survey your surroundings carefully to find the path to your next 
 goal. Yes, the scanning visor is back, so be prepared to study objects frequently to best know 
 their purpose and potential uses as puzzle solutions. It's easier to switch visors than ever -- all 
 you have to do is hold the minus button and flick the remote toward the visor you wish to switch 
 to -- so while it makes the scanning mechanic seem less central than before, it also makes it simpler 
 to survey the objects in question and move on.  

           The bosses look awesome and are a lot of fun to fight.      

  Corruption truly shines 
 when these mechanics work in tandem, making for smooth, seamless puzzle-solving and occasionally 
 bringing new dimensions into the combat as well. Samus still has a grappling hook, though this 
 time, you'll grab objects (and occasionally, enemies or their shields) by flicking the Nunchuk 
 forward, and rip the thing away by pulling it back. It works and feels great, both in puzzles and 
 in combat, particularly when used in tandem with other activities. Samus can still transform into 
 the morph ball, too, and it's fun to discover new places to squeeze her into, though morphing has 
 its unique uses in battle as well. The context-sensitive actions aren't quite as successful. There 
 are times when you need to push the remote forward and twist it to unlock doors or perform other 
 tasks, and while you can always manage to make it happen, it's usually awkward and doesn't feel 
 the way you think it should.  

  Undoubtedly, Corruption's finest moments are its boss battles, which may not be quite the challenge 
 they've been in the previous Prime games, but will still manage to impress you by the sheer variety 
 that goes into winning them. A single boss battle may involve using morph ball techniques, the 
 screw attack, entering hypermode, and firing both missiles and beams -- often requiring pinpoint 
 precision. Most of these battles are an absolute blast, and most of them have real meaning in context 
 of the story.  

  If this all sounds like a lot of fun, it's because it is. Yet Corruption's focus on refined FPS 
 mechanics and general sense of familiarity keep it from being as special as the other Prime titles. 
 Just like Resident Evil 4 would have felt different -- and arguably worse -- had its controls been 
 stripped down to a simple FPS scheme, Corruption loses some of its sense of wonder and strangeness 
 on the Wii. Rather than being a true action adventure, it's hard to lose the sense that it's merely 
 an FPS with trimmings. Its core control scheme is a revelation, but the resulting tempo adjustment 
 and streamlining is missing some of the careful pacing that made Metroid Prime and Metroid Prime 
 2 so superb. Still, any fan ought to enjoy this outing in spite of those quibbles, thanks to a 
 good number of awesome, involved environmental puzzles and delightful (albeit fairly easy) boss 
 fights.  

           The environmental puzzles can be intimidating at first.      

  The exotic worlds of Corruption will excite series fans, and for good reason. Like its predecessors, 
 Corruption features superb art direction, so every level is even more incredible to explore than 
 the last. While it isn't a huge step over Metroid Prime 2 in terms of sheer graphical quality, 
 there are plenty of elements that will catch your eye, such as Samus' visor reflections, or the 
 detailed, complex machinery that brings some of the environmental puzzles to brilliant life. The 
 biggest surprise in the production values is the addition of a good deal of voice acting, at least 
 toward the beginning of the game. You'll still spend most of your time exploring in relative silence, 
 and the eerie, great soundtrack keeps you in just the right mood. But occasionally you'll interact 
 with bounty hunters and other characters, and their lines are mostly spoken. The voice acting is 
 fine, though its presence does reinforce just how effective the ghostly silence was in the first 
 two Prime games.  

  If you're a Metroid fan, there's no need to convince you to play Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. It's 
 got exactly what you would expect from the last in an acclaimed trilogy of titles: great boss battles, 
 involved environmental puzzles, and a smooth control scheme that cements exactly how FPS controls 
 should work on the platform. It'll also keep you busy for a while, since you can earn tokens for 
 completing various tasks and use them to purchase unlockable goodies like concept art and bumper 
 stickers for Samus' ship. While the lack of multiplayer is disappointing, the single-player campaign 
 won't leave you wanting. In the end, you may not be able to shake the feeling that you've done 
 all this before, but it will still make you grateful for how great it is at its core.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (581 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: thunderhorse55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so this game packs a lot of cool stuff. the enemies are amazingly detailed, not to mention 
 your own suit and squad. the best graphics I've ever seen on the wii. and they are complimented 
 with an excellent control scheme and equally amazing gameplay. the game basically starts you out 
 in your ship, which you can literally just sit in a mess with stuff. but anyways, you're briefed 
 on what exactly you are supposed to do (I think, it's been a while) , and then the real game starts. 
 the controls feel exactly the way they should, and they're also sometimes pretty fun. like the 
 grappel beam, which is probably the most intuitive of all the control mechanisms. and morph ball 
 mode plays and feel fresh and smooth as well. 
  
  by the end of the game, you'll end up with plenty of different weapons and techniques, which are 
 all pretty fun to use. so basically, if you like first-person shooters that have a puzzle-type 
 twist, this is exactly what you need. it is indeed a puzzler, but not so much that you feel like 
 is isn't really a shooter at all. this Metroid has a big variety of enemies and bosses, causing 
 the action to never get old. you won't be sorry you bought this game, plus to add more to the game, 
 it comes with 3 different difficulties, which i confess to never playing, because I traded it after 
 i beat it the first time and bought Tales of Symphonia for GC (a very good game which I may or may 
 not be reviewing soon) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hailstorm24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 12:21 pm PT
Review:  The series of prime games has been storydriven and immersive ever since the first game. The graphics 
 for this game is so spectacular, it rivals almost any game for the Xbox360, and even the PS3. Audio 
 is great, they have even added voices to the game, the dialouge is good, although many people you 
 talk to usually talk to much. The controls, at first, can be hard to get used to, but once you 
 master it, it doesn't take much effort at all. Gameplay, well, it's awesome. Of course, there is 
 backtracking, it wouldn't be a metroid game without it, but this time, it makes more sense than 
 in previous games. The only complaint i had with this game, is that it is not a game for new wii 
 go'ers. I don't really have a problem with this, but everyone I show this game to doesn't know 
 how to play it. Overall, Metroid Prime 3 is a satisfying game and the end of Metroid Prime, I don't 
 think it's the end after seeing the 100% ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_nonplussed
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 2:29 pm PT
Review:  
  Metroid Prime 3 - review
  
  
  this review of 'metroid prime 3: corruption' doesn't promise to be comprehensive, but it does outline 
 and analyze the areas of the game that I think are of greatest importance to discuss.
  
  
  The bad
  
  
  As a long-time fan of the metroid series, you would think that I would have 
 been looking forward to this game, but I wasn't really bothered about it. 
  
  I adored the first metroid prime (my favorite gamecube game) and played it a lot. When the second 
 one came out I got it first day, but after a while I was somewhat disappointed. I felt I had seen 
 it all before. 
  I also took issue with the whole 'dark world', that I thought was boring and largely empty, and 
 too similar to the 'light world'. The only two areas I really remembered were 'torvus bog' and 
 the mechanical level at the end.
  
  But I eventually borrowed MP3 from a friend, and I must say it caused a lot of varied reactions 
 in me.
  
  First of all, let's talk about the opening of the game. Samus actually docks into the 'galactic 
 federation', and there are actually guards walking about. The first reaction from me is one of 
 slight confusion and a sort of "hmmis this really necessary" kind of attitude.
  I can't get over how much the beginning of MP3 felt like the beginning 'Halo' mixed with the beginning 
 of 'Half-Life'. Anyway, several of the NPCs at the station just stand there repairing boxes or 
 something  it's just really odd for a metroid game. 
  But it was about to get odder, when you meet 'admiral dane'! 
  
  Admiral dane tells you of 
 some corruption virus harming their supercomputers, while some other 'bounty hunters' are just 
 milling around. I kind of lost it when the pink one talked, and almost banged my head on the controller 
 when the one with the deep voice started trying to have an emotional moment (*cue deep voice* "If 
 only I was there, this would never have happened") . Pleasedon't talk anymore.
  
  I think the actual character designs for the hunters are okay, but the faces are just silly and 
 voices are terrible. "See you later, sammy" the pink girly one says in a somewhat seductive voice. 
 Samus, ever the mute says nothing back. But it's like you're supposed to believe that they're chums 
 or something, and that they normally talk like that and hang out together.
  
  The whole 'other characters' thing was just kind of an ill-advised move. It totally removed the 
 atmosphere and placed Samus in an out-of-place context. This is one of the reasons why I don't 
 think retro studios is that great at storytelling (at least in this way)  they seem like a very 
 technically-driven company.
  
  
  Anyway, the whole game has been simplified for the Wii. Everything looks great, but it's shorter 
 in length and more compact. Samus starts off with some of her old abilities so she doesn't need 
 to attain the basic ones. Also, you can't switch between weapons as whatever new weapon you get 
 replaces the older one. This all works fine.
  
  I'd say the biggest change with this new metroid is the level selection screen. Retro thought it 
 was a good idea to cut the game into separate levels instead of one whole compact, inter-connected 
 map.
  I can see where they were going with this. It makes the game feel like it has more of a 'mission-structure', 
 and indeed the game is more mission-based, similar to fusion's linear design. The use of samus's 
 ship makes her feel more like a bounty hunter. I think retro wanted to really emphasize the bounty 
 hunter aspect.
  
  However, it cuts the game up into sections which destroys the feeling of cohesion and seamlessness 
 that retro worked so hard to build in the first two games.
  Levels in MP3 feel like they could have been in a 'Zelda' game. It's such an odd mish-mash of sci-fi 
 and fantasy elements that sometimes just don't feel right.
  
  The first two levels are kind of generic. The first one is a space station that is actually okay, 
 setting the tone of the game and giving you a familiar feel. Though, there is an odd inclusion 
 of ridley towards the end of the level. It's kind of confusing and throws you, because you kill 
 ridley off in the first prime. But apparently this one is 'mecha ridley' and not 'meta ridley'. 
 
  
  It's just confusing and it feels like they just threw it in for dramatic effect, even if it is 
 cool in itself  it's not cool to just liberally mess around with a series' roots for the fun of 
 it. Ridley, like samus is in danger of losing its mystique due to over-exposure in all the other 
 games recently. I had this concern when they just plonked another meta-ridley at the end of 'zero 
 mission'. Do they not even care anymore? It's just lazy.
  
  The second level is comprised of a number of sub-levels. One is a jungle and the other is a fire 
 temple.
  For some reason there is really no atmosphere in the jungle level. It all has a kind of lifeless 
 feel to it, like it has had all the juice sucked out of it. I really felt like retro had simply 
 run out of ideas at this point. All the levels in this section felt like re-hashes and remixes 
 of various other areas from the first two games, and no better for it.
  
  
  
  The good
  
  
  However, it's not all bad. Once you get to 'skytown Elysia', you know that 
 this is going to be an awesome place and MP3 really feels strong and it all feels like metroid 
 again.
  
  Skytown Elysia is a beautiful steampunk fantasy network, hovering in the clouds.
  It's hard to 
 describe the beauty in words, but I'll describe the layout of the level, which is genius.
  There are lots of pipes everywhere, and a feeling of a rusty fantasy world that is under repair 
 by tiny robots hovering around. (They don't harm you) .
  
  The corridors are classically metroid; narrow and dank. The darkness and depth of the level is 
 bathed in many sources of light though. The light doesn't reach the corners of the rooms, but instead 
 glows faintly and silently. The corridors are littered with green discs that bathe your senses 
 in green light. And there are tons of other little light sources and transparencies.
  
  Once you get out of the tight corridors, you can see the large expansive clouds, and you're able 
 to breathe again. The small corridor areas are tied together by rails. In a stroke of genius, samus 
 can hook onto the rails and glide effortlessly through the sky!
  
  It is such a calming and serene experience that really makes you feel better that the rest of the 
 game isn't up to scratch. When gliding, you forget the open arenas of earlier levels and repeated 
 bosses, and just enjoy the moment, where you can feel the essence of metroid: transience.
  
  But it's not just the beauty of the art direction. It is everything  down to every polygon, 
 and every interaction. The texture detail is low, but retro have painstakingly crafted detail with 
 lots of angular polygons and sheets of transparency, giving efficient and effective depth and detail 
 to the world, that is really striking and proof that you don't need to use the latest technical 
 breakthroughs in 3D graphics to make your game look good. 
  
  I think 'Bioschok' looks great, but the characters look far too rubbery, and bump mapping everything 
 doesn't make it necessarily look any better. A lot of 'next-gen' games look far too shiny, while 
 metroid prime 3: corruption retains an identiy among all the samey, bandwagon graphics of the bigger 
 consoles.
  
  I always feel like experiencing the prime games is like walking around in a natural history museum 
 or a secret science exhibit, shown only to scientists. It has that aestheticsort of surreal and 
 dreamy, but you know it is a simulation underneath.
  
  In my metroid prime review I talk about how the identity of prime is in its fluidity and pacing. 
 The metroid games have always been fluid and well-paced, but prime does it so perfectly and seamlessly 
 that it almost becomes about moving from area to area  as a concept. 
  Samus becomes a vagrant and a vagabond, with no stable home. While in SM, samus defines speed, 
 the samus in MP is an explorer; an examiner; an analyzer. She is working methodically to take the 
 spice pirates down from the inside, bit by bit.
  
  Elysia showcases samus's methodical nature the best, with so many interactions and so much input 
 by the player. Retro forces this idea that samus is a key. She is a key that is unlocking elysia, 
 and the chozos' world, each step of the way. They give you control for each separate element that 
 you could possibly think of. 
  All of this is mostly due to one thing: the morph ball. The morph ball completely changes gameplay 
 and it is still today, fresh, inspiring and innovative in its application.
  
  At the end of the elysia level you have to build a bomb. The game could simply get you to fetch 
 a bomb, then bring it the correct place and treat you to a cut-scene. But instead, you have to 
 find three separate parts to the bomb in spread out locations. 
  Once you get to each part, you then have to use your scan visor to check the areas that need attention. 
 
  
  Then you often have to use your morph ball or plasma beam to get things online again, then there 
 are several more steps before you have to change visor to call down your ship to pick one bomb 
 part up! And you have to do this kind of thing three times, before the finale of destroying this 
 big leviathan corruption seed.
  
  Prime finds its own identity in its systematic, methodical 'interaction system'. I've never played 
 a game before that offers you so much control over your actions.
  This is good, considering how much rhythm and consistency it loses from having more wide-open levels 
 and cut-up world design with menus. Add to that, the fiddly Wii controls, it ends up being an exhausting 
 and strange experience.
  
  On the one hand, it displays many stand-out moments, defining its own identity as a series whilst 
 retaining the essence of metroid, but on the other it tramples all over what it means to experience 
 metroid. So, I am a bit nonplussed.
  
  
  There are many other cool moments, like the Valhalla, and the ending level but I've ran out of 
 space and time. I think metroid deserves a well-earned break for a while.
  
  --------
  
  a final note....
  
  it is ironic that metroid is a series that is fundamentally about transience 
 and change, but corruption has made the most radical changes and transitions to the design so far 
 - only, they feel weird and out of place. 
  this is a strange contradiction that remains though-provoking...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JebranRush
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 7:15 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Epic boss fights, fabulous controls, great graphics artistically and technically, great 
 story, some nice extra features, backtracking is less of a pain, great puzzles
  
  The Bad: Door load times
  
  The Metroid Prime trilogy is a first person adventure (FPA) series 
 that deals with exploration and puzzle solving as well as combat. Some have classified the game 
 as straight First Person Shooter (FPS) but it's really so much more.
  
  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is the third and final entry into the Metroid Prime Trilogy and it's 
 no disappointment. It starts off with a short but cinematic opening showing... what's this? Dark 
 Samus? Correct. Dark Samus is back and causing more havoc and corruption then ever. The game then 
 takes you behind the visor of bounty hunter Samus Aran in her familiar space ship and soon enough 
 it leads you through a tutorial level of sorts although it's part of the story.
  
  The game's learning curve is extremely well done. By the end of the first area, you'll be completely 
 comfortable with all the controls. This first area has two boss fights. The first one is with the 
 colossal arch-rival Ridley. He ambushes you and you both fall through a very long tunnel. Your 
 aerial distance with the ground is shown at the top of the screen and you must defeat Ridley before 
 you go splat. This time Samus' isn't the only bounty hunter. Three other hunters are put up with 
 the same task as you are. They act as friends and protect you and help you several times. There's 
 Rundas, Gandrayda, and Ghor. These three hunters each have a special ability. Rundas is able to 
 ride on ice in mid-air and summon ice attacks, Gandrayda is able to turn shapeshift to appear as 
 someone else, and Ghor is just large and powerful. It may sound like you're able to control these 
 three, but you can't.
  
  This all seems a bit different than the other two Metroid Prime's. They both put you on an isolated 
 planet and immerse you into a world that's fairly eerie. Metroid Prime 3 starts off differently 
 but still stays true to the series. After the first area, you are sent to a planet where you must 
 stop corruption from a large space object called a Leviathon that crashed into this planet. Your 
 mission as Samus is to stop this corruption and learn the secrets behind it all. The plot is very 
 well done and is not confusing at all. The controls are one of the key points of this game. Your 
 Wii remote acts as Samus' arm cannon. All you do is point at the screen (sensor bar really) and 
 look around. You move by using the nunchuk control stick and you fire with the A button located 
 at the top of the Wii remote. The B button at the back allows you to jump, the Z button on the 
 nunchuk allow you to lock on to targets, and the C button also on the nunchuk lets you turn into 
 the morph ball. Once you get the grapple hook, you are able to flick the nunchuk and use it to, 
 for example, rip enemies shields off. This is quite useful and is also used for puzzle solving 
 as well.
  
  It's all very simple. And as you progress, you gain the ability to go into Hyper mode. You just 
 hold the plus (+) button on the Wii remote and you are now in hypermode. This mode allows you to 
 deal heavy damage to enemies but at a price. It requires a full tank of health to activate but 
 how much of this tank you use is up to how much you fire.
  
  Metroid games in general are noted for their epic and difficult boss fights. Metroid Prime 3 is 
 no exception. The only difference is that there is a lot more boss fights (some of them are mini 
 bosses) . You'll fight giant monsters and creatures that aren't all about blasting away at them. 
 Most of them require you to think about what to do and how to do it.
  
  The audio part of this game is on-par with the rest of fabulous quality of this game. Some great 
 tunes immerse you into the worlds you're wandering through and some more upbeat tunes are played 
 when in combat with a room of enemies or a boss of some sort. The sounds like shooting or grapple 
 beam use sound as it should, which is futuristic and sci-fi'ish. It's very well done.
  
  After you have completed the game, you are rewarded with the ability to replay the game but on 
 a new difficulty setting: Hyper mode. Obviously this mode is much more difficult which means enemies 
 are stronger, take longer to kill, and hyper mode itself must be used much more often then in the 
 other two difficulty settings. Expect to die a lot more in this setting.
  
  During the course of the adventure, you are awarded tokens for completing special events or tasks. 
 This is similar to Microsoft's "achievement system". There are 4 different types of tokens and 
 each are earned differently. One type of token can be earned by defeating boss monsters (mini bosses 
 included) on different difficulty settings. So if you beat the game once on, say, normal difficulty, 
 you cannot earn this type of token anymore. You must switch to hard or hyper mode. The second type 
 of token is awarded for clearing special events. These vary and are hard to explain. You can also 
 get this type of token by scanning lore across the worlds.
  The third type of token is earned by scanning items and enemies.
  The fourth type of token is 
 earned by receiving it from friends via Wiiconnect24. You can also send "friend vouchers" as they 
 are called to friends and when they reach your friends system, they are converted in tokens.
  So what exactly do these tokens do? You can use them to purchase extra content such as artwork, 
 music, and cool things like the screen shot taker. This allows you to take screen shots during 
 the game by simply pressing the up button the D-pad. These get posted onto your Wii message board 
 and you can then send these to friends and share epic moments you had. Visuals in Metroid Prime 
 3 are quite frankly, amazing. Textures are smooth and well done, frame rate never dips, and the 
 art style of this game is unbelievable. The main improvement though from the other two Metroid 
 Primes on the Gamecube is the lighting and bloom effect. It must be seen to get the full effect. 
 Metroid Prime 3 looks great but it's not the graphical difference that it should be from the first 
 two Metroid Primes.
  
  Also a problem is the door loading. Metroid Prime games are known to not have any loading screens. 
 The first two Metroid Primes disguised their loading screens with doors. When you shoot doors to 
 open them, it takes a moment to load the next area and it was never a major problem as it went 
 quick and about 95% of the time was never noticeable. Unfortunately Metroid Prime 3 has some bad 
 door loading times. It can take up to 10 seconds for a door to open. This is especially annoying 
 when being shot at so you can't always make a quick escape. This game does have loading screens 
 although they don't say "Loading" or show any progress bar. Instead it shows a short clip of, for 
 example, your ship entering into a planets atmosphere. These disguised load screens are really 
 no problem unlike the door loading times.
  
  There's a lot to see in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. Gamespot said it best: "Slick controls and 
 great boss fights make Corruption a worthy end to the Metroid Prime trilogy." It might be familiar 
 to some but it really isn't a problem. Overall, Metroid Prime 3 is a great game with lots of action, 
 ingenious puzzles, and a great story and cinematic scenes to boot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miroku32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is the last game of the Prime trilogy that started on the Gamecube. Samus now must 
 travel to different planets for destroy the phazon seeds and free them from the corruption but 
 also she must fight the corruption that is inside her body.
  
  The story begins like 6 months after Metroid Prime 2, Samus is going to a meeting with other bounty 
 hunters, when the meeting starts space pirates attack the confederation ships and planet, Samus 
 and the other bounty hunters must defend the planet by activating the planetary defense system 
 but when they activate it Dark Samus comes and corrupt all the bounty hunters with phazon.
  
  The gameplay is now with the wiimote, with it you can aim at the screen and it will also work 
 for do other things like activating door, also in the wiimote you can change visors and shoot beams 
 and missiles. The nunchuck works for move and transform into the famous ball. Additions to the 
 gameplay is that you can use Samus`s Ship for travel to different planets or use it for launch 
 missiles and the last thing is when Samus becomes corrupted she will gain Hyper Mode, the attacks 
 will increase but she will lose life, each time you enter hyper mode you will lose one energy tank, 
 after a while she will enter corrupted hyper mode and if the bar doesnt go low and turns flashing 
 red then Samus will be utterly corrupted and become a Dark Samus clone plus a game over. Obviously 
 this add more challenge to the game.
  
  The graphics for me seem the best for the wii (17/3/09) and it really shows alot of things, alot 
 of details. Retro did a good pushing the wii hardware to its limit.
  
  The music and the sound go well and a new addition also is that alot of characters have dialogues 
 with voice but Samus continues to be a silent character, the voice actors did it well for being 
 the first time in a Metroid game.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 is one of the best games for the wii but in the Prime trilogy is the weakest of 
 all, it is similar to the other two games but if you have a wii this is a game that you must have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 3:43 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing graphics by any standard that prove the Wii can do more than people think; the 
 tone-setting, often eerie music Metroid is famous for is back; aiming with the remote is a dream 
 come true; voice acting at last meets Nintendo with wonderful results; a long campaign with multiple 
 difficulties; tons of cool new upgrades; the Prime trilogy has ended with the best game in the 
 franchise.
  
  The Bad: Some motion controls are a little faulty; Retro has still determinedly put a collection 
 quest at the end of the game.
  
  As expected, the Wii went through a drought in terms of games immediately after its release. Like 
 every system ever made, very few high quality games came along early in its life cycle. 360 tooks 
 it turn until Gears of War. PS3 had Resistance on release but took until 2008 to pick up a bit 
 of steam, and will probably continue to do so as Blu-Ray interests buyers more and more.
  
  Wii had Twilight Princess and Wii Sports on release, to make both audiences it had promised to 
 keep happy take an interest with the system. But other than maybe Warioware, nothing else has really 
 kept the core crowd happy since.
  
  Fortunately, however, Retro Studios has come in to save the day. Link held down the fort on release 
 (which is unusual in itself) , so Samus gets her turn now with one of the best games on Wii to date, 
 and, in my opinion, the best Metroid game ever made.
  
  If you've played the first two Metroid Prime games on Gamecube you'll know that the Space Pirates 
 are trying to use Metroids, green, fanged, energy sucking little creatures, as weapons. Metroids 
 are dangerous already, but with the use of radioactive Phazon that's been unearthed, the Pirates 
 plan to control them and use them as weapons. In the first two they went mining for Phazon throughout 
 the universe, and created a Metroid that now feeds solely on Phazon: Metroid Prime. This Metroid 
 turned into Dark Samus, who is now leading the Space Pirates against Samus and the Galactic Federation 
 to take over the universe.
  
  You'll first notice that the graphics are a major step up from the Gamecube titles. The art design 
 is top notch, you won't find a jagged edge anywhere, and the whole game is very much this gen. 
 They're spectacular by any standard, no matter what system you're talking about.
  
  You'll notice soon after that voice acting is present here, something never before attempted by 
 Nintendo, even in the Prime series. It's odd that second party Retro Studios, who have worked solely 
 on the Metroid games since the reboot in 2002, attempted this before Nintendo itself. But the result 
 is impressive. The voice acting is well done, the script isn't cheesy in the slightest, and the 
 tone isn't ruined, but enhanced, by the newly deepened plot.
  
  Metroid titles are known for keeping a sense of loneliness present all game, due to the fact that 
 Samus flies solo, and how well executed the music is. The first two Prime games certainly stuck 
 to that, and let you blast through the game without bothering with the plot, or read the story 
 through logbook entries you scan at your choosing.
  
  Prime 3, fortunately, doesn't take away from that feeling. The music is still as eerie, 'futuristic', 
 and Metroid-like as ever. And despite the cutscenes, character development, and thicker plot, the 
 loneliness during gameplay still keeps you feeling like the bounty hunter behind the visor.
  
  It's nice seeing a war brewing, and that Samus isn't fighting a one-woman-fight, this time 
 around. It makes the game feel bigger and better, which it is.
  
  Instead of focusing on just one planet, Prime 3 deviates to around six of seven planets, all very 
 unique. You do have a fire planet and a forest planet, but they aren't as stereotypical as they 
 sound, and don't feel like you're retracing your steps from previous Metroid games at all.
  
  The control scheme's main focus is the change in the aiming system. In the first two games 
 Samus simply locked on to opponents, as the game wasn't focused on shooting, but exploring. This 
 game is still a 'first-person adventure' in the same way, but when you lock on, you can still move 
 your arm around, making a slightly larger focus on aiming become present. This is definitely a 
 good thing in the first place, and even better because it's on Wii.
  
  First-person shooting obviously came to mind the moment the Wii was announced, and the aiming is 
 just as amazing as we'd ever hoped to come out of the system. You have different options on how 
 fast Samus will turn her head and react, so newer gamers won't swing around faster than they want 
 to.
  
  But for a hardcore gamer, the advanced setting is by far the best. It's much smoother and feels 
 much better aiming this way, not only compared to the other settings, but compared to any other 
 shooting based game on the system. The game makes sure that the difficulty is set appropriately 
 for how quickly you'll be able to respond with your own aiming too, minus the use of control sticks, 
 which is even better.
  
  On the other hand are the motion based controls. You'll be using levers, the grapple beam, and 
 hitting buttons in your ship in the game by these means, and it all works fairly well. We've never 
 controlled Samus in her ship before, so it's a welcome addition to see what exactly she does in 
 there. And hitting the buttons works fine, as does any cursor-based control in the game.
  
  The grapple beam and levers, however, aren't done quite so well. You'll go to rip off an enemies' 
 shield and it won't work, or you may go to open a door and Samus's hand won't respond. But that's 
 a minor nitpick, as the majority of the time it works just fine.
  
  There are plenty of cool new items around for Samus to utilize. She'll be controlling Phazon in 
 different ways and getting new beam weapons for her arm cannon, and there are still the standard 
 missile upgrades to be found.
  
  Because the Gamecube controller had another control stick, Retro chose to not have you bother switching 
 between beams. This isn't really a loss because you'll still be facing puzzles that require you 
 to combine different weapons you've collected on your journey, and that control felt somewhat unnecessary 
 anyway in the first two games.
  
  I personally didn't feel that Prime 3 was just copying what the first two games had already done 
 anymore than Halo 3 copied Halo 1 and 2. In fact it enhances everything before and introduces plenty 
 of new elements to the franchise as a whole.
  
  The game ends up being around twenty hours long, closer to twenty-five or thirty if you go about 
 collecting all of the energy tanks and missile expansions hidden throughout the galaxy. You'll 
 be exploring anyway because there's a collection quest at the end of the journey in this game, 
 like in the first two Prime games.
  
  I personally dislike collection quests a lot, as you're just backtracking, it's required, and it 
 feels like a cop-out by the developers to make the game longer. I figure if I want to explore the 
 game, I want to do it myself, not because the developers make me do so.
  
  Fortunately, this collection quest isn't nearly as annoying as the times before. Prime 2 had so 
 much tedious backtracking anyway that it ticked me off the most, but this one is even less annoying 
 than the one in Metroid Prime, which I didn't mind much.
  
  Besides, I was happy to explore this world some more, as you won't be backtracking at all until 
 then. Prime 1 had backtracking, but not to the point where it bothered me. Prime 2 went way over 
 the top, so while it's still a great game, it's my least favorite of the three. Prime 3 manages 
 to avoid it almost completely, making it my favorite, as I was almost excited for the collection 
 quest to explore this gorgeous world again.
  
  In other words there's plenty of those famous missile and energy tank expansions to find, a meaty 
 quest on its own, and a hard difficulty after you beat it once. Plus, the more items you collect, 
 the better ending you get, as in the first two games. The 100% item collection ending even leaves 
 a cliffhanger to open up room for another Prime game, or some form of Metroid, in future.
  
  It could be complained about that this game isn't nearly as long as the likes of Twilight Princess, 
 but hard mode and the multiple endings give good reason to come back for more, plus there's still 
 plenty of history to the many species you'll encounter that can be tracked down with the scan visor, 
 which you won't learn about through the cutscenes.
  
  And as I noted, the motion controls and collection quest are minor complaints, and the collection 
 quest more minor than ever before. Prime 3 can keep you going for sixty hours if you play both 
 difficulties, so the length is no issue to me. And as for being the 'same old' gameplay from Prime 
 1 and 2... I can't comprehend that complaint when about thirty first-person shooters come out with 
 the same controls every year.
  
  The first-person adventure genre still belongs solely to Metroid, and this particular Metroid is 
 the best one ever made. It's truly a killer-app on Wii, even better than Super Metroid and Metroid 
 Prime in my opinion, and shouldn't be missed any more than Twilight Princess or Mario Galaxy should 
 be. It brought us the shooting system we all prayed for and the graphics no one expects from the 
 Wii, even though they should. If you really think the Wii doesn't have any good games, play this 
 one. It's truly one of the biggest must-plays on Wii yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetTrooper-Nick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 3:06 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 brings so much $50 entertainment. The exploration of the numerous settings can 
 quickly change from fast paced, to a nice and slow walk. Various showdowns take place where Samus 
 will be stuck in a room full of Space Pirates or a boss. This game brought a daring new control 
 type to the game, your Wiimote acts as the Power Beam. Not only that though, at some parts you 
 will have to twist, turn, and push your Wiimote in all different directions. Even the Nunchuck 
 gets tossed around a bit as a grapple hook. The gameplay was out-of-the-ballpark, as was the story. 
 
  The story of Metroid Prime 3 was the final installment of the Prime trilogy, and it did pretty 
 well. The story takes off when Samus and three ally hunters; Ghor, Gandrayda, and the icy Rundas, 
 are all corrupted by the evil material Phazon and pass out. Samus wakes up 1 month later than her 
 fellow hunters to find they have left to destroy Leviatan Seeds; strange things that spread Phazon 
 across planets. Ghor and Rundas went to Elysia and Bryyo, while Gandrayda went to the Pirate Homeworld. 
 The Galactic Federation lost contact with all of them. Samus is sent to destroy the Leviatan Seeds 
 and save the hunters, but before she does, she is given her PED suit. This control her Phazon corruption 
 and allows her to enter Hypermode, a powerful upgrade that allows her to fire charged Phazon. As 
 she explores the planets, she finds and fights her fellow hunters who are now corrupted and evil. 
 One by one she stops their corruption, but they are then killed by Dark Samus. Eventually, they 
 are all killed and all seeds are destroyed, that's when Samus and the GF travel to planet Phaaze, 
 homeworld of Phazon. As she explores the depths of the planet she comes in one final showdown with 
 Dark Samus. She defeats it (her) and the planet begins to explode, thus destroying all Phazon in 
 the galaxy. Samus and the GF escape a-ok. If you get 75-100% pickups, it shows a secret ending, 
 displaying a strange ship resembling Delano 7 following Samus. It would highly recommend this game 
 to all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CChannel
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok first i love this game but its not perfect, so i'll tell you the pros and cons of this game. 
 Ok firste we start with the bad things. Well there was shooting difficulties during the begging 
 of the game i thought that kinda disrupted the story alittle and you miss part of the begging of 
 the game unless your like me who beat it 3 times, well than you have nothing to worry about. And 
 that's the only bad thing i could think of lol, like i said it was alot better than i first thought 
 and it should be commended for its intensity.
  
  ok now the good things. The story made sense through the whole game I never got confused, the game 
 will even keep you surprised at times. you will meet new and old friends and foes. One of my favourites 
 that they re-visited in to the game was Meta-rRdley or now known as omega Ridley who now holds 
 some of the elements including phazon, electricity and fire. Dark Samus of course is your main foe 
 but in this game you kill dark Samus on his planet. The one thing that was alittle disturbing though 
 was you have to kill all your friends because they become corrupted, ah but what else is new these 
 games get more disturbing through there generations. anyways, the music is awesome, period. The 
 game play is fantastic i didn't really find it frustrating at all besides the begging of the game. 
 They even made the metroids (hence the name of the game) have a part in the story which i won't 
 spoil for you. let's just say you will not be dissapointed in this game well atleast i wasnt at 
 all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robert380
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2009 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime and Metroid prime 2 are two amazing games. Unfortunately I don't think corruption 
 lives up to the very high standards set by the first two. 
  
  The entire prime series makes use of a very good control scheme that allows you to do many different 
 things with the bounty hunter Samus, however, due to the fact that you are now using a wii remote 
 instead of a game cube controller in Corruption, the controls had to be extremely simplified as 
 the wii remote has very few buttons on it. The new controls leave a lot to be desired, its very 
 annoying having to always point the wii remote at the screen, and the interactive areas feel forced 
 and unecessary. The game also doesn't pick up what you are trying to do sometimes, which can be 
 very irritating when you are trying to flip a switch and end up having to do it over and over again. 
 The whole motion control idea just ends up feeling like a useless add on.
  
  The difficulty of Corruption has suffered a huge drop off from the first two, the lack of puzzles 
 and easy boss fights make it seem like Nintendo made the game easy to help push the fact that the 
 wii is for everyone, including kids. The game is also much shorter than the first two.
  
  Now, the graphics of corruption are very good, even better than the first two in the series. The 
 details in the environments stand out very well, and the many different planets you visit throughout 
 the game all have their own interesting environmental features. And the overall fast pace of the 
 game is fun, even if there isn't many hard parts. The storyline of the game is very well done, 
 with a wide range of tones and situations brought on by it. And, the hypermode feature is a nice 
 addition, which lets you put more power behind your moves, but makes you vulnerable to being corrupted.
 
  
  The music for the game is also very impressive, with a large variety of music used to fit the many 
 environments and situations you come across. The voice acting is surprisingly well done, although 
 it does feel a bit out of place in a series that is so well known for its quiet and moody settings. 
 
  
  All in all, the game is a decent end to the incredible prime trilogy, but it doesn't quite muster 
 the goodness of the first two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johonywuzhere
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Metroid is definetly the best Nintendo first person shooter. It always had great graphics and a 
 fun long storyline. With new Wii controls, Metroid Prime 3 is simply the best Wii shooter. Along 
 with Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Mario Galaxy and Zelda Twilight Princess, this is arguebly the best 
 Wii game.
  
  This game will remind you of Halo and you will not know why. The campaign is simply amazing. You 
 will always have a main objective, but you will have tons of objectives before you can even attempt 
 your main objective. The campaign is long and tricky, but it will be so fun and so addictive you 
 will keep on playing. There are many great add ons that you will get in the campaign, like missiles 
 and grapples. The campaign time does vary though. If you have played Metroid Prime 1 and 2 you 
 will probably be about 10-20 hours. The bosses are always a fun challenge, but it probably won't 
 take more then 2 or 3 times and many times you can beat them the first try. An important part of 
 Metroid Prime 3 is the scanner, always use it for any boss or when your stuck. 
  
  Graphics for Metroid Prime 1 and 2 have been too dark, but Metroid Prime 3 definetly fixed that 
 problem. It is an obvious change and the environment looks great. Every planet is different and 
 you will always see creative environments.
  
  A new feature in Metroid Prime 3 is hypermode. All you do is hold the - button and you will change 
 into a much more powerful Samus. Your attacks will be very powerful and kill people in much less 
 time. Hypermode does suck some life out, but normally enemies drop the amount of health you gave 
 away from hypermode if you use it. 
  
  The controls are excellent and makes you feel like your actually in the game. The new controls 
 are simple, fun and simply greater then any other Wii games controls.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 may be the best Metroid yet, with new graphics, features and controls. I am hoping 
 that there will be a new Metroid game with multiplayer next time. I would give a 9.75/10, but a 
 9.5 is the closest option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellowshinygold
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 6:37 pm PT
Review:  i can't believe after all the Metroid games that have been created, the minds of the creators invented 
 one more game to brake history. to start i find good that this game is pretty long. this game has 
 awesome music, perfect graphics, and i have to say that the story looks cool despite the fact that 
 they invented a lot of stories.
  
  in my opinion, if you see this game in a store and you have the money then i recommend you to pick 
 it for your collection. learning was tricky because my hand needed to learn love for the Wii system. i 
 can't tell you things of the game but i can tell you that there is a part that you will find funny. this 
 review looks nice but it needs to finish with a wise saying.
  
  loving this game is like loving your hobby.
  those are opinions, not facts since i may not be 
 correct.#5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 86 % Metroid Prime 3 is the ending of the trilogy and its on the Nintendo Wii now let`s 
 talk about the controls in the controls you can choose the sensitivity like Beginner standard and 
 Advanced i suggest that you use advance because you can move allot more and you have more space 
 around to kill enemies. The story is different instead that you loose your accesories and that 
 you try to find them Samus keeps them and she continues on the game like you have power beam missiles 
 morph ball double jump and Varia suit the objectives are much easier but as you move on you need 
 to find the energy cells i suggest that you look into the logbook to see where the energy cells 
 are locate if you dont do this you`re just going to loose 6 hours to look for them without knowing 
 the location for it. You cannot have the thing in metroid prime 3 where you choose the beam you 
 just use one and thats it. Metroid priem 3 looks like Halo 3 the soldiers the enemies and the maps 
 and also the music I think it looks similar. In metroid prime 3 you get to beat bosse`s from Metroid 
 prime hunters, Metroid SNES, Metroid prime 1 and 2 and metroid Fusion. Using the map is way easier 
 than metroid prime 1 or 2 the objectives are clear and simple. The Final boss is Dark Samus since 
 samus is corrupted you stay in Hyper mode to beat Dark Samus ,Aurora Unit and the Aurora Unit head 
 i spent playing this game in total 24 hours believe it or not because i was exploring G. F. S valhalla 
 with just a plasma beam. and i was wasting my time tryign to find the objectives when they are 
 in the logbook. I think that Metroid Prime fans would be stunned playign this game and the details 
 in the game are mind blowing and the animations are much improved. Once you scan bosse`s clues 
 enemies and ect.... you get unlockables like soundtracks map packs and allot of extras that makes 
 the game even more interesting. I was frustrated when i was against dark samus because i only had 
 like 8 energy tanks and i did beat the hole game 70 % only if you play a harder difficulty you 
 get closer to 100 %.
  
  
  
  Graphics 88 % The graphics are stunning... like the details they are much improved and the effects 
 are more realistic especially the ending.
  
  
  
  Sound 87 % The music is awesome you can choose the songs you like in the extras menu (unlockables) 
 The beams are more powerfull.... and there`s also HYPERMODE wich is the easiest way to kill enemies.
 
  
  Controls : The controls are perfect for the wii remote and its way better then the old games... 
 (metroid prime 1) .
  
  Value : I payed 49 $ for this game used and i do not regret buying this game im actully happy this 
 is a must buy game if you have a wii you must have Metroid prime Zelda Super smash bros brawl and 
 super mario galaxy those are the top games and theres more.
  
  
  Metroid Prime 3 Corruption 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AbyssD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 Corruption its an awesome game why its awesome il explain why :) First of all cuz 
 of the graphics i never see better graphics for Wii i talking its awesome graphics for Wii second, is 
 Best gameplay ever playing whit Wii remote its make u feel like u are the Samus u controlling every 
 move of Samus :D and its easy to play, third is the Bosses best boss fight, and music's when u 
 fight bosses they are sick us the whole game :D the story its continue for Metroid Prime 2 so its 
 making game really good, afcorse there is also alot of puzzle's to solve its not only run kill 
 andvence there is puzzles and lots of upgrade to find for your weapon and health :) well what more 
 i can say u ppl just need to play this game if u hove Wii this is one game not to miss really worth 
 playing and hoving in your collection :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awesomeman08
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I just recently finished this game after getting bored of it about half-way through and 
 quitting a few months ago. After playing the first two MP games, i was expecting something amazing 
 from Retro Studios this time around. When they managed to seamlessly transform a side-scroller 
 into 3D, and then make even more improvements with the second game, I thought they would at least 
 be able to come up with something better for the Wii.
  
  I was sorely mistaken. 
  
  In the first two games I noticed a bit of a glitch in the doors. Sometimes when you would shoot 
 a door, it would take a few seconds for the door to open. Instead of it getting fixed with Prime 
 3, it got worse. I found myself waiting for up to a minute for a door to open, usually at the worst 
 possible times.
  
  The game also seemed to be lacking in suit upgrades. I never really had anything in the game blow 
 my mind like the Light Suit did in Echoes, or the Phazon Suit from the first game. 
  
  The storyline in the game seemed kind of forced, or unnatural to the series. The dialogue was OK 
 at best, and the story seemed to drop off the map after the beginning of the game and then resurface 
 at the end. It seemed out of place in this game.
  
  This game is also remarkably easier than the others, making it seem somewhat boring at times. Most 
 of the time it's more convenient to ignore all of the enemies in a room instead of fighting them. 
 Also the boss battles in this game were either rushed or seemed like they were sort of thrown together 
 at the last minute.
  
  The only redeeming factor I could find in the game was the controls. Retro Studios did an amazing 
 job with the idiotic excuse for a controller that the Wii utilizes. With most games on the Wii, 
 I find myself wanting to throw the controller at the wall because of how infuriating it can be, 
 but not so with Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. The lock-on free aiming combination actually seems 
 to work very well, although it takes some time to get used to. 
  
  All in all this game could have been a lot better. For fans of the Metroid Prime series, i would 
 suggest you rent the game before buying it. Everyone else, I would recommend you start looking 
 at another game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyrant03
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Although Metroid Prime for the Nintendo Gamecube is my favorite Metroid game of all time, Corruption 
 would be my second. The only reason Prime is better to me then Prime 3 is because Prime's worlds 
 were more vibrant and natural. Anyway, the controls are one of the best things about this game. 
 I mean don't get me wrong the graphics really show off the Wii's power. It's really hard to go 
 from playing this to playing a 360 FPS cause the controls for Prime 3 are perfect. The boss battles 
 are as epic as ever and the music is what you'd expect from the Prime series. Ridley even makes 
 a comeback in one of the funnest fights I've ever played. The scan visor is back in all it's glory. 
 New weapons, new upgrades and new environments make this game the perfect way to bring the series 
 to it's climactic ending 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan_Lionheart
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is a bittersweet experience. Let me clarify before you get worried. It's still 
 an awesome Metroid game in an awesome trilogy. But with the Wii's more casual approach, many things 
 have changed with the third entry, which I find to be the weakest yet by a slight margin.
  
  Before I get to particular flaws, let me just say quite a few things are done great to keep 
 this series interesting. For one, the control. It is quite simply superb, and some of the best 
 FPS control I've ever had, be it on a console or a keyboard and mouse scheme. I really do applaud 
 Retro Studios efforts because I found the controls to be the main thing wrong in the series, and 
 this time it's safe to say that this is at least the best Metroid Prime game in terms of gameplay.
 
  
  I love that there are voice overs in this game. Finally, some Nintendo franchise tries modern approach 
 for story telling. Now it's a shame you're always so sporadic with other life form encounters in 
 Metroid, but it does delve for a nice experience, immersing you more into Samus' world when you're 
 on the ship and talking to everyone. I think Samus is alone so much that it's hard to grasp what 
 the character is like and what she feels. But in Metroid Prime 3, it helps a lot of that.
  
  Now for what could be considered slight, minor flaws. For one, the story just really isn't 
 too exciting. I mean, it's Metroid, so it's original, and it's not bad. Hell, I'll even say it's 
 very good. But the presentation just isn't there, and being that this is the end of the trilogy, 
 you pretty much know what's going to happen, because if anything surprising happened, you'd already 
 know because this is the internet. Another thing is that with the casual fanbase of the Wii (I 
 was getting to this earlier) , the game is made much more user friendly. Not to say Metroid Prime 
 was some incredible challenge of a game before, but now it's much more noticeable in terms of having 
 shorter experiences in missions and locations. I really love the classic Metroid and early Metroid 
 Prime feel of going through these wide, expanding locations for long periods of time. But in Corruption, 
 it's more or less an hour and then you're already onto a new planet. This really hurts the whole 
 "adventure" concept of the game. Because although it is an adventure, it feels very different from 
 what Metroid players are used to. I'm used to going to a planet and spending quite a bit of time 
 on it, so every planet is an adventure of itself. But Corruption feels almost more like Kingdom 
 Hearts, where you go to one place, have a bit of fun, go to another place, have fun for less time, 
 and then move on for what could be considered one big adventure composed of many small journies.
 
  
  Anyway, Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is still a game that stands above many in terms of quality. 
 You evidently need it if you have a Wii or the previous Metroid Prime games. It would be worth 
 checking out for the gameplay alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2009 10:05 am PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying this: If you're expecting to be something revolutionary different in the 
 soul of the gameplay of this game than the previous installments into the series, then you'll be 
 disappointed. The only major change is the control scheme, and no other core gameplay element has 
 been changed. Yes, we still have the Scan visor, we still have all those great weapons, all those 
 great boss battles, all the spectacular environmental puzzles and the constant scanning of stuffs. 
 
  
  But just because there isn't any change doesnt mean that the game isn't good (that way, every Pokemon 
 and God of War game would have been a flop) . The game has everything that a gamer would dream off 
 in an ending to such an acclaimed series- it has breathtaking visuals which surpass all the boundaries 
 of a Wii's capabilities. It has the most sharp and intutive and highly responsive, and possibly 
 the best ever, control system created for a game. It has great environmental puzzles, spectacular 
 bosses, great gameplay mechanincs, a lot of variety in weapons and everything that you would be 
 hoping for.
  
  Let's begin with the first thing, which is also incidently the best: the control scheme. In this 
 game, you move  by using the Nunchuk and to change the direction 
 of your view, all you have to do is swing the remote in that direction. Though its not necessary 
 for you to be stuck in free-aim mode. Just press the Z button to target your enemies directly. 
 Even though this has been done in a lot of games before, none have been as responsive, intutive 
 and satisfying as this control scheme has been. It makes it really easy for uss to frealy aim at 
 the boss and makes it all the more easier for us to kill any enemy, even though that's not necessarily 
 good. 
  
  To change the visors, all you gotta do is hold the minus button and flick your Wiimote towards 
 the visor you want. Its a breeze and you'll be surprised at how responsive the controller is. 
 
  
  There have been many new weapon introductions. There is the PED, or the Phazon Enhancement Device. 
 In this mode, Samus' attacks do outrageous damage. But she has limited phazon in her reserves, 
 so once it's all gone, all you can do is wait for it to replenish. You've got to pay attention, 
 since entering hypermode depletes Samus' energy, and you also run the risk of overloading her with 
 too much phazon and being forced to fire it all away lest she bite the dust. 
  
  Another new element is the nova beam, which is a great cannon upgrade in and of itself, but is 
 also used in conjunction with the x-ray visor to shoot at enemies and objects through solid walls.
 
  
  The game is long lasting, and with a 20 hour long ampaign, you'll find yourself completely glued 
 to your Wii and even after you finish the game, you will be wanting more of the thrill and addictiveness. 
 
  
  But, there isn't any multi-player or online and thats a major disappointment. Even though the long 
 lasting and thrilling single player campaign will compensate for it, it would have been a lot better 
 if there was an online mode. 
  
  As you progress through the campaign, you'll earn cumulative upgrades, so the standard fire becomes 
 plasma fire, which evolves again come the next power-up, and so on. You never lose any abilities 
 with a new upgrade, so once you've earned the ability to melt through ice, you aren't in danger 
 of losing it later. 
  
  But don't expect an oncoming army of constant enemies; nor should you expect much of a challenge 
 from the standard foes. Yet even without a sense of challenge, shooting feels great in Corruption. 
 A lot of this has to do with the smooth controls, but even more of it is due to the good variety 
 of alien and mechanical monstrosities you do battle with.
  
  The next major part, and also one of it best, of the game are the boss battles. The bosses, apart 
 from loking great, are fun to defeat and great to battle against. 
  
  The biggest surprise in the production values is the addition of a good deal of voice acting, at 
 least toward the beginning of the game. You'll still spend most of your time exploring in relative 
 silence, and the eerie, great soundtrack keeps you in just the right mood. But occasionally you'll 
 interact with bounty hunters and other characters, and their lines are mostly spoken. The voice 
 acting is fine, though its presence does reinforce just how effective the ghostly silence was in 
 the first two Prime games.
  
  
  Ultimately, Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is not only one of the most satisfying games and conclusions 
 ever, it's also the best Metroid game anyone can come across. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbids
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I'll just call it MP3 for the review. MP3 Corruption is a definite step forward for the Prime series, although 
 it is the last. Alot has changed, I'll start by telling you about the good things of MP3. Since 
 it is the only Prime game available for the Wii, it is unique from the others in many ways. One 
 way is the targeting system, which only rotates you around the target instead of pointing your 
 riticule at it. another way is the way you look around and move at the same time, your right arm 
 will actually move instead of your arm not moving at all and just your whole body. The graphics 
 are absolutely incredible, especially on larger-sized TV's, definitely comparable to the other 
 2 Prime games. MP3 is generally easier than the other 2 were, it may take a while to get used to 
 the new control scheme though. The only bad thing I mean to tell about MP3 is the simple fact that 
 it sometimes goes too far away from the original ideas that were presented in the previous ones. 
 I would highly recommend this game to anyone to has a Nintendo Wii and liked the previous Metroid 
 Prime games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RetroGamer34233
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 10:05 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is one of the few games I'd put near Super Mario Galaxy on the "Best of Wii" pedestal. 
 With great graphics, the best voice acting on the Wii and a fantastic control scheme, this is a 
 must-have for any Wii owner.
  
  Graphics: Some of the best, if not THE BEST I've seen on the Wii. Everything is crisp, and I haven't 
 seen any frame rate issues whatsoever. Samus looks great, the bosses look great, and all of the 
 levels I've played so far feature great detail. One pleasant surprise on this end is when you're 
 selecting your visor you can see the reflection of Samus' eyes in the glass. Just one of the nice 
 little details in the game.
  
  Sound: Best voice acting on the Wii, hands down. Explosions sound like explosions, and developers 
 even incorporated the music from the bginning of the very first Metroid on the NES into the game. 
 Once again, a nice little detail.
  
  Controls: I went straight into the "advanced" control scheme, since I heard this was the best way 
 to go, and I wasn't disappointed. This free-flowing scheme is easy to learn. However, close-up 
 boss battles may get a little more difficult using this scheme, but not enough to change my viewpoint 
 on it in general. 
  
  Gameplay: Second to none if you're into first-person shooters with a little more on the side. This 
 game is just plain fun. The boss battles are huge and provide a moderate challenge while being 
 unique. Just imagine trying to destroy Metal Ridley while falling before falling into a pit of 
 lava - priceless!
  
  Overall, this is a great game that anyone into FPS' will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superboy68
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  This game was great. It was shorter than the others in my opinion, but I played it for 10 hours 
 a day. My parents had to kick me off of it. I like how you don't have to switch between different 
 beams and the command visor is a great new feature. The Hypermode was absolutely awesome! While 
 I was in Phaaze, I actually felt like I was Dark Samus. It seemed that the bosses got easier as 
 you went through the game, but all together, this is a game that you must have! The graphics are 
 great, the storyline flows great, and if you enjoy kicking Space Pirate @$$, flying through galaxies, 
 and being corrupted by Phazon, then this is a game for you. Btw, Dark Samus armor is much better 
 in this game too. The only bad thing is this: too short! To conclude: great game, must have, awesome, 
 pwnage!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  This the third game in the Metroid Prime series so how good is it and is it the best one yet.
 
  
  Story
  
  At the beginning Samus is called by the Federation about the Space Pirates then they start attacking 
 the base. Samus battles a Berserker Lord before setting off to Norion. While at Norion she encounters 
 Meta Ridley in a battle and Samus manages to defeat him for now but when the bounty hunters meet 
 up at a control unit they are attacked by Dark Samus and are all corrupted. So that means Samus 
 is corrupted and so are the fellow bounty hunters Fundas, Ghor and Gandraya who you battle as bosses 
 later in the game.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Well the gameplay is nice actually I perfer using the Wii mote and Nunchuck which makes it easier 
 but sometimes it can be a bit annoying at times. You use the Wii mote to target your enemies or 
 areas you want to destroy. You use the Nunchuck for all sorts of like a grappling beam which can 
 open some areas that require it and remove Space Pirates shields. You press C on the Nunchuck to 
 roll into morphball from and A is to drop bombs. Your attack buttons are A to fire your beams and 
 down on the Wii mote to fire your missiles. New weapons become aviliable later in the game and 
 they aren't that difficult to use.
  
  There is a new form called Hypermode. This can deliver alot of damage but it requires an energy 
 tank. You use it to fire Phazon shots but be cafeful you have a meter so don't wait to long or 
 it will be Game over and you get a maximum of about 25 seconds until it automatically runs out. 
 You can stop using it for a few seconds to let the energy bar grow again but don't let it get full 
 or else its Game over. Unlike the first two games you have to do alot of travelling in your Gunship 
 and it actually has upgrades itself like gunship exspansions and a grapplimg hook to lift things 
 that get in your way. To call your Gunship you have to go into visor mode and go to the right side 
 tobe able to call your ship. The top lets you enter scanning mode. There are the usual Missle Exspansions 
 and Energy Tanks as well. 
  
  You can also locate your ship at different landing sites that have to be accessed first so you 
 can land your ship in a few different areas on certain planets which also helps because you can 
 save your game everytime you go in your ship and not having to backtrack right to the first landing 
 site. That makes it better than going all the way back to the beginning but there are save points 
 in some levels but most levels have other landing sites for your ship so you can save then. The 
 game does have a nice feel to it as well because unlike its pressdecors there's less backtracking 
 and its more action packed.
  
  
  Sound and Graphics
  
  The sound is brilliant in mostly every level it makes it epic and a great atmosphere as well. The 
 graphics are some of the best on the Wii. It looks awesome. It feels so amazing nice detail put 
 into every single level it is one of the best looking games on the console.
  
  
  Lastability
  
  The story should take you at least a good 15 to 20 hours to finish but then 
 theres harder difficulties like Hypermode which makes it harder and anyway I am sure most would 
 want to play it again.
  
  Overall Opinion
  
  This is an amazing experience it works really well with the Wii mote and Nunchuck for a console 
 shooter. It should keep you entertained. It is an amazing experience. The main flaws I have is 
 its a bit easy and the bosses aren't as hard as the other games but overall a must have game for 
 the Wii.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMind
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I've played metroid prime 1 and 2 and they were okay but this game is much better on so many levels. 
 Nintendo did a great job showing what the Wii can do. Some of the many reasons this game is a must 
 buy for the Wii is...
  1. The graphics are some of the best I've seen on the Wii, it might even compare with the graphics 
 on the PS3 and Xbox 360. The colors were awesome and the scenary looks fabulous.
  2. The sound is far better than Metroid Prime 1 and 2. For example, the little sound such as an 
 alien stalking you or the sound of her arm cannon makes when you fire it were payed alot of attention 
 to. And you can even unlock songs in the game by getting credits and the music really fits this 
 game.
  3. The controls hinder this game for one reason, they have a decent learning curve and can take 
 a while to learn and get used to, but once you get past the controls the game is just great.
  4. And lastly this game has a great replay value for not having a multiplayer mode, they're different 
 difficulties, different endings, songs to unlock, and many pictures.
  
  Overall I'd say if you have a Wii and like sci-fi and first person shooting games, buy Metroid 
 Prime 3 Corruption. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  Can you hear it? That muffled, almost strained noise at the edge of your perception? It's the sound 
 of excuses being silenced; the voices of every external developer who's ever made a Wii game being 
 gagged as they struggle to tell you that many of their games looked like PS2 titles because the 
 Wii is 'last-generation technology'. There's just no excuse for such talk any more, no leeway for 
 anyone to actually believe that we're stuck forever with visually unimpressive titles on our shiny 
 white console. And why? Because Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is finally here and damn, does it look 
 good.
  
  She Shoots, She Scores
  Before you say it though, we know that looks aren't everything - but, having sat here moaning about 
 how many titles are clearly just PS2 games with Wii controls since the console's launch, humour 
 us a little while we enjoy this moment. We've been waiting for it for nigh-on nine months. Heck, 
 even Zelda: Twilight Princess in all its GameCube-upgrade glory didn't look this great, and that 
 looked lovely.
  
  
  It's a controversial stance to be sure, but we're of the opinion that Corruption is the game that 
 the Wii needed at launch - the one that said to everyone "Look at what I can do!" and stopped all 
 the rubbish sub-PS2 Wii titles of this world from even existing. Would it have stopped them? Probably 
 not; there are too many publishers out there trying to make a quick buck off the Wii's success. 
 But still, the Wii finally has the ammunition to shake off that attitude. We always knew it could 
 do so much more, and now there's finally a game that proves it.
  
  And if there's one other thing that Corruption proves so incredibly well, it's that first-person 
 shooters actually work on the Wii. Yes, we're aware that should go without saying but so far, nothing's 
 actually proven it. Between Red Steel's love 'em or hate 'em controls, Call Of Duty 3's good-but-not-great 
 effort and Medal Of Honor: Vanguard's general rubbishness, the FPS genre has been badly represented 
 on the Wii and no mistake. Not now though. With some of the most spot-on and tightly honed controls 
 we've seen so far (and we say that honestly, without wanting to sound biased) , Corruption's smooth 
 handling and pinpoint accuracy just feels... right.
  
  That's not to say that more casual Wii players haven't been accounted for - the more simplistic 
 controls from the last two Metroid Prime games are also offered, if you want them - but undoubtedly, 
 Corruption isn't for them. Corruption is a gamer's game. Moreover, it's the game that those of 
 us who've been loyal to Nintendo since the very beginning have been waiting for. Sure, we can appreciate 
 how the Wii has brought more people into the gaming fold but for some of us, there's only so much 
 brain exercising, casual sport and general mini-game action you can take before you crave something 
 more filling. While Wii Sports, WarioWare: Smooth Moves and Big Brain Academy are the casual hors 
 d'oeuvre then, Corruption is the gaming equivalent of a 24oz sirloin steak; rich, tasty and dripping 
 with fatty goodness.
  
  
  
  Easy Does It?
  Retro Studios hasn't overdone it on the hardcore side though. Corruption is certainly more of a 
 proper game than most other Wii titles, but it's still more accessible than previous Prime titles. 
 Part of this has to do with the controls which, as we've said, are incredibly intuitive - bump 
 them up to Advanced and you'll soon be sprinting down corridors, whirling round to blast 
  a Space Pirate full in the face and then double-jumping over the one behind him 
  to deliver 
 a missile to the back in no time.
  
  However, other elements of the Prime series have been tweaked to make them more user-friendly, 
 such as the scanning element (it actually offers rewards, as shown in the I'll Vouch For That box, 
 but it's now much easier to see what's worth scanning) and also finding the various suit power-ups 
 which, while still challenging, are less well hidden than previous games.
  
  That said though, Corruption's certainly more than a little challenging on a number of levels. 
 For starters, the game comes equipped with three difficulty settings. We'd suggest Metroid experts 
 plump for Veteran, although the unlockable Hypermode is more our cup of tea. More crucially though, 
 the puzzle logic has been altered to compensate for the new controls, meaning you'll need to think 
 a little bigger when working things out. A heavier emphasis on single room set-pieces along with 
 the addition of Samus' ship being able to transport objects from point to point or deliver a bombardment 
 of missiles from above changes things, if not that significantly, then certainly for the better 
 when it comes to finding the solution to each problem.
  
  
  
  Born Free-Roaming
  But even though the game has become a 'true' FPS, the one thing that still stands out is how much 
 of a Metroid game Corruption really is. Exploration is still the key here, perhaps even more so. 
 Splitting the adventure into planets each with their own unique regions is a masterstroke, because 
 it cuts down on the backtracking while making the game seem that much bigger. And while not as 
 huge as some might hope, it's still big enough; a skilled gamer can expect around 15 to 20 hours 
 from this.
  
  To go on more about how wonderful Corruption is would be to labour the point - fact is, it's what 
 the Wii (and, more specifically, the Nintendo faithful) has been crying out for since we saw the 
 end of Twilight Princess. Buy it, play it, love it... we did and we know you will too. Just make 
 sure you're not too stingy sharing out those Friend Voucher, eh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: motarhemi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  An instant favorite for almost anyone! If don't own it, get it. If you have it, play it. If you 
 have beaten it play it again. The new way of using the wii remote is incredibly different then 
 using a game cube remote. The game plat is fun and puzzling instead of the usual constant action. 
 You are now able to travel to different planets and the story is a great sequel to the other prime 
 games. It is fun to get the extras by doing good in game play and getting friend vouchers from 
 your friends. Go get the game for yourself. Get it for family members. Get it for your friends. 
 Get it now. So go play it, NOW!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gashoe13
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Dudes. I love Nintendo. Seriously. Their games totally kick butt. And now, they bring us something 
 new to the batch: A new Metroid game. I'm no fan of the original NES or SNES metroids, but I did 
 enjoy the GC metroid primes. BUt now... I'm lost for words. If there's anything I can describe 
 this game with, it's one word: cinematic. Nintendo has done what Valve accomplished with Half-life: 
 It created a cinematic, awesome, fun game filled with big guns, excellent bosses, and brill graphics. 
 I love this game.
  I don't care what anyone else says, but the bosses are scary. Seriously. THe first boss looks freaky 
 (albeit the fact that he sucks) . Fighting ridley in ball form and falling down a giant mining shaft 
 is just beyond cool. Get this game. YOu will love it. 
  Some of the combat is simplistic, because really, all you need to do is shoot the guys until they're 
 all dead. T
  Surprisingly, there's a bit of platforming to be found. Double jumps, grappling hooks, and other 
 things help you get your way around the spaceships and the worlds. 
  This game is probably the most cinematic game I've ever played, but... it breaks up the pacing 
 sometimes with puzzles. I'm ok with puzzles in particular, but after your adrenaline rush is up 
 and you're still trying to figure out how to make your way around, it gets annoying. Other than 
 just this, sometimes, the game get annoying because of its save system. Savegame points aren't 
 everywhere, and you may just find yourself dashing back to your ship just to save your game. Other 
 times, when you're happy you've accomplished your task, more enemies will appear, and you get more 
 annoyed, because they're just getting in the way from your save game point. Dang. 
  Other than that, the game rocks. I like it a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornypoop69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  this game has an explosive begining and great story this game will keep you busy for about 20-30 
 hours theres awesome boss battles were you'll die about 7 times before figuring out how to kill 
 them and about 60% of the game is extra material full of vast areas and tons of hidden power ups 
 including tons of energy tanks missle expansons and suit upgrades you'll need an FAQ and a guide 
 for a lot of the game it has picturesque landscapes and amazing graphics and to get the maximum 
 fun out of this game i recomend using a guide to help to and through extra areas and upgrades while 
 you steadily beat the game so if you take my word and try to get all the extra stuff the game should 
 take about 50 hours. and as a bonus you can get boblleheads and bumper stickers for your ship it 
 will melt your face off!! enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 has two great previous titles to live up to but it manages to succeed.
  
  The motion controls are fluid and accurate; they take some getting used to at first, but quickly 
 become natural.
  
  As noted in other reviews, the action is more streamlined than the previous two installments; backtracking 
 is reduced and mission objectives are given explicitly at different intervals. It seems the designers 
 worked with a more casual player in mind.
  
  Overall Metroid Prime 3 is a satisfying conclusion to the trilogy and worth playing. 
  
  ======== 
 Good ========
  - motion controls work nicely and are customizable
  - detailed and colorful visuals
  - interaction with Samus' ship
  - fun boss fights
  - clear, 
 well spaced mission objectives 
  - good pacing
  - pickups become marked on map (after completing a special task)
  
  ======== Bad ========
 
  - only 3 beam weapons
  - no beam switching (beams are "stacked")
  - Hyper mode weapons not needed much (on normal difficulty)
  - weapons obtained from bosses seem 
 random, unlike previous ones where the weapon matched the boss's fighting style
  - map can sometimes be hard to look at 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karrotjuce
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I got this as a good-bye present, and it's been stealing my life ever since. It's hard, but not 
 in combat. The puzzles, though, make me want to scream! I love it though. The graphics are great 
 for the Wii, but while I think good graphics are a good thing, they don't make a game. The game 
 is so immersive, I feel like Samus when I play, and it's quite detailed, also. On the second level, 
 sometime it rained, and when it did, there were drops on my visor. I really like little details 
 like that. It's quite simply better than the previous Metroid games. It's very similar, but the 
 graphics are better, it's easier, the controls are AWESOME! I don't agree with with Gamespot on 
 the fact that the controls where you opened doors are bad. I rather liked them. The rumbles are 
 very good, and the voice-acting is nice. All in all, this is an awesome game, and if you don't 
 mind a little difficulty, I don't see why you aren't getting up out of your chair and buying the 
 game now. GO! OUT! BUY! 
  
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  
  Graphics: 8.0 (10 on the Wii)
  
  Sound: 8.5
  
  Difficuly: 7.0
  
  Replayability: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shyguy1234
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Yay! I loved the first two metroid prime games, and this one brought my love back. After that introduction, 
 onto to the categories!
  Graphics:10/10. GAH! These are some of the best graphics on the nintendo wii! (The environment, bosses, 
 enemies, etc. look so real!)
  Gameplay:10/10. The motion censor wii remote brought first-person shooting to a whole new level! (The 
 other motions for moves such as grapple are a nice touch, as well.)
  Music:9/10. The music and sound effects go extremely well with all the shooting and action. ( The 
 voice acting, even though she is silent, is a nice addition, too.)
  Replay value:8/10. Once you beat the game, you have the option to start on the same difficulty, 
 or a new difficulty.
  Boss/Enemy fights:10/10. The motion controlled pointing makes fighting so much fun in prime 3!
 
  Storyline:10/10. The story becomes clear after the first two missions; stop the spread of phazon 
 throughout the galaxies.
  That about sums up the incredible conclusion to the prime trilogy that is known as Metroid Prime 
 3 Coruption. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Claidheamb_mor
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  The Metroid series has always been an exciting mixture of planetary exploration, item collection 
 and gunplay. The newest addition to the series features plenty of the above, and more excellent 
 little features than I can remember!
  
  The world around Samus is highly explorable, with tons of things to scan and enemies to kill. Planets 
 can be re-visited at any time, with backtracking highly encouraged. You WILL want to track down 
 every last missile expansion, energy cell and ship missile before the final, epic battle.
  
  Negotiating the environment is a challenge in itself, with the grapple beam, ball mode and 
 upgrades constantly affording you new, intriguing ways of exploring the environment. And the Wii 
 controls are so beautifully implemented, you'll forget you're holding the Wii-mote/Nunchuk.
  
  To summarise, Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is a large, mature, smooth FPS, with smooth controls 
 and solid gameplay. A must-own for any self-respecting Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danger_ranger95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  The game is solid, just as the prequels. Controls are by far the best in the genre on the system 
 to date but imo... the game could've used a few more bumps to make it perfect instead of "almost"
 
  
  
  The graphics are good, but I honestly think the game could've been bumped a little more. There 
 are noticeable differences in the game (at least to me) , but I think they could have been even 
 better. They are no way rough/terrible looking, but they don't seem to be enhanced by too much 
 so to say.
  
  The game also is a little on the easy side of things imo, even for a first time player. Hyper mode 
 just adds to that. Some would argue, "well try it on Hyper Difficulty" which is fine, but Hyper 
 Mode still lets you obliterate enemies.
  
  This game is also much more linear then the previous installments. If you loved the exploration 
 and back tracking of any other Metroids that was required (not to accurie weapons/items) , it's 
 there... but at a minimal. MP3 is very straight-forward, but it's not done in a terrible way either. 
 Nice change of play imo. 
  
  
  
  Graphics- decent, but terribly different than the first 2
  
  Sound- always great
  
  V/A- 
 nice addition to the series
  
  Controls- By far, best thing about the game
  
  Story- it's there if you want to find it, but this game seems to tell alot of it for you. I wouldn't 
 say it's the best, but it's good.
  
  Overall- This is a must have for the system imo. ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Y-1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for a week and I am almost done and this is what i gotta say. THE Game 
 is Amazing! I love the graphics and storyline. The seeing in "Samus's view point" is also brilliant. 
 The new morph ball use is cool and fun. The boss's are fun to kill. And the mere background makes 
 you go "WOAAAAAAAA!" There is also a new mysterious enemy that looks similar like Samus ( won't 
 ruin it for you) . Now sadly for the bad news.....
  1) the controls can be confusing (mostly for beginners)
  2) The levels are hard and make you 
 want to get it over with it than most games
  3) The save points can get pretty separated from each other.
  4) the enemies can get pretty cheap 
 ( if you know what I mean)
  
  So in All I do recommend this game to Old and New Metroid Fans. Y-1 over and out. Keep on a gaming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reo-117
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Metroid prime 3 is my 2nd favorite in the series but I felt some of the new stuff wont exite hardcore 
 fans since now the format of the game is different since instead of going on one planet the whole 
 game you go to multiple planets I know that sounds awsome but that means that the planets will 
 be smaller and they even broke up each planet into sections too and when i play the game it feels 
 like im not exploring one big planet but just sections of it and in a way takes out what made the 
 other prime games famous which was its atmosphere. a couple of other problems would be that the 
 bosses are easier which was another reason why the other prime games were famous but there are 
 harder difficulty settings you can play with but the puzzles have gotten easier too so that will 
 leave hardcore fans dissapointed. They added voice acting to the game but its bad and I know this 
 sounds very unfair but wiis gaphical capabilities hurt this game I know the wii is not as powerful 
 as the 360 or PS3 but they chose to have weak graphics which I think hurted some games like metroid 
 prime 3 from reaching its full potential.
  
  
  even though there are bad stuff to the game there are more good things to it like the graphics 
 are amazing for the wii which gives the game a boost also the controls are just as amazing as the 
 graphics and since you can use the wii remote that means intead of holding r to aim with samasus 
 gun you can just move the wii remote witch is so much better to use. Since the planets are broken 
 up into sections there is much less backtracking I know that a big part of metroid games was backtracking 
 but i really dont like back traking on any game so I think its a positive aspect of the game. Metroid 
 was never really a fast paced game but now the wii remote makes the game a little more fast paced 
 which makes the battles more enjoyable. You can now be in samus's ship it doest mean that youll 
 be having space ship fights but you can play around with her ship like adding mii bobble heads 
 in the ship and just pressing buttons around her ship. They added an acivement system where if 
 you earn enough of them you can buy extras like a gallery picures and etc so that adds replay value 
 to it. Another thing that should be added is that MP and MP 2 had harder puzles but I liked mp 
 3s better since they were more fun that the others.
  
  
  so heres a summery of what I thought of metroid prime 3
  
  
  graphics: 9/10
  
  looks 
 amazing
  
  
  sound: 7/10
  
  voice acting is bad and the music isnt as dark as the other 2
  
  
  control: 10/10
  
  
 best fps control scheme for the wii
  
  
  gameplay: 9/10
  
  battles are better than ever but easier boss fights lower the score
  
  So in the end metroid 
 prime 3 is amazing and every wii owner should own it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jelte12345
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  this really is a great game. if you like shooters u should definitly buy it. the graphics are great 
 (for the wii) . the only problem is that sometimes the doors wont open. sometimes it takes a while.
 
  u also puzzle a lot cause there are some hard things to get. for some of those i used the gamespot 
 walkthrugh
  i finished the normal dificulty. but now i am trying to beat the harder one with everything scaned 
 and everything collected. the wii mote certainly does the trick. you dont have to aim with an totally 
 unnatural analogstick. you just point at the screen. and push the a button. it feels so much more 
 natural than shooters on the other consoles. it is also realy simple to jump in. if u have a friend 
 who wants to try it to. he can easily just try.
  i really love this game. one of the best ever. it is certainly worth the 50$. it still is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajacolorado
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  Metroid prime 3 Corruption is a great immersive game which I thoroughly enjoyed the graphics were 
 amazing and almost makes you forget about some of the more well shall we say "lacking games"
  
  Not to mention the Storyline is amazingly more exciting and adventerous then the previous installments 
 not that they didn't deliver on there own rite, the only problems I had with it was that there were 
 trivial buttons on your ship which do nothing except cosmetic changes.
  
  Another problem I found with it was the bonus gallery, yes the friend voucher system was very exciting 
 but what of us who have friends that don't have wiis, retro should have made maybe a workaround 
 of some kind.
  
  Anyway in conclusion Metroid prime 3 is a game that will keep you hooked well after you have completed 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HobosNeedCable
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime is a series that has been great to better with, but i love this one the best. The 
 game play is motion sensitive (where u point the controller) , which is what most people have looking 
 forward to on the wii. The graphics are some of the best graphics the wii can preform. and the 
 story is any bit as good the others. I will not give much anyway, but i love the the bounty hunters 
 in the game i think that was a great attribute to the game. The story is nice and longish. Good 
 but not boring. You will have to think about what to do to get thourgh it a little bit. Just all 
 in all i think it's the best game on the wii. 
  
  Bottom line if youve played any of the metorid prime games and liked them this is a MUST have. 
 If you haven't played them i would consider at least trying them. They are differant then average 
 shooter, and are much more rewarding to do without walkthourghs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: widdowson91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  When Metroid Prime was released in 2003 for the GameCube, there was speculation whether you could 
 take one of the best side-scrolling game series ever and turn it into a top-class First Person 
 Shooter. But makers Retro Studios succeeded in this and Metroid Prime, along with its successor 
 Metroid Prime 2: Echoes, is right up there with all the other top titles on the GameCube.
  
  The first thing you realise when you play Corruption for the first time, is how extremely well 
 the control system works. I know that there were other FPS's on the Wii before Corruption, but 
 Corruption is the first proper example of how good an FPS can be to play on the Wii and also how 
 very fun an FPS can be on the Wii.
  
  Corruption feels more like a FPS then the previous two games in the series did. For those of you 
 who played the first two Prime games, you know that you only more with one analogue stick, making 
 aiming more difficult. You can lock on to targets and aim the Gun arm by pressing and holding the 
 R trigger, but this never made up for the lack of an extra analogue stick. But Corruption corrects 
 this, as you aim your with the Pointer, so you have full control over Samus. All the regular moves 
 from the previous Prime games return on Corruption (Grapple Beam, Ice Missiles, Morph Ball) along 
 with some new moves that wouldn't have been functional on the GameCube. The Grapple Lasso is an 
 example. Simply lock-on to a target that allows you to, then sling the Nunchuk forward to throw 
 the Grapple lasso, then after it's stuck, drag the Nunchuk back towards you and whatever your grapple 
 will either be brought towards you or broken. You can even use this against the Space Pirates that 
 have shields to break the shields. You can even use the Wii's Pointer to pull levers to open certain 
 doors, ore thrust it back and forward to use pump levers. This adds a little bit more interactivity 
 to the game.
  
  The story in Corruption is more engaging then the previous two games. On Prime one and two, you 
 do a little training thing at the beginning, then you go to a planet and the whole game is set 
 there, you can't even find people to talk to. This has been changed in Corruption.
  The game starts aboard the G. F. S Valhalla, a Galactic Federation ship. You can go around and talk 
 to people freely, which you couldn't do even once on the previous games. While nearly everyone 
 says nothing important, it feels good to talk to them simply because you couldn't talk on the first 
 two. Not long into the game, the Space Pirates attack, and Samus, along with 3 other Bounty Hunters, 
 Rundas, Ghor and Gandrayda, help to stop the scourge, but only for them to be attacked and nearly 
 killed by the newly resurrected Dark Samus and his Phazon cannon. As a result of this attack, Samus, 
 as well as the other Hunters, are equip with P. E. D suits, which help to protect against Phazon,, 
 and with this suit they can use Phazon themselves to go into Hypermode and make your attack power 
 stronger, but doing this uses up one whole energy tank, and if you get corrupted while in Hypermode, 
 you'll die so you have to use it wisely.
  Samus gets told to go to neighbouring planets that were also attacked by the Space Pirates, and 
 rid them of the Corrupted Phazon. Apart from Metroid Prime Hunters on the DS, this is the Only 
 Metroid game that has more than one planet for you to explore so this adds depth to the game.
 
  The story in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is brilliant, and it will make you keep wanting to play 
 the game over and over again until you complete it. I've finished the game three times, yet I still 
 love the story.
  Yet despite the story been so brilliant, this game is made even better by the brilliantly designed 
 boss battles. While the bosses on the first two games were brilliant, none of them to over difficult, 
 apart from Meta Ridley and Metroid Prime, both off the first game. And, yet again, Ridley makes 
 a return in Corruption. You fight him twice, but the first battle is the most memorable boss fight 
 from probably the entire trilogy. Samus and Ridley are falling down a chasm, and you have to defeat 
 him before you fall to your death. The only bad point about this fight is the fact that it is near 
 the beginning of the game, so it isn't too difficult, but the fact there is a time limit to do 
 it in before you die does make it a tiny bit harder. But apart from Ridley, there is a ton of other 
 bosses littered around in the game, and each one is as brilliantly designed as the previous one, 
 and when you look at the first two Prime games, and how good the bosses were designed on them, 
 you wouldn't expect anything less.
  The environmental puzzles on Corruption are as good as they have ever been. You'll have to use 
 your wits in Corruption as much as you have to battle. It's fair to say that in Corruption there 
 seems to be less back tracking than in the GameCube titles, and what back tracking there is seems 
 to be back tracking to places on the same planet your on. There is some back tracking where you 
 have to visit planets that you have already previously visited, but there isn't too much, which 
 is good because while a game has to be challenging to appeal, if it's too difficult it can lose 
 its appeal just as much as if it's to easy.
  
  Like on the previous games, Samus gains new guns and visors. While you can freely swap between 
 the 4 different visors you eventually acquire, once you get a new gun, you absolutely have to use 
 it, you can't swap like on Prime one and two. But this makes sense because why would you want to 
 swap guns if you can just stick to using the best gun you have.
  There are three guns you use during the game, the standard Power Beam, the stronger Plasma Beam, 
 and the even stronger Nova Beam. The Plasma beam enables you to weld wires back together so you 
 can complete circuits and the Nova beam lets you do that as well as been able to shoot through 
 certain doors.
  The four visors you get are the standard Battle visor and the Scan visor, then you get the new 
 Command visor which allows you to command and land your ship when you're not in it, and the X-Ray 
 visor which shows things that you couldn't previously see like doors you can shoot through with 
 the Nova beam. You'll have to swap between visors many times during your adventure, but it doesn't 
 ever get tedious.
  
  Visually, Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is the best game on the Wii. The graphics actually look too 
 good for the Wii compared to other games. As well as the graphics, the music in Corruption is fantastic. 
 The music is of the classic Metroid origin, especially the music on the games title menu. Also 
 the in game sounds are fantastic from Samus' yelps of pain to the screams of the Space Pirates, 
 this game sounds, and looks and plays fantastic.
  The biggest and most annoying thing about Corruption is that there is no online Multiplayer mode, 
 which is a real downfall. The online features on Hunters on the DS are fantastic, and that is probably 
 the best online game ever on a hand-held console. I am really, really gutted Retro Studios didn't 
 add an online mode, because if they did, I would be on it right now instead of sitting here writing 
 this review. To be honest, the lack of online features is the only thing that is stopping me giving 
 this game a 10 score.
  
  Still without the online mode, Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is, by far, the best FPS, not just on 
 the Wii, but the best FPS even on any Nintendo console. It takes what was awesome about the first 
 two games, and manages to get rid of all the bad points and for that, Retro Studios deserve all 
 the credit in the world.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Graphics - 9
  Sound - 10
  Value - 10
  Design - 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eric721
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a very very good game with pretty graphics.
  
  The only thing that I didn't like about this game is that there are characters in the game that 
 have voice overs and interact with you. This kind of gets rid of the classic Metroid Prime feel. 
 But the game is still awesome. It's right up there with the other 2 Metroid primes. It had better 
 atmosphere than 2, and almost as good as 1 which I thought was pretty much perfect. The game's 
 really addictive and it's motion controls feel great. (As long as you remember to set your controller 
 to the right sensitivity. You can do that by going under sensor bar in the wii menu. It helps a 
 lot.)
  
  So anyways, this game is really great. I liked it better than 2, but maybe not 1. But once again, 
 that's because I thought that game was about as perfect as any game will get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rrtycoon14
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  I've played metroid prime 1&2 and they were okay but this game is much better on so many levels. 
 Nintendo did a great job showing what the wii can do. Some of the many reasons this game is a must 
 buy for the Wii is...
  1. The graphics are some of the best I've seen on the Wii, it might even compare wto the graphics 
 on the PS3 and XBox360. The colors were awesome and the scenary looks fabulous.
  2. The sound is far better than Metroid Prime 1&2. For example the little sound such as an alien 
 stalking you or the sound her arm cannon makes when you fire it were payed alot of attention to. 
 And you can even unlock songs in the game by getting credits and the music really fits this game.
 
  3. The controls hinder this game for one reason, they have a decent learning curve and can take 
 a while to learn and get used to, but once you get past the controls the game is just great.
  4. And lastly this game has a great replay value for not having a multiplayer mode, they're different 
 difficulties, different endings, songs to unlock, and many pictures.
  
  Overall I'd say if got a Wii and like sci-fi and first person shooting games buy Metroid Prime 
 3 Corruptions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dymond7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I really didn't want to do this review, because I know a lot of people won't agree about what I 
 say, but it is my opinion and I'm sorry if you don't agree with it.
  
  Gameplay, I didn't like this game's controls, everyone thinks using the Wii-mote and Nunchuck is 
 going to be great for FPS's the only FPS on the Wii that I played is this game, but I'm sure the 
 zapper would be great for FPS's, ok, my point is that I liked the controls of the first two games 
 way more than this, I just didn't really like it, I mean I need about 15 minutes to get used to 
 it, but I guess I'm making it sound like it's terrible it really isn't I'm just not used to it 
 really.
  
  7/10
  
  Graphics: Really good, not really much to say about it, it's just really good
  
  9/10
  
 
  Story: I don't really remeber much but it's good just really good not much to say about it, I 
 mean no one really focus's on it that much people just want to shoot stuff as Samus
  
  7/10
  
  Conclusion: It's worth a buying, It's worth 30-40$, I mean I doubt everyone has this 
 problem with the controls, I just do, but I still would've bought for less than 40$ though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekLoffin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Recently I reviewed Super Mario Galaxy, and like that game, this one had been gathering a nice 
 layer of dust for several months as I was distracted with other things. So, after finishing Mario, 
 it was time to get my money's worth out of this title so I popped it in.
  
  But first, let's go back to when I got my Wii. Besides the pack in Wii Sports, this was the first 
 real game to enter my system. That was probably a mistake on my part. I wasn't used to Wii at the 
 time, and I found controlling it painful and clumsy. I didn't get very far, and one of the main 
 reasons I let this one sit for such a long time was due to remembrance of those early control impressions.
 
  
  Fast forward to last week and I put aside that first impression and started playing from scratch. 
 Pretty quickly it became obvious my earlier issues with the controls were overstated. In fact, 
 by the time I finished the 1st world, I was extremely comfortable and happy with the controls. 
 In fact, I'd say it's very close to a keyboard mouse combo, although not quite. Nonetheless, I 
 would take this control scheme any day over the dual thumb sticks.
  
  That's not to say the controls are not without a few issues. One is simply the nature of wireless. 
 Don't know what it is about my house, but it and wireless don't get along and even this latest 
 gen of controllers still has issues now and then with some flaky connections. All in all, this 
 was extremely minor though, and rarely significant (although trying to do a complex spiderball 
 track when the connection is being annoying is... well annoying) . If your Wii isn't giving you 
 this issue, then I wouldn't worry here.
  
  My other issue, and more significant, although still not too troubling, was controller confusion. 
 On occasion, usually during an intense point of rapid left to right movements, the controller would 
 lose it's brains and take several seconds to reset to a controllable point. Part of this is naturally 
 due to me just being indelicate with the controls, shifting my position so that I'm unknowingly 
 pointing far off screen, or other similar things. However, the time to get back to usable could 
 be really frustrating. That said, it rarely happened, and never once got me killed. I've had issues 
 with my mouse freaking out, or accidentally being tossed to the floor, or getting it's cord caught, 
 that are just as annoying, and only slightly less frequent, so I wouldn't worry about it.
  
  So, let's talk the actual game. Corruption is the latest in the prime series, and doesn't do 
 much different than it's predecessors beyond the new control scheme. You still have the strong 
 adventure focus, the visors, lock on and such. It all feels very familiar, but not yet to the point 
 of being a retread (although I would warn Nintendo that this is probably the last time I would 
 give them a pass on such) . Even the graphics are not markedly different, but this being the Wii 
 I didn't expect much there.
  
  That's not to say it's all the same though. It seems like they finally figured out that story via 
 logs is dull and this time out we have some significant voice work going on, some interactions 
 with people, and generally a more approachable story overall. We still have the logs, but this 
 time they fill a more support role to the story, rather than being the core of it. My only real 
 complaint story wise was that it felt like it could have been better. I know, that sounds vague, 
 but I don't want to ruin it for people. Basically, I could easily envision some slight improvement 
 that would really have made the story have more punch to it. In then end, it's still a decent to 
 good story, that could have been good to great.
  
  Scans have been slightly down played this time out too. Whereas in previous versions scans counted 
 towards your 100%, now they are only good for some tokens which are used to buy game art and accessories. 
 This is nice because while it rewards you for getting them, they don't feel nearly so vital, and 
 that's good because since you can easily miss scans, that could be a real annoyance.
  
  A very pleasant change from Echos is the removal of the ammo on the guns and going back to the 
 original's limitless ammo system (save on missiles) . I found echos very annoying for its ammo limitation, 
 mostly because it was so painfully easy to run through your entire reserve in any boss battle, 
 and you had few if any ways to restore it.
  
  Corruption also did away with the gun swapping. Kinda like the side scrolling metroids, your weapon 
 upgrades now stack up, meaning you only ever use the one blaster. I'm a little dubious on this 
 one. I like it, as it simplifies things, but I dislike it for the same reason. Still, compared 
 to prime and echos, I prefer this system as the blaster swaps there rarely felt like anything more 
 than just a blaster of a different color. This lets you focus on blowing stuff up, rather than 
 trying to match your blaster color to the enemy's color which was a weak point to the other games 
 design.
  
  In the end, I finished Corruption very pleased. Unlike with Super Mario Galaxy, where I was finding 
 it difficult to truly enjoy the game, I had no such trouble with Metroid Prime 3. I've very glad 
 I gave it a second chance. My only word of caution is to not play this game as a fresh Wii owner. 
 Get used to how the Wii controls first, then move to this. I think it will greatly improve your 
 appreciation of the game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OpratorHunter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it; the Metroid Prime games are all great, some better than others. Metroid Prime 3: 
 Corruption is no exception.
  The game play is the same as the others. You have to travel around, looking for new gear for your 
 suit, so that you can finally make your way toward the big boss. The game also includes side quests 
 like, finding hidden lore (To get a better feeling about the story) , and Missile and health expansions.
 
  When it comes to new editions to the game, motion controls can be both easy and smooth or frustrating 
 and hard. The controls are basically pointing your wii remote in the direction you want your gun 
 to move. You must keep your wii remote pointing at the screen for it work properly. This is frustrating 
 because if you move the 'cursor' out of the screen it throws you off balance during game play. 
 So if you keep the controls smoothly in line with the TV, the controls work great, but if you jerk 
 the wii remote or lose your cool, you can find yourself in a dangerous situation, especially during 
 boss fights. The 'hand controls', which are using your wii remote to manually control things using 
 Samus's hand, is I find unnecessary, and annoying. Further it's a wonder why the producers didn't 
 create a Gamecube controller option? That way if you wanted the new feeling you could use the wii 
 remote, (which I don't really mind) but if you didn't like it, you could switch back to the old 
 way.
  The story has come to an end. It's time for you to not only stop the destruction of multiple planets, 
 (something unlike the previous games whereas you only explore one planet) caused by your evil twin 
 self, but also to face off against your double and stop her once and for all. In this game though, 
 your double has found a way to corrupt planets with one of the series element plot's 'Phazon' (a 
 radioactive substance) and has also found a way to 'corrupt' yourself with the substance. This 
 Phazon in your body gives you unstoppable strength, but also a side effect. If you use the power 
 to long, you risk turning corrupted forever thus losing the game. While this is somewhat of a gimmick, 
 you do have to ask yourself whether or not you want to use that power, thus giving you the freedom 
 to choose that option.
  The Graphics and atmosphere are awesome, which isn't surprising since that has always been one 
 of the major factors of the entire Metroid series. Traveling to different planets with your ship 
 has a nice feeling to it. Surprisingly, your ship this time around, plays a bigger role than any 
 metroid game, including upgrades and special features; you can also buy special extras for your 
 ship. Every planet you travel to will have a different and beautiful trait. Elysia is a huge planet 
 that is mostly clouds for example. A few of the planets seem a little too familiar though, Bryyo 
 looks to me like the chozo ruins in the first game.
  The conclusion is: The best looking graphics in the series. The new style in game play, while not 
 perfect, is definitely practical. And while some things are too familiar to the other games in 
 the series or a little over done, you won't be disappointed with the game over all.
  So get ready to not only finish what you started in Metroid Prime but to relive the experience 
 you had playing it so you can say, "Another great game completed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is what the Metroid fans are all waiting for. Great weapons and a fabolous use 
 of the Wii remote. The graphics in this game are amazing, I couldn't believe my eyes when I first 
 played this game. Possibly one of the best graphic games for Wii. Metroid Prime takes place in 
 a planet, sci-fi shooter. The thing that really impressed me in the game was that there were many 
 creatures in the planet for you to explore, and you don't really know what they are going to do. 
 The other thing that impressed me was that you could use samus as a ball and go through these obstacles. 
 It was if you were in a pinball machine. Truly amazing! The story was also not bad but it could 
 have been better because in the end of the game another ship followed behind and you were DIEING 
 to find out who was in the other ship. I didn't like how there was no multiplayer in the game, 
 because in Metroid Prime :Echoes there was multiplayer and it was so fun!! Also the difficulty 
 level could be tuned a bit higher because the game wasn't so hard after all. Although the game 
 was long and fun. If you like Star Wars or any Sci-Fi game like this, you will love it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tasthomas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the controls can be gimmicky, but they are clean and responsive; they put you behind the visor 
 better than ever. MP3: C is shorter and easier than the first two, but I appreciate that. All the 
 "exploration" and back-tracking of the first two seemed more like work than fun to me. Now, instead, 
 there are elaborate puzzles scattered throughout the different worlds. 
  My favorite thing about this installment of Metroid is the awesome set of weapons! Samus is more 
 pimped out than ever! The boss battles force the player to utilize this arsenal to the limits. 
 This is truly where the game shines. I still remember the battle proceeding the scene where the 
 boss was beating on my ship; I almost felt sorry for him after quickly and thoroughly dismantling 
 him.
  This may seem trivial, but I also liked that this one made it easier for the player to know what 
 actually needed to be scanned.
  I play games for the "fun factor", but this is one Wii game where the beautiful visuals really 
 add to the experience. Thank you Retro Studios. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crudmanIV
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 26, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  Stayed at a friend's house for a few days and played this and mario galaxy for three days. This 
 is qutie possibly the worst thing to happen gto the wii since it decided to come into existence. 
 How can people be entertained by shooting the same pirate robot thing a hundred times with an uninspired 
 weapon and gimmicky rockets. 
  Remember ratchet and clank? Remember the grapple points, water freezing guns and gadgets that you 
 only use once in the level? That was fine back in 2002 and if it was done well, but this is just 
 horrible. All you have to do to complete the level is to shoot things over and over again or use 
 the badly programmed, gimmicky, grapple on the specific points in the world that are clearly marked 
 out in yellow. And it's very hard to use the grapple mind you.
  AND THE BOSS FIGHTS! Bosses that go through attacking and relaoding cycles were made for cheap 
 baby games. Look! it's a weird dragon thing that has impenetrable armour. But luckily after it 
 lets out it's undodgable attack it has to sit dormant for 10 seconds. that just sucks.
  Maybe I'm just against wii but that was just plain terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenliver22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to make this game review short, sweet and to the point.
  
  Gameplay: The controls on this game are near flawless. Using the wii remote to point and fire put 
 more responsibility on the gamer, effectively making this game much more immersive than the Primes 
 before it. No shortage on upgrades! 10
  
  Graphics: Detailed creatures, the beams are interesting to watch them charge, and the new swerving 
 smoking missile effect is beautiful. Deep varied environments and colors are better than ever. 
 You will be excited to see each new area for its fantastic artwork. 9
  
  Story: Samus, her new companions, a few planets, and Aurora units. become corrupted by phazon. 
 Leviathan seeds carrying phazon are sent to planets to corrupt them. Ties up the mystery to Metroid 
 Prime 1 and 2. Excellent story that ties things together in epic conclusion. 9.3
  
  Extra Content/replay value: You can unlock image galleries, music, bonus endings a harder difficulty 
 and more. I'm contemplating the idea of playing this game a third time over! 9
  
  All Metroid fans should buy this game (if they don't already own a copy) . Actually, just about 
 any Wii owner should be able to appreciate this Masterpiece 
::::::

::::::
UserName: av3nger3
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This seems almost or better than Metroid Prime 1, but, the animations are pretty much the same 
 for the beam weapons. Not that I was hoping for new animations.
  This game is everything it's supposed to be and more. I'm not going to reveal spoilers. Wii controls 
 are eventually very easy to use. I don't expect people to be bored of this a day after playing 
 it, I haven't played my wii for a couple months even though I don't know why I haven't. Anyone 
 should have the time and tolerance to play this game and LIKE it. With all this said you should 
 be thankful that it costs so much less than some of the mediocure Xbox 360 games or the abundant 
 mediocure PS3 Titles. Metroid Prime 3's graphics are very similar to Metroid Prime 2's, but once 
 you are playing you will completely forget this. If Metroid Prime 1 or 2 are boring you just a 
 little, try buying Metroid prime 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spinal15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Metroid prime 3, a game that fans have been waiting for since metroid prime 2 and let me say that 
 this was a good game.
  
  Graphics 
  I gotta say, for a wii game they were impressive. Metroid prime 3 was one of the best looking games 
 in 2007 and still looks good now. The character designs are just fantastic with so much detail 
 put in. When you kill a creature, or walk in rain or steam it fogs up your HUD and blood and rain 
 slide down. The lighting is just perfect and gives the bounty hunters a sweet look and makes Samus 
 armor shine. The big thing about metroid games are the creatures looks and metroid prime 3 does 
 not fail to deliver. From little detail like drool to flesh and bones. When you kill an enemy they 
 exploded, fall apart or get blown away and have the rag doll enegine with them. The textures are 
 detailed and no pixels can be seen at all (I did close ups on many things) The environments are 
 detailed right to the cracks of a block right to a statue. My only complain was the humans face, 
 they could have looked alot better.
  
  Gameplay
  After this game, its hard to play a first person game ever again. The controls are just perfect 
 and I never had any problems with the motions. The gadgets to play with were fun and the return 
 of the spring ball just brought back alot of good times. There is only two suits in the game, but 
 the PED after each boss changes and by the time the whole game is over your suit looks way different 
 then how you got it. The grapple beam plays a bigger part in this game and it does a good job. 
 Rip off doors or shields is like a second nature after you do it for a couple of times and grabbing 
 edges return as well. While the back tracking was toned down alot and you had a computer telling 
 you what to do, it took me about 15 hours to beat the game because I fooled around, and looked 
 at the world. If you speed by the game, it takes around 8 to 10 hours to beat. The stack able beams 
 could have been alot better and should have been like super Metroid and alot more beams. The hunter 
 ship plays a biger role and while it seems like it was added in at the last second it helps the 
 plot in a big way. The boss battle are epic and the only complain I have is that Kraid was not 
 in the game and there is a boss that should have been taken out and Kraid be in. 
  
  Sound
  The music is just amazing, there are many remixes of classic themes and Samus's theme 
 from super Metroid comes back. Every area has amazing music and the sound effects are just perfect. 
 When you shoot something depending on what its made of it will make the sound it should. When Samus 
 walks, you here the foot steps and even hear her breath at some points which was just impressive. 
 The voice acting which I was uncertain of was amazing. All actors/actress did a fantastic job and 
 yes Samus does not have any convos in this game. 
  
  Lasting appeal
  I dont know what he GS reviewer was smoking at the time, but this game was amazing. Winning best 
 action game of the year and having such an amazing story. There are some things that do stop it 
 from getting a perfect 10 and beating out super Metroid as the best Metroid game ever made. So 
 I suggest you buy this game if you want a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agent_skittles
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  metroid prime is an awesome game. It incorperates quick gameplay, an immense world, many sidequests, 
 thoughtful puzzles, and good graphics for the wii. Samus returns on her final 3d mission. She is 
 hired to investigate a ship, lost during a virus outbreak on the aurora supercomputers But disaster 
 strikes when dark samus returns and corrupts her with phazon, hence the name corruption. As the 
 story progresses, samus becomes more and more corrupted, her suit becomes darker, her face becomes 
 scarred, and she earns this cool array of phazon related powers. The boss fights are epic, the 
 music tastefull, the side quests actually worth it. This game is more enoyed when playd along with 
 the others. This game is definately worth the money, and a must buy, for both fans of the series, 
 and not. :) :) :) :) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vikthorious
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  Samus in her last mision trying to stop the space pirates from taking advantage from the etroids 
 and phazon... now if this sentence does not interest you... umm... in what planet, galaxy, dimension 
 you live?
  
  lets begin with the controls, nice use of the pointer and also teh z targeting thing helps you 
 alot, but sometimes... makes it to easy... except for those flying pirates units.. who annoyed me; 
 amking this game having an awesome gameplay. Also when you enter in in the context sensitive interaction 
 (for those who doesnt know what this is, its the mode when samus has to take a energy cell, use 
 control panels, etc.) , this really get yourself into the game.
  
  Next, storyline, in the end i feel really sorry for the other bounty hunters. This game actually 
 made me feel sorry fo fiction video games characters, i know its weird but i had to say it, nice 
 way from samus toget involved in the game helping the galaxy federaton.
  
  Cons; maybe the targeting thing makes it way to easy sometimes in bosses, and sometimes the puzzles 
 looks confusing, and sometimes they are, but not so confusive and hard enough that doesnt let you 
 enjoy this game.
  
  Conclusion, beautiful game, excelent escenarios and gameplay, this is the firs-person shooter that 
 every wii FPS should be compared to.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyler -- 11
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  It's awesome great graphics and perfect story line awesome character animation plus you get to 
 blow up all kinds of crap in the envirornment which is fun and the bosses are great, difficult, 
 and have cool attacks. What amazed me was how well the envirornment were created, and the envirornmental 
 puzzles were hard so that made the game even better over-all the game was just plain great!!!!!!! 
 And throughout the game you have to find collectibles and upgrades for Samus. Dark Samus-the final 
 boss- proved to be extremely difficult plus Dark Samus was regenerating a certain point during 
 the boss battle!!! it just made the game's final boss the best of the Metroid Prime Series but 
 Meta Ridley is a fun boss to fight in the game also mostly because your falling down a chasm but 
 JUAT GO OUT AND BUY THE GAME AND IF YOU DON'T HAVE A WII GO BUY THAT TOO BUT REMEMBER TO BUY METROID 
 PRIME 3 CORRUPTION I NEED TO STOP USING THE WORD "BUT"!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing graphics by any standard that prove the Wii can do more than people think; the 
 tone-setting, often eerie music Metroid is famous for is back; aiming with the remote is a dream 
 come true; voice acting at last meets Nintendo with wonderful results; a long campaign with multiple 
 difficulties; tons of cool new upgrades; the Prime trilogy has ended with the best game in the 
 franchise.
  
  The Bad: Some motion controls are a little faulty; Retro has still determinedly put a collection 
 quest at the end of the game.
  
  As expected, the Wii went through a drought in terms of games immediately after its release. Like 
 every system ever made, very few high quality games came along early in its life cycle. 360 tooks 
 it turn until Elder Scrolls and Gears of War. PS3 had Resistance on release but the better version 
 of Grand Theft Auto and Metal Gear Solid 4 are all its had exclusively otherwise worth mention 
 in terms of killer-apps.
  
  Wii had Twilight Princess and Wii Sports on release, to make both audiences it had promised to 
 keep happy take an interest with the system. But other than Warioware and maybe Sonic, nothing 
 else has really kept the core crowd happy since.
  
  Fortunately, however, Retro Studios has come in to save the day. Link held down the fort on release 
 (which is unusual in itself) , so Samus gets her turn now with one of the best games on Wii to date, 
 and, in my opinion, the best Metroid game ever made.
  
  If you've played the first two Metroid Prime games on Gamecube you'll know that the Space Pirates 
 are trying to use Metroids, green, fanged, energy sucking little creatures, as weapons. Metroids 
 are dangerous already, but with the use of radioactive Phazon that's been unearthed, the Pirates 
 plan to control them and use them as weapons. In the first two they went mining for Phazon throughout 
 the universe, and created a Metroid that now feeds solely on Phazon: Metroid Prime. This Metroid 
 turned into Dark Samus, who is now leading the Space Pirates against Samus and the Galactic Federation 
 to take over the universe.
  
  You'll first notice that the graphics are a major step up from the Gamecube titles. The art design 
 is top notch, you won't find a jagged edge anywhere, and the whole game is very much this gen. 
 They're spectacular by any standard, no matter what system you're talking about.
  
  You'll notice soon after that voice acting is present here, something never before attempted by 
 Nintendo, even in the Prime series. It's odd that second party Retro Studios, who have worked solely 
 on the Metroid games since the reboot in 2002, attempted this before Nintendo itself. But the result 
 is impressive. The voice acting is well done, the script isn't cheesy in the slightest, and the 
 tone isn't ruined, but enhanced, by the newly deepened plot.
  
  Metroid titles are known for keeping a sense of ambience and loneliness present all game, due to 
 the fact that Samus flies solo, and how well executed the music is. The first two Prime games certainly 
 stuck to that, and let you blast through the game without bothering with the plot, or read the 
 story through logbook entries you scan at your choosing.
  
  Prime 3, fortunately, doesn't take away from that feeling. The music is still as eerie, sometimes 
 'futuristic', and Metroid-like as ever. And despite the cutscenes, character development and thicker 
 plot, the loneliness during gameplay still keeps you feeling like the bounty hunter behind the 
 visor.
  
  It's nice seeing a war brewing, and that Samus isn't fighting a one-woman-fight, this time around. 
 It makes the game feel bigger and better, which it is.
  
  Instead of focusing on just one planet, Prime 3 deviates to around six of seven planets, all very 
 unique. You do have a fire planet and a forest planet, but they aren't as stereotypical as they 
 sound, and don't feel like you're retracing your steps from previous Metroid games at all.
  
  The control scheme's main focus is the change in the aiming system. In the first two games 
 Samus simply locked on to opponents, as the game wasn't focused on shooting, but exploring. This 
 game is still a 'first-person adventure' in the same way, but when you lock on, you can still move 
 your arm around, making a slightly larger focus on aiming become present. This is definitely a 
 good thing in the first place, and even better because it's on Wii.
  
  First-person shooting obviously came to mind the moment the Wii was announced, and the aiming is 
 just as amazing as we'd ever hoped to come out of the system. You have different options on how 
 fast Samus will turn her head and react, so newer gamers won't swing around faster than they want 
 to.
  
  But for a hardcore gamer, the advanced setting is by far the best. It's much smoother and feels 
 much better aiming this way, not only compared to the other settings, but compared to any other 
 shooting based game on the system. The game makes sure that the difficulty is set appropriately 
 for how quickly you'll be able to respond with your own aiming too, minus the use of control sticks, 
 which is even better.
  
  On the other hand are the motion based controls. You'll be using levers, the grapple beam, and 
 hitting buttons in your ship in the game by these means, and it all works fairly well. We've never 
 controlled Samus in her ship before, so it's a welcome addition to see what exactly she does in 
 there. And hitting the buttons works fine, as does any cursor-based control in the game.
  
  The grapple beam and levers, however, aren't done quite so well. You'll go to rip off an enemies' 
 shield and it won't work, or you may go to open a door and Samus's hand won't respond. But that's 
 a minor nitpick, as the majority of the time it works just fine.
  
  There are plenty of cool new items around for Samus to utilize. She'll be controlling Phazon in 
 different ways and getting new beam weapons for her arm cannon, and there are still the standard 
 missile upgrades to be found.
  
  Because the Gamecube controller had another control stick, Retro chose to not have you bother switching 
 between beams. This isn't really a loss because you'll still be facing puzzles that require you 
 to combine different weapons you've collected on your journey, and that control felt somewhat unnecessary 
 anyway in the first two games.
  
  I personally didn't feel that Prime 3 was just copying what the first two games had already done 
 anymore than Halo 3 copied Halo 1 and 2. In fact it enhances everything before and introduces plenty 
 of new elements to the franchise as a whole.
  
  The game ends up being around twenty hours long, closer to twenty-five or thirty if you go about 
 collecting all of the energy tanks and missile expansions hidden throughout the galaxy. You'll 
 be exploring anyway because there's a collection quest at the end of the journey in this game, 
 like in the first two Prime games.
  
  I personally dislike collection quests a lot, as you're just backtracking, it's required, and it 
 feels like a cop-out by the developers to make the game longer. I figure if I want to explore the 
 game, I want to do it myself, not because the developers make me do so.
  
  Fortunately, this collection quest isn't nearly as annoying as the times before. Prime 2 had so 
 much tedious backtracking anyway that it ticked me off the most, but this one is even less annoying 
 than the one in Metroid Prime, which I didn't mind much.
  
  Besides, I was happy to explore this world some more, as you won't be backtracking at all until 
 then. Prime 1 had backtracking, but not to the point where it bothered me. Prime 2 went way over 
 the top, so while it's still a great game, it's my least favorite of the three. Prime 3 manages 
 to avoid it almost completely, making it my favorite, as I was almost excited for the collection 
 quest to explore this gorgeous world again.
  
  In other words there's plenty of those famous missile and energy tank expansions to find, a meaty 
 quest on its own, and a hard difficulty after you beat it once. Plus, the more items you collect, 
 the better ending you get, as in the first two games. The 100% item collection ending even leaves 
 a cliffhanger to open up room for another Prime game, or some form of Metroid, in future.
  
  It could be complained about that this game isn't nearly as long as the likes of Twilight Princess, 
 but hard mode and the multiple endings give good reason to come back for more, plus there's still 
 plenty of history to the many species you'll encounter that can be tracked down with the scan visor, 
 which you won't learn about through the cutscenes.
  
  And as I noted, the motion controls and collection quest are minor complaints, and the collection 
 quest more minor than ever before. Prime 3 can keep you going for sixty hours if you play both 
 difficulties, so the length is no issue to me. And as for being the 'same old' gameplay from Prime 
 1 and 2... I can't comprehend that complaint when about thirty first-person shooters come out with 
 the same controls every year.
  
  The first-person adventure genre still belongs solely to Metroid, and this particular Metroid is 
 the best one ever made. It's truly a killer-app on Wii, even better than Super Metroid and Metroid 
 Prime in my opinion, and shouldn't be missed any more than Twilight Princess or Mario Galaxy should 
 be. It brought us the shooting system we all prayed for and the graphics no one expects from the 
 Wii, even though they should. If you really think the Wii doesn't have any good games, play this 
 one. It's truly one of the biggest must plays on Wii yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King-gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  INTRODUCTION - Back in 2002, Metroid Prime was largely a success, and had became not only one of 
 greatest game in the Metroid series, but also one of the best game of all time. A sequel followed 
 called Metroid Prime 2: Echoes, also for the GameCube featured the very same thing that made the 
 original so great, large amounts of exploration, addictive gameplay, beautiful environments, and 
 tons and tons of action. Echoes even included multiplayer, that didn't do all that well.
  
  I must first warn you that this is *NOT* a shooting game. If you are looking for a game that is 
 similar to Call of Duty or Halo, Metroid may disappoint you. If you approach this game as more 
 of an adventure game like Zelda, then you will most likely have fun with this game.
  
  GRAPHICS  Metroid Prime 3 has amazing graphics. Many of the environments and enemies just look 
 absolutely stunning. You can see rain droplets running down your visor, the area around your beams 
 blur due to the heat of your super heated charged beams, the models of your enemies look amazing 
 too. The environments in Metroid Prime 3 is also unbelievable, there are many environments like 
 the high-tech robotic worlds, an icy region, a fiery region, and many more, and each and everyone 
 of them are amazing. The smoke effects, the mists, everything is great, in fact you're going to 
 need a large widescreen television to truly appreciate how amazing this game looks.
  
  SOUND  I'm pretty sure what everyone is wondering is sound. Is the audio good? Well don't worry. 
 Metroid Prime 3 has great sound effects, from explosions, to beam shots, many of them sound exactly 
 the way you expect. One of the major upgrades of Metroid Prime 3 from the previous games is voice 
 acting. Yes, that's right, lucky for us, our friends at Retro Studios were able to get voice acting 
 in this game. Everyone except Samus talks, and you know what they did it quite well, Samus doesn't 
 talk. While most of the voices are pretty decent some of the dialogue can feel a bit cheesy.
  
  CONTROLS  One of the major things everyone might be wondering is the controls. How are the 
 controls in this game? Is it any better than previous installments? Well it certainly is better 
 overall, in fact, so much better that I can't seem to play the previous ones anymore! Metroid Prime 
 3 obviously takes advantage of the Wii remote's IR pointer. This time around, instead of having 
 your target reticule "stuck" in the middle of the screen, you can now aim anywhere on the screen 
 by simply pointing where you want to shoot with the Wii remote. Your screen begins to move as your 
 reticule nears the edge of the screen but you need not worry about your aim as it moves at a pretty 
 decent pace, though if you have problems aiming, you can always use the Z button to lock on and 
 stop the screen. Using the Nunchuk, you control your movement and strafing with the analog stick.
 
  
  Motion controls in Metroid Prime 3 is done pretty well. They don't have that gimmicky feel, but 
 they do make playing the game a lot more intuitive great. For example you now use your grapple 
 beam by locking on, throwing the Nunchuk forward and then pull back, which by the way, feels really 
 really good. Other times, you get to pull levers and switches by using the Wii remote.
  
  GAMEPLAY  Metroid isn't a shooting game like Halo or Call of Duty. It is largely an adventure 
 game like Zelda. For Metroid fans, it has everything you would expect from a Metroid game, same 
 formula, same exploration and scanning, puzzle solving and more. Metroid Prime 3 has no multiplayer, 
 which is not a problem since the multiplayer for Metroid Prime wasn't that good to begin with, 
 instead you get points for kills, and scanning which you can then trade through the use of WiiConnect24 
 and unlock some extra bonuses. These extras don't improve gameplay in anyway, but they certainly 
 give you something a reason to beat the game to its fullest.
  
  Most parts of the game remain largely the same. But this time, instead of having to find most of 
 the basic upgrades such as morph ball and charge beam, this game, you start out with them which 
 is a lot better. You no longer need to find upgrades for most of Samus' basic abilities. Also Corruption 
 is slightly different than the other Prime games. It follows a little closer to the original Metroid 
 games. Instead of growing Samus' arsenal, The upgrade merely replaces one of the old ones.
  
  The epic boss battles and puzzles are back in Corruption. Every boss are design to be fun and 
 they all have different ways to kill. Like in previous games, These bosses are not your average 
 "shoot 'em 'till he drops" kind of boss. Everyone boss is like a puzzle. You need to use specific 
 techniques to defeat everyone of them, using every new upgrade you have to kill them making them 
 some of the best parts of Corruption. Puzzles will make good use of Samus' Morph ball, allowing 
 her to get through small passages and set off bombs to activate different objects.
  
  Phazon plays a larger role in Corruption and this time, Samus actually gets corrupted by it (hence 
 Metroid Prime 3: Corruption) . Like how you get darkness and light abilities in Echoes, Corruption 
 gives you a new ability called Hypermode. By simply hitting the + button, Samus can turn from an 
 already powerful bounty hunter to a total badass. Any attack deals massive damage and you are completely 
 invulnerable. Hypermode is a double edge blade. Every shot takes out some of your health, and if 
 you stay too long in Hypermode, you will enter corruption mode and will force you to fire all your 
 Phazon or it's game over. Hypermode is extremely powerful, but it is still pretty balance and does 
 not feel overpowered.
  
  STORY  [Minor Spoilers] 
  The Metroid series was never known for it's story and this one isn't very different, but there 
 is one. Basically, Samus returns from her adventure when disaster struck. Space Pirates came, several 
 asteroids carrying a mysterious substance known as Phazon landed on several planets spreading corruption 
 everywhere. Dark Samus is also back and is one of the major bosses in the game. The story will 
 also take several twists. You're gonna see some of the hunters from Metroid Prime Hunters. They 
 all set out to put an to the corruption only to find out they are being corrupted as well, including 
 Samus herself.
  
  [Spoiler ends here]
  
  CONCLUSION  Metroid Prime 3 is a great game that any Metroid fan can enjoy. For people who are 
 looking for a great action/adventure type game, Metroid is a great choice. It sets a standard of 
 how First Person games should be made on the Wii, and it is still, the best First Person game of 
 any kind to appear on the Wii.
  
  POSITIVE:
  - Greatly design boss battles
  - Beautiful graphics, stunning effects and environments.
  - Great controls makes good use of 
 the IR pointer and motion controls.
  - They have voice acting!
  
  NEGATIVE:
  - Not very different from the previous games
  - There is some cheesy dialogue
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5sonic
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is probably one of those Wii games that make hardcore nintendo fans buy a Wii just 
 for that ONE game. Normally that would be stupid, but in Prime 3's case, it makes perfect sense. 
 I'll tell you why.
  
  Graphics-The graphics in MP3 are very impressive for a Wii and can easily hold it's own against 
 a few 360-PS3 games. The character models are kind of bland looking, but your enviroments feel 
 vivid and alive. 9/10
  
  Gameplay-The gameplay is mostly the same as in MP1,2 but this time there are a few added features 
 such as controlling your ship and rip doors of there hinges (cool) 9/10
  
  Controls-Just as many franchises did, MP3 had to transform the control scheme to fit the Wii. While, 
 some games went down the stinker (Red Steel) , MP3 controls so well, you'll never want to use double 
 sticks again. Yeah. 10/10
  
  Sound-The sound design in the game is great. Sound effects cool and very realistic, and in this 
 game people actually talk. You can read the text, but the only person in the game who doesn't talk 
 is Samus. Ironic, right. 9/10
  
  Story-The story in this game is very good, better the MP2. But it still can be confusing at times, 
 and is not as good MP1. Knowledge of previous Prime's is taken for granted. 8/10
  
  Overall-A great series deserves to end on the highest note and, while most series fail at this, 
 Prime 3 delivers the best game in the Metroid Prime series. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kira4
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 2:51 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games for the Wii. this is how fps contols should be done on the Wii aiming 
 is natural and responsive the nunchuck is put to good use as well the swinging and pulling shileds 
 of enimes is cool as well. It has some of the best graphics on the i also like how you can see Samus 
 face in her scan visor the puzzles in this game are good as well but never hard. The combat in 
 this game is good but never gets to had becaus of Hypermode this you do you kill your enimes quickly 
 but if you stay it over 25 seconds you will enter corrupt hypermode then you have to quickly keep 
 pressing the Abutton to exict it or Samus will become corrupt and the game will end. The boss battels 
 in this game are so of the best ive seen a long time and never get boring because a lot goes into 
 beating them unlike other boss battels in other games. The only thing i didnt like in the game was 
 the fecth quest near the end of the game otherwise its an amazing game that all Wii owners should 
 play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blankshore
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  How this game only recieved an 8.8 on Gamespot is beyond me. This is one of the- if not THE- most 
 immersive First Person Shooter I've ever played, thanks of course to well implimented motion controls. 
 It's also worth noting that it is not (unless you've played the other games in the series) like 
 any other FPS you've ever played. Sure, you'll be shooting aliens, but you'll also be solving fiendishly 
 clever environmental puzzles, finding new upgrades for your suit, and finding clues to solve the 
 mystery of the story.
  
  Anyway, the controls. Like I said this is a very immersive game. Instead of just pressing a button 
 to flip a switch, you'll be actually turning your wrist to turn the switch. That's just one example. 
 You use the wii-mote to aim your weapon and shoot, and also do contextual actions like interacting 
 will switches, buttons, etetera. 98% of the time, all of the controls work great.
  
  Graphically the game is quite good. It's not XBox 360 or ps3 good, but the art direction is incredible. 
 I recomend this to all wii owners- it's an absolute must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wild_Card
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  MP3 is IMHO the best in the series. No dout in my mind. One problem i had with the first MP game 
 was the back traking and for me confusing world lay out. Both have been some what improved. Less 
 back tracking And what back tracking there is makes more sense. It still suffers from having to 
 remember were an area was that was previosly unpassable do to not having say the morphball bomb 
 ect, then after a couple hours you find said power up then have to figure out were that path was. 
 that has gotten slightly better but still, its a problem for me.
  
  The graphics are deffenitly improved. the actual polly count on most moddles like the pirates have 
 not realy improved but the amount of detail in the enviroment as well as the textures are massively 
 improved. I do think i noticed more AA. Also some cool effects like bloom lighting are a great 
 and much needed addition. very much helps bridge the gap between this Wii game and the compations 
 games. still far from the higher graphics ps3 or 360 games but still very good looking game. in 
 fact i think its THE best looking Wii game. yes even better looking than SMG. just the level or 
 art and detail is unreal. I just cant help but wounder what these devs could have done with this 
 game had it been on 360 or ps3. just out standing work.
  
  Next up is prob the biggist improvment to the MP series, The controls. while there is not much 
 done that is mind blowing as far as originol its a huge step up. being able to aim with the AR 
 pointer makes for a much much more fluid exp. in fact i must say its even better than a PC K&M. 
 the motion controls for turning switchs ect are very cool i just wish that was used more often 
 in the game. MP3 is with out a dout THE best FPS/FPA game i have played in regards to controls. 
 It realy makes going to the PS3 and playing FPS such as resistence a pain. truthfully i would trade 
 resistence's graphics advantge for MP3's control's any day. The deffernce is night and day.
  
  The sound is very well done and fine choices were made there. sound effects are handled well 
 and the music very much fit over all with the game. 
  
  One area of the game that i felt didnt get improved nearly as well was the actual AI and the way 
 you fight. the normal enemies were dumb in most case's and barley acceptable in the best examples. 
 It just felt like the combat was tacked on. . i know this is not supose to be a full blown FPS 
 or action game but still. the combat is a huge part of the game. And should have been handled better. 
 It just felt extreemly dated. The boss fights how ever are the exeption. One other negative for 
 me was there are just not enough save points for such a huge world. many times i would be to far 
 between save stations and need to eather take a break or deal with real life such as go to work 
 ect and i would lose progress and have to replay. These are things that i think we as gamers should 
 be past by now. 
  
  All in all this game was more than worth the price and time. A memorable game that i will look 
 back on. I think that if the negatives i mentuned had been addresed this would have been IMHO game 
 of the year for me. If i was to rate this game 100% on its technical points it would be a 9.5 but 
 the game also brings to the table something that i can not put into words and its something lacking 
 in most games for the past two gens. call it heart or what ever but its something. I know sounds 
 corny but hay. the devlopers of this game should be very proud of them selves. its easy to see 
 that thay realy took there time and put 110% effort into this game. truly thay care and have pride 
 in the work thay do. A attitude thats in very short amounts these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediXMan7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of Sci-Fi (games, books, etc.) . This is one of the things that caught my interest when 
 I heard of the Metroid series. This is my first Metroid game and I love it.
  
  The story is very interesting and has a few twists. The combat can be hard. But not a bad hard. 
 When you're not doing battle with pirates and bugs, you're solving puzzles involving tunnels (in 
 ball mode) , destroying an item in order to destroy other items, etc. And the suit upgrades are 
 cool and it's always cool to get a new upgrade. Controlling your ship is also a cool feature. Commanding 
 your ship to bomb a target, use the ship's magnetic grapple to lift heavy objects, land at a new 
 landing zone, etc.
  
  However, my personal favorite feature is the Wii's controls. This game really takes advantage of 
 the Wii's controls. You use the Wii Remote to aim your gun, use certain computers and devices (pulling, 
 twisting, pushing, etc.) , and others. The Nunchuk is for using the grapple. Pulling back and hurling 
 forward to throw it at the object, then pulling back for whatever. The Wii controls is what makes 
 this game so great.
  
  My only complaint is that the grapple can be annoying. Sometimes it is slow upon casting (especially 
 when you're in a hurry) .
  
  This is currently one of my favorite games for the Wii.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: studwig
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I'll begin with the good qualities, the controls are great and the game flows smoothly for the 
 most part. There are some parts that require a lot of traveling through already beaten parts. With 
 respawning enemies and tricky jumps the backtracking got a little annoying but otherwise smooth. 
 The graphics are good and the scenery is amazing. On with the bad, some of the puzzles seemed to 
 be the perfect difficulty and other seemed downright impossible. There was also a jump (one little 
 jump) that took me about an hour to get. If i didn't look online at the guide there were some parts 
 that I still wouldn't have a clue about. The game also lacks consistent dialogue, sure you have 
 the friendly computer telling dear Samus what to do but those get few and far between as you progress. 
 The little dialogue that there is in the game is riddled with computer jargo and fictional things 
 in the game that were hard to keep track of (ship names, planet names, people names, etc.) . The 
 story gets to a certain point then stalls and it seems like your repeating the same things on different 
 levels. Multiplayer would have mixed perfectly with the quality level design and controls. This 
 is coming from someone who hasn't played any of the other metroid games. I suggest it but don't 
 not expect it to be the best game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TuucciZ
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  When Retro Studios first told everyone they were planning to wake up the Metroid series, most critics 
 showed doubt. But as if the first two games of the series hadn't proved them wrong, Metroid Prime 
 3: Corruption is one of the best games ever created.
  
  The game begins when Samus Aran and three other bounty hunters set off to help the Galactic Federation. 
 An enormous artificial intelligence unit has been corrupted by a virus. But when the group sets 
 off, Samus old rival, Dark Samus, strikes them down. Samus gets infected by Phazon, a dangerous 
 radiating substance.
  
  However, Samus is given a PED suit, with which she can use the Phazon to enter Hypermode by spending 
 som of her health. In Hypermode, Samus is impervious to damage and does a lot of damage herself. 
 The trick is that if Samus stays in Hypermode too long, she gets corrupted, has to shoot all the 
 Phazon away and use an entire energy tank. This brings great balance to the Hypermode, because 
 it makes using it very costy.
  
  The game is very similar to the last two in terms of adventuring. The environmental puzzles are 
 mind-boggling, but amazing. Every piece of Samus' skills is used. Samus can also interact with 
 objects. For example, taking an energy container is done by twisting the Wii Remote counter-clockwise 
 and the pulling it towards yourself. While it's sometimes quite buggy, it brings a great feeling 
 of doing things yourself instead of just pushing the button.
  
  The shooting is incredible as well. The lock-on is still in place, but this time you have to aim 
 at the enemy to hit it. Even though the enemy is always in the middle of the screen, you have to 
 calculate the opponent's movement in as well. This makes shooting challenging and great fun.
  
  Unlike in Echoes, in Corruption the weapons are upgraded. Your basic beam is replaced with 
 a fire beam and missiles with ice missiles. Using them in puzzles and battles correctly is still 
 quite difficult even though two weapons isn't that much. The visors have been updated as well. 
 The combat and the scan visors are classics, there's an obtainable visor as well, but let's concentrate 
 on the command visor. It let's Samus call her ship for aid by lifting objects, landing or doing 
 missile barrages. This all is connected to puzzles.
  
  The bosses of the Metroid Prime series have been amazing, and Corruption makes no difference. Every 
 boss has a weakness that must be used to win them. However, it's not just about finding the weakness. 
 The aiming you have to do, morphing to Morph Ball, using various weaponry, grappling... Everything 
 is used, and therefore winning a difficult boss feels great.
  
  The graphics are surprisingly good for Wii. Even though the textures are blurry when seen for close, 
 every little detail is in place. Fog, lightning, liquids look all excellent. Steam hits Samus' 
 visor and, when scanning, you can see a reflection of her eyes. All is well thought of.
  
  The artistic style is the best part of the game. At some points the level of style is close Shadow 
 Of The Colossus. There's a certain place I fell in love with, a floating city called Skytown. It 
 consists of floating pods, which are connected by tram rails. The entire place is filled with small 
 repair bots that fix the place. It feels like being in a fairytale. Even though all is magical 
 and mind-boggling, every single thing is explained through the scan visor. Everything makes sense 
 and seems believable. This raises the atmosphere and makes the game feel real.
  
  There's voice acting in the game as well. While it's not excellent, it brings the characters more 
 alive. This works best with the other hunters. They clearly have their own personalities which 
 are shown through their voices. Some of the characters, like Samus and Dark Samus, have cleverly 
 been left quiet. This brings back memories of the eerie feeling of the last games.
  
  This game is something you won't disappoint with. It takes the good parts of the last two games 
 and takes them to another whole level. The pre-first part publish doubt has been completely cleansed 
 away. Samus got a game she deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultra-chidori
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  Ok lets first give the rundown of the story. 6 months after Metroid Prime 2 Samus is called apon 
 to help out the Galactic Federation. But on the second month after Metroid Prime 2 the G. F. S Valhalla 
 is attacked by a Space Pirate Boarding Vessel while on a training mission and they are massacred 
 because they wern't prepared for a attack. But not only that the Space Pirates hacked into the 
 Galactic Federation network and planted a virus on the Aurora Units and in turn shut the network 
 down AND THEY STOLE THE G. F. S VALHALLA'S AURORA UNIT OH NO!!!!!! So yeah then after that Norion, 
 the galactic federation's home base is attacked by Space Pirates and the Space Pirates brought 
 a pleasant surprise with them, in the form of a Leviation which is some kind of bomb made of Phazon. 
 But of course Samus saves the day with the help of friends but Dark Samus attacks them at the last 
 minute and corrupts them with Phazon. Then after that all of them are given Phazon enchancement 
 devices which give them huge firepower and then 2 weeks before Samus wakes up her friends are sent 
 off to Near by planets to save them from becoming corrupted by Phazon. But all contact is lost 
 with them. So naturaly Samus is then sent. She rids the near by planets of their corruption and 
 finds the Pirate Homeworld and stops their corrupted planet giving them huge boosts of attack and 
 defense power. The last events are for your finding out. That was long because the story of this 
 game is long anyways onto the Gameplay.
  The gameplay is well perfect in every way due to Retro studios using new ideas. There's 3 lvls 
 of sensitivity for you to choose from: Basic, Normal, advanced. This is for how disoriented you 
 become when you move the aiming reticle. You use the wii remote to pull switchs and levers and 
 to turn things. Swinging the nunchuk forward and then backward activates Samus's grapple. The enemies 
 are hard and determined to destroy you in this game so that's very good gameplay wise. The controls 
 are perfect for a First Person Shooter so enjoy this godly gift.
  
  The sound is very good in all it's glory. Expect to hear your enemies crying in pain as they blow 
 up. Environmental Noises are pretty good but you will have to hear it yourself to just know how 
 great it is. 
  
  Graphics are pretty. THERES JUST TOO MUCH DETAIL so you will have to see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psyball
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Amongst the hordes of Fps's that are flooding the markets nowadays, the Metroid Prime series has 
 always stood out for me as the ideal example of what a good console fps should be. People today 
 always seem to forget the glaring problem with most console fps, that being, no mouse support. 
 Metroid prime has always managed to avoid this problem with auto targeting and now, harnessing 
 the power of the wii, has substituted that solution with a new wii mote targeting system. This 
 is probably the greatest addition that the game has going for it.
  The levels, while still brimming with retro studios brilliant design, seem a little to similar 
 this time around. Everything seems almost a little to same-y to the previous installments, though 
 thats not to say that Metroid prime 3 cant pack a punch of its own. Some moments will have you 
 in awe, while others go boarderline tedious.
  The sound and music are great and somtimes sound epic, although at times the games dominant halo-ish 
 vocal scores seem a little unfitting. The voice acting for the most part is subpar and uninteresting, 
 although, i personally think this is a game that should have done without it altogether.
  The visuals are somewhat of a dissapointment, improving little to none from the gamecube installments.
 
  All in all, The game is a great end to a fantastic series, and if you have any appreciation for 
 clever level design and great eviromental puzzles, you should definatly check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  It's really a good game. Good graphics, game play and controls are a dream come true. There are 
 3 alternate endings witch I personally think is kind of a draw back because if they make a next 
 one, witch story ending will it take off from? Or maybe thery'll be a whole new story. There is 
 one thing though that seriously bothered me. It's too much of a serious game. Some people like 
 that and I personally don't. What I mean is that, if you've ever played the legend of zelda wind 
 waker, you know that if you get tired of the main story or just want to take a break, you can go 
 do mini games or side quests. Corruption is all about the moment here and now and fighting aliens 
 without a break. It too serious you know?! I wish there was some humor or fun little thing you 
 can do, but no you have to keep walking and shoot aliens for 25hrs straight. Besides that the games 
 fun in the way that the bosses look really cool and the puzzles are fun to solve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafasosa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the trailers of Metroid Prime 3, I was instantly hyped for it, and it was worth 
 the wait, it promised accurate controls and it has them, using the Wii remote to aim and shoot 
 is as easy as to point with the remote to the place you want to shoot and press the fire button. 
 
  The story is really immersive because as you explore planets Samus will get more upgrades, will 
 be more stronger but due some circumstances in the beginning of the game she will get more and 
 more corrupted, so you will be racing to defeat your enemies and to avoid Samus to get utterly 
 corrupted. But this corruption isn't all bad, while you have t heal Samus it allows you to enter 
 whenever you wish into hypermode. In this mode Samus will use phazon to power up her weapons making 
 them a really big damage giver, also in this mode you will be almost invincible, but as great as 
 it is it has a drawback, because to use it you inject as the game states it an energy tank, which 
 means that each shot you make in hypermode will have an effect in your health so you have to use 
 it wisely. Also one of the dangers of it is because Samus is corrupted by phazon you can't be on 
 hypermode more than a few seconds, because if you stay on it too long the corruption will spread 
 and will kill you, if you get to this there is a way to get out of it you just have to get rid 
 of the excess of Phazon and the best way to do it is shooting.
  A good thing of the game is that you will visit several planets and even after you defeat the boss 
 of it you will have to return there searching for more upgrades that you were unavailable to get 
 in your prior exploration. Talking about upgrades there are a huge lot of them. Some of which are 
 easy to spot and get, but there are others which will need a good thinking to get or as I said 
 before you need to have other power up that you don't have yet. Also some of these upgrades will 
 be held by mini-bosses who need to be defeated in order to get it. The upgrades can be from weapons 
 and suit upgrades to extra energy tanks and more missiles to use. So you will be expending a good 
 amount of time if you want to have them all.
  This game as the previous Metroid Primes has different visors to be used; as the game begins you 
 have the scan visor, which you use to scan enemies to search for weak spots, to scan different 
 elements of the game to check if it has any use or special thing about it. You also have the command 
 visor which is used to give certain orders to you ship such as land in this place and, once you 
 get the upgrade, bomb this place.
  A feature that I found interesting was to scan certain areas, pictures (it depends on which planet 
 you currently are) to get lore and story from the planet you were.
  The bosses are really huge, and the fights are really fun, because they usually only one weak spot 
 and you have to shoot it, the thing is that they don't have a sign that says "weak spot", you will 
 have to figure it out or use the scan visor to know it. Even as you know where to shoot, the bosses 
 will still attack you and they have a lot of different ways of attacking you, so you will be searching 
 for the weak spot while dodging the attacks.
  The game also features some motion sense zones, in this places you have to move the Wii remote 
 in different ways to unlock doors, start different kinds of machines, press buttons. While the 
 idea is good you sometimes will have a rough time trying to make the control to do as you want 
 it to do.
  The graphics look really nice and the frame rate runs smoothly, but when you look closely at some 
 of the thing you will notice that they aren't as detailed as they appeared to be from afar, but 
 taking that small detail apart the graphics are great.
  Apart from the motion sense areas the control works this way you aim with the Wii remote and you 
 move with the nunchuck, and I have to say that it works perfect. You will get used to this in less 
 than one hour and after that you will be shooting enemies and exploring the planets with ease, 
 also the game features with the option to change some of the buttons actions so you can have it 
 the way you like.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droco3
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is the first Metroid Prime entry on the Nintendo Wii, and is also the 
 conclusion to the Metroid Prime trilogy. Once again you play as Samus and only Samus and are placed 
 in the role of a bounty hunter investigating the threat of the Space Pirates and their discovery 
 of the Phazon wielding Dark Samus. In this entry, you will actually have the ability to travel 
 to other planets, as well as use your ship's rockets to gain entry into new areas. 
  The increased interactivity between the player and Samus's ship is one of the main upgrades this 
 entry boasts. In addition to this Samus will find various upgrades to her weaponry and even gain 
 special techniques by infusing phazon into her suit. While these special techniques are only absolutely 
 necessary in a few situations the fact that they can be used at any time to rip apart your enemies 
 makes this one of the coolest new features in this game. The gameplay is similar to the previous 
 entries in the series and involves plenty of scanning data to learn more about the plot as well 
 as a generous amount of combat and puzzle-solving. 
  In Metroid Prime 3 you actually get to meet other bounty hunters, who are apparently friends of 
 Samus, and become corrupted with her when Dark Samus strikes early in the game. These other characters 
 are fairly significant because they will eventually be encountered later in the game, creating 
 interesting boss fights, yet the lack of a really historical relationship to Samus doesn't really 
 make these fights feel epic. 
  The sound is solid with ambient tracks for the world themes and remixes of past Metroid Prime themes 
 for fights with the space pirates and the saving theme. As far as the weapon related sound goes, 
 I feel some of the weapons' sound quality was rather lacking, and didn't do a great job representing 
 their destructive qualities. The voices of the various characters Samus encounters were all well 
 done and suited the characters properly.
  The controls were very different from the previous games in this series considering this game was 
 made for the Nintendo Wii console which sports a very different controller than the Nintendo Gamecube. 
 Moving around, switching weapons and visors, and opening various menus and maps was all quite easy 
 and aided the already excellent gameplay. However, some of the more interactive controls such as 
 pulling on a lever, wasn't very responsive and performing tasks such as these felt more like a 
 task of finding the right way to move the remote to get Samus to properly use the device. Yet, 
 other new interactive controls such as pressing a keypad or electronic screen actually required 
 movement of the Wii mote is if it was a hand and added a very realistic value to the game. When 
 it came to doing tasks such as this there were no problems at all and I almost looked forward to 
 opening a door with a keypad lock. Shooting, and aiming with the remote was enjoyable, however 
 there was one minor problem which involved a slow to very fast movement of the reticule once you 
 reached the visible edges. The addition of a lock on mode (Except for boss fights) mitigated any 
 of the turning problems during the majority of combat. When boss fights did occur it was understandable 
 why the creators chose to leave out a lock on mode because this would be rather ineffective for 
 the boss situations. 
  Visually the game is very well done. This game features more planets and areas than either of the 
 previous two and the designers did a great job of giving them each a unique feel. The game also 
 captured the feeling of being a lone bounty hunter on an unknown planet, creating a true sense 
 of adventure. The environments all captured that science fiction type feel that is a trademark 
 of the Metroid series and the other bounty hunters were drawn very well. 
  This entry features the same modes of playing as the previous entry, sporting both single player 
 and multiplayer action. There are also unlockable galleries, and different endings based on completion 
 percentage just like in the other games of the Metroid series. While the stories in the first two 
 games were intriguing and kept the gamers attention, the plot in this game felt rather bland and 
 almost cheesy. However, the inclusion of the Valhalla area, an abandoned spaceship with a good 
 bone chilling theme, made up for the rather weak plot and engages the player to discover the story 
 behind this mysterious ship. Lastly, I'm not going to spoil anything, however I thought the ending 
 was disappointing and I couldn't help but wonder why they chose to end such a great series in this 
 way. 
  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is an excellent game that will please many newcomers to the series 
 and followers who have been playing Metroid since its debut on the NES. The gameplay is exciting 
 and a good length, and the game has enough extra content/modes to keep players coming back for 
 more. While hardcore fans may find the ending disappointing, I think they will agree that overall 
 this was another solid entry in the Metroid Prime series. And while it's not the best in the series 
 it is certainly worth playing for those who have not experienced the greatness of the Metroid legacy.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KABAM03
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  This game becomes really boring really fast. The levels take way too long. There's too much time 
 spent going way out of the way just to do a simple task such as flipping a switch. I rarely have 
 enough time to finish a level because there a very few save points. I will often only have about 
 20 minutes to play before I have to leave and do something else, and this is not enough time, so 
 I spend too much time playing the same part of a level multiple times. The game looks pretty good, 
 but it just never really pulled me in. I was kind of hoping for a little less time spent inside 
 small rooms and hallways and more time spent in more open bigger environments. I guess this is 
 probably just too much adventure and not enough first person shooter for me. But if you're thinking 
 of buying a sci-fi first-person shooter do not buy this, wait until The Conduit comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanim02
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Corruption is the third installment in the Metroid Prime series. It's a FPS but half the time in 
 the game you spend you're time figuring out puzzles and just feels like a fun action adventure 
 game. Although there is something to be noted. Corruption was actually the FIRST Metroid game i 
 actually sat down and played through.. I found it very fun and gripping but then once I was done 
 with the game.. I really stopped touching my Wii.. really I don't know. But to heres all Corruption 
 really is a great game in every way and for anyone who is looking for a fun FPS for the Wii.. Well 
 here you go!
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Pros: Shooting is very easy, Great boss battles, If you're into action/adventure .. this is for 
 you!
  
  Cons: Really annoying when ennemies come back when you enter a room you've already visited.
  
 
  Score: 9/10
  
  When it comes to playing a FPS you expect a lot of shooting and nothing else. Although Corruption 
 makes you think before you act in some parts of the game. The doesn't feel like a flat out FPS, 
 since in some rooms all you do is look around shoot some switches, make you're way to the top or 
 turn on generaters. This really makes it feel like an Action/Adventure game. Although the game 
 still has a lot of shooting to do. Facing off against multiple ennemies is really fun and addictive 
 but sometimes it gets very annoying when you do some backtracking ( which is what metroid is all 
 about ) the ennemies are back and there you go again  . . The game has a lot of boss battles which 
 are very intense and really takes awhile to figure out what in the world you're supposed to do. 
 The also feels a lot more easier the last two, which makes it easier for new comers to enjoy and 
 finish the game ( like me ) . 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Pros: Exellent visuals, Great visual upgrades form the last two games, Lighting is amazing.
  
 
  Cons: Up close textures look blurry and ugly, frame rate can bug sometimes.
  
  Score: 9/10
  
  The Metroid Prime series have always been a bunch of great looking games and 
 Corruption is no different. Corruption is simply one of the best looking Wii titles around. The 
 lighting, designs and visual upgrades and simply great to see. Although up close textures in the 
 game are very blurry and not that nice to see. The frame rate is stable, very stable throughout 
 the game but at times, mainly crucial moments, it can bug. All in all, Corruption is simply an 
 outstanding looking Wii game.
  
  Sound:
  
  Pros: Music is great, Voice actors did a great job, Ennemies sound threatning.
  
  Cons: IMO 
 there was something missing...........
  
  Score: 8/10
  
  It's not like nintendo ever did it before, but Corruptio has voice actors doing some lines here 
 and there, plus they actually did a good job :) . What I found nice is that you don't really feel 
 alone in the game like in previous games and that's probably because of the voice acting. It really 
 was one of the reasons why I got gripped in the game, since it made me go further and further in 
 the game. The music is great, it really matches every area in the game and makes it fun and suspense 
 moment. Although, I don't know why.. but the musical department was really missing something this 
 time around. They added a lot.. but still but that is just my opinion... 
  
  Value: Overall Corruption is a great game for any Wii owner who love FPS. If you really are into 
 them you'll probably spam me for not giving this game over 9.0, although for anyone who just wants 
 a good time, Corruption is a fun and exciting game. Some people might play a little of it and let 
 it go but I recommend to go through the whole game. I am not sure why but ever since I finished 
 this game.. I didnt really play my Wii much untill I got a few new games. But it's probably just 
 me. Worth a buy if you're a FPS fan really but rent it if you're not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g_offbunny
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 14, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  I'll be blunt. I have neither the time nor the patience to work on a boss battle that takes 20 
 minutes every time, and one that I never did manage to overcome. 
  
  I gave this game a 6, because I spent six hours playing it before arriving at the conclusion that 
 I simply lacked the time and energy required to overcome Mogenar. This has been described by many 
 others as one of the longest, hardest, most frustrating fights they have ever seen in a video game. 
 
  
  I was amazed by the intuitive gameplay in Metroid Prime 3. It simply feels right, and the display 
 is slick and gorgeous. The sound is out of this world as well. This simply made the game all the 
 more frustrating when it ground to a complete halt in the Mogenar fight. I really wanted to beat 
 Mogenar. I read walkthroughs, checked youtube, and made countless attempts. But I simply could 
 not overcome the extreme difficulty of the challenge, and when each try took 20 minutes only to 
 result in defeat, I had finally had enough. 
  
  I made my numerous attempts over the course of a week. Each day I would give a few tries at beating 
 Mogenar, but always with the same result. 
  
  Some people of course claim the fight is simple, and my hat's off to them. I have a family, a job, 
 and a mortgage to tend to, and I simply cannot, and will not, spend hours upon hours to get past 
 one frustrating fight in a game. 
  I considered returning the game directly to Nintendo with a "same to you" note attached, because 
 I started feeling like the programmers had deliberately inserted this ridiculous fight only as 
 a big FU to all those who bought the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  Since 1986, there have been about 10 games published under Metroid label. Tradition of the series 
 is a non-linear gameplay combining adventurous factors with rapid-fire running and gunning scenes. 
 This is perfectly suitable for gamers who like playing in sprinting style (finish the game in the 
 smallest amount of time) . Usually Metroid offers many glitches to form shortcuts, like in another 
 famous Nintedo series: Mario. There have been many records which are set for each version of the 
 game (reference http://www. metroid2002. com) . As for the leading role, Samus Aran was an interesting 
 surprise from the developers. In the 1986 version, as a Hunter, Samus usually appeared in a terrified 
 armour suit and was called "him" during the introductory part. However, in the end, "he" turned 
 out to be a bewitching girl. Samus can be considered the first female name-part by Nintedo.
  
  So, back to Metroid Prime 3: Corruption (MP3) . This time, as usual, Samus along with other 
 hunters is summoned by the Galactic Federation for a new task: tracing an operation called Space 
 Pirates which is suspected to infect a computer virus to Aurora Units network. After a series of 
 incidents, the hunters themselves are infected with Phazon, an substance bringing about new powers 
 but also corrupts their bodies from inside. Continue her tracking, Samus discovers the origin of 
 Phazon is the remote planet Phaaze and decides to destroy it to end this hazard. However, our heroine 
 has to overcome many horrific obstacles including not only her former partners, the spectre Dark 
 Samus but also the corruption inside herself. It's the main plot of MP3, a release together with 
 Bioshock on X360 having brought about new breakthrough for console circles, in its time.
  
  Samus here is a familiar character, but the developers somehow have passed a new inspiration to 
 her. As it had been promised by the project leader Kensuke Tanabe, MP3 was supposed to be a new 
 experience to old fans of the game, and friendly to new comers, it could show how Wii remote suited 
 for FPS. And the promise is kept. You will get excited right at the beginning, when pushing Remote 
 slightly forward to move the control shaft on your landing spaceship - a movement that used to 
 require analog manipulation. The feeling is fresh and real! Deeper into the game, you will have 
 to perform much more complicated operations, like pull a key out, rotate it then shut off. Everything 
 is comfortable with Wii Remote. Some manipulations on Nunchuk, such as pushing forwards to grasp 
 an object and pulling behind to throw it, make you feel as if you were Samus herself, not simply 
 controlling her as in previous versions. Aiming is thoroughly improved in MP3. It has elapsed the 
 time when you used analog sticks to move bull's eye. Turning around, tracing, locking your target 
 becomes smooth, swift and precise even when you are moving and delivering a return shot. Comfortableness 
 of control encourages the developers to increase the tempo of game play. As a result, the battle 
 become fast-paced, more intense with enemies attacking from all sides. It's obvious that MP3 action 
 scene is by far more terrific than prior release. However, old fans will feel something lacking, 
 that is the 180 degree rotating move of Samus. In fact, it is deliberately removed.
  
  The Huntress' equipments are still the Power Beam gun and Power Suit as usual. However, it's critical 
 to search for upgrading items for her gears, like special missiles or layers to increase durability 
 of the armour. Another remarkable modification is that you can use P. E. D (Phazon Enhancement Device) 
 very soon to transform Samus into Hypermode, which empower both her attack and defense skills. 
 However, this is a double-edged blade that requires players to be careful when using since P. E. D 
 is easily overloaded, bringing its user to death. Personally I like this overloaded state because 
 it prevent abusing and allow experienced players to have a chance to show their skill in prolonging 
 the period of Hypermode. It would be a considerable advantage in intense battles.
  
  Besides Action, MP3 also offers adventure in the form of running or jumping scenes, or solving 
 puzzles to unlock new shortcuts, which are plenty in the game. It may be a bit frustrating at first 
 if you are new to the series, but the satisfaction of overcoming such obstacles is hard to describe. 
 Gradually, you will be unconsciously absorbed in these puzzles. Try to roll your body into a globe 
 form called morphball to advance into a pipe, activate a hidden organ or worm through a narrow 
 slot. The climax of both adventure and action is boss fights, which demand both agility, speed 
 and the ability to judge and figure out their weakness. Scattered throughout the campaign, these 
 scenes always bring about joyful moments, especially the fight against other Hunters or the boss 
 Meta Ridley while both of you are falling down from a breathtaking height. If there is some pity, 
 it should be the lack of Multi-player mode. Similar to the case of BioShock, the developers claimed 
 that they wanted to invest all effort in Single player campaign. Nevertheless, we still have hope 
 since Retro Studios has alluded to an upgraded version that allow gunners to battle each other... 
 in the future. New equipment downloaded from the Internet is also "possible".
  
  It would be a shortcoming without regarding graphics and sound of MP3. Metroid Prime has its own 
 way to impress gamers. Right after the welcome screen, you are mesmerized by a resounding, somewhat 
 mysterious melody. Later in game, it's the lively, expressive dialogues between characters that 
 enthrall you from scene to scene. Voice play for Samus is assigned to Jennifer Hale, the famous 
 voice actress behind many characters like Naomi Hunter and Emma Emmerich in Metal Gear Solid. Sometimes, 
 the turbulent sound effects of gun shot, human screaming, breaking objects or roaring machine give 
 up their place for a creepy background soundtrack, warning a grave danger ahead. There are times 
 I turn on this game simply to listen to the introductory track, or music in some episodes.
  
  As for graphics, it's undeniable that the hardware power of Wii is far behind PS3 or X360, 
 so we don't expect splendid show here. However, don't make the mistake of underestimate graphics 
 in MP3. The cut scenes, the character models with good looking equipment and plenty of burning, 
 exploding effects can easily satisfy most players. MP3 has drastically exploited processing power 
 of Wii, and amazingly game always run stably at 60fps frame rate!
  
  So you may finish MP3 after hours of battling. But it's just a start in the process "begin-end-begin 
 again" for someone who likes sprinting style. There will be more records to set with MP3 in there 
 future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EAisMyInitials
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 1:36 am PT
Review:  I should have rented this first. This game was just so... uninspiring. For the first ten minutes 
 I had some some fun twisting and pushing buttons in the spaceship, but it got really boring, really 
 quick. The graphics are awful, and the difficulty is immense. I somehow made it to the 3rd mission 
 and finally gave up. I just don't get it. Precious hours of my life were wasted on this stupid 
 game, and has put me off metroid games forever.
  
  I don't know what else to say. Never even wanted to buy it in the first place, atleast I got it 
 for free from my cousins at christmas. Don't buy it. Don't buy it. Don't buy it. Unless you love 
 games that are a challenge and a pain in the lower back. Dont buy it. Don't buy it. Don't buy it. 
 Don't buy it. Try not to waste your life like I did and enjoy life while you have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFCYAN
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Having played the previous two Primes, I was anticipating Corruption more than any other game on 
 the Wii's horizon. I was not sold on the control scheme judging by what pre-release videos I saw. 
 But Retro has earned my benefit of the doubt. So having played through the game on both Veteran 
 and Hypermode, I can attest to the greatness that is Metroid Prime 3. It starts out in an Un-Metroid 
 fashion with lots of scripted events, cinematics, and voice-overs. You don't lose any powers like 
 in the previous entries. The action is linear. But when you begin your journey to the first planet 
 Bryyo, things just get better and better. The worlds you explore are vastly detailed and intricate, 
 full of architecture and beautiful lighting. These worlds have enemies just as detailed. You traverse 
 these worlds using your ship, which now has multiple uses such as an on-board grapple beam, missile 
 launcher for bombing runs, and a platform for saving and recharging. Samus herself has the usual 
 upgrades, with the exception of the PED enhancement. This essentially boost your firepower with 
 Phazon and you take apart enemies with ease, at the cost of 1 energy tank. And it helps defeating 
 your foes with such presice aiming tools that is the Wii Remote-Nunchuk combo. Once you set the 
 controls on Advanced, dual analog control would seem last-gen. It becomes second nature, though 
 the visor and Hypermode buttons are the + and -, the missiles at Down on the control pad. It can 
 be awkward for some. But the Map button is at 1, and this is awkward. Though you probably won't 
 use it in the heat of battle, so it's not a huge issue. Some points in the game have you thrusting 
 your Nunchuk to latch onto object with your grapple beam. Or twisting your Wii Remote to manipulate 
 onscreen handles to activate object or open doors. Although it's not some groundbreaking experience, 
 it does give you a greater sense of involvement which is always a plus. The boss battles are excellent 
 and fun. Except a few bosses take forever to kill in Hypermode Difficulty. Like the first Leviathan 
 took me nearly an hour! And some enemies can only be killed via Hypermode, so if you fight them, 
 you lose energy regardless. And that is lame. Also foes in this difficulty are very hard to kill 
 with anything besides your PED attacks. You could exhaust your missiles on one bad guy and they 
 just don't die. It can make the battles drag a little. This is only on Hyper difficulty though. 
 Besides these complaints, this game shows what a great balance of artwork, tech, use of Wii Remote 
 controls, and attention to detail can do regardless of perception that people have about the Wii. 
 I truly recommend Corruption to anyone who loves gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samus_2
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  So far, the Metroid series has definitely been my favorite. It started out as one of the original 
 titles on the NES and has since then never ceased to amaze. The Metroid Prime Trillogy first started 
 on the Gamecube and came to a Grand Final end on the Wii. For those who haven't seen it yet I won't 
 ruin the 100% ending except with the fact that there will indeed be a sequel. Although it cannot 
 be called "prime", the next game will somehow tie into this one. For Next time Nintendo should 
 think about bringing back multiplayer mode, having a more diverse system of weaponry and throwing 
 in some really scary, vicious- looking bosses. Overall Metroid Prime Corruption is a great way 
 to end the trillogy, to further satisfy those who already enjoy the series and bring in those who've 
 yet to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packster
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  What a game needs to acheive the perfect 10 is it must be innovative and does everything right, 
 is fun to play, and just be something new, and that's what Metroid Prime 3 does, What's the catch? 
 The best first person shooter controls ever made. 
  
  - [Gameplay] -
  Everything gameplay wise in this game hits perfection, from the button use of the wii controls, 
 the movments, puzzle designs and weapon upgrades, Metroid Prime is an amazing series, but what 
 really makes this game stand out besides everything I said above, and the amazing controls, the 
 best FPS controls ever created. It really shows that the Wii is the system to be for First Person 
 Shooters.
  [Score -10]
  
  - [Graphics] -
  This game runs smooth, I mean really smooth, never a framrate drop or anything, it runs amazing. 
 Other than that, this is a awesome looking game, artisticly and Technically, looks alot better 
 than any game for any system, one of the best looking games in the current generation, reflections, 
 bloom, shiny stuff, and everything looks great. Plus, new to the series, full voice acting, and 
 it's great, this is really an amazing looking game.
  [score -10]
  
  - [Music] -
  The music is great, matches the game perfectly and gives a great feel to it, you'll want to listen 
 to it over and over again, it cues in at the right times and can keep you motivated to go. It has 
 one great sound track. You'll want to buy every piece of it off the extras page.
  [Score-10]
  
  - [Value] -
  Though there is no huge online deathmatch and stuff, you can still 
 hook up to WC24 and send things to friends and get credits for it. Speaking of Credits, you can 
 buy things with them like Concept art, Music (as I mentioned above) , and even bumper stickers and 
 bobble heads of your Mii's for your ship, that will keep you going off task of the long (20-30 
 hours) story mode looking for things to scan and kill for more credits, and even have you replaying 
 the whole game for credits, or just because it was so fun.
  [Score-10]
  
  -Closing comments-
  I don't just give out tens for every game I like, I give them out like they 
 are actually worth something, you have to do alot to a game to deserve the perfect ten, basically, 
 it has to be perfect and bring something to the table, that is exacly what Metroid Prime 3 Corruption 
 is, and does.
  
  -Final Score-
  ---- [10/10] ----
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Samus has to take out the darkness and most of her enimies are back like Ridley. She also has alot 
 more eniemis like the bounty Hunters and her own. But one of the Bounty Hunters help her and saves 
 her. But the real eneimie is the dark forme of her. The good part of this game is that there is 
 the best puzzles of the whole entire series. The other good part is that the boss battles that 
 you have to use all the mechanic that you have used. The last good part is that the graphics are 
 good and also that various gameplay elements mesh into each other. The bad is that some the contexual 
 action moves don't control that well. The other bad thing in this game is that some streamless 
 controls make the game so easy on the adventure mode. The last bad part is that it deosn't do that 
 much then the other two metroid games. This is why I really rated it 9.5 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrcwood
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  WOW what a game! the wii remote give u the best out of the game! it like its make for the wii! 
 (u no wot i mean) i kinda knew the wii would work awesome for metroid prime 3 so it didn't let 
 me down!
  
  I'm a Big fan of metroid so i can be alittle bised but i will make some points on it like why metroid 
 prime is still better and so...
  
  Well the first metroid prime has an awesome story abit longer too i think, also it did get very 
 dark and jumpy then u go futher into the game such as meeting the space pirates in phazon mines 
 and the chozo ghosts in the ruins. Which made it reali cool cos i lov games that make u in some 
 way scared when ur playing, not as much as reisdent evil scared but nearly. I didn't get that with 
 prime 3 tho but the story was reali cool tho so i'm not say its bad just not as good as.
  
  But back too the good points!
  
  The boss fights! WOW awesome! ( i like that word lol) the 
 ridley fight was action packed my fav :) the cool thing is u had to use the remote and weapons 
 too the full in all boss battles which recked my fingers and arms!
  I reali like the fact that ppl talk on the game lol samus still doesn't : ( but hey its a start! 
 feels better unlike the other two primes, text was a start too just to mention. (prime 2 lol) The 
 Graphics were reali gr8 for the wii! pops out at u! and samus's view which was again awesome! the 
 cool feature with the hyper mode and the ship controls were very groovy! u can use ur ship too 
 do loads of stuff like blowin up stuff or moving around, hypermode make it reali fun! cos u onli 
 used the phazon gun at the end of the first prime u kinda felt 'awwww' but now! u've got it as 
 a main weapon plus more too like phazon bombs and missles! wow! awesome! :D
  
  So Their you go! Get it! even if u never play metroid b4 its still a gr8 first person shooter 4 
 the wii!
  
  Mrcwood (cwood249) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RapMatster
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  I'm really not a fan of the Metroid Prime Series, but i decided to try this one for once. At first 
 everything was a blurr, i didn't even know anything about this game. After the first couple of 
 minutes i started learning the controls and the scanning feature. It already seemed like a game 
 that would actually be fun. After a couple of hours spent on the game, i knew i wanted to beat 
 this game TO THE END! The first boss was already exciting and fun, way more fun than those lame 
 bosses from those other Wii games. So i was hooked.
  
  The Good:
  Great Control at most times, EPIC BOSS BATTLES, Graphics were very good, Map design was nice at 
 times, and upgrades were pretty nuts.
  
  The Bad: HATED ALL THE BACKTRACKING! Annoying as hell, The creature spawns were a **** as well, 
 the puzzles did get a little difficult at times.
  
  The Storyline:
  It was surprizingly really well thought out and it gets you hooked till the end.
  The maps were 
 nicely designed.
  
  The Wii Remote:
  I'm sure using this game with the Wii remote was a lot easier than the Gamecube controled so that's 
 a plus.
  
  Overall for a first time Metroid Player this game was very good, memorable, and fun. The amazing 
 part was that even if you never tried Metroid before you'll be amazed at how fun it actually gets. 
 Although don't get to into it there are some "Oh **** creepy moments at times.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rex97213
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  Metroid has great boss battles, clean graphics and great controls and some very complicated puzzles 
 and lots of backtracking and an interesting story.
  
  The Bad
  You have to be very patient to solve some of the more difficult puzzles
  
  The New Features
 
  motion control, you have to do certain tasks to get different tokens which allow you to buy upgrades, 
 and a lot more interaction with your ship, new enemy's and amazing new controls which are easy 
 to learn.
  
  Story Line
  Samus and her fellow bounty hunters are struggling to repair an organic computer that has been 
 infected by a mysterious virus.
  
  Visuals
  the visuals are very impressive for the Wii with a perfect frame rate but the graphics are just 
 barely better then metroid prime 2 echoes.
  
  Ai
  The ai in metroid isn't the best ai i have ever seen, it doesn't use teamwork or any cover tactics 
 but its not totally stupid it can move and and try to avoid your fire by jumping to the side or 
 rolling.
  
  Overall
  its a great game with a good story, good puzzles and more features and its only downfall is it's 
 Ai, The visuals are not totally better than the previous game they're still clean and are a pleasure 
 to look at.
  
  If I've missed any new features don't hesitate to send me a pm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is a Metroid game that is the last of the Prime series. The story starts 
 as Samus Aran piloting her gunship on a bounty by the Galactic Federation general for help in the 
 war with the space pirates. As Samus gets to the Galactic Federation capital ship, she goes through 
 some tests, and meets the general. She also sees other bounty hunters such as Gandrayda (the female 
 transforming hunter) . The general gives the bounty instructions, but the Galactic Federation gets 
 attacked by Space Pirates.
  
  What I liked about this game is that there are interactable environments. The best Wii shooter 
 controls. More scarrier than Prime 1 or 2 on the Gamecube. Hyper mode is the best weapon. Best 
 Wii graphics. Story is easy to undertand.
  
  What I didn't like is that you can't switch beams, unless if you go hypermode. A bit more graphic 
 than the other two games.
  
  Overall, Metroid Prime 3 is one of the best in gaming finales. But will it be the Killer app for 
 the Wii? We'll wait later in the Wii's years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaggisGhillie
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I was hooked from the beginning. Almost everything in the game is top-notch. 
 The graphics and good (for the Wii) . The artwork and the "alienness" of the worlds is superb. You 
 will definitely feel like this is not a human-based environment. The music is haunting and will 
 give you chills at times. The controls make excellent use of the Wii remote. The storyline engaging. 
 This game has it all.
  
  The only drawback I would complain about is the final boss battle. It is too frustrating. After 
 20 hours of game play I'm ready to wrap things up. I've survived a lot and don't need a frustration 
 fest. However, it isn't nearly as bad as other games I've played (read my review of Castlevania) . 
 It only took me about 8 tries to complete the three-stage boss battle. Not too bad, but man, was 
 my thumb sore!
  
  I would HIGHLY recommend the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dattylawnglaygz
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Wow... this game is something else. I am totally speechless about how good it is. To me its like 
 a way better Halo with a twist. Matter of fact this is what Halo could only wish it was. The more 
 and more I play it, I am absolutely blown away by it. I can honestly say that I haven't played 
 a game this fun in a long long time. I can't pick one flaw for it truthfully. I love the graphics, 
 the gameplay is revolutionary, the puzzles are amazing, the difficulty is nice, the sound is spectacular... I 
 mean what more could one ask for. I wasn't that impressed with the WII because of its lack of "Grown 
 Man" games, but this game is so tight that its well worth buyin a WII for. The game is very very 
 challenging at times but i'm sure hardcore gamers will love that. Finding all the missile upgrades 
 & energy cells is definately a nice challenge. The boss fights are pretty darn tight also. So if 
 you like games that are a cut above all the rest try it. Games like this don't come around too 
 often so do check it out. You will not be sorry. Believe me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: confusd
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is a game that meshes platforming, light puzzle solving, and FPS combat toghether 
 well. The controls can take a little while to get used to, and you might be whipping around the 
 wii remote to fast for your own good. The controls however, make the game alot easier, being able 
 to spin on a dime makes combat easier, but you cant lock on anymore, which makes it a bit tougher. (though 
 you can turn on the feature if you really need too) . The boss fights are great, youll spend some 
 time figuring out how to beat each boss, and then actually pulling it off is the real fun. There 
 are side elements to the control, twisting knobs, thrusting switches, but they feel like afterthoughts, 
 and dont always work that well. overall the amazing graphics, gameplay, and boss fights, mean if 
 you own a wii, you need to own Metroid Prime 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DranTheMan
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 26, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I found metroid like zelda and that weird hat game for the gba. It was fun at first, but then it 
 became like a chore that I had to do or I wouldn't get dessert that night. After you get to the 
 second or third boss, I had to look at the walkthroughs, and I just got stuck far too often. It 
 sometimes gets to be challenging enough that it' s the least bit of fun, But definitely not worth 
 the $60 cdn price tag. for example, SPOILER HERE the boss battles, like rundas and ghor, they were 
 easy once you figured out what you were doing. but not enough to keep this guy from buying another 
 metroid game for a l-o-n-g time That's why I rate it a 6.5. Possibly fun for the other metroid 
 fans but a total waste of money for me.
  and I don't appreciate having to put 800 characters on these reviews.
  Long live the Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FurtherIntel
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 26, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I don't get it. Everyone tells me how good this game is, but its really not that great. It was 
 even in the finals for a game of the year contest. Good, but kinda boring. Its lacks what other 
 shooter have. I can't quite put my finger on it, but something bothered me about this game. The 
 story line failed, you only have one weapon, and you just kinda felt alone while playing - like 
 there was nobody talking or communicating with your character. I found myself wishing to end this 
 game quickly. Sure, the puzzles were fun and challenging, but the shooting just seemed boring. 
 It just seems like any other boring shooter. Samus not saying a word once in the game didn't help 
 either - but its Samus, right? And backtracking! I hate mandatory backtracking! Especially when 
 you have to search a whole level just to find a small item. I found myself banging my head against 
 the wall to find an energy cell. The good part was the start up menu. It had really cool music 
 (like Halo) and an awesome art style. If it hadn't been for the coolness of the Wii controls, this 
 game would have recieved a lower score from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valmar76
Rating: 6
Date: May 23, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that I love the Metroid series. Metroid Prime 1 and 2 were great achievements 
 in both the first person shooter genre and even horror genre, but this game is not. Let me start 
 out with the controls. The control scheme is very easy to understand and just generally consists 
 of one button for shooting and one button for the menu screen. Everything else is controlled by 
 the Wii Remote. This complicates things because it makes something as simple as turning difficult. 
 The entire control scheme feels like a gimmick because you are constantly forced to use the Remote 
 to push levers, pull switches, grapple, and even just to open up your scanner. I would have preferred 
 to play this game on a Gamecube controller. 
  
  Next, graphics. The graphics in the Metroid Prime series have always been a step ahead of the competition. 
 This game, unfortunately, is not. All of the environments feel bland, and the characters and enemies 
 look featureless. The water sequences in previous Metroid Prime games were stunning because of 
 how amazing the water and the enemies in it looked. This game has few water sequences and they 
 are all very bland and unexciting. 
  
  Sound: Not much in that department, besides the horrendous voice acting. The point of the Metroid 
 Prime series is to feel like you are the only one on a planet full of monsters and general danger. 
 This game throws a gaggle of annoying, cliched characters at you that end up talking to you throughout 
 most of the game. They break the feeling of solitude and ruin the game's ambiance, although this 
 particular game really does not have much ambiance. 
  
  Gameplay: This is where the game falls the furthest. The other Metroid Primes were fun because 
 of how difficult they were. Each enemy could kill you if you gave them an opening and the puzzles 
 were both challenging and rewarding. The combat in this game is very simple and mainly involves 
 you locking on, firing, repeat until all enemies are gone. They tried to add a feature where some 
 enemies have shields and they must be ripped off in order to defeat them, but it feels gimmicky 
 and is almost difficult to do because of the way that you must move the Remote. The puzzles are 
 all very simple and require a very small amount of thought, if any. The boss fights no longer consist 
 of trying to find a weakness and now just consist of firing until one of you is dead. The control 
 scheme also makes it difficult to play the game for more than a couple of hours because your wrist 
 will start to hurt. I suppose that it is a good thing the game is so short, even if you scan everything 
 and obtain all of the upgrades.
  
  In short: Fans of the Metroid series should be disappointed with this weak installment in the franchise. 
 I hope that they make another Metroid Prime just to finish on top, but of course, they will not 
 be doing that. I give Metroid Prime 3: Corruption a 6.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dibdibdobdobo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  Words are meaningless when i try and explain Metroid Prime 3 as everything was a close to perfection 
 as possibly can be. The Controls where perfect! Where you point, Samus Aims her Weapon. Locking 
 onto specific enemies and locking onto them and throwing your arm forward makes you use your Grappling 
 hook to either rip the Enemies Armour off or too Drain them of energy. When changing Samus into 
 a Sphere to find secret area's, unlock doors or to do puzzles was fun and occasionally challenging.
 
  
  Enemies where fun but not to challenging! Bosses on the other hand where brilliantly created. Everyone 
 unique and challening (some took me 2/4 attempts) and is what seperates it from the average FP 
 game.
  
  Graphically beautiful. Every enviroment looks great with superb detail.
  
  Overall this was my Game of the Year 2007.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: betsyfay
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  In 2002 Nintendo created Mretroid prime which revitelized the metroid series after an 8 year hiatus 
 after the groundbreaking Super Metroid. Metroid prime was a masterpeice in every sense of the word 
 and is without a doubt one of the greatest games of all time. in 2004 Metroid prime 2: echoes was 
 released and was also critically succsefful but did not capture the feeling that the first one 
 did. Now Nintendo and Retro Studios have created the next installment in the Metroid series. It 
 definetly delivers.
  
  Gameplay: You play as the intersteller bounty hunter Samus Aran who is working with the galactic 
 federation to end fason cooruption. There are also other hunters involved in this as well as dark 
 samus. You aim by simply pointing the wiimote at the screen like you were actually Samus and then 
 you just fire at them. It realy feels good and makes a regular first person control feel clunky. 
 You can also use the nunchuck to grapple off enemy sheilds. The controls realy work great. The 
 game is in first person, but it is not strictly a shooter, in fact it has many adventure elements 
 to it like puzzle solving an exploration. There are some great puzzles throughout the different 
 planets that you you to. The boss battles are also very well desighned and have realy intuitive 
 ways to defeating them. The gameplay is very good for the most part except for the uneeded fetch 
 queast near the end and some of the wii gestures feel off sync like pulling a lever. You can also 
 go into hyper mode to take out most enemys quickly.
  
  Graphics: technicly, it might not look alot different from prime 2 at first, but when you actually 
 play it on your screen you will see many small improvements that add up like slightly crisper textures, 
 more polygoons, particle, and lighting effects. The game has an absolutly beutifall art direction. 
 Retros creative artist have once again baught Samus Arans universe to life with different looking 
 locales and interesting boss desighns. It all runs at 60 frames and in 480p widescreen.
  
  Sound: The game features the nice eiry music that the series is known for and some classic Metroid 
 themes are heard as well as many new ones. The sound affects are also good like Samus's arm cannon 
 shots or enemy grunts. Samus also screams when she is heart which makes it more intuitive as well. 
 The music in mostly midi but it does it well.
  
  Presentation: It has a neat plot and sense of atmoshpere, the cutsceens are epic and the music 
 fits well.
  
  Replay value: Getting all of the items will definetly give you a reason to come back and the game 
 is probably at least 20 hours your first time through.
  
  Metroid Prime 3: Cooruption is a spectaculer acheivment and a true metroid fans game. It has its 
 strong points and it flaws but all in all it is truly great. It is a must buy
  
  gameplay: 9.5
  Graphics: 9.5
  Sound: 9.0
  Replay value: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeefan200
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I mean it. Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is the best single player FPS I've ever played. Yes 
 it's better then the Halo trilogy. Yes it's better then COD4. Yes, it's even better then Goldeneye. 
 I'm talking one player folks, because there is no multi-player, but that's okay. The wii controls 
 are perfect, the new voice features are awesome, the story is great, and the graphics are beautiful. 
 Combine that with the fantastic music score, the upgrades that aren't as confusing to use as in 
 Metroid Prime and Echoes, and this makes it simply the best ever FPS! Don't believe me? Buy this 
 game now if you have the Wii, its still the best Wii game out there. Still, if you're looking for 
 multi-player, you'll be disappointed, but if you're looking for a spooky awesome space shooter, 
 you've found it. I give this game a 10 and I absolutely mean it. Awesome game!
  
  P. S. You may want to consider buying the strategy guide as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humantnt
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 Corruption, Is Probably one of the best graphiced games for the wii, and also one 
 of the most challenging, this is definitly a great end to the metroid prime trilogy, Its has definitly 
 been worked hard on, everything seems to suit.
  
  the game has spectacular environments, very challenging boss'es, epic battles it is very puzzling 
 and hard to complete, plenty of unlockables for ur suit and arm cannon.
  
  Metroid is now even better than ever, with the interactive controls it really makes the game feel 
 more realistic and a lot more fun not only do u use the wii remote as the ur arm cannon, u also 
 have many other things to interact with like levers, ur ship buttons it really feels more like 
 u are samus, i just love it..
  the only dissapointing thing about this game is the lack of multiplayer and online play, if it 
 had that it would easily be one of the greatest games ever.
  
  This Game Has The Greatest Fps Controls Ever, No Word Of A Lie!
  
  unfortuneatly they didn't 
 give a single thing to do with multiplayer or wifi except for sending credits to ur friends but 
 thats not really that great.
  
  mp3 corruption is definitly a great first person shooter 
  definitly a must buy for all wii owners
 
  
  u want a challenge buy this game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _bLaZeR_
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Metroid prime 3 corruption is a perfect example of what a first person shooter/adventure should 
 be like on the wii. It has fantastic graphics, a great art style and the motion controls are simply 
 awsome, the game is lengthy and has plenty of replay value through finding all the items and rooms. 
 Throughout the games campaign you will explore various planets, each with multiple and fully explorable 
 locations. throughout the game you will find various weapon and suit upgrades, and you will also 
 face many bosses in what you will find to be fun and challenging battles. The games campaign also 
 features a nice mix of puzzles to help keep you busy on adventure. Over all Metroid prime 3 corruption 
 is an amazing title worthy of any wii owners collection, espicialy fans of the metroid series, 
 it will keep you busy for a long time with its lengthy campaign. MP3 is well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  well its another metroid game with better graphics, controls, sounds, boss battles, puzzles and 
 more. 
  
  you play as the bounty hunter samus aran to try and stop the space pirates. you travel to planets 
 and space stations to foil their plans. the game is very lengthy with tedious backtracking through 
 plantes and the space staions.
  
  the graphics are fantastic for the wii with shinier and more realistic scenery and backgorunds. 
 the bullets that samus shoots look fantastic. the controls are perfect for the game and fit the 
 wii remote perfectly. the sounds from your gun are excellent and scenery such as lava is very authentic 
 and same when moving through bushes and shrubs brings a realistic aspect to it and makes you feel 
 like your there.
  
  although it has only a 1 player mode unlike the ds version it still is fantastic. the best metroid 
 game i have played but i have only played 3 so i cant erally say but the best i have played yet.
 
  
  a deffinate must have game for wii owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coahtemoc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  My reason for saying that I like Metroid Prime 1 & 2 more the Corruption is that, with the addition 
 of other characters and voices, it feels almost like Halo. Instead of being a lone Bounty Hunter 
 stranded on some desolate planet with a mysterious past, you're with an army of people (plot-wise, 
 not really during gameplay) . I think it's better to be alone then to be with other people (at least, 
 in Metroid games) . One of the best things that comes out of Metroid Prime 3 is how well it uses 
 the Wiimote's abilities. Using the nunchuk to grapple onto enemies and rip off shields or whatever 
 you latched on to is awesome. I only wish that you had the option to use a GameCube controller, 
 for all the people so used to playing metroid Prime 1 & 2 (however, i'm not sure how well it would 
 work for such things as the grapple beam & turning keys, etc.) . Overall, though, it's still a fantastic 
 game that anyone that has interests in FPS's, puzzles, or adventure games, should pick up as soon 
 as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V-Dunstan
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is a fps that is controled with the wii-remote aimed at your tv screen. In terms 
 of control, well I didnt think it was perfect. It sure as hell wasnt responsive enough. The slow 
 movement was kind of annoying even though that cant be controlled, but the game is very slow-paced 
 for an fps. The music is nice and has a tribal feel to it, which is good but there is little variety 
 in song, so you will be listening to the same song for a long time. Visually, I cant really ask 
 any more from this game, it really is very clean in this sense. This game is dead easy I havent 
 found it challenging on either normal or hard mode. I also find this genre not particularly too 
 my taste (the action adventure part that is) . The missions can be repetitive, I have revisited 
 a planet for story purposes, which means I have to go through the same crap, but I also have to 
 listen to the music again!!
  
  Pros: Nice Gameplay, Excellent Visuals, Quite a long game, well constructed music.
  
  Cons: 
 Repetitive, too easy, thin range of music, some frustratingly slow controls.
  
  So although these cons are fairly minor, its the little things that make the difference from 10 
 & 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatkiwi
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  Let's just start this off with the fact that I didn't play Prime 1 or 2, so when I bought Prime 
 3, I was a little worried about things concerning the storyline.
  
  But my worries were meaningless. I understood the story perfectly, and the new control scheme worked 
 out perfect as well. The gameplay is simply fantastic, plenty of enemies to scan and a whole history 
 of different cultures on different planets. And eventhough there is a little backtracking, you 
 actually want to do it, because there are areas on planets that you can reach only with specific 
 suit upgrades and I remember swearing to myself: ''I gotta check this out once.''
  There are only two things that bothered me: The morph ball jumping is a little unresponsive, but 
 what really annoyed me is the fact, that Corruption is a great game and it could have a great online 
 death-match mode. Sure there are the friend vouchers via Wi-fi, but that's not enough. Hunters 
 had a great online mode, so Corruption could also do it.
  
  So my final verdict would be... This game is a must buy, and eventhough with the lack of online 
 play it's simply one of the Wii's best games to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocarina_jedi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Where to begin? Metroid Prime 3: Corruption simply excels in every aspect. From the captivating 
 storyline to the tight, innovative controls and the gorgeous visuals, this game does it all.
  To be as brief and spoiler-free as possible, this game is the final chapter in Metroid's sub-series. 
 Samus Aran finally rids the universe of the radioactive material known as Phazon, as well as her 
 evil doppleganger, Dark Samus.
  For the first time in the entire series (not just this trilogy) , Samus travels from planet to planet, 
 giving you a look inside her gunship for the first time. She faces multiple foes trying to keep 
 her from halting the spread of Phazon contamination on each of these planets, but ultimately, she 
 must emerge victorious.
  MP3: C takes the gameplay of the first two games in the series and successfully adapts them to the 
 Wii Remote and Nunchuck. Aiming is done simply by moving the Remote and letting the motion detector 
 do all the work. Additionally, the motion sensing abilities of the Nunchuck are put to use through 
 Samus's grapple beam. Just shake the Nunchuck to throw the grapple. Simple enough, right? Samus's 
 weapons and special skills are mapped out to the buttons on both controllers. This rather simple 
 control scheme is a perfect manifestation of how the Wii can be used to its utmost capability. 
 It's PC point-and-clicking simplified. 
  The graphics and sound may at first seem to not be much of an upgrade over the previous games, 
 which were humble Gamecube titles. Just look closely and you'll note all the subtle differences, 
 though. Edges are smoother, framerates aren't as choppy, and everything just looks clearer and 
 prettier. As for the soundtrack, it's classic Metroid. The songs will be stuck in your head the 
 whole time.
  I recommend you play the other two games in this trilogy before this one so that you understand 
 the rather confusing story. That being said, you need to play this game to fully appreciate all 
 the Wii can offer you. The only Metroid game that comes close to this one is Super Metroid, and 
 the only Wii game that comes close is Super Mario Galaxy. Don't miss out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inamon
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Metroid is one of the best, most consistant game series ever. So here comes Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, 
 a game that's so beautifully designed and wonderfully topped with a fantastic storyline and great 
 moves. So let's start with the controls. Usually you have regular FPS controls on the Wii - point 
 at the screen, fire... just like a first-person shooter. Metroid Prime's controls is unique. With 
 extensive motion-sensing movements used for both Wiimote and Nunchuck, including ripping off shields, 
 activating switches and switching in and out of Morph Ball mode, the controls are just perfect 
 and can be used to anybody not used to first person shooter controls.
  
  Then you have the graphics. They look beautiful - better than a handful of Xbox 360 games (and 
 possibly even a PS3 game or two) . It's artistic, it's lush, and every enviroment is detailed and 
 topped with lots of unique enemies and items. The lock on mode is made easy, the dark storyline 
 is amazing, and every single frame of enjoyment is made beautifully, and it still manages to be 
 one of the Wii's most well-done games ever, and one of the better adventuristic titles. It also 
 manages to be hard without being majorly frustrating, and the game is structured well, meaning 
 no poor glitches.
  
  There is a few problems, however. The lack of multiplayer mode is dissapointing - sure it's not 
 how Metroid's supposed to be, but a multiplayer mode still would be quite a good addition. The 
 game also feels a bit like Echoes (but somewhat different to Prime 1) , due to the dark tone and 
 samey enemies, plots, etc. Nevertheless, Metroid Prime is an excellent game for the Wii, and is 
 well recommended to anybody who has the Nintendo console - it's simply one of the most artistic, 
 challenging and spectacularly consistant games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great implementation of the Wii control scheme; beautiful artistic visuals; lengthy quest; 
 solid (albeit mildly repetitive) boss fights; probably the most accessible game in the series.
 
  
  The Bad: Still lacks the polish and marvel of the first game; voice acting and script is sub-par; 
 story is predictable and bland; contextual controls aren't always good; lame fetch quest a la Metroid 
 Prime 2.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 was one of the most anticipated games announced for the Wii. It seems like a natural 
 fit for the Wii's unique controls, and it certainly shows that a first-person shooter can use the 
 IR controls to great effect. The game, however, seems to be stuck in somewhat of a no-man's land 
 in which it can't decide whether it wants to be a traditional Metroid adventure title or a more 
 action-oriented shooter.
  
  The controls, as mentioned before, are rather good. It takes a little while to get used to aiming 
 at the screen and moving around, but it feels really natural once enough time is spent mastering 
 it. Some of the buttons on the Wii Remote don't work well, though. For example, it is really unwieldy 
 to fire missiles. Thankfully, the control options offer some customization, though the missile 
 button cannot be changed.
  
  The core game is easily the weakest of the three games in the trilogy. It feels far more streamlined 
 and run-of-the-mill than the past two games. The story is also lacking the mysterious intrigue 
 and subtlety of the first game, instead opting for several cutscenes with full voice over. Strangely 
 enough, Samus herself never speaks, though she is hardly silent in any of the other games, especially 
 in the two GBA outings, in which she narrated and had open dialogue with other characters. Samus 
 has been shown to have really strong character, so it is sad to see her relegated to the "silent 
 heroine" role that so many other Nintendo characters face.
  
  The levels in MP3 are separated onto different planets. This is a really bad move for the creators, 
 as the greatest strength in the past games has been a very open and desolate seeming world in which 
 to explore. It ends up feeling a bit like "Metroid Lite," even though it is on Nintendo's main 
 console.
  
  Complaints aside, Metroid Prime 3 does have a lot of polish, clever boss fights, beautiful vistas, 
 and lots of interesting unlockable content. It is certainly not a bad game, and fans of the previous 
 games in the series would do well to try this one out. It offers a fairly good conclusion to the 
 amazing trilogy, though it lacks the grandeur of the original game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soenderup32
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 - Corruption is a great great game!!
  
  The story about Metroid Prime, is very nice and entertaining! It can be a little hard, to cope 
 with all the details, but if you watch the great movies, it's okay.
  
  The graphics are clearly better than average and there's a lot of good animations and movies! 
 
  
  The controls are the best that I have ever tried in a Nintendo Wii game!! It's absolutely perfect 
 and the makers have found the perfect solution, to the Wii steering features!! It's a little hard 
 to get started with, but 30 minutes of playing, and then you're on!! You often find yourself in 
 a weird position, trying to kill the enemy's crawling all over the place  it's simply perfect!!
 
  
  It's a great game, and clearly worth the money!! If I had to pay double price, I would do it!! 
 :)
  Story: 9.5/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Controls: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikos21982
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Super Metroid had been one of my favourite SNES titles, and i was looking forward to this one... 
 Metroid Prime 3 though, is not 2D cause times have changed... Metroid has become 3D and it's view 
 has changed to 1st person. So, what you get is 50% good old Metroid and 50% Unreal.
  The graphics are the best in Wii along with Super Mario Galaxy, and show that the console is not 
 a Gamecube with motion sensor clone. The movement is also perfect, with no slowdowns.
  The audio is as everything it should be, with music that really adds to the game's atmosphere.
 
  Last but not least, the gameplay: You won't see better use of the Wiimote in the Wii. You simply 
 use the Nunchuk to move, and the Wiimote to target and shoot. It's even easier than using the mouse 
 in 1st person shooters for the PCs, and feels more realistic. Often in the game, you'll have to 
 perform specific motions with the wiimote, such as handling levers, or inputting codes in terminals. 
 The game includes some platform elements as weel, like jumping, or moving through narrow spaces 
 in 2D, being transformed into a morphball. There is a wide selection of moves for Samus, and as 
 you advance in the scenario, you get new moves, suits and weapons. In your armory, you have Samus's 
 classic gun, which can be upgraded later in game, and Samus's classic missiles that can be upgraded 
 as well. You also get a very cool grapple laso, with which you can grab enemies' armor and expose 
 them, or travel over gaps Tarzan style. The funny thing is, that to actually use the grapple laso, 
 you have to stretch your hand as you would in reality, and then pull it backwards. Samus can also 
 enter Hypermode for a few seconds, by using one of her energy tanks. Hypermode upgrades all of 
 Samus's weaponry, and makes her kick ass. The only thing i would like though, would be more weapons 
 in your disposal, but still, instead of weapons, Samus has got the moves. I forgot to mention another 
 cool feature, which is the different visors that Samus uses according to the situation. So, u have 
 the normal visor which you will use mostly, another visor with which you will be able to control 
 your ship in order to make it blast a wall or move a large obstacle, a visor which scans obstacles 
 and opponents giving you info about their weak spots, and the X-Ray visor which makes you look 
 through walls, and find the enemies' weak spots.
  The game contains 5 planets, and 2 stages in spaceships. Each planet is huge, and of course you 
 can travel again to a planet that you have already visited, in order to take a power-up that you 
 missed. Every planet has it's own theme, variating from fire and lava sceneries, to a sky city 
 and so on.
  Boss fights are with one word, epic. They require you to find the bosses' weak spots, and then 
 use a certain strategy to expose them. Sometimes, they even take more than half an hour to complete, 
 and you have to stay on your toes.
  All of the above, make a game that will last about 20 hours, including the time during which you'll 
 wander around the galaxy, trying to figure out how to advance in the game.
  Pew pew 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seth_rules
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Playing Metroid Prime 3 (MP3) sure was the most innovative FPS game I've played since Metroid Prime. 
 I may be a metroid fan but there are some details that could have been change.
  
  Regarding the story... as always you start the game at some Galactic Federation safe point, this 
 is where you get all the briefing about your main objective which is to eliminate the Phazon threat. 
 In the beginning of the game, you get to learn the basic control using the Wii remote and nunchuk 
 when they ask to shoot some targets. I assure that this kind of gameplay surely made player to 
 get quicker when it comes to shoot on some space pirates or other lifeforms. About the story, after 
 the small "training", you get to meet three other bounty hunters that may have been in the Metroid 
 Prime DS game... (I just presumed that these hunters may have been in this DS game, but I don't 
 actually know what this game is all about. So...) .... anyway, once you get to know your "teammates", 
 you'll be sent on a near planet in order to prevent its destruction... and bla bla bla.... as you 
 get through the game this kind of scenario will repeat a second time when you'll arrived to the 
 "Skyworld" sort planet... but in general, the story is pretty linear in a way that each event affects 
 in certain way the next one. Hence, all I can that say is that the story as you get through the 
 entire game will be very interesting and immersive.
  
  Another point that affects all the others.... it's the presentation of the game..... once again, 
 you'll get to wear Samus' suit to bring back the order and the peace in the galaxy. In this installment, 
 the Retro Studios wanted to change the look of her spaceship. To this new design, they also brought 
 a new function. The fact that we can actually use the spaceship as a weapon made entertaining because 
 not only it was used to be a save and restore point but now, it is very useful when you get to 
 places where something blocks your way. Now it's time to talk about her suits' look.... all I have 
 to say is that it lacked of a little bit of inspiration even though it looked cool.... through the 
 game you get to have the same suit, the only thing that changes is the fact the suit will be glowing 
 more and more as you acquire new phazon powers (related to the "Hyper Mode" function) . It must 
 be hard to not repeat the style, but they could have work on it a little bit more in a way that 
 Samus should wear different suits through the entire game knowing that the only option it's to 
 update armor by getting to a Galactic Federation safe point.
  
  In overall, even though MP3 missed some little details, these didn't make the game to be less great. 
 Actually, I would have hope to see more possibilities within the game and I would recommend this 
 game to anybody who wants to try a FPS+Sci-Fi game simply by using a Wii remote. This game is very 
 immersive and entertaining, I assure you that you won't regret the time spent on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Detroit421
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  This game was fantastic. If you love the previous two in the series this is a must buy. The play 
 control is excellent and makes this game a lot of fun to play. Graphics and sound are the best 
 I have seen on the Wii. The story is deep and you can finally interact with people although not 
 very much. The screw attack is fun and never gets old. The Pirate home world stage is a lot of 
 fun. The way you can use your ship for drive by's is a lot of fun. There is really not much to 
 complain about in this game. I wish you could shoot and kill the Federation soldiers that would 
 have added some entertainment value. I will gladly play this game over and over  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom3161994316
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  gameplay 5/10
  
  graphics 7/10
  
  sound 8/10
  
  value 2/10
  
  this game is more puzzle then action adventure. all u do is solve extremly confusing puzzles that 
 give me huge headaches. u shoot about 2 guys 4 every 10 puzzles and the enemys are usually weak 
 and small. the beggining of the game was awsome but then puzzles stated kickin in and i found myself 
 solving puzzle after puzzle. u only get 1 gun and its etremly weak so u have 2 switch to hypermode 
 every so often but when it runs out theres nothing much 2 do. ur missles r just used for unlocking 
 doors. i stared thinking if i want extremly annoying puzzles y dont i just play suduko or a cross 
 word puzzle. i sol this game and they sed 10 bucks for it. it waz so bad i actually took the deal. 
 this game is worth crap. the graphics r okay there alot bettr then alot of wii games and the sound 
 is the best part. its pretty good actually. the replay value sucks. i quit be4 finshing this huge 
 boring confusing mind game puzzle. if it wasnt 4 the great sound and good graphics id give this 
 game a 2. the shooting and fighting is easy the puzzles r very hard. not even games guides will 
 help u much. after the 1st 10 hours ull wanna sell this thing. i sold it aftr playin 7 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mack2D2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  EXPECTATIONS:
  I went into this game with the wrong expectations, I was fired up at the thought of an action packed 
 contra-esque Metroid game. Why I expected this, I don't know, we've all obviously learned by now 
 that Metroid is not about the action. The result of my wrong expectations was boredom, when it 
 got to the somewhat slow parts of this game I lost all motivation to continue... I wanted to shoot 
 more things, I wanted to quickly gain new abilities for my awesomely powerful Chozo suit, and this 
 button after button to open new doors thing was taking too long.
  
  So I cut loose from playing it and enjoyed some Mario Galaxy. I recently went back to Metroid Prime 
 3 however, now with the appropriate expectations, and I'm happy to say that this game is awesome 
 and my favorite Metroid game to date. Even going back to the SNES days. I still find myself hungry 
 from time to time for more action and variety in enemies, but I think that is the side effect of 
 the amazingly intuitive control system... it just makes running and gunning sooo much fun, whenever 
 you enter a room where you get to battle multiple enemies or even to a boss fight, it's a huge 
 treat because of the weapons and abilities at your disposal and the ease of which you can access 
 them all.
  
  I'm fired up to see other games copying this camera and control technique because it is by far 
 the best ever for a FPS style game on a console. But I don't think I'd call this a FPS so much 
 as an FPA, first person adventure. Get ready to go back and forth between worlds to solve various 
 problems, get ready to drop what you're doing and head back to another level because you forgot 
 one tiny detail... as long as you're ready, this game will give you a one of a kind experience 
 that will stick with you for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettuceman44
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is the last Metroid game in the Prime trilogy. And Corruption is a great way to 
 end it.
  
  Gameplay- You control the silent bounty hunter Samus Aran on a quest to vaccinate the federations 
 organic computers. Right away the action heats up with the federation being attacked by Pirate 
 forces. The story is pretty interesting, and you will see many great areas like a Federation ship, 
 a town floating high up in the clouds inhabited by robots, a "thorn" jungle, and the pirate wold 
 itself including a few more areas. The controls for this game is superb. You basically use the 
 wii remote to aim and shoot which feels very precise. Actually it is the best controls I have ever 
 experienced on a console. This just shows what the Wii can do.
  Graphics- While the graphics aren't that amazing technically, artistically the game looks awesome. 
 Seeing the alien planets and races, the federation troopers, it all looks great. It even makes 
 use of HDR in areas to make things look just that much better. Definently visually appealing to 
 the eye.
  Sound- While Samus herself doesn't talk, everyone else does and has full voice overs. You will 
 especially notice this early on with the Federation Troopers. The game music is also great and 
 top notch, giving you that alien feel.
  
  All that said, Metroid Prime 3 is a worthy conclusion, and a great game and Wii owner and especially 
 Metroid fans should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverninga0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  First of all, I wanted to mention this cuz some revies said that it is a cheap version of Halo. 
 ITS NOT, METROID CAME FIRST SO STFU ABOUT IT. The alien concepts were metroids first, not halos, 
 so u metroid haters, stop whining. 
  
  Anyways, I gave this game a 9.5. The reason why is that this game is extremely fun and I'm a metroid 
 fan, lol :] .
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really good considering it's for the Wii. And the Wii's graphics aren't 
 that good compared to the 360 or PS3. But Metroid takes the Wii graphic's to the next level. Metroid 
 can even compare to some 360 graphics. 10/10
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay was pretty good. Storyline was awesome but I think it was shorter than the 
 previous Metroid game. I really dont know, lol, it's just a feeling. Never-the-less, the gameplay 
 was awesome. The saying where you are Samus in Metroid Prime is soooo true for this game. You ARE 
 Samus in MP3. It's like your wiimote is your hand cannon and your nunchuck is your grappling beam 
 in many areas of the game. The Scanning may be sort of annoying but you'll get use to it. And if 
 you actually read the text, it makes the game pretty interesting. 10/10
  
  Sound: I'm not really into the music thing but I think sometimes, the theme sounds pretty creepy 
 to me. It gives you that "you're gonna get surprised" feeling. And sometimes it did. I was surprise 
 like s!@#. It was so scary when a monster just popped out from nowhere because of the music. And 
 I LOVEDDDD the monsters screeching and all. 10/10
  
  Storyline: As I mentioned above, I think it was pretty good. You're back to fight Dark Samus and 
 fight your comrades because they get corrupted. Makes all the gameplay more interesting. But then 
 there is a feeling where there is less bosses in MP3 than MP2. Never-the-less, the storyline still 
 lasts around 10-20 hours for people who aren't into the puzzle solving shooting games. Just like 
 MP, and MP2. Long, long, long for your enjoyment. :] 9/10
  
  Puzzles/Strategies: In Metroid, you are required to think a lot to solve it's mysterious puzzles 
 and all. For me it was hard a little. I don't really require think in all the games I've played, 
 except for the MP games. Some got confusing and I ended up wasting time but at the end, I solved 
 it, I was so happy I solved it. 9/10
  
  Overall: 9.5, do your math, lol.
  
  To tell you the truth, I am a handicapped person, I have undeveloped biceps and triceps in both 
 of my arm, it is skinny like crazy. Also I can't straighten my arms, my right arm is like in a 
 L shape form because of surgery and it's like that forever untill I get surgery. It is actually 
 challenging to play a lot of the Wii games since you have to do alot of things using your arms. 
 Metroid infact for the Wii was challenging for me, but it was so great. I'm sure it will be better 
 for you than me, you normal non-handicapped people, lol. And I wrote this review just because of 
 Metroid haters who compare Metroid to Halo. Period. Thanks for reading my review if you still are 
 reading reviews for Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  The last time I played Metroid was on the GameBoy, yeah, way back in the day. It was a good game, 
 but I wasn't so thrilled when I found out that Metroid, the alien butt kicker, turned out to be 
 a damsel. Anyway, it was still a great game, so I decided to give the Wii game a try, especially 
 with all the positive reviews.
  
  Controls involve the Wii remote, moving it will result in the targeting reticule to float across 
 the screen as well as your blaster arm, pretty much the usual is utilized to take advantage of 
 the Wii remote system. My beef with the remote sensor, although good but flawed, can be found in 
 my other Wii game reviews.
  
  You can survey the screen and any interesting points will come up. This is a blend of FPS and puzzle 
 solving. The majority of the time, I found myself trying to solve puzzles rather than blasting 
 away at aliens. You'll get to know your HUD very well in the game, you'll rely on it for everything 
 from object to weapons knowledge. The enemies vary and you can fly your ship to get around, although 
 you never really pilot it, just cutscenes. There was never really anything in this game that made 
 me feel like it was good, the game didn't make me care too much.
  
  Now my gripes with the game. The levels look and feel cartoonish. It feels like a kid's game, definitely 
 not for hardcore FPS players. The soundtrack isn't good at all. Get this game if you're a long-time 
 Metroid fan, if you haven't played Metroid, rent it first and see if this is your kind of game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: partyboy66566
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a hardcore Metroid fan, but I still like good old Samus and her trusty suit. I picked up 
 MP3 only because it was on the Wii, and I loved it from beginning to end. The controls are really 
 simple to use and you can get easily immersed in the game. Its one of those games where you want 
 to get back home so you can continue playing. The storyline in not very complicated, although some 
 sort of flashback system would have helped the ones who didn't play the first or second installment. 
 The usual upgrade system is back, where your suit gets stronger as you go along, and you'll find 
 yourself going back to explore areas you already visited with your new abilities. The real shiny 
 part in the game is the boss battles, its a real shame that there aren't too many of them, but 
 don't worry, you'll enjoy all of the ones you play. These battles are the ones that will remind 
 you that MP is a shooter, because it can feel more like a puzzle game from time to time (not to 
 say that as a bad thing since the puzzles are really good) .
  
  All in all, MP3 is a really good game, probably one of the few must-have shooters on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightfire35
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  The conclusion of Nintendo's first person shooter is here at last. While, I was sad to hear it 
 was the last Prime game, it concludes the trilogy very well. It completes the story. I still want 
 more Prime though. The graphics are amazing for the Wii. Probably the best graphics in a Wii game 
 yet. Great cut scenes and voice acting. The controls take a bit of getting used to, but once you 
 get the hang of it, the Wii mote works great with this game. If other companies could make a game 
 with the same general controls, first person shooters on the wii would compare to 360. The game 
 is almost all action filled. There is hardly ever a time when you are not shooting something. It 
 is a great improvement from the second game, because you did a lot of wondering around with no 
 action, but here it is all action, all the time. The game is a lot easier than the two other games 
 on the gamecube. This is because of the rush mode, where you can pretty much blast away any enemy 
 without much effort. The sound effect are great. Overall this is an awesome game, probably the 
 best on the Wii yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chief-Irons
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  First impressions? Very good. After the title screen it displays three saves, after you select 
 new game choose one of your charming Mii's to identify this save as your own. Very handy!
  
  After starting a new game the save slot will display the percentage of the game completed, 
 location, health tanks and how long you have been playing. This save system also enables each player 
 to tailor the controls, display and sound. People who like a challenge can disable the hint system, 
 or those who don't want any voice acting can disable it.
  
  It seems Retro Studios keep small load times a high priority, handy for a series known for its 
 immersion in an alien environment. Each world is separated into areas and each of those is split 
 by doorways. Even going to another planet or landing site it entertains you with a cutscene. Brilliant. 
 
  
  The majority of the gameplay will be spent in the standard Combat Vistor. A radar is displayed 
 top left and a mini map in the top right. By default your pointer is green however it turns red 
 once over a destructible object, this can be a little frustrating particularly if the background 
 or target blends in with the pointer. Its simple enough and it works very well, although I would 
 have preferred a larger mini map.
  
  Samus moves around using the Nunchuk analogue stick. But it goes a step further by activating the 
 Grapple. This is done by pushing the Nunchuk forward; allowing you to swing from object to object 
 as well as destroying various obstacles and enemies, making me feel caught up in the action and 
 engrossed in the gameplay. 
  
  Scanning Vistor is used to gather essential and none essential information. Need to find a monsters 
 weak point? Scan it! Want to know how to destroy an object? Scan it! Read some foreign text? I 
 think you know the answer to that. Once this Vistor is used enabled everything that needs to be 
 scanned shows up in red, scanned: green and unimportant un-scanned objects in blue. After scanning 
 a creature it comes up with a short summery of abilities and weakness, more details can be accessed 
 by the press of a button (As with scanning text) . All the important information is stored in Samus's 
 Databank.
  
  The Databank stores all the information you gather during your adventure. Logbook contains data 
 on scanned monsters and lore. Inventory provides a summery of her current equipment and power-ups, 
 ship and credits I have collected. Finally an option screen for controls, display and sound. All 
 the logs and data which should please fans of the series, just like the Achieves in Resident Evil: 
 Umbrella Chronicles.
  
  Activating switches requires a bit more effort then just pressing a button. Context-Sensitive Interaction 
 is required to progress through the game. From door handles to keypads a prompt will come up to 
 press A and then you will enter this mode. Instructions will appear like "push the remote forward, 
 rotate clockwise" making good use of the innovative controls. 
  
  In order to access small tunnels Samus can turn into a Morph Ball which is controlled using the 
 Analogue stick. The camera shifts into third person view and I can see the environment surrounding 
 me. In this mode you can move a lot faster and it helps move the game forward, particularly when 
 backtracking through previous environments. By flicking the remote upward I was to jump without 
 using any of the small bombs unlike the previous Metroid game, just a shame its quite irresponsive. 
 
  
  Unlike the previous titles in the series the player can use the ship at various landing sites to 
 travel to a variety of different locations and planets in the galaxy, making it easier to get to 
 certain destinations and to saving your progress. It is also used pass major obstacles, for example 
 I had to take out a shield generator and the only way to do that was to find some ship missiles 
 and order the ship to attack. Despite the process being quite linear it can still be a lot of fun. 
 
  
  Graphics rival that of Halo 3, from the in game cutscenes to exploring the worlds. Every planet 
 has unique scenery and looks quite real. High resolution textures, fantastic backgrounds and excellent 
 models for each creature. Not only that, but Samus also looks stunning! For the first person view 
 I can see Samus metallic arm pointing the direction of whoever you're Remotes pointing, in the 
 dark you see her eyes reflecting in her Vistor. Switching to hypermode changes the colours in the 
 world completely and adds to the sense of wonder. Doing all this at sixty frames per second is 
 a marvellous achievement It's the small additions that make this game a success from a technical 
 and design perspective.
  
  In the Metroid series boss fights usually challenging and nothing much has changed, expect for 
 the number of mini bosses. The AI gives you a run for your money, after they lose a certain amount 
 of health they change tactics and use different attacks, which requires me to scan him to find 
 out how to counter his moves and damage him. Giant main bosses are less frequent in this game, 
 which is unacceptable. Regardless they are entertaining. 
  
  To unlock extra content you need to obtain credits by scanning new creatures, lore, defeating bosses 
 and lastly vouchers (obtained by fulfilling various criteria's) which is then turned into credits 
 once one of your Wii friend sends you one. These can then be spent in the extras menu on galleries, 
 soundtracks and other bonus features. In addition the menu displays how many vouchers have been 
 sent and received; so you can tell who your real friends are!
  
  Like in pervious Metroid games getting lost is a matter of when rather then if, thankfully if I 
 went in completely the wrong direction a message will pop up with someone telling you to go to 
 a certain area [insert excuse here] and a tag appearing on the map. Map screen is another thing 
 that hasn't changed; it is still as confusing to distinguish where you are in terms of height. 
 
  
  Despite some minor issues Retro Studios have made a finely polished game worthy of Nintendo's seal 
 of approval! Its strengths far outweigh the weaknesses. Defiantly buy this game if you enjoy having 
 fun.
  
  Strengths: Immersive gameplay, Samus's ship, less re-travelling, improved interface, customization, 
 long story, good controls, enjoyable boss fights, unlockables
  
  Weaknesses: Map navigation can be a little annoying, morph ball jumping is a little unresponsive 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rexCo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  When Metroid Prime first hit shelves on the GameCube in 2002, audiences were stunned. Here was 
 the most atmospherically compelling game ever created, and one of the freshest gaming experiences 
 in a long time. Nothing like it had ever been done. 
  Metroid Prime 2: Echoes was its sequel 2 years later, and while it was a great game, it didn't 
 quite live up to its hype, add anything new to the series, or even feel or look as good as its 
 predecessor. The atmosphere that compelled most gamers in Prime 1 seemed lacking and less creative; 
 and switching between dimensions wasn't very entertaining. Overall, the package just wasn't as 
 thrilling or well done. 
  Though I was disappointed in Echoes, Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is a different story. 
  The 
 first installment of the 3D first person action adventure series on the Wii is overall just as 
 exciting, thrilling and compelling as Prime 1, yet it brings many fresh and exciting gameplay elements 
 using the Wii's motion controls, among other things. To aim and turn, you now point at the screen 
 with the Wii-mote, rather than using the controller stick to move forward and turn. The controller 
 stick on the nunchuk now moves you in all directions; side to side or front to back. You can still 
 lock on to most enemies, although keeping your cursor in the same spot and spazzing on A won't 
 win you battles anymore. 
  
  There's also other additions like using the nunchuk to grapple and pull certain objects be it an 
 enemy's shield or a panel in your way. These abilities don't completely change the way the game 
 plays, or add anything insanely creative, but they do enhance the experience and add a layer of 
 strategy to many battles. 
  
  The new controls change things quite a bit, and will take a bit of getting used to for MP veterans, 
 but you'll love the changes and fresh experiences that result. Things always work smoothly and 
 blasting the many baddies you'll be facing has never been more fun. 
  
  Graphically the game is nigh unmatched on the Wii to date. The MP series has always been known 
 for its high level of detail, and Prime 3 is no exception, pushing things further than ever before. 
 You'll often find yourself staring in amazement at some of the most beautiful things you've ever 
 seen on a screen. 
  
  As I was getting at earlier, one of the first attributes that made the first MP so compelling was 
 its overall atmosphere. Though I felt confined and limited in Echoes, in Corruption one feels captivated 
 and moved like never before. The floating city on Elysia is one of the most beautiful and well-captured 
 environments I've ever experienced in a video game; right up there with Prime 1's Tallon IV. It's 
 something I can't really put into words here... You need to experience it for yourself. The other 
 areas in the game all have their own unique feel, and the series of events that lead to the game's 
 conclusion, including the incidents with the fellow hunters, are nothing short of incredible. Phazon's 
 true potential is fully revealed to the Universe, and what an amazing element it is. 
  
  Among the new elements introduced to Prime in Corruption are voice-filled cutscenes used to give 
 the game a more traditionally told plot. Though you still get the most out of the game if you read 
 the many "Lore" scans found throughout Prime 3's areas, the gist of things are given to you through 
 either an Aurora Unit, Admiral Dane, or by Galactic Federation personnel. This is also how the 
 game's many objectives are given to you. Though don't worry; you're still free to roam as you see 
 fit, collecting any of the game's vast amount of pickups or just sight seeing in the game's many 
 beautiful locales. 
  
  Traveling from area to area is also a bit different now; no more huge elevators linking sites, 
 nor portals linking dimensions. Samus' ship now plays a vital role in the game, and flying from 
 area to area on one of three planets or from planet to planet (and a few other additional areas) 
 is done from the game's many landing points. Although I liked the giant singular world of Tallon 
 IV in Prime 1, this is a welcome addition, and it's done very well. Using the game's command visor, 
 you can summon your ship to an open landing pad, and then fly where you please once it arrives. 
 You can also use your ship like a save/ammo room, to view your statistics, or even bomb certain 
 areas as well as move giant objects to their rightful place, allowing you to obtain a valuable 
 or access a new area. Certain areas of the game that are open roofed and filled with enemies can 
 be bombed by your ship; it isn't used a whole lot nor completely necessary, but it is pretty fun 
 and much more effective than taking the time to eliminate every enemy in these rooms. 
  Overall I like the addition of Samus' ship; in fact, it's probably the best core additive to the 
 game besides the new control scheme. 
  
  The new "PED" suit used by Samus and the Federation is necessary for the game's portrayal of "Corruption" 
 and Phazon and all, but I'm not particularly fond of it. I only used Hypermode when I found it 
 necessary, and actually avoided it as much as possible. I just didn't like having to use my health 
 to defeat enemies, as effective as it was; you lose a lot of it very quickly if you're not careful, 
 and if you become "corrupted" you have to vent yourself of Phazon to avoid complete corruption. 
 It's just not that necessary nor that rewarding overall. It doesn't dampen the experience that 
 much though, which is good. 
  
  In fact, few things hamper your experience of Metroid Prime 3. The only problems I had with the 
 game are that the series is beginning to feel a bit old and perhaps forced at times. Having to 
 travel to the "Leviathans" constantly throughout the game feels a bit plain and uninteresting; 
 the game's final few chapters also feel a bit rushed. Even the boss fights, though much improved 
 from Prime 2, don't quite measure up to Prime 1's insane and epic confrontations (still nothing 
 beats Prime 1's Meta Ridley fight) . 
  
  Corruption does, however, do a good job of adding fresh new features and controls while maintaining 
 the same compelling atmosphere, intense action and beautiful environments as found in Prime 1 and 
 2, all the while improving upon the Prime experience. 
  So even though the original Metroid Prime was more "new and exciting" when it came out, Metroid 
 Prime 3 still compels and captivates to no end, holding you until it's explosive conclusion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidaholic44
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Before buying it, i looked up the video review on IGN (they're n00bs now) and [the lord and i] 
 saw it was VERY good. i haven't really been a fan of the metroid games despite my name, though. 
 That loading thing with the doors was unnecessary, sometimes i thought the game froze because of 
 that. I'm a n00b so i look up stuff if i don't know what to do, but other than that and the doors 
 it was THE best nintendo game. I thought it was pretty short, i finished it in under a week. For 
 once, nintendo has had a game with good graphics and that is what i like.
  
  I wish it had a better replay value; it doesn't beg me to re-live that experience and maybe i could 
 have gotten more free time in the game ex: mini-games, more surrounding possibilities, etc.
  
  Games for the Wii are like that (A. K. A Twilight Princess) . So it gave me a chance to like the 
 Wii even more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: free_roamer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  Once in a while, a game comes along that kicks so much ass it needs a new word to describe it. 
 Despite my best efforts, I have not made one.
  
  Anyway, this is definately the best game in the series. There's more action, and the boss fights 
 are so awesome I can't express there awesomeness without swearing.
  
  The graphics are beautiful. 'Nuff said.
  
  People thought the Wii's control scheme would ruin 
 it. It then proceeded to make it better. In other words, I AM SAMUS!
  
  As if the environments couldn't get more beautiful either, they just did. I only wish the ice world 
 was bigger.
  
  The music is great and, as always, fits the environment perfectly.
  
  So, the combination of great graphics, great game and great control makes this game a masterpeice.
 
  
  If you have a Wii, get this game. NAO.
  
  
  P. S I really hate Halo fanboys who give Halo a perfect 10 and then proceed to fill the character 
 minimum with a giant chain of TH1S GAME ROCKSZ!!!111 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  It took all the way until August of 07 but the wii finally has a game that truly shows off the 
 great control scheme. Metroid Prime 3 has to have the best controls for any console First Person 
 SHooter. I know fans of the series are allready mad and jumping to say First Person Adventure, 
 but to be honest Metroid Prime 3 really felt more like a shooter. 
  
  This is not all bad, while yes in some ways the exploration is gimped, the overall gameplay experience 
 has never been better. Metroid Prime 3 is worth the wait Wii owners have had to put up with. While 
 not being a full on FPS, it is a dang good unique one for the wii. 
  
  To start things off the biggest improvement in this game is the control scheme. THey are just simply 
 amazing and responsive. The control scheme may be a notch below the keyboard and mouse, but thats 
 it. Metroid PRime 3 controls better than any console first person shooter on the market, even Halo 
 and Call of Duty. The shooting is more free form, the percesion is near perfection, and the game 
 is also faster and smoother for it. 
  
  THe gameplay also got many fixes as well, for one no longer do you have a full lock on. WHile its 
 still there its just meant to help you strafe. Your shooting is more based on how you move your 
 cursor, so it brings the best of both worlds. THe next improvement is the pacing of the game. Metroid 
 Prime 2 was a great game but blamed for being rather slow and built around too much back tracking. 
 While Back tracking is still there in Metroid it isnt as bad as Metroid Prime 2. In fact it actually 
 makes sense and is less tedious. THe overall gameplay while more linear is also extremely streamlined 
 and fast paced. 
  
  THe game continues its relentless assualt with creatures from each planet as well as the Pirates 
 of the Metroid Franchise. Also for the first time, Samus doesnt lose her stuff from the get go. 
 In fact she upgrades quicker as well. The new beams turn out to be very good and fun but seemed 
 a bit shallow versus the offerings of Metroid PRime 1. ANother good addition is the use of Samus's 
 ship. You can use it for a save point, airstrikes, and puzzle work. Just adding another layer to 
 Samus's awesome arsenal. The other upgrades such as the Hyper Beam and Hyper Mode are simply awesome. 
 In tight situations, this is basically your Trump Card to pull out a victory. Be careful though, 
 to much time in Hyper Mode leads to you being corrupted. 
  
  Corruption is the name of the game and its very fitting. From the outset of the game you meet non 
 other than Dark Samus. She lets off a charge and corrupts Samus's suit. As the game goes on and 
 you pump in more phazon, Samus's suit changes as well. WHile not completely different, it becomes 
 brighter, darker, and more phazon based. The hyper mode, its many hyper beams, missiles, and even 
 charges in morph ball form will be very effective through out the game. 
  
  The biggest area where Metroid Prime 3 really delivered besides its controls are the boss fights. 
 Few videogames ever have boss fights this good, but then again the Metroid Franchise has been known 
 for exceptional boss fights. Metroid Prime 3 might only be rivaled by the original Metroid Prime 
 and Super Metroid in that area. The boss fights are epic, interesting, offer great variety in strategy, 
 challanging, intense, and downright amazing. Even the simplest fight such as the battle with Ridley 
 where you are free falling through the sky is just amazing. It is rather easy, but the intensity 
 is there and the execution of this great sequence is just amazing. From the first boss to the last 
 boss the game just delivers great and epic battles. 
  
  While the game has done many positives, there are a few negatives that leave this behind some of 
 the better metroid games. For one the exploration is somewhat gimped, THe game is far more linear 
 and streamlined. WHich yes is also positive in terms of the pacing and overall gameplay, it does 
 take away from some of that great Metroid feel. The story and voice acting is just terrible. I 
 mean the only godsend is that Samus doesnt talk, but everyone else was just bad. WHile the game 
 is built on its fast pace there is a point where it becomes a quick fetch quest. Which is a shame 
 because the hours before that were just so amazing, that it seems like a shame that there was such 
 an annoying halt to the great run the game was having.
  
  THe final complaint while not a big deal is the lack of a multiplayer. Yes MEtroid has always been 
 a single player game, but Metroid PRime 2 had one. ITs a shame Retro didnt put in the effort to 
 atleast get an MP in this game. The controls and success of Metroid Prime hunters could have led 
 to a rather fun and even unique MP experience on the wii. It doesnt take away from the replay value, 
 but it could have been an awesome addition. 
  
  IF you have a wii and are looking for a great action game it is Metroid Prime 3. In fac it is the 
 best action game on the wii. Few games on the wii play this good, look this good, and are polished 
 this good. Nintendo and Retro did an awesome job with this game. The gameplay is somewhat faster, 
 sharper, tighter, and just the best in the series. The boss fights are simply epic. The length 
 is very good clocking in at 15-20 hours depending on how much effort you put into it. Its not overly 
 challenging but its not easy either on its harder difficulties. The Metroid Prime Trilogy has come 
 to a fitting end, with one of the best games out there on the wii. Few console shooters control 
 this good, and few games have boss fights this good, Metroid PRime 3 is a must buy for any Metroid 
 fan or Wii owner. 
  
  Final Rundown
  
  Graphics- 9- WHile not something stunning like on 360 and PS3, the game is beautiful. IT pulls 
 of some nice bloom effects and great lighting. The artstyle is fantastic, and the game runs a smooth 
 60FPS. The nintendo polish is definantly there. 
  
  Gameplay-10- Like i said before the controls are awesome. The action is fun and intense. The pacing 
 is very good. THe boss fights are amazing and the overall exploration is streamlined which took 
 away from the exploration a bit, but added to the overall combat sequences of the game. It just 
 plays extremely well. 
  
  Sound-8- THe unique Metroid Score is there, but bad voice acting and cheesy dialogue will annoy 
 some gamers. 
  
  Concept/Intagibles- 8- the control scheme was very good and innovative, and as a whole the game 
 felt different from most metroid games. However the story stunk beyond words, and the game did 
 gimp up the Metroid Exploration aspects of the game. Also although it is very atmospheric, it pales 
 in comparrison to Metroid Prime 1 in that area. 
  
  Value-9- The gameplay is fantastic, and the single player is both excellent and lengthy. THe additions 
 of little achievements and tokens also adds to the game. The full 100% experience should take one 
 almost 20-25 hours. A great MP addition would have been nice, but the single player is definantly 
 good enough for a replay, and the game itself is just worthy of its price tag. 
  
  Tilt- 9- ITs not the best metroid, but it is one of the best wii games out right now. The games 
 improved gameplay and continued excellence in great boss fights just adds to the lores of both 
 Metroid and Retro Studios. 
  
  Overall- 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  The story in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption has you playing as Samus again, taking on Space Pirates 
 and a new threat that has infected an organic AI system. Unlike in past games, you'll have allies 
 this time in the other Bounty Hunters (seen first in Metroid Prime: Hunters on the DS) and while 
 the game does have a decent amount of speech and voice acting, Samus is as stoic and silent as 
 ever. Most of the game just lets the ambient sound, music, and shots you fire fill up the soundscape, 
 and you'll only usually get speech with a few incoming communications and some cutscenes.
  
  As you travel through several brand new alien worlds, you'll notice that Retro Studios seem 
 to have spent less time making up unique scenarios for fighting normal enemies, and more time on 
 the boss fights. This turns out to be a good thing, and you'll realize this quickly with the first 
 boss fight, a multi-stage affair where you've actually got a limited amount of time to win. It 
 was very epic and actually a pretty long fight, one that takes place almost an hour into the game 
 but really gets you hyped up for the rest of the game. Unfortunately, the hour or so up until that 
 point can seem rather dull, with the long non-combat intro dragging out just a bit too long.
  
  I understand why it takes so long to get to any real action, however. While Red Steel's first 
 person shooter controls were the first on the Wii, few people played that and Corruption does take 
 some getting used to, and while there are some crucial options allowing you to tweak the controls, 
 the game never bothers to tell you about them; you have to go find them yourself in the options. 
 The default settings work better than Red Steel did and will allow you to aim and move smoothly, 
 while pressing a button on the Nunchuk allows you to lock on to an enemy. You still have to aim, 
 though, unlike in the past games on the GameCube, and while there is an option you can set that 
 truly allows you to lock on to an enemy without aiming, that will still get turned off temporarily 
 for boss fights. Since most of the bosses are big and require precise aiming in specific places, 
 it will be up to you to get this kind of thing right.
  
  s far as the key elements that make Metroid stand out from the rest of the FPS genre, Corruption 
 gets just about everything right. From the very interesting, highly organic worlds to great special 
 effects with Samus' face and her visor, excellent puzzles to well-paced action, it works great. 
 If there's one thing that's disappointing, it's that we've got this new control scheme yet somehow 
 it feels so damn similar to the past two games that I forget I'm even playing the Wii rather than 
 the GameCube.
  
  It's the combination of the same gameplay formula (which, admittedly is great) and the slight - 
 at best - graphical upgrade that the Wii version has that really does this. As you probably know, 
 the Wii is not capable of doing real HD resolutions, and while this certainly looks sharper than 
 the past Metroid Prime games in the not-quite-HD 480p widescreen mode, the first-person view and 
 more realistic look of this game (compared to many Wii games) make it more obvious that the Wii's 
 graphical capabilities really lag behind the other consoles as well as modern PCs. Don't get me 
 wrong - Retro Studios has done a great job, and the art style of Corruption blows away pretty much 
 everything seen on the Wii so far - but I wonder what these guys could really do if they had more 
 powerful hardware to work with.
  
  But let's get back to the game. Metroid Prime 3: Corruption may not stray from the formula, but 
 the inclusion of Wii controls along with Samus' new abilities - including one that allows you to 
 turn the series' mystical dark energy, Phazon, finally into a powerful weapon for most of the game 
 - do breathe new life into the formula. The Phazon weapon system still is a form of corruption 
 and can sometimes turn into more of a curse than a blessing, but that's all part of the fun. When 
 some new weapon upgrades and plenty of new enemies get mixed in with the many original puzzles 
 set on planets we've never seen in Metroid before, this game will easily become one of the best 
 additions to any Wii owner's library. 
  
  did wind up getting stuck in this game for quite a while, not long after landing on Bryyo, the 
 first planet you must travel to. Most of the problem was related to how the first-person camera 
 works in the game and I wound up having to go to the internet to see what I was missing. After 
 reading what I was supposed to do, I'm convinced that I would have given up on this game long before 
 actually finding the solution myself. While I didn't get stuck nearly as badly anywhere else during 
 the game, I feel like maybe the developers are a little disconnected from gamers when these kind 
 of things happen, and they don't realize just how frustrating it is to get stuck in a small area 
 with no obvious way out. Sure, you do still have the ability to scan your surroundings for clues, 
 but when the thing you need to scan is so well-hidden that you never even notice it in the first 
 place, that's when it is really frustrating.
  
  My final gripe, one that is rather minor, is that Wii developers are always looking for ways to 
 add in motion-based controls - even when there isn't much point. Now, I can understand why Corruption 
 makes you flick the Nunchuk forwards to use the grappling beam, as there really aren't that many 
 buttons on the Wii's controller. But having to screw around with the Wiimote to pull, twist, and 
 push things (when they otherwise could just be done automatically by Samus when you tap a button) 
 can start to wear on people's nerves. This can be compounded by Corruption's rather unforgiving 
 motion sensing where doing these motion moves too fast or just a little bit off means it won't 
 work. Retro Studios made an effort to make it feel like it's all part of the Metroid world, but 
 it still feels gimmicky.
  
  Even with a few complaints, I still love the Metroid experience on the Wii. The new controls allow 
 for precision aiming once you get some practice with the Wii Remote, to the point where you need 
 to lock on only rarely. It lets you spend more time immersed in the worlds and the boss fights 
 will really get you pumped up. While the hardcore FPS players out there would likely scoff at many 
 of the things that make Metroid Prime 3: Corruption unique, these guys are still innovating and 
 trying more new ideas than many developers - even the ones whose games are in HD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario2BM5
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Samus is back for the third and final time to finally conclude the Metroid Prime Series. Samus 
 is sent down to meet with Admiral Dane and dicuss how the space pirates destoyed and hacked the 
 Aura Units with this substance called phazon. As Samus gets there the fleet is attacked and the 
 space pirates are attacking Norion. When Samus gets there she realizes that a space pirate meteor 
 is going to hit the planet and Samus and Co. have to stop it. Once they stopped it they encounter 
 Dark Samus and she knocks all of them out. When Samus wakes up she has been ejected with phazon 
 and has to stop Dark Samus and her former bounty huntng friends from destroying the planets with 
 phazon Samus also gets a lot of power ups such as the boost ball and Plasma beam. As you know this 
 is a Metroid game so there will be a lot of back tracking for missle and ship expansion packs. 
 You will also be looking for energy tanks as well. You can call your ship to bomb a certain place, 
 land on a landing site, pick up stuff, or drop off stuff. You will face the three bounty hunters 
 and take their ability once you beat them and you will face three creatures you have been ejected 
 with phazon protecting the phazon seeds and you will gain a new phazon ability plus the the phazon 
 inside of you will grow. There are a total of four planets and you will have to travel to all of 
 them to stop the phazon from spreading around the whole galaxy. Overall the game is great and has 
 to be in every Wii library. I gave this game a 9.0/10 and would recommend it to any metrid fan 
 or first person shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Intro: In the previous generation when Sony was supreme and Nintendo's system was picking up their 
 scraps. Fans eagerly awaited the arrival of a new Metroid game. The N64 unfortunately didn't see 
 a Metroid game so it wasn't until the brilliant Metroid Prime for the Gamecube that introduced 
 gamers to a FPS Metroid.
  
  Graphics: Graphically, Metroid is quite impressive but I still think Super Mario Galaxy exceeds 
 all other Wii products. The textures and architecture in each level are pretty great until you 
 get a couple of feet away and you begin to see the Wii's limitations. The set pieces are pretty 
 small and only have a handful of enemies but I would rather have a couple of enemies as oppose 
 to frame rate issues which are non-existent in this game. Overall, the style is pretty sweet but 
 again I personally like Super Mario Galaxy a bit more.
  
  Gameplay: Don't for a second be fouled into thinking this is a typical First-Person shooter. The 
 closes FPS to MP3C is Half-Life and thats pushing it. This game is an adventure game first and 
 foremost so eat that fart!!
  
  Features: Metroid is a single player game though I wish they wouldn't have jewed out on the multiplayer. 
 I'm still pissed about that; I mean the DS version had online multiplayer!! THE DS VERSION!!! But 
 I digress, aside from the single player campaign which can take between 12-19 hours its a good 
 chunk of value for the buck. There are unlockables and definitely incentives to replaying a marvelous 
 game over and over!! Do yourself a favor and get this game.
  
  Story: The story like all Nintendo IPs is simple but so sweet; though the prime series has focused 
 a bit on it's own kind of side story type ordeal. In corruptions, Samus is guess what,... corrupted!! 
 Basically, there is a massive virus infecting the entire galaxy and Samus is charged with destroying 
 the virus as well as the regular threat of space pirates and good o' Ridley. Nothing really changes 
 in the sense that the story takes its usually steady pace but for some reason this game seemed 
 a bit less Metroidish and more of generic shooter; story wise. There is lot of political crap going 
 around and you see Samus as less of a bounty hunter and more of a soldier which seemed really weird 
 to me. Beside this pointless rant, the story is very traditional and doesn't throw any odd balls 
 at the gamer. 
  
  Controls: The big selling point like most Wii games is the control scheme. Let me say right off 
 the bat that I prefer the Gamecube set up to MP3C. For one main reason, if the controls aren't 
 one to one like a pc game I don't buy it. FPSs can and should be on a 1:1 ratio on the Wii, there 
 is no excuse for not having it. I can let third party publishers get away with not having great 
 controls but Nintendo themselves; unacceptable. Nintendo is always the master of their platform, 
 no one else since the NES and SNES era have been able to match Nintendo at their own systems. I 
 don't expect third party developers to master the Wiis mechanics for awhile but Nintendo should 
 have made this game 1:1. On that note, the controls as they're work perfectly and don't by any 
 means remove the player from the experience. I'm just a little girl about these things so don't 
 mind my random rants. 
  
  Conclusion: After spending 16+ hours exploring everything M3 has to offer, I can safely say that 
 I'm still amazed that Nintendo can continuously produce first party products that exceed in every 
 category. I'm interested to see where Metroid goes from here. Assuming that Nintendo wasn't lying 
 when they said that this would be the final Prime based game in the Metroid Timeline. Here is hoping 
 for another 2D based game; I mean at least on the DS. Don't get me wrong, Hunters was badass but 
 I want another 2D based game. Anyways, M3 lives up to all the hype and some; proving that FPS can 
 be done extremely well on the Wii. More importantly though, that a truly epic game can exist outside 
 of just mini games. I hate to say it; seeing that I'm a massive Nintendo fanboy, the Wii only has 
 about a hand full of true actual games. Everything else in the library is basically a bunch of 
 mini games. So if you own a Wii do yourself a favor and buy an actual game.
  
  Recommendations: I would recommend this game to gamers that enjoyed previous Metroid Prime games. 
 Don't be thrown by the first person perspective; this isn't an action game. I will admit some of 
 the aspects of this game have been sped up and there is less back tracking as compared to previous 
 adventures but at its heart this game is still adventure heavy and only has minimal set pieces 
 that require action; argo boss battles and a Devil May Cry set pieces; which throw a set amount 
 of enemies to be slaughtered for advancing. I REPEAT; THIS ISN'T AN ACTION FPS WHICH HOLDS YOUR 
 HAND THROUGH ITS ENDEAVOR!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaxxo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  After a couple of weeks I can finally review this game, so let's get started.
  
  --STORY --
  
  Samus and a few other hunters have been called in by the federation. Your mission 
 is to give the federations super computers, the Auroras, a vaccine for a unknown virus. You also 
 have to find out what the pirates are up to.
  
  Later in the game the other hunters disappear and you have to find them...
  But, what happens 
 when you find them?
  
  --GAME-PLAY --
  
  Just like in the other 3-D Metroid games you go from place to place, shooting things up and solve 
 some puzzles. The difference in this game is you aim with the Wii-mote, which makes things so much 
 easier.
  What also makes this game different is you don't lose your abilities, but you do gain new ones 
 as normal. Whenever things seems to go down in this game you also have the ability to change into 
 hyper-mode. This thing makes things a little easier but if you us it too much, you will die.
  Your ship is a big part of this game to, you can use it for bombing things and also as a save-point, 
 it's a good thing your ship has a little more character in this game.
  
  --GRAPHICS --
  
  The graphics are some of the best I've ever seen on the Wii.
  I never find it to bright or 
 dark. The one and only thing is sometimes your cross-hair will vanish in the colourful graphics. 
 But, I never noticed that I spend too much time in hyper-mode. ^^
  
  --JAXXO'S SCORE --
  
  This game is a must buy if you have a Wii. Also tell your friends to get this game, why? Then 
 you'll be able to buy bonus material for this game such as, bumper stickers and special concept 
 art. The game also features multiple endings so after you beaten it you will get the feeling for 
 playing again.
  This game get's a 8.5/10.
  
  Later gamers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kozakie
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  This game will leave you wishing the series of Prime kept going. With a long and great story line 
 it will never leave you bored until the game is over. With new enemies and a few old it won't feel 
 like the rest of the series. Great controls make this game so much fun. If you never try the auto 
 lock like me, the lock on still makes the game a little easier. The wii remote is the only system 
 to have a wonderful first person way of shooting. The crisp motion controls are unbelievably great. 
 All Wii remote and Nunchuk controller motions are easy and gets it right the first time. The armor 
 and weapon upgrades are great also. The beams stack which means it keeps the old beam's power but 
 every time you get an upgrade to the beam it adds the old beam but has a new function. The game 
 is not too hard but definitely not too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This game should have been perfect. This should have been the next "GoldenEye" or the next "Ocarina 
 of Time". It easily could have been, but some minor things keep it from becoming the masterpiece 
 of our time. What are those things? I'll get to them later.
  
  The game starts you off in the base of the good guys. You go through a bunch of rooms to the commander, 
 where he'll tell you your mission. Then the aliens attack, and you need to get out of the space 
 base. This has been done before in games like Halo, but never has it been this good. The end of 
 the level is awesome beyond awesome, and you'll know that your in for a treat. The controls work 
 well. The default sensitivity is the one I use, and it works fine for the most part. It isn't perfect 
 because the buttons aren't as handy as one on a regular controller, but pointing and shooting is 
 still really cool apposed to just moving sticks with your thumbs. Some buttons are a little out 
 of reach, and after opening doors, or issuing other motion commands, it throws your view off a 
 little. With a bit of practice, these problems will not hinder the experience. I will give Control 
 an 8.9.
  
  The game has you in a large world which you can explore, and you might have you solve puzzles to 
 get on. These puzzles can be fun, even if they are a little tricky. The 3-D map can be a little 
 hard to navigate, and you might get lost, but not often. The game isn't obviously just about solving 
 puzzles and figuring out where to go, though. The fact that your right arm is basically a giant 
 gun goes to show that there is combat in Corruption, and there is. You cant do any evasive maneuvers, 
 and there isn't a cover system, so the combat is very open, and depends on you moving around to 
 dodge fire and killing your enemies as fast as possible. It is rewarding because you feel like 
 you ARE Samus and you really shot the bad guy. The lock-on is a little different since the curser 
 can move freely when you are locked on (the locked enemy just stays in your view) . I will give 
 the gameplay a 9.3. 
  
  This wouldn't be a Metroid game if it didn't have items, and it does. You have a lot of items at 
 the beginning of the game which is cool, and the new ones you get are sweet. There are also enhancements 
 to combat, which makes it even more fun. The graphics are great. They aren't perfect, but they 
 make the game look very cool, and the artisticness is perfect and really sets the mood. I will 
 give the technical graphics an 8.8, and the artistic graphics a 9.5. 
  
  There is a lot of voice acting, and it is really good. The voice actors do a good job, and make 
 the game immersive. The sound effects are not as good, but do now have any negativeness. The music 
 is classic Metroid, and is alright. The main theme isn't the best music you'll ever here, though. 
 I give sound an 8.7. 
  
  Now for the negatives. I already mentioned the non-perfect control and the fact you can get lost. 
 There is also a fetch quest toward the end of the game that really sets off the pace and makes 
 it overall less of a great game. It may ruin the experience for some, too. Why they included it 
 I don't know, but it is a little annoying. There is also no multiplayer. 
  
  Overall, this is the best FPS Nintendo has ever made. The single player rivals Halo, but the little 
 negatives and no multiplayer hinder an otherwise perfect masterpiece. Overall, the average comes 
 to 9.04. So I give Metroid Prime 3: Corruption a 9. Do yourself a favor and buy this action packed 
 adventure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman-2k8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  The first-person shooter view in Corruption. The targeting reticle can be aimed anywhere on the 
 screen using the Wii Remote. Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is a 3D first-person action-adventure game. 
 The player controls Samus Aran using the Wii Remote and Nunchuk. The Nunchuk enables the player 
 to move Samus around, lock on to enemies and targets, perform scans, switch in and out of Morph 
 Ball mode and use Samus's various Grapple abilities. The Wii Remote allows the player to aim and 
 fire weapons, switch between visors, engage Hypermode, and pull up the Logbook, Map and Inventory 
 screens to read detailed information about the various items Samus has encountered.
  
  In contrast to the interchangeable beams used in the first two Prime games, Corruption features 
 a stackable upgrade system more like that of Super Metroid or the Game Boy Advance Metroid games, [6] 
 in which successive upgrades to Samus's beam, missile and grapple systems add to the capabilities 
 of those systems rather than providing more options. (For example, the Nova Beam retains the properties 
 of the Power and Plasma Beams.) Samus is also equipped with a new Command Visor, which allows her 
 to order her gunship to land, pick up objects and destroy various obstacles. The X-Ray Visor from 
 Metroid Prime makes a reappearance and can be used in conjunction with a new beam to fire through 
 phazite walls and track invisible enemies. [6] Players can also use the Metroid Prime 2: Echoes 
 variation of the Screw Attack. [7]
  
  Corruption introduces several other new gameplay features as well: The Phazon Enhancement Device, 
 or P. E. D., allows Samus to use Phazon energy to greatly increase her attack and armor strength. [8] 
 The Wii Remote functionality allows players to lock on and strafe around enemies and targets while 
 simultaneously firing anywhere on the screen. [9] Players can also flick the Wii Remote upward while 
 in Morph Ball mode to perform a Spring Jump. [10] Additionally, a new checkpoint system allows the 
 player to restart immediately at certain points in the game between save stations.
  
  
  The Command Visor allows players to call Samus' gunshipBefore release, Nintendo announced that 
 Corruption would not include a multiplayer mode. [11] The game instead introduces a system that 
 rewards the player with three different types of tokens and "Friend Vouchers" for completing various 
 tasks. The vouchers can be sent to friends via the WiiConnect24 service; [12] when vouchers are 
 received from others, they can be converted into Friend tokens. All four types of tokens are needed 
 to purchase various bonuses and additional content. One of these features allows players to capture 
 screenshots from within the game, which are not posted to the Wii Message Board and can be sent 
 to friends, and can only be sent within the Wii system, as there are no ways to transfer the pictures 
 to a computer. [13]
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: azshorty2003
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  Everyone rips on this game for some reason, maybe because it got an 8.5 on here. I think it was 
 great. It wasnt better than the first Prime, but it was damn good. I'll keep this review short, 
 just laying down some thoughts from the game.
  
  First off, i noticed it was pretty easy. The game allows you to play on a 'Hard' mode right away, 
 but i decided to play on normal first, as I usually do. But i found this to be very easy, and it 
 was very difficult to be killed. The boss fights were also very easy, especially the last 2. One 
 other thing I noticed about this one is its much more linear than previous games. which isnt a 
 bad thing. i liked it like this, just know thats how it is.
  
  The game looked very good, the graphics were great, not revolutionary, but great according to Wii 
 standards. The controls worked very well. very rarely did i lose control with the Wiimote going 
 off screen. making 180 degree turns werent the easiest thing, but they were also rarely needed. 
 But the button layout fit just right.
  
  My main complaint about the game would easily be the load times. Now we all know there are no load 
 screens, the game loads as you shoot a door for the next room. In the original it was almost impossible 
 to notice, except every now and then when it would take a few seconds, but then you were right 
 on your way. But in Prime 3, damn near every door you had a 3 or more second wait time for it to 
 open. Not only does this painfully slow the game, especially if you trying to run through in a 
 hurry, but it sucks if you were just trying to sprint through a room and not fight the enemies. 
 Now youre stuck at the door and getting blasted in the back for about 5 or 6 seconds. Not good. 
 : (
  
  Other than that I thought the game was great. Good story, controls perfect for the system, fun, 
 and immersive. I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEguitarhero08
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 25, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  In short, this is probably the worst FPS I've played in my life. It's stupid and annoying. If you're 
 stuck, you must scan an item too see what it does, and it's a pain to find the corresponding item 
 too, because it could be on the ceiling. Really, if you have a 360 go with Halo 3, the best FPS 
 ever. BUT, if you don't have a 360 go with Medal of Honor: Heroes 2. MOHH2 is pretty good. Just 
 don't go with this crap Nintendo calls an FPS. It's not reallyy really REALLY not fun. I don't 
 believe the ype this is getting. 8.5?! It's not even good! IT's really really really not fun. IT's 
 a cheap versoin of Halo 3. Shooting aliens. Except in Halo 3, it's actually fun. 
  
  
  Save your money, and go buy MOHH2, or if you really want a game pre order Super Smash Brothers 
 Brawl and wait for it. Samus is n that. Wow, a game that Samus is in and the game is actually good.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erebyssial
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  The Good: Fantastic, clever puzzles || Boss battles are amazing || Atmosphere is immersive || Unique 
 controls work very well ||
  
  The Bad: The few 'waggle' features aren't always responsive || Load times for doors between rooms 
 can interrupt gameplay rhythm || ______________________
  
  The story takes place six months after the events of Metroid Prime 2: Echoes and follows Samus 
 as she helps the Galactic Federation in their fight against the Space Pirates. After a bout with 
 Dark Samus, she gets infultrated with phazon energy and the new PED suit comes into play. The beginning 
 of the game lets you adapt to the new controls as well as keep up with what's happening in the 
 plot.
  
  Gameplay in general is awesome, to sum it up in short. Like its predecessors, you'll come across 
 challenging puzzles, beautiful worlds to explore and an array of enemies that always keep you on 
 the lookout. You're sent to a number of different worlds to destroy their Leviathan Seed, which 
 is what the main adventure involves. At the end of each area will be a main boss battle, and leading 
 up to them smaller boss battles will also be encountered. These fights are amazing, and are the 
 pinicle of the games awesome gameplay. Most of them hold a suit upgrade for you to obtain after 
 defeat, such as a new weapon or an enhancement of one you already have. The way these are spread 
 out works very well, as you're constantly moving foward with new upgrades which contributes to 
 how well the game flows.
  
  There are two major differences in gameplay than the previous Prime games on the Gamecube. Firstly, 
 theres Samus' new Phazon Enhancement Device (PED) suit, which lets you enter hypermode - which 
 juggles power with risk. Holding the + button lets you enter this feature with ease, which takes 
 away one of your energy tanks which drains your health as you shoot. However, if you stay in this 
 mode for too long, you'll be corrupted, in other words, you "die", and get sent back to the previous 
 save or checkpoint. Secondly theres of course the new control scheme thanks to the Wii's new remote 
 and nunchuck combination. Prior to this game's release, the Shooting genre hadn't had taken full 
 advantage of the unique controls. The Wiimote is used as the pointer for Samus' gun, and is very 
 effective for precise aim. The nunchuck is used mainly for your grapple beam, and with a flick 
 of your wrist you'll be ripping of enemy shields, leaping through the air and activating devices 
 through your adventure in no time.
  
  Corruption is by far one of the most visually stunning games on the Wii. The environments you'll 
 come across are very immersive, and resembles the atmosphere in the masterpeice that is the first 
 Metroid Prime, a positive indead.
  
  This game lives up to a range of replay value features. During your adventure you'll come across 
 Energy Tanks, Ship Missile Expansions and a whole load of Missile Expansions, which can be discovered 
 easily as well as using your brain to solve puzzles. It's definitely something worth doing even 
 after you've finished the game. The new shop feature is also cool, which lets you buy packages 
 of a variety of different things including classic themes and pictures of the series. The items 
 you use to purchase these are collected throughout the game, for example you can receive a certain 
 token for pulling off an impressive kill. As this game is the final installment of the Trilogy, 
 I think it's a great way to finish it off as it will take you back through what the series has 
 been about. After completing the game you can also replay it under 'hard mode'.
  
  Conclusion: Metroid Prime 3 Corruption is a must have for all Wii owners, if you don't feel that 
 way, it's definitely worth atleast looking in to. Don't have a Wii? Well this is definitely one 
 of the best reasons to pick up the system. The game is fantastic value even with one rushed play-through, 
 which took me 13 hours - and under completing it a second time with 100% upgrades, 18 hours was 
 recorded, which doesn't include all the times you died. An amazing game and I very highly recommend 
 it.
  
  Overall Score: 94 / 100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: locki12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I recommend to you people that buy the Wii Zapper with this game, because you will have a better 
 experience of the game with it, this game has a good drama, the graphics are good but not awesome, 
 and the game play is incredible, it is a little confuse but if you see and think you will find 
 the exit for every problem that you will have in this adventure, it haves new features from his 
 predecessors ( Metroid Prime and Metroid Prime 2: Echoes) , like controlling your ship or travel 
 to planet to planet with it, even you can adjust your preferences in the mode of aiming, to beginners 
 to experts . Opening and closing doors twisting the wiimote, or graving energy cells, pulling it, 
 this is very smart from the creators, in few words, is a good game, you will have great time with 
 it, don't dude to buy it if you can 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom312
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  i have played a little bit and i and going to go though a few things with you first you should 
 get this game if you like first person shooters its a new way to play with the controllers but 
 very fun! you start in your ship and you learn fast that you are a bounty hunter and you need to 
 save te galaxy! you have 3 other bounty hunters with you and they help you from time to time but 
 then the bounty hunters and you get something called plasma in you and it make you stronger and 
 weaker at the same time! its about a 30 hour game for the first part you can play the gam 3 times 
 and get more and more thing its hard to get 100% i got only 80% but i did make a few mistakes so 
 part you can only do it one way which its good! but every time you go to a new room look a round 
 4 a sec and you might find some great stuff well i hope i helped you and have fun with the game 
 bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsman92
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is the best in the series. It's so well polished, That it's a game for anyone. 
 Metroid Prime 3 story is much layed out with voice acting and what not. It seems that Bounty Hunter, 
 Samus Aran meeting other three bounty hunters in a Galactic Federation ship. After fending off 
 a Space Pirate attack, the hunters are sent to planet Norion, which will be hit by a Phazon asteroid 
 called a "Leviathan Seed". Just before the hunters can activate the defense system, they are attacked 
 by Dark Samus. With the other hunters unconscious, a severely wounded Samus manages to activate 
 the laser just in time to destroy the Leviathan Seed. A month later, Samus wakes up. The Federation 
 scientists tell that Phazon became part of the hunters' life force, and they are equipped with 
 technology that allows them to utilize Phazon as energy. The other hunters had left two weeks before 
 to investigate planets hit by Leviathans, but contact with them was lost. Samus is then sent to 
 destroy each Leviathan and seek the whereabouts of the other hunters. The plot is pretty simple 
 and good. The are some twists and turns, but for the most part, there pretty obviuse for the series. 
 The dezein is the same as the old. This time, it's like Metroid Prime 1 and Hunters. Instead of 
 1 huge world, there are pleathra of planets. There much more better to understand and not as complex 
 as the orginal games. An intresting things is that there are now check points when you die, but 
 when doing so, the loading screen can get tideus and very long. The game still has the backtraking 
 that the series is know for and was critisized for is still in tak, But the way the levels are 
 put in, you'll get over it fast. The objectives are simple unlike the series is know for, and this 
 is a good thing. there basicly get to point a to point b and do something and protection missions. 
 It moves at perfect pace, while the ending to some levels can do a pointless scavanger hunt, But 
 that can be forgotten. The actual gameplay is the star here. The controls are so perfect for a 
 shooter, you will not want to play a shooter with out Wiimote controls. The aiming is perfect, 
 the default sencetivity is perfect, and everything just comes togeather well. The aiming is silky 
 smooth and the learning curve is none exsistant. It's really that good. The ship that you use will 
 be very usefull as you can control it with a new visor valled the command, that replaces the heat 
 visor. This one can control the ship. The ship can be used to save your place, replensh heath and 
 ammo. The ship can even be called to bomb things and change different. Like Hunters, Samus has 
 all of her powers and gagets. You have the charge blast, her famus Morph ball, and get some sweet 
 upgrades. They all work the same, just some are more powerfull, and get pass it. The Wii remote's 
 other uses, which is use it to activate different things, aren't that fun. They work well, but 
 not fun. Using Phason is another thing. This Alows Samus to go into hyper mode were she is invinceble. 
 This is impresive and all, but the game is on the easy side, every enemy and boss can be beaten 
 with ease, which makes you feel a litte off. The game looks amazing. The worlds art is great and 
 has the same feel as the previus games. There are tones of particul that make the game amazing 
 and the Graphics are great for the Wii. There aren't any load times after you enter the world. 
 As said before, there is voice acting, and all of it is solid. Each character's voice matches them 
 and it works for the series. For anyone who enjoy's a Metroid game or fans of shooters, will enjoy 
 Metroid Prime 3. It's the best in the series and you'll enjoy through the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman1995
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is a 3D first-person action-adventure game. The player controls Samus 
 using the Wii Remote and Nunchuk. The controller enables the player to move Samus around, lock 
 on to enemies and targets, perform scans, switch in and out of Morph Ball mode and use Samus's 
 various Grapple abilities. The Wii Remote allows the player to aim and fire weapons, switch between 
 visors, engage Hypermode, and pull up the Logbook, Map and Inventory screens to read detailed information 
 about the various items Samus has encountered.
  
  In contrast to the interchangeable beams used in the first two Prime games, Corruption features 
 a stackable upgrade system more like that of Super Metroid or the Game Boy Advance Metroid games, [5] 
 in which successive upgrades to Samus's beam, missile and grapple systems add to the capabilities 
 of those systems rather than providing more options. (For example, the Nova Beam retains the properties 
 of the Power and Plasma Beams.) Samus is also equipped with a new Command Visor, which allows her 
 to order her gunship to land, pick up objects and destroy various obstacles. The X-Ray Visor from 
 Metroid Prime makes a reappearance and can be used in conjunction with a new beam to fire through 
 phazite walls and track invisible enemies. [5] Players can also use the Metroid Prime 2: Echoes 
 variation of the Screw Attack. [6]
  
  Corruption introduces several other new gameplay features as well: The Phazon Enhancement Device, 
 or P. E. D., allows Samus to use Phazon energy to greatly increase her attack and armor strength. [7] 
 The Wii Remote functionality allows players to lock on and strafe around enemies and targets while 
 simultaneously firing anywhere on the screen. [8] Players can also flick the Wii Remote upward while 
 in Morph Ball mode to perform a Spring Jump. [9] Additionally, a new checkpoint system allows the 
 player to restart immediately at certain points in the game between save stations.
  
  
  The Command Visor allows players to call Samus' gunshipBefore release, Nintendo announced that 
 Corruption would not include a multiplayer mode. [10] The game instead introduces a system that 
 rewards the player with three different types of tokens and "Friend Vouchers" for completing various 
 tasks. The vouchers can be sent to friends via the WiiConnect24 service; [11] when vouchers are 
 received from others, they can be converted into Friend tokens. All four types of tokens are needed 
 to purchase various bonuses and additional content. One of these features allows players to capture 
 screenshots from within the game, which are not posted to the Wii Message Board and can be sent 
 to friends, and can only be sent within the Wii system, as there are no ways to transfer the pictures 
 to a computer. [12]
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Christoph410
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is as i said before, is perfect. All of the games of metroid are perfect now that i think 
 of it. Everyone will say something about this game , maybe good things, maybe not. The story is 
 intrigating, full of action, some drama and vengeance in a matter of speaking.
  
  Metroid prime 3 has also some internet options, that after getting something in the game, you can 
 send it to your friends, and if they send it back you can obtain galleries, soundtracks, even miis 
 . Its different than in the last 2 games, but the point is that they are hard gain.
  
  There are new items for you to get, in this game you fight against some rivals of samus, because 
 of the corruption, everything around her is changing, and she must fight once more to destroy the 
 phazon and the space pirates. To finish this i said, after whatching the secret ending i say, there 
 will be another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_sky_is_up
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I'll start out with the game play. I think there is no better way to play a Metroid Prime game 
 then with the Wii remote. It's so much better to point your power beam any way you like. It just 
 makes the game more real! And I'm not even a big fan of the Wii remote, I still like to just press 
 buttons, and with lots of Wii games the point and shack ability just seems more or less useless. 
 But in Metroid Prime's case I feel like it was never Metroid Prime until now.
  
  There is much more interacting with people. As soon as you start you're talking to Galactic Federation 
 troops and officers. And there are even other bounty hunters that help you out (on the first mission 
 that is) . And you get contacted by the Galactic Federation's Aurora units (there super computers) 
 and he/she (yes they are computers with genders) will give you updates on your mission. For some 
 Metroid Prime fans this may be a letdown because it's no longer just you as Samus making your way 
 throw unknown worlds. But the new changes make the game more interesting. So if you're okay with 
 some change I think you'll like this game. For there are still many things the same that show it's 
 still a good old Metroid Prime.
  
  And for the first time in a Metroid game your ship is part of the game play. You can give your 
 ship orders, you can use your ship to go from planet to planet. And one thing I like about the 
 ship is the entrance to get inside is under the ship, not above. But don't think you can tell your 
 ship to do whatever you want. You can only land you ship on landing spots, there are only a few 
 places where you can call in a bombing run, and some puzzles that need your ship to move vary large 
 objects. It's still really fun, I'm just letting you know what to expect.
  
  All of these features make the game more fun to play then the last two. Though they where still 
 really good. If you've played one or both of the last two games then you'll see the difference.
 
  
  The graphics are not some of the best graphics around but it looks vary nice. A few things look 
 better then before but no big change.
  
  The sound is good. There is voice acting in the game. And the music is great, it's what Prime players 
 would have come to expect though it's only just as good as the other Prime games. Not much new.
 
  
  And finely, the story. I don't want to give away too much of it, but basically the Space Pirates 
 found this new energy called phazon. Well dark Samus finds it and uses it to try and corrupt the 
 universe. So you got to stop her. (There is much more to it than that)
  
  In short, great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: waelzleb
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Now being a.... experienced gamer ive been arround for the begining of the metroid series although 
 i never had the first nintendo consol to play it, i did have a chance once super metroid came out 
 to really get my hands on it. Honestly metroid has been a series well known on the nintendo diet 
 and really has been a staple franchise to which so many people love and will come to love nintendo 
 for.
  
  I came upon this newest installment never playing either of the metroid metroid prime camecube 
 prequels to this game, and really i couldnt be happier. Metroid Prime 3 gives you enough story 
 to really feel even though you hadent played the other two, that you really havent missed much. 
 It makes you feel so much like your part of Samus's world and makes you really want to stay.
  
  Now alot of scpetics are saying metroid platforming on the Wii?!?!?!? I could never!!!! But 
 wait, you have to give it a chance, truly its a marvel of controls and uses the Wii-mote to best 
 suit. pointing and taking down your foes or pointing that jump to the perfect angle you reuire 
 is so simplistic and natral with the remote. They did something right for sure.
  The only possible fault you can find here is the slight issue i found with having jump as B and 
 Shoot as A. For those of you that dont know that means the wii trigger is jump while the will top 
 button, used for selections on the hub is shoot. Of course this is changeable if you need too but 
 playing with this scheme does feel a bit wierd and can get confussing when used to shooters and 
 your jumping at your target rather than blasting them away.
  
  graphically metroid prime does not upset. Every realm from the large and complex sky world down 
 the to firery mechanical marvel aptly named Brio, all have looks that just add to the enjoyment. 
 Creatures and bosses al sport beutiful models that can sometimes make it hard to want to blow them 
 up with your ice missle (just kidding) . No matter where you go the graphics are so colourful and 
 dare I say surpass what you might see on the 360 and PS3. Of course I'm not saying graphics arent 
 good and things like Gear of War and Dirt dont bring something to the table. But mainly when we 
 look at next gen games they look good but are very gray washed and dark to give this better looking 
 style. This metroid game takes colour and makes it vibrant and strong again, really showing what 
 the Wii can do and makes me even more excited for wat the better consols can accomlish with similar 
 colouring style.
  
  laslty I want to talk about the story and some of the few weapons and suits. So In MP3 expect alot 
 of returning faces from the previous games, even a few characters it seems from hunters have appeared. 
 Basically in this game you as Samus are hired to help the Human Forces as they attempt to end the 
 war against those Evil space pirates, and of course that pain in the butt Dark Samus is back again 
 to try and ruin the day now by using phazon. Phazon becomes your powerup and essentially the equivalent 
 to uber charged attacks, coming in many forms and being used in many ways. Basically once you attain 
 phazon your mission is to fight the bad guys and avoid leeting the phazon corrupt you. Just dont 
 overload.
  And of course with the items and suits alot are back. Your strong suit to allow you to traverse 
 those molten liquids is back, along with a newer one to allow you to avoid acids, both with thier 
 own style and look and of course phazon attacments. Your gun gets a good number of upgrades from 
 the phazon to a plasma cannon. And of course morph ball, which get those good old bombs and a speed 
 boost. You can also act like a magnet later but I'll leave that to your own play time.
  
  So in final looks, youve got a great story, impressive graphics, controls that make you want more 
 shooters for the wii, and of course enough platfrm metroid you could ask for. I say this is by 
 far one of the games of the year.
  
  Congrats Nintendo, and keep it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spitt78
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is the last entry in the Metroid Prime series, and it's also one of 
 the best. Some things that make this game stand out are the solid controls, long story mode, the 
 new features, the spot-on difficulty settings, and the incredible graphics. Let's take a look at 
 each one of these.
  
  The controls in Corruption are so great that you actually feel immersed in the game, just as the 
 Wii was designed to make you feel. The controller rumbles at the perfect times with the perfect 
 degree of vibration, and the extremely sensitive motion controls are always fun. All the buttons 
 on the Wiimote and Nunchuk are placed in the perfect spot on the controller. My only complaint 
 about this is that later in the game when you're looking for pickups, you have to check the map 
 often, which requires reaching all the way down to the 1 button. It's not that big of a deal, though-you 
 eventually get used to it. The shooting controls are also spot on, as well. There is an option 
 in the Controls menu that's called Lock On/Free Aim. If this is ON, you can move the cursor freely 
 around the screen while locked on to an enemy. If it's OFF, the crosshair will stay on the enemy 
 until it's dead. This just feels right, and if you have a steady hand, the Z button won't be used 
 at all.
  
  The story mode is rather detailed and long. You start off on a Galactic Federation ship, looking 
 around for the right place to go, and things like that. Then, you're quickly thrown into a battle 
 on a planet called Norion. This is kind of fun, because you see GF soldiers everywhere, as well 
 as the other bounty hunters that you encounter in the game. After you and the other hunters get 
 off the planet, a screen flashes saying "One Month Later..." You then find yourself back on the 
 GF ship, and a doctor is explaining that you are equipped with the PED suit, a suit that lets you 
 harness Phazon to become an (almost) unstoppable warrior. The story mode initially takes you across 
 three (huge) planets, but it eventually expands to a crashed GF ship, a planet called Phaaze, and 
 the place where the Space Pirates all began. You'll be spending a lot of time on each planet; it 
 all adds up to about 20 hours of gameplay, but more if you go for 100% completion.
  
  Some of the newer features in Corruption have been very long-awaited. For instance, Samus never 
 has to grab onto the arm cannon to look around anymore. Voice acting is implemented in GF soldiers 
 and the other hunters, but not Samus herself. Go figure. There are also little mechanisms that 
 you encounter along the way that prohibit you from going any farther until they are interacted 
 with. These are generally point-and-click things such as elevator controls where Samus's hand actually 
 appears, but they are sometimes things like removing Energy Cells from their holsters, putting 
 them back, pumping a substance called Fuel Gel into a larger machine, or pulling a lever. While 
 they seem insignificant, they're all relatively fun to use, and fresh to the Metroid series.
  
  The difficulty settings are perfect. Normal is very easy. This difficulty level is more of 
 something to kind of get used to the game, see what there is to see, and make you want to come 
 back on a higher difficulty level. Before you start anything, only two difficulty levels are available-Normal 
 and Veteran. After you complete the game on Normal, however, a mode called Hypermode is unlocked. 
 This is basically Hard mode on the earlier Metroid Prime games. Normal is Normal from Metroid Prime 
 games, and Veteran is sort of a mix between the two. They're all perfectly balanced, however.
 
  
  The graphics offered in Corruption are some of the best on the Wii so far. They're hands-down better 
 than previous Metroid Prime games (partially because this game is on a more powerful system) , and 
 better than most games on the Wii. None of the textures look muddy or overused, and the theme of 
 each planet is significant by the template. For instance, Norion is obviously controlled because 
 everything is a shiny-silver color, whereas Bryyo is clealy a planet that hasn't been inhabited 
 for a long while, because you'll see crumbling buildings, vines growing everywhere, statue heads 
 lying around, that sort of thing.
  
  Overall, Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is currently my favorite Wii game thus far, and the best Metroid 
 Prime game to date. If you have a Wii, pick this game up. The $50 price tag is well worth what 
 you'll receive.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spectacular66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Well I bought this game expecting to get more of what I didn't like in Metroid Prime 2, but I guess 
 I was wrong! I popped the CD into my Wii and started off on this awesomely nice game. I liked how 
 they breathed life into this game. It worked for me. Just awesome. Too bad you end up having to 
 face off against certain people...
  
  Well to start off, the graphics are a nice boost from the previous two games. If you strangely 
 don't notice any differences between the games I suggest you play on a CRT television because LCD 
 does not make the Wii look any better even though it's widescreen.
  
  I haven't played through the entire game yet but I can give you a small insight on what's to come- 
 Basically Samus is called in to receive a mission briefing from the Galatic Federation of a recent 
 Space Pirate attack but things soon go haywire when another planet is attacked and Samus and her 
 partner bounty hunters are badly hurt when Dark Samus arrives... Where the theme of "Corruption" 
 finally falls into place. I'll leave the rest for all of you to find out but I sure wouldn't miss 
 this game.
  
  The music is also pretty cool I'd pick it over some of Metroid Prime 2's songs but Metroid Prime 
 has the best songs and remixes so far still. Worth listening to however, if you get the chance. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackWolf0526
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is one of the better shooters, if not games in general for the Wii. 
 The controls are slick and easy to manipulate. The game actually has a decent story and cooler 
 upgrades all play a part in this game. You play as Samus once again and you are trying to kill 
 space pirates, again. But now, the entire human marine core and a couple super powered people are 
 with you. What'd I miss? Oh well, first off this game looks great. I don't even need to attach 
 'for a Wii game' to that last sentence.
  The controls feel natural and its not difficult to aim. This game is all about the combat, and 
 Metroids new aiming system is great once you get used to it. You can lock on to one target while 
 shooting another. However as far as combat goes, this game has some of the cooler boss fights I've 
 seen in a while. One of the first has you battling a mech-dragon while falling down an air shaft. 
 The powerups in this are much more fun, no more switching between beams to open doors. Your main 
 beam, missiles and your ship get upgraded. Other than that its just add-ons. This games only flaws 
 are that theres lots of back-tracking & sometimes the camera is off. Overall though, this is a 
 very enjoyable game & I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MMAKing623
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 7, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Okay, ... wow... what do I say? So many other people gave this game great reviews. I put this game 
 on my Christmas list. I got it for Christmas and was jumping for joy. I put it in my Wii Console 
 and started playing: First Level- "Oh the humanity" could a game have any dumber of a plot? So 
 I thought "Okay maybe the second level will start to pick up." ... Nothing. I quit playing this 
 game after the second level. Maybe I didn't give it enough play but this game was that boring. 
 This game is nothing but confusing tasks around dark settings, with horrible music, and ZERO action. 
 I found this to be one of the worst games of all time. Infact, one of my friends wanted it so I 
 gave it to HIM! So if I were you I wouldn't bother getting this game, but then again a lot of people 
 like this game. I don't understand it, but I'm one of few who do not like this game. On the other 
 hand, my friend liked this game, but he liked the first metriod games. My advice to readers is 
 : "If you liked the other Mertroids give it a try. If you never played a Metroid game before DO 
 NOT BUY IT UNTIL YOU PLAY IT." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1427814179
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  While the original Metroid Prime was a surprise success, its sequel did not continue the series 
 in the right direction. Probably the worst problem with Echoes was the immense amount of backtracking 
 between the light and dark worlds, forcing players to watch the same cutscenes over and over again. 
 This broke up the atmospheric feeling that was so key to Prime's charm. Adding to that was a generic 
 story, unrealistic text narrative, and puzzles that were so frustrating that it was easy to put 
 the game down for a few weeks at a time.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 addresses all of these issues and fixes each one carefully. Gone are the light 
 and dark worlds, and instead we get original mechanics that freshen the series right back to the 
 beginning.
  
  Many die hard fans will immediately criticize the voice acting new in this third game, however, 
 it not only makes the story much more worthwhile, but more realistic as well. There is much more 
 context to the action, and no longer are we given a paragraph of words from an alien along with 
 a few sound clips of speech. Corruption's dialogue is much easier to listen to.
  
  The new hypermode replaces the light and dark aspect of Echoes, which gives Samus immense fighting 
 power, but at the same time using it weakens her. While using hypermode becomes a necessity - some 
 enemies only take damage from phazon weaponry - the use of it begins to wear on Samus, and by the 
 end of the game (especially in the hardest difficulty) hypermode is what causes most game overs. 
 It is superbly balanced and rarely will players feel too powerful, because it drains hit points 
 at a fast rate.
  
  Corruption is far less frustrating than Echoes. The puzzles will not be the reason why this game 
 is difficult for most players, instead it will be the lengthier action scenes. While this would 
 be a complaint if it contained the same fighting controls as Prime and Echoes, Corruption's action 
 sequences are always tense and exciting. The motion sensing controls begin to feel natural after 
 just a short time, and while it definitely isn't as good as a PC setup it does revive the combat 
 in the series considerably.
  
  Prime 3 isn't for everyone, however. Some fans will be turned off from the start when they hear 
 the voice acting for the first time, and shooter fans will be disappointed that once again Prime 
 3 is not a shooter. That being said, these complaints are very shallow. It only requires a few 
 more hours of gameplay and anyone will begin to see that Metroid Prime 3: Corruption delivers on 
 just about every gameplay element it includes. There isn't a more satisfying game to be had - it 
 requires some thinking, it's action-packed, and graphically it does not disappoint either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canadianloonie
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  1. Perfect IR Control Scheme
  Simply put, Metroid Prime 3 has the most realistic and most intuitive first person control scheme 
 that I have ever played with. It's worth playing MP3 for just its new innovative control scheme 
 alone.
  
  In the advance control scheme (the recommended setting) , you use the nunchuk's d-pad to control 
 your movement. The wii-mote is used to aim and shoot as well as to control your point of view. 
 To look up, tilt your wii-mote up. Tilt your wii-mote down to look down. To turn around, simply 
 tilt your wii-mote left or right. It's as simple as that. It is so easy to use and extremely responsive 
 that I find myself not using the lock-on functionality at all during the middle and later stages 
 of the game.
  
  A mouse-and-keyboard setup is still more precise, but the act of aiming your wii-mote at the screen 
 to shoot and control where you are looking at feels so much more realistic and so much more fun!!
 
  
  2. Satisfying Boss Battles
  The boss battles is the other highlight of the game. The bosses are very Zelda-esque. They're huge. 
 They're menacingly cool-looking. Each boss have very specific weaknesses. You'll need several (if 
 not all) of your special abilities and weapons to defeat any one of the bosses. The fun part is 
 trying to figure out how to take them down.
  
  In terms of difficulty, the bosses are a bit tougher than those in Twilight Princess. There are 
 some pretty epic boss battles. But, the difficulty is set just right so it is still fun and doesn't 
 get frustrating.
  
  3. Nice Wii Graphics
  It's definitely not the best looking game out there. There isn't any ground-breaking stuff. There 
 won't be any jaw dropping moments. But, it is one of the best looking Wii game out in the market 
 right now. Only, Resident Evil 4 tops it. The textures are highly detailed. They don't look stretched 
 or pixelated when you look at them up close. The different graphical effects are very nicely done. 
 The various worlds in the game (Lava, Sky, Ice, Ruins, etc...) are unique from each other and nice 
 to look at. 
  
  The Bad:
  1. Regular Enemy Encounters are too sparse and too easy.
  Aside from the great boss battles, Metroid Prime 3 can be a real lonely experience. The game starts 
 out very well. There are people to talk to. The action is frantic and enemies lurks around every 
 corner. But after the initial rush, the game really quiets down. There is just not enough enemies 
 out there. You will spend majority of the game all alone without any enemies in sight doing environmental 
 puzzles. This may not be such an issue if the environmental puzzles are interesting and engaging. 
 But, most of them are really straight forward. It requires nothing but jumping around and manipulating 
 certain objects in some simple way.
  
  The times where you do encounter some enemy to shoot at, the enemies are nothing but small creatures 
 that takes only a shot or two to take down. Even the space pirates or metroids don't provide any 
 significant threat. They can easily be disposed off in short order without taking any significant 
 damage to yourself.
  
  2. Awkward Visor Switching Control Scheme
  While Retro has perfected the IR Control Scheme, switching between the different visors available 
 to Samus left a lot to be desired. It is awkward to say the least. You must press and hold the 
 minus button to bring up a radial menu. Then, you will need to use the pointer to select the visor 
 of choice. This is extremely awkward and annoying to do especially during the heat of a battle.
 
  
  Final Word:
  Metroid Prime 3 provides a nice blend between the old and the new. It offers the same old classic 
 gameplay that made the previous installment of the Metroid Prime series so popular. But, it also 
 offer hardcore players something completely new. The new innovative first person control scheme 
 made the game fresh and is definitely worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chappy_man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Now being a.... experienced gamer ive been arround for the begining of the metroid series although 
 i never had the first nintendo consol to play it, i did have a chance once super metroid came out 
 to really get my hands on it. Honestly metroid has been a series well known on the nintendo diet 
 and really has been a staple franchise to which so many people love and will come to love nintendo 
 for.
  
  I came upon this newest installment never playing either of the metroid metroid prime camecube 
 prequels to this game, and really i couldnt be happier. Metroid Prime 3 gives you enough story 
 to really feel even though you hadent played the other two, that you really havent missed much. 
 It makes you feel so much like your part of Samus's world and makes you really want to stay.
  
  Now alot of scpetics are saying metroid platforming on the Wii?!?!?!? I could never!!!! But 
 wait, you have to give it a chance, truly its a marvel of controls and uses the Wii-mote to best 
 suit. pointing and taking down your foes or pointing that jump to the perfect angle you reuire 
 is so simplistic and natral with the remote. They did something right for sure.
  The only possible fault you can find here is the slight issue i found with having jump as B and 
 Shoot as A. For those of you that dont know that means the wii trigger is jump while the will top 
 button, used for selections on the hub is shoot. Of course this is changeable if you need too but 
 playing with this scheme does feel a bit wierd and can get confussing when used to shooters and 
 your jumping at your target rather than blasting them away.
  
  graphically metroid prime does not upset. Every realm from the large and complex sky world down 
 the to firery mechanical marvel aptly named Brio, all have looks that just add to the enjoyment. 
 Creatures and bosses al sport beutiful models that can sometimes make it hard to want to blow them 
 up with your ice missle (just kidding) . No matter where you go the graphics are so colourful and 
 dare I say surpass what you might see on the 360 and PS3. Of course I'm not saying graphics arent 
 good and things like Gear of War and Dirt dont bring something to the table. But mainly when we 
 look at next gen games they look good but are very gray washed and dark to give this better looking 
 style. This metroid game takes colour and makes it vibrant and strong again, really showing what 
 the Wii can do and makes me even more excited for wat the better consols can accomlish with similar 
 colouring style.
  
  laslty I want to talk about the story and some of the few weapons and suits. So In MP3 expect alot 
 of returning faces from the previous games, even a few characters it seems from hunters have appeared. 
 Basically in this game you as Samus are hired to help the Human Forces as they attempt to end the 
 war against those Evil space pirates, and of course that pain in the butt Dark Samus is back again 
 to try and ruin the day now by using phazon. Phazon becomes your powerup and essentially the equivalent 
 to uber charged attacks, coming in many forms and being used in many ways. Basically once you attain 
 phazon your mission is to fight the bad guys and avoid leeting the phazon corrupt you. Just dont 
 overload.
  And of course with the items and suits alot are back. Your strong suit to allow you to traverse 
 those molten liquids is back, along with a newer one to allow you to avoid acids, both with thier 
 own style and look and of course phazon attacments. Your gun gets a good number of upgrades from 
 the phazon to a plasma cannon. And of course morph ball, which get those good old bombs and a speed 
 boost. You can also act like a magnet later but I'll leave that to your own play time.
  
  So in final looks, youve got a great story, impressive graphics, controls that make you want more 
 shooters for the wii, and of course enough platfrm metroid you could ask for. I say this is by 
 far one of the games of the year.
  
  Congrats Nintendo, and keep it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bones2515
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is a great addition to the Metroid series. The controls feel very natural 
 using the Wii remote. You point directly at the screen with to look around and aim at enemies. 
 It's very effective, even if it takes a bit of getting used to. Samus can also scan basically anything 
 she encounters. Scanning different enemies and objects rewards you with points that can be redeemed 
 for any number of different bonuses.
  
  There are very few sections of the game that are difficult, but some of the boss fights are challenging. 
 Upping the difficulty level definitely makes a difference though. At the beginning Samus starts 
 out very basic with a regular blaster and the morph ball. By the end, and as you get more and more 
 corrupted by phazon, Samus picks up all kinds of add-ons that make destroying enemies more fun, 
 and finding new areas and energy tanks possible.
  
  Finding extra energy tanks is not particularly difficult, but you're going to need them. Not so 
 much because of the damage you take, but because you can enter hyper mode and turn your excess 
 energy into attack power. Unless you're a pretty good shot it's easy to run through a few E-tanks 
 just trying to hit a boss in the right spot a couple times.
  
  The game looks really good and is fun to play. They do a great job of adding suspense to certain 
 sections (like when you first encounter metroids) . It's a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thk123
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  System: Wii
  Type: Shooter/Adventure/Platformer
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Story: 9/10
  Multiplayer: n/a but it should be
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  
 This was my most anticipated games for the Wii, Metroid Prime 1 was amazing. Except for the controls. 
 The controls for this game look perfect. Surly this game is perfect. Unfortunately not, but it 
 is still one of the best games I have ever played. This review will be written quite comparatively 
 to Metroid Prime 1, if you haven't read my review or played on the game, I suggest you do 
 
  
  The story in this game finishes the trilogy. While I don't want to give away the ending, it is 
 average. It does leave the possibility of another Metroid, but doesn't seal it. The games first 
 3rd plays out much more like Halo with combat oriented, object driven first person shooting. This 
 works well, thanks to the amazing control scheme. After that the game returns to its root and you 
 are set loose on grand objectives and the entire system to explore and discover. The game is much 
 more story driven than the first one, this is pulled off with some voice acting. Although I use 
 the term "acting" loosely. At best, the voice acting is bearable, but most of the time it is clichd 
 and annoying. It is, to be fair, Nintendo's first attempt at voice acting, and shows why they shouldn't 
 do it.
  
  Graphically, the game looks great. However, if you compare them to Metroid 1, the only real difference 
 is in the use of soft lighting. Skytown is beautiful, and Space Pirate Homeworld is creepy. Unfortunately, 
 the games worlds aren't nearly as dramatic as they were in MP1. The game, like the first one, streams 
 all the map to avoid loading times. Basically, when you shoot a door it takes a couple of seconds 
 to open so it can load the next area. This works great, except sometimes it just takes too long. 
 You can find yourself waiting upwards of 15 seconds for some doors to open. This really breaks 
 up the fluidity of the game and is a real shame. The game does also experience the occasional latency, 
 mainly when it is raining on the Space Pirate Homeworld and you are using your charge beam.
  
  The game is the same audio treat it was in MP1, except with even better background music. The 
 sounds are crisp and the music builds the tension perfectly with some truly memorable tunes. All 
 of these tunes can be bought with credits that you collect throughout the game, see below. It is 
 suffice to say, that I do listen to them as real background music and while I still think Zelda 
 has a better sound track, it is still very good. Unfortunately, the beam rifle does not come though 
 the Wii-remote, but this would probably get old quick, and get through your batteries quick.
  
  The control scheme is obviously the main selling point of any Wii game, and this game is no 
 exception. However, the difference between this game and every other Wii game, is it uses the Wiimote 
 perfectly. It doesn't over use it, it doesn't simply replace buttons with wiggles, it , put simply, 
 is perfect. Naturally, you point to aim, if you move towards the edge of the screen, Samus begins 
 to turn. This may sound simple, but it works perfectly. This combined with the loose lock on, enabling 
 you to strafe with independent aiming, provides a very fun and rewarding combat experience.
  
  The game also has some gestures. One of the best is to do with the grapple beam, an item you 
 acquire early on during your adventure. Basically, you lock on to an enemy, just the NChuck forwards 
 then rip back to pull their shield off, opening them up for weapon fire. This action works well 
 and is very rewarding. The game will also have you twisting, pushing and pulling the Wiimote to 
 complete various actions throughout the galaxy. Most of the time, these work excellently and really 
 serve to bring you inside the game. However, occasionally they feel gimmicky and sometimes you 
 will have to repeat the action to get it to work. The control scheme, combined with a few other 
 touches like a controller battery meter in your visor, make this game feel like a Wii game through 
 and through, as opposed to Zelda, where it was more of an after thought.
  
  One improvement the game has on MP1 is the Morph Ball puzzles. In Metroid Prime 1, they often felt 
 like 2d puzzles that were begrudgingly converted in to 3D. This time round, the puzzles full embrace 
 the 3D environment like the rest of the game. Also, because you receive all your power ups much 
 more quickly, the puzzles quickly force you to use all of your abilities. As for the rest of the 
 puzzles, they are on a par with MP1, usually scanning the item will be enough for you to solve 
 it.
  
  One of the things the game does that is very next generation-esque is achievements. they aren't 
 actually called achievements and function a little differently, but the core concept is still there. 
 You collect these things called credits. You can collect these credits in a number of different 
 ways, depending on their colour. Some are very easy to collect, all you have to do is to scan a 
 creature, others require a little bit more luck/skill, for example, clearing a certain area without 
 loosing a single GF troop. Beating bosses also rewards you with credits. You can then purchase 
 a number of things with these credits, including a screen shot taker, concept are, music and a 
 little Mii thing to put in your space ship. Unfortunately, this system is undermined by two things. 
 Firstly, it neither keeps track of how you got the credits nor how you have spent them, so their 
 is no way of comparing with other people, and also most of the cool stuff requires you to get friend 
 credits. These can only be got by having a wi-fi enabled friend with Corruption (a game without 
 an online mode) to send you credits. This means that I have not been able to try out the screen 
 shot taker or the Mii thing, as I don't have any friends who meet the requirements, and it is very 
 infuriating.
  
  Perhaps this games worst aspect is the lost potential. Obviously, the online is at the most forefront 
 for critizim. The game NEEDED multiplayer. The campaign is short and lower replay value than MP1. 
 The control scheme is more than responsive. The morph ball, if cleverly designed, could make an 
 interesting dynamic (much like the Warthog in Halo) . Skyworld among other areas, would make a fantastic 
 map base. The Wii is online enabled. The list goes on. The lack of multiplayer will torment me 
 for the rest of my life, as Metroid Prime has quickly become one of my favourite game series, and 
 now it is over.
  
  That is not the only lost potential in this game. Throughout the game, you have limited access 
 to your ship. Some problems will require you to use your ship to do certain things and you can 
 land you ship in designated places to save and fly to other locales. While this is a huge improvement 
 on MP1, it should have been taken further. For example, there should have been bonus places to 
 land your ship which weren't compulsory. Also, when you are flying, you watch a video of your space 
 ship. Inside your space ship, if you get in to it without flying anywhere, there is a bunch of 
 stuff to do, like health scans. It is all cool but pointless, the perfect thing to do whist waiting 
 for the next area to load. Or even better, be able to look at the map. There are a number of other 
 things in the game where you feel they should have been used more. None of these things are particularly 
 important, but there are a number of things where you feel that with a little more effort, the 
 great idea could be used to its full potential.
  
  This is always going to be a tricky title to review. It is a great game in its own write, but the 
 lost potential and the over standing superiority of Metroid Prime 1 do leave a some what dark shadow 
 over this game. The game needed multiplayer, even if it was just offline. The control scheme is 
 the first scheme to, in my opinion, rival, if not supersede, the mouse/keyboard combination. The 
 accuracy allowed with the Wiiremote and easily accessible buttons with joystick make it perfect. 
 This game isn't without flaws, not least the voice acting, but this is an amazing game which deserved 
 far more press than it received. The story is good, the controls, and I really can't stress this 
 enough, are fantastic and there is no reason not to get it. It is just such a shame considering 
 the potential this game had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innocent_J
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  The game is very fun to play and control. The puzzle you come across from time to time are fun 
 but cant be challenging if you don't look around the environment very well.
  
  The graphics look amazing for the most parts, but there will be few moment to remind you that the 
 wii is not a graphical powerhouse.... at all.
  
  The developers did an amazing job with the control scheme and how everything just goes together. 
 It was very good of them to allow the player to switch the functionality of the buttons A and B. 
 You can choose which one you want to be the jump/fire button. You also get some other modification 
 options.
  
  
  Now, the major let down would be the complete absence of multiplayer. There is no online gameplay 
 or even vs in the game. You can't even go against bots like you could in MP: H for the Ds. If the 
 DS can do it, im pretty sure the wii can. Why they didn't include any multiplayer beats the hell 
 outta me. Man i was upset when i realized that.
  
  Anyway MP3: C is a great game to be enjoyed and played for some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polo136
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  I love the smooth controls, the great yet challenging boss fights and the over all structure of 
 the game. 
  
  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is one of my favorite Wii games. The controls (once picked up) are 
 really quite remarkable, e. g. the way you pull levers by pulling back the Wii remote, twist it 
 90 degrees then pushing the Wii remote forward. The graphics aren't spectacular but they are better 
 than a lot of other games I've played, there is a lot of detail though. The game can be very challenging 
 at times but that's good, games that are too easy are (to me) unsatisfactory. 
  
  The only negative I found was the back-tracking, to much of it, and also once I stopped playing 
 MP3 for a few weeks and when I returned I didn't know where to go, where I was, what to do and 
 why my cats left eye was missing, all this ended in a strange sequence involving several coridoors, 
 lots of capsules and several face-sucking aliens. 
  
  Over all, Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is a very satisfactory game that I would recommend to all 
 Sci-Fi and First Person shooter game fans out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vdastampede
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  There was a lot of pressure riding on Metroid Prime 3, the Nintendo Wii game. While people can 
 agree the Wii is a new and unique form of gaming that many seem to be enjoying, most "hardcore 
 gamers" are still waiting to see if it can satisfy the needs of the more experienced gamer and 
 Nintendo has made a lot of promises that MP3 will be the game to show the world it can be enjoyed 
 by all. So does MP3 deliver? Well yesfor the most part.
  
  If you don't know what Metroid is yet, you've either a) never played a video game before or b) 
 were recently abducted by aliens, raped with a probe, had your entire memory erased, and put back 
 on Earth. If you're having trouble sitting down, then it's probably the latter, but I'll brief 
 through it just in case. In Metroid, you play as Samus Aran, a bounty huntress who travels from 
 planet to planet, destroying aliens and solving puzzles. If you've played Metroid Prime 1 and 2, 
 you'll notice a lot of the similarities in Metroid Prime 3. It's still a first-person shooter, 
 the environments look similar, and the formula of it is generally the same: go to area to area, 
 shoot bad guys, earn a new weapon or skill, and use said skill to explore new areas that were unreachable.
 
  
  Despite the rehashed playing formula, MP3 is a pretty fun game. The Wii controls continue to make 
 the game play unique and keep your attention longer then you would if you were playing a regular 
 first person shooter. You use the pointer of the wiimote to point and shoot your enemies, just 
 like in Red Steel, and you use the nunchuk to move Samus and use a new ability known as the grappling 
 beam, which is used by flicking the nunchuk forward. It keeps things interesting and breaks up 
 the simple "point and shoot" formula the first two MP games used. However, it starts to feel rather 
 old after a short while. Another control feature is the new lock on. By pressing the Z button, 
 players can lock onto the area the enemy is in, but you must still point and aim the wiimote in 
 order to hit your opponent. This prevents a lot frustration from losing control of your view, but 
 gives players the freedom to aim where they want which prevents the game from becoming too easy.
 
  
  The graphics, while are no 360 or PS3 powerhouse, are noticeably a step up from the previous two 
 Metroid games on its Gamecube sibling. This is an important feature for MP3 because this is a rare 
 moment where we might actually be able to see what a next generation game could look like on the 
 Wii, which is good because it's very satisfying to see some fugly-looking creatures (in a good 
 way) blow up with detailed gore (in a great wayunless you have a weak stomach) . The combat is 
 also quite good, but not in all places. Despite the new lock on feature, the enemies are still 
 way too easy and a lot of them are just respawned creatures from previously explored areas. Even 
 the boss fights will feel easy enough to defeat on the first try, however, they are each very fun 
 and there are quite a few of them to enjoy.
  
  One last huge, HUGE plus is the lack of backtracking. Unlike the first two games, backtracking 
 is mostly optional and you very rarely will have to go back to previous areas to gain access to 
 new ones. But this doesn't mean that it's completely missing. Just when you think you're home free 
 and you'll be entering the final level of the game, you are asked to search all previous levels 
 and search for items you may have missed in order to continue forward. It feels oddly out of place 
 and you may find yourself thinking the final level is just not worth it. Other flaws include, get 
 thisdoor opening. Yup, your biggest gripe that may come with the game is that every door you shoot 
 is a question mark as to how long you'll have to wait until it opens. Some will open immediately 
 while others can take up to ten seconds, which slows down the pace and combat. This was a problem 
 in the other Metroid games that could've really used a fix-me-up with the Wii's upgraded power.
 
  
  Still, Metroid Prime 3 should be able to satisfy the hardcore audience for a good 30 to 40 hours 
 and much more time for the casuals. If you can get by the lack of multiplayer and replay ability 
 and don't mind the similar gameplay as the previous two MP games, there is some real fun to be 
 had. If you own the Wii and are tired of playing endless mini-games, this is an absolute must buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palooka123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is the third and last game in the Metroid series. I was very excited for this game and 
 realized that now i had a reason to be. This first person shooter playing as the always mysterious..... 
 Samus Aran! (cheering in the backround) Use your blaster to kill the evil space pirates that attack 
 your ship useing many cool gadgets that you can find upgrades for and find new ones. You can also 
 roll into your ball and roll around. Another feature added is being able to deploy this special 
 power called Phazon. This lets you totaly charge up and OWN your enemy to the death. Use your grapple 
 and your missiles to beat these levels and fight bosses. You can also fight with your bounty hunter 
 friends. The game is a great addition to the series and sadly the last. I am quite sad but maybe 
 just maybe they will make another if we beg enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robonob2000
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I'm new to the Metroid Series, but I still love this game.
  
  The graphics are awesome, very colorful and bright. Great cinematics really make you feel as if 
 you're Samus, which is a rare feeling in most first person shooters.
  
  The game is massive, theres lots of 'only wii capable' things to do, like when you activate scanners, 
 you have to tilt the remote upwards to do it, and that feels really realistic.
  
  The boss fights are sometimes really hard, like some of the Seed boss fights, you could look up 
 a walkthrough or something, but that ruins the possibility of discovering and accomplishing how 
 to beat the boss.
  
  The one bad thing is though, is the weapons. They are very linear, something more like Metroid 
 Prime Hunters would of been nice. But each weapon has there own function, like some melt stuff, 
 and others can go through rock.
  
  Overall, Good Game. And i might go get the prequels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6h05tly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  Ever since the first Metroid Prime game back on the Gamecube, many gamers and fans of the series 
 back then were skeptical of the first person perspective game play. But once Prime arrived in 2002, 
 many set their skepticism aside and enjoyed the exploration by this perspective. Prime 2 came two 
 years later, and even though it didn't sell as much as its predecessor, it was critically acclaimed 
 and also introduced multiplayer to the franchise (as evidence to the DS game Metroid Prime Hunters, 
 or MPH) .
  
  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is by far one of the most beautiful-looking games on the Wii. The controls 
 are some of the best in a first person game. The bosses are much more entertaining and challenging 
 than its previous predecessors. And the level design has vastly improved than the previous Prime 
 games. The game introduces voice-overs on the characters and enemies, a first in the franchise. 
 (Sorry fans, Samus is still silent on this one, sigh) So with further ado, let's begin the review:
 
  
  Story
  Samus heads to GFS Olympus where she heads to a meeting with other bounty hunters when the general 
 of the GF Starship informs them of an unidentified flying object nearing its way to the Planet 
 Norion, the main planet the Galactic Federation resides at. After escaping Olympus, Samus and the 
 other hunters head to Norion to stop the flying object from causing disaster. I will stop from 
 here since I want you to know more of the story. But I will say that the next part of the story 
 will relate to Phazon and what it can do, along with how it will play a role with the game play, 
 which I will explain shortly
  
  Graphics
  This is one of the most gorgeous-looking games I've seen, despite the Wii's lack of graphical power 
 that can't compete with its rival consoles 360 and PS3. The new enemy designs for the Space Pirates 
 are just amazing. I won't spoil much about what they look like, but Retro Studios did an incredible 
 job incorporating the game's 3D characters and enemies as identical as their concept art. You can 
 also unlock the artwork if you complete certain tasks in the game. (Think of this as Xbox 360 Achievements, 
 but on the Wii.)
  
  Game Play
  Use the remote's motion sensor to aim and the control stick on the nunchuk to move Samus. Here 
 are the button configurations for the game: A (Shoot) , B (Jump) , C (Morph Ball) , - (Hold to select 
 weapons/visors) , Z (Lock on) , 1 and 2 (Map/Info/etc.) , and the newest feature for the series: + 
 (Hyper Mode) . In Hyper Mode, you will be much stronger and powerful when you are going after your 
 enemies. It will deplete one Energy Bar when using this. Using Hyper Mode too much will corrupt 
 you and end your game, so use this feature carefully and wisely. Not only will you be able to shoot 
 in Hyper Mode, but you will also earn other Hyper weapons for you to try out in Hyper Mode (I won't 
 spoil them for you for I want you to find and use them yourself) . The Lock-On feature is by far 
 the most improved in the Metroid Prime series. When you lock on to enemies, you have to aim at 
 them while locking on. This makes it easier since you can aim and shoot at their weak spots when 
 locking on to them. Once you have the Grapple Lasso (at the beginning of the game) , you can take 
 off the armor and shields of enemies, making combat much easier and quick. You can also use this 
 weapon to complete puzzles in certain areas of the game. I can talk more of the game play, but 
 I want you to get an idea of how the game works when you try the game for yourself.
  
  Exploration
  The first few areas of the game will feel a bit linear. But once you head to the 
 Planet Bryyo, then the game begins to become non-linear. Prime 3 stays true to the exploration 
 aspects the series is famous for, and this one is no different. The level design has improved over 
 the second Prime game (as some complained about Prime 2's level design being unclear and convoluted) . 
 New features like the leap ledge when jumping to it will have a very short cutscene of Samus leaping 
 to the ledge to higher ground. This gives the game ideas for level design on FPS. In past Prime 
 games, the worlds seemed a bit small. In Prime 3, the worlds are huge, especially on the planet 
 Elysia (not gonna tell you about this planet, you have to see for yourself) . The puzzles have 
 vastly improved in this game as well, and less frustrating than the previous Prime games (mostly 
 due to the control setup of the previous Prime games, in my opinion) , but I won't spoil or hint 
 any puzzles in this review, I want you to discover and solve them yourself.
  
  Conclusion
  Metroid Prime 3 Corruption is the best Prime game I've ever played, and one of my 
 all-time favorite Wii titles. It may not compete with the SNES hit Super Metroid, regarded as the 
 best game in the series by fans of this franchise. I agree with those people on Super Metroid , 
 but the reason why I declared Prime 3 "Best in Series" (mentioned in the beginning of this review) 
 isn't because Prime 3 the best of the Metroid franchise, but the Best in the Prime series. (My 
 favorite Metorid game of all time is Metroid Zero Mission for the GBA.) It is also a game that 
 developers should look at if they are planning on making and releasing FPS on the Wii. If Metroid 
 Prime 3 Corruption is the pioneer of how to create a game with that first-person-shooting experience, 
 then we will see other FPS on the Wii with solid controls in the near future (as seen on Medal 
 of Honor Heroes 2 for the Wii) . Charge up your Power Bean, it's time to save the galaxy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf360rev
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  Well I say that this game is fairly good, but the who have played the first might be a little disappointed 
 since it is not as good as the first. The Graphics for the of course are great just like you would 
 expect the to be from the three games. That metroid prime 3 carries some of the best graphics for 
 the wii other than super mario galaxy. Other areas for gameplay it may take a while getting used 
 to the controlls after you get them down the game becomes fun. The few problems I didn't like was 
 the scanning sincel to enter some of them you have to hold down a buton which was kind of annoying. 
 You'll also be using the wii-remote to turn handles. The jumping is also good this time around 
 you have double-jump from the start.
  
  
  That will get quite a bit of items early in the game changing them will be the wii-remote controll 
 pad rockets that is and other things you get in the game. You'll also get the grapple beam fairly 
 early as well. You'll have to use a lot more things with it than just swinging around. It can be 
 used to swing around, break some things like door type things.
  
  
  Also the sound in the game is fairly decent but I kind of liked the first games soundtrack more 
 than this one so there could have been more improvements on it. Overall the game is fairly good 
 so retro studios did a good job. But the first metroid prime still reigns supreme between the three 
 games. That there is some unlockables in the game which you have to scan things and go to the one 
 area and buy them so happy scanning. That this game is recommendable especially if you played the 
 last two metroid prime games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlow0678
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Well I love the metroid games. The 2D ones. Except, however, the collectting. Now for normal people, 
 this isn't an issue. But for an over-the-top perfectionist such as myself, well coleection based 
 games can drive you insane. 
  
  
  This is the first Prime game I played, and I loved it. Besides the collecting, which took away 
 from the effect. Oooooh a missile pack! Oh wait, I can't get it yet. I'll come back later (yeah 
 right) 
  
  -or-
  
  
  Hmmmmm there hasn't been a power up in a while. *gasp* I MUST'VE MISSED A SECRET PASSAGEWAY! Let 
 me visor-scan the area a couple hundred times, wasting 2 hours of gameplay. I might find lore!
 
  
  
  If this isn't you, then you're lucky. That's how this game goes for me. 
  
  However, it makes up for itself with great music, enemies, locations, and boss fights. Graphics 
 could've been a lot better, though. That would've been nice. Oh well. Good game, nevertheless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: son4
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: At The Beggining Of The Game You Start With The Items From The Previous Game Thank Goodness, After 
 You Beat The First Planet You Get Hypermode Which Is A Very Good Thing And A Bad Thing. Its Good 
 Because You Can Beat The Game Quicker, But Sometimes Its Hard To Use. But When You Die In Hypermode 
 Is Great. Some Bosses Are Hard But Who Cares. The Controls Are A Little Hard At First But You Get 
 Used To It
  
  Graphics: Graphics Are Great The Water Is Great The Level Design Is Great Even The Characters Look 
 Great.
  
  Sound: Great Music Ranging From Classics Sounds And Newer Sounds
  
  Effects: The Effects Are Great No Complaints
  
  Voices: The Voices Are A Little Bit Cheesy and 
 Annoying
  
  Overall: This Is A Great Metroid Prime Game, If You Have A Wii, Or Are A Retro Metroid Fan Get This 
 Game. BEST METROID PRIME GAME EVER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Double-O-Nothin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  U can't fail to fall in love with this game. Its fluid controls and great graphics make it a addictive, 
 yet challenging game.
  
  For those of you who don't know (where have you been the last 3 months???) The third and final 
 game in the Metroid series sees the Hero, Samus, being taken over by a bioform, phazon. She must 
 harness this power and use it to destroy the phazon seeds scattered around the galaxy. However, 
 the whole time she is becoming more and more corrupted.
  
  The only slight problem with an otherwise near-perfect control system is interacting with levers. 
 This can be quite annoying as the sensor bar never seems to really pick up your movements.
  
  The only problem I've found with this whole game is the doors. If ur runnin from a load of 
 space pirates and U need 2 get through a door quick, they never open. The only way to get them 
 to open without fail is to use a morph ball bomb and place it on the top of the door.
  
  On easy mode, its pretty much a walk in the park, but Veteran is good and hypermode difficulty 
 can really stretch you in places.
  
  I'd never played a prime game B4 but, now I've completed Corruption, I'm gonna get the other 2.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtryan10
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  well i am a true lover of the masterpiece called the metroid series. Super Metroid was one of the 
 best games i have ever played. But ever since the change to 3D, the series has gone down the hole. 
 I find Metroid Prime games very boring, lack luster that the side scrolling ones had and overall 
 LAME.
  
  Graphics are really a meh. not super awesome or fantastic so don't expect stunning things to see.
 
  
  Sound is lame no real good music that i can remember. 
  
  Controls are as good as they can get i believe so no real problem there.
  
  Overall: no great 
 features in the game or storyline to grab peoples' attention.
  
  
  personally i think metroid should stay off 3D because it doesn't work. sidescrolling is metroid's 
 style and should stay like that. maybe Nintendo should make a long and good sidescrolling metroid.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tknuth55
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  The Wii may not be able to handle high def games such as Gears of War or Resistance. But it has 
 it's own franchise of shooters, Metroid. The controls are what really draw you into the game, making 
 other FPSs seem like watching a Saturday morning cartoon compared to the level of interactivity 
 you get from this game. After an average control scheme on the game Call of Duty 3, an excellent 
 FPS seemed unlikely to come out ever, until this one.
  
  The sound draws you in and keeps you there throughout the whole game. Everything from the suit 
 recharging to the hum of your charged cannon is crisp and beautiful. The varying scores fit every 
 environment perfectly as you'll be traveling to volcanic wastelands and floating cities.
  
  I have one beef with the game though, a multiplayer option would be an awesome addition to an already 
 impressive game. This would make the average of 20 hours of game play seem meaningless because 
 there's fun to be had blowing away others online. Sadly it never came to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UVERproject
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has a lot of great games, Super Mario galaxy, Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess, but i 
 think because its from Nintendo people automatically like it. I'll admit it was my first metroid 
 prime game and im not a fan of the series, but the wii has potential and I wanted to try more games 
 for it. The story is alright but i heard better, gameplay is pretty solid. Makes pretty good use 
 of the wii-mote, but there needs to be more action. I spend most the time wondering around and 
 solving puzzles instead of what the game needs to focus on. It's near perfect shooting. If this 
 games crowning achievement is the boss fights, its pretty dull to me. The only thing great about 
 it is the FPS controls, no spinning camera and strafing. Its an average game, not worth the $50 
 price tag. It's no Call of Duty 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archibald_83
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption doesn't seem quite as original as it's predecessors, but it's still 
 good enough to maintain the typical excellence of the said predecessors.
  
  The new controls are great, with Wiimote aiming extremely responsive, and grappling with the Nunchuk 
 and Jump Ball are also good. However, interacting with levers is painful and slightly time-consuming, 
 a minor blemish in an otherwise near-perfect control scheme. 
  
  Corruption also features some of the best graphics on the Wii yet, with awesome character models 
 and environments, with the blue glow of phazon, missile explosions and beam fire bursting on impact 
 with Ridley's mouth looking much better than the Gamecube installments. All comparisons aside, 
 Corruption's graphics are a major strong point.
  
  The game has great sound as well, however it has some extremely annoying music mixed in with the 
 nice stuff that really compliments with the environment, but at least it has, in my opinion, the 
 best soundtrack of the trilogy.
  
  The story is deep, with the logbook revealing a lot about the minor details about the games background, 
 but Corruption is not without its fair share of plotholes, and the ending is a real cop-out.
  
  Gameplay has been touched up a lot, with several new additions. For example, Hyper-Mode, a phazon 
 fueled rampage while your INVINCIBLE, though it costs an Energy Tank, and after a while the phazon 
 meter grows, and if it hits the top, game over. Also new, the ability to travel between planets, 
 bomb things and lift objects with your ship.
  
  Overall, Corruption is worthy end to a great trilogy, but series is wearing a bit thin, and if 
 a 4th was planned, it would really push it over the top, though, lets face it, all Prime games 
 have been great. Definitely buy this if you're a Metroid fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaptain_insano
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  this game is a very great end to the series. i was hesitant to buying it because i didn't think 
 it would be too good on the wii..... i was wrong. this acctually kiks alot of @$$. its basicaly 
 any other meteroid game..... but on the wii!!!! lol. but any way, bring it on the wii gave nintendo 
 a lot to work with; such as new visors weapns, ect. as u get farther in the game the story begins 
 to unfold and is exciting to uncover...... that is if one of ur friends didn't already tell u it 
 :) . overal, my favorite Meteroid game yet! using the unique motions with your wii mote is very 
 fun. such as ripping shields off of guys with your grapple, or using your screw attack, its just 
 plain fun! ig u are a meteroid fan. put this on your list of games to buy. u won't be disapointed!!!!
 
  
  
  (besides.... has there ever been a bad meteroid game???? ever??!??! lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tennisman101010
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  okay so first your thinkin great one of the few good shooters from nintendo is gonna be on the 
 wii ( games like killer 7 still arent on the wii yet) it will be like the other 2. but before i 
 start i wanna say that the graphics are incredibley great! just whatching the cut scenes and looking 
 at it may be a reason 2 buy it. but that in the major thing is what i was saying before, its a 
 change and many people dont like change. i mean sure theres better shooters on the wii ( like moh2, 
 with the wii zaper it makes it 5x better) but if you wanna spend time learning the controls, i 
 mean honestly i knew this would happen and i still got it........ i mean after a week or 2 i got 
 it down and i felt like i was back in the old days playin the metroids.... good times. but im sure 
 this one could be in the old days in the future ( that was confusing) but spend the time i think 
 if u like the metroid sereis die hard, youll find no prob gettin use to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redchina
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is very similar to the previous two entries by Retro Studios, but it feels like 
 the final product of many adjustments and tweaks to the Metroid Prime formula. Overall, this is 
 perhaps the most well-designed and finely polished Metroid Prime game.
  
  Once again the art direction remains in the top of it's class, with Prime 3 having some of the 
 most fantastic alien environments the series has ever seen. You really get a sense that there is 
 a history and culture from every stone in every location. Impressive, to say the least.
  
  The sound design works well too, with some great music for each different location. This is some 
 of the best music the series has heard so far. Also new to the series is the addition of voice 
 acting, which is handled well, but not to any impressive extent. The game has a stronger focus 
 on story and cinematics than before, a change I don't find particularly significant or interesting 
 to be frank.
  
  Gameplay is very much the same as before. You travel the planet in search of upgrades and clues 
 to the finale, all the while encountering various puzzles to solve and baddies to shoot. This is 
 the most action-packed of all the Prime games, thanks to the awesome new controls that make this 
 game more like a FPS. The controls work smoothly and flawlessly, showing the obvious potential 
 for future FPS's on the Wii. The Wiimote is not only used for aiming but for other gestural inputs 
 that just look sweet on-screen. I am especially a fan of the grappling beam.
  
  Boss battles are fantastic as well, each one challenging and complex. Defeating them often requires 
 combining many different strategies at once, making them a thrill to fight. I felt the bosses were 
 easier than the bosses in the past games, but this is not necessarily a bad thing. The difficulty 
 seems tuned to perfection, where defeating them is not impossible as long you stay focused and 
 ready every second.
  
  Overall, the game is well-paced, moreso than the previous installments. Whereas in the last two 
 games you often found yourself wandering about not knowing what to do, here there is often no question 
 on what you should be doing, so you're constantly moving forward. I finished the game in about 
 15 hours, compared to the 20 hours in Prime 1 and 19 hours in Prime 2.
  
  I think I have established that this game is extremely well-designed in nearly all aspects. It's 
 another excellent Metroid game. But it's biggest problem is simply that. It's "ANOTHER" Metroid 
 game, and nothing more, really. The controls are an amazing accomplishment, but the game designed 
 around those controls is not as innovative.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 is a fantastic game and one that shows how talented the folks at Retro really are. 
 So just buy this game already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithisil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Though I never actually played the first few Metroid Prime games, I had heard some great things 
 about this game. However, it wasn't until the game was actually in my hands that I believed the 
 hype.
  
  The game itself is fun, with some interesting gadgets, though many are re-used from other Metroid 
 games... but that doesn't seem to really ever vary, so I'll put that aside for now. The game itself 
 is very fun, with a great mix of puzzles and action to keep you using your brain as much as your 
 gun.
  
  The game has a decent soundtrack, though not the best. The voice acting is well done as well. The 
 controls are also smooth, and very easy to get the hang of. The graphics are nothing to frown at 
 either, many being very impressive, or just cool / fun to see and use.
  
  The only thing that keeps this game from earning a perfect 10 is the fact that in order to unlock 
 everything, you must exchange 'friend vouchers' to other people to earn credits. Or more accurately, 
 they have to send them to you. If your friends don't have a Wii or don't want this game - sorry, 
 none of the cool unlockables for you.
  
  The game is fun, challenging, and with a decent storyline and interesting twists and turns, you'll 
 find that you definitely got your money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadraxis1809
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  The first game on the wii to star samus the intergalactic bounty hunter. shes back to close down 
 and finish the fight against the space pirates and dark samus. Now this time around the wiimote 
 is used to control samus and it does it very smoothly and well with moving her arm cannon and flinging 
 the grapple beam to just hitting swithes and pulling down levers, this game is very interactive 
 and takes advantage of what the wiimote can do. and as for the gameplay its great and feels more 
 like the first metroid prime which is good. the boss battles are epic and the level designs are 
 more complex this time around with the great graphics upgrade sumus got and the game itself has. 
 the story puts samus to finish the phazon threat across the galaxy that the space pirates have 
 started with the leviathon seeds and corrupts the sector which they are planted samus has to take 
 out those seeds and in a way UN corrupt the area they are in. it has that linear aspect but it 
 still doesnt feel repetetive and thats the good part making the gameplay fresh. the new additons 
 are that firstly the game is more motion sensed due to the wiimote, secondly it has been implemented 
 that the hunter class gunship has a role in the game from space travel to shooting missles to moving 
 large objects from point a to point b and the achievement system that gives the game more value 
 to collect all the goals. the game is lengthy as well with the play time of about the same as echoes 
 or maybe alittle longer im not sure but yeah its better but still is not the best but if this is 
 the road retro is headed to make the same experience as mp1 then they are doing a good job. a MUST 
 have and should be a keeper due to the high replay value but one small drawback is the missing 
 of multiplayer but thats about it. but overall its a great metroid better than echoes but not better 
 than the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the best shooters/adventure games you will encounter on the Nintendo Wii, 
 people actually talk in this game too, and I liked it when there were other things going on (you 
 see others fighting and such) and not just you lonely on a planet until you stumble into a room 
 and get confronted by a boss or a tiny little bug who tries to crack your visor.
  
  Also;
  
  Stacking beams
  Grapple lasso
  Hyper Mode all through the game!
  
  I was excited 
 and impressed with :)
  
  Things I weren't impressed with was just the lack of suit upgrades, but hyper mode itself made 
 up for that.
  
  I kinda suck at reviews.. k... dunno what more to write... :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felipegarro
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  this adventure will literally put you in the flesh of the best bounty hunter in the universe, now 
 we will control her with our wii remotes and nunchuck, this make it really different from the other 
 games of the PRIME saga, the past games aiming sistem was not really good, it was hard for the 
 free aim and it tocked away very much emotion of the game, also by the fact that the auto aim was 
 really needed in the game, also, tooking away the emotion... but this one is brand new, we just 
 need to aim to the screen and press the FIRE butom if we want samus shot, most of the times we 
 will need to interact with our enviroment by pressing butoms on the screen pointing the wii remote 
 as samus hand, we will even need to start up the engine of our ship with our hands, now the ship 
 its not just for saving the game, we can even use it to travel among the galaxy! thats it, just 
 like you are reading it, this adventure will not only be on a same planet, now we need to run trougt 
 varius planets as corruption spreads trougth the galaxy and the enviroment is now easy to understand, 
 the enemies, well some are brand new and other are classic like the space pirates, there are some 
 old and new features in the game, for example the old feature of the scanning visor, which is now 
 a little bit hard, there are many suits in the game, each one with an special abiliy, also the 
 morph ball which cant miss on a metroid game and a new feature called HIPERMODE, if we press the 
 + butom we will enter to some kind of rage mode which inflicts great damage but at the cost of 
 taking our ALL the energy on a supply tank, the game has 3 sensivilty options: basic, standard 
 and advanced, each one will increase the rate of sensibility when turning and aiming, the basic 
 option is for the people who are starting with the 1st person shooters, standards is for the ones 
 that already know them but not much and advanced is for the veterans on this kind of games, i recommend 
 advanced because it makes lot easier to turn and aim, the game can take you around 20 hours, its 
 a great game and thats all i can say about it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agtgtbacsp
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  This review was written as a "response" to the gamespot review. I strongly disagree with the review, 
 I especially urge those who are discouraged from buying this game because of it's score to read 
 this. I will explain in more detail some of the negative things gamespot's reviewer wrote in the 
 review. 
  
  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption has exceeded my initial expectations, providing a better experience 
 not only than I expected, but an extremely fun and immersable experience that I haven't experienced 
 for a long time. I was put into an extreme state of dissapointment when I discovered that gamespot 
 had given this game an 8.5, the lowest score acheived by any game in the Metroid Prime trilogy. 
 Although 8.5 isn't exactly a bad score, I strongly feel that the game should have received a higher 
 rating.
  
  Chances are that if you're reading this then you've already read the gamespot review, so I'm going 
 to be taking things that I either disagree with or find untrue about that review and explain what 
 the game is truly like from a prospective of someone who respects games for what they truly are 
 (Awwwwww) . So, one of the things that shocked me about the review was what was written under the 
 area that said "The Bad", so I will address each one of them and explain why I disagree with them. 
 The first item addressed within this section is that "Some of the contextual actions don't control 
 all that well". Alhough it is somewhat understandable that this would be written in a review, I 
 do not believe that this is something that should be included in "The Bad" section of the review, 
 which I believe should be reserved for the serious flaws in the game. The contextual actions in 
 the game in my opinion were not only creative and entertaining, they were easy. The most frequent 
 examples in the game are the ships controls (yes, you get to fly your ship, but only to the extent 
 of choosing your destination, but I'll get to that later) which you must activate for every trip 
 you decide to make accross the different worlds in the galaxy. Inside your ship, Retro Studios 
 has gone the extra mile and included various buttons on your ship that have no role in the actual 
 game, but can be used to your hearts content. For example, there is a switch that you can use to 
 initiate a hazard scan (much like at the beginning of the game where you must be scanned) which 
 will give you a percentage of how much Phazon is in your body. This is the only contextual action 
 that I find difficult; in order to use it you must twist the Wii Remote and hold it as still as 
 possible for 5 seconds. However, this isn't a vital piece to the game, so I find it insignificant 
 to consider as a factor in loweing a game's score. Whether or not this device was a reason for 
 the writer of the review criticizing the game for it's contextual controls may never be unfurled. 
 Another one of the ships many controls is a button can be pressed to bring up a screen that tells 
 you how many shots you've fired, how many saves you've made, and a few other things that curious 
 gamers (such as myself) may want to know. To activate this you must press the A button when the 
 screen says "Press A to interact with objects", which then will put you in control of Samus's hand. 
 Once that is done, you simply place her hand over the button and push A which prompts Samus to 
 push the button. There are a few more of these, but I'll let you discover these for yourself. But 
 I digress. The point I was trying to make is that the actions you must make a quick and simple. 
 The actual hand scanner you must use to fly your ship is the simplest gadget in the entire ship, 
 requiring you to simply press A once the scanner is highlighted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shutupthe3rd
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  First things first: thank you for reading my review.
  
  Anyway, this game is the greatest Metroid Prime game ever (you can't really compare it with 2-D 
 Metroids) . The game was one of the first built-from-scratch on the Wii. I'm going to split my review 
 in different sections.
  
  The level design is nearly flawless, and it is designed for fighting and exploration. There are 
 plenty of obstacles to hind behind, so you won't have to jump around, dodging tons of enemies (which 
 doesn't work very well in this game, as many enemies have long-range or circular-ranged attacks) , 
 if your strategy is well enough. Getting lost in these environments can be so engaging, and you 
 can do so much free-roaming exploration that occasionaly objective-reminders can actually be helpful! 
 That's a rare trait for a game!
  
  The graphics actually look like what the Wii is capable of. The environments are much larger and 
 wider than in previous MP games, so you can really stop and gawk just because how good the environments 
 look. They're not as good as games like Crysis, of course, but it's not fair comparing that 22nd 
 century graphic game to this one.
  
  The FPS (no, Frames Per Second, not First Person shooter) runs very smoothly, and there is never 
 any slow-down. The AI are smart as they need to be, and the game suffers from no technical errors 
 except one: a single enemy that is easy to kill and appears once in the game, the same as a Pirate 
 Trooper, was accidently named "Pirate", so people can scan it and get an extra red token (shame 
 the lazy person that forgot to take that out of the game) .
  
  You'd likely play this two or three times over. Normal mode is easy, Veteran is for people that 
 have played the first MP games, and there is also a secret, very tough difficulty level that mixes 
 around enemy placement, increases AI strength and range, and makes boss fights to be remembered 
 long after the game is put on the shelf. You'll have to unlock it for yourself. That's a lot of 
 gameplay!
  
  The controls seem alien at first, especially for seasoned MP verts, but after a while (the game 
 gives you a whole, long prolouge to hone your skills!) , the controls start feeling like you're 
 not even holding a hunk of plastic in your hands (unless you point the cursor offscreen) .
  
  This game also fixes many long-running-errors with the Metroid games. for example, whenever 
 you backtrack (a long-running Metroid problem) in this game, it feels like you're going through 
 new environments. For example, on one back-track, the first time you go through, it's calm with 
 little enemies, and you just have to reach the end. The second time, Space Pirates invaded the 
 place!!! Whoah! That's drastic! Plus, the "Win as fast as you can for a secret ending!" thing has 
 been ditched for a Standard Ending, a 75% complete ending, and a 100% complete ending, so you can 
 enjoy the game more.
  
  The music is great. Period. End of discussion about music that's totally awsome.
  
  There is 
 but one problem: The storyline. It is incredibly disappointing, and with almost no happiness; only 
 disappointment. It's enough to make even the most gothic kid frown from the very disappointing 
  events. The rest of the storyline is fine, but the incredibly 
 disappointing parts where (I won't give any spoilers) you have to kill your only real friends 'cause 
 of corruption would make a little kid cry.
  
  There will be complaints about lack of multiplayer: ignore them. This game was meant for 1-P exploration, 
 not Wi-Fi death-matches... still... the FPS (First Person Shooter, not Frames Per Second) elements 
 in this exploration game are great, and the platforming works like a charm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cntrl_alt_dstry
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game. It is innovative, exciting and just plain fun. But unlike the others 
 in the series the balance between puzzles and action is not as good. While the other games had 
 a 50-50 split, Corruption has more of a 60-40 split with more puzzles. While I have no problem 
 with puzzles, it just did not seem to fit in with the traditional metroid feel of every room filled 
 with monsters. In Prime and Echoes you could not go two rooms without fighting something while 
 in Corruption you seven or even twelve rooms without encountering a single enemy. I love the Prime 
 series but Corruption is definitely the weakestt link. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 brings everything anybody could expect from it. Its got good action, with enough 
 strategy needed to make your gunfights fun and engaging, but not too much to make defeating enemies 
 more of a chore.
  
  The other hunters are memorable characters, regardless of their fairly short, almost cameo appearences 
 on the first two areas. The story itself doesn't hold that many twists, really only about one or 
 two being in the entire game, but it does tie the game together, and in a shooting game, thats 
 all you really need, though a strong story that drags you in is always a good thing.
  
  The need to scan enemies and lore in order to gain access to extras is a nice touch to require 
 a little more interest and exploration if you want the extras, but the fact that they aren't a 
 required part of the game does allow for people who don't really care to not have to be dragged 
 down doing so.
  
  The only problem I really have with the game is a fairly common problem I have encountered while 
 playing. Quite frequently, the doors won't open when you shoot them. I found myself running back 
 and forth and jumping in front of the doors having a little trantrum because the door refused to 
 open. They all do EVENTUALLY, but the fact that it can take 10, sometimes 20, seconds for some 
 doors to open really gets on your nerves at times.
  
  The rest of the game, at least for me, outbalances that little annoyance, so it still gets a 9 
 in my books.
  
  EDIT: Since writing this, I was told by a fellow GS member that the door issue is due to loading, 
 and it occurs when there is a large room on the other side. Considering there are no loading screens 
 in the rest of the game, that sort of thing has to happen somewhere. Of course, that knowledge 
 doesn't make it any less annoying, but it is understandable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkthemaniac
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  My introduction to Samus Aran came in the form of Super Smash Bros. In that game, she (at the time, 
 I thought it was a he) was one for my bfavorite characters. Then, when Metroid Prime came out, 
 I wanted to run out and get a Gamecube just for it alone. It looked so cool. Now, after multiple 
 months of anticipation, I got to play a game that starred the femenine bounty hunter. Was I disappointed? 
 Absolutely not. This game is one of my favorite shooters of all time.
  
  The story begins (or picks up from Echoes) with Samus boarding a Federation frigate, where she 
 is called to do a service for the Federation. With her are three other bounty hunters: Gandrayda, 
 Rhondas (or something like that) , and, my personal favorite, Ghor. You are tasked with a mission 
 to destroy the Phazon seeds encased in three planets in the galaxy. Just then, your lovable space 
 pirates come along to destroy you. In the fight, without giving too much away, you are corrupted 
 with Phazon, as are your bounty hunter colleagues. You then proceed to destroy the seeds on these 
 planets to stop the corruption from, uh, corrupting the planet.
  
  The story isn't revolutionary, but it works well for the game. However, story isn't where this 
 game shines. Throughout your quest, you will be tasked with multiple puzzles that require your 
 use of skill, logic and suit upgrades to progress through the game. They're all well thought out, 
 and can even be pretty challenging at times. The puzzles are fun, but they also aren't the strong 
 suit of the game.
  
  Another gem in the game is the boss fights. In scale, I would rank them my 3rd favorite of all 
 time, only beaten by Metal Gear Solid 3 in 2nd, and Castlevania: Symphony of the Night in 1st. 
 They all have a clever gimmick to them, and, while they are a breeze on the easier modes, on Hypermode 
 they can be very difficult, and will require your full concentration to beat. They're very well 
 thought out, but these still aren't the strong suit of the game.
  
  Where this game truly shines is the controls. They are without a doubt my favorite FPS controls 
 yet, and after a few Wii games where the controls were very poor, these were very refreshing. They 
 work well in all instances. Gamespot said that not all the Wii controls worked that well, but it 
 was probably an issue of sensor bar positioning and distance from the TV. I had the same problem 
 at first, but if you have good distance from the TV, the precision at which the controls work is 
 almost jaw-dropping. Shooting enemies is a whole lotta fun with Wiimote in hand.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 did alot of things right, but it nailed the controls like no other FPS in existence. 
 It's a real shame that Retro is taking a break from the Metroid series. I just hope that they're 
 future projects have the same kind of polish asa this one does. It's a great time, and acted as 
 the first rain after a drought of casual games for the Wii. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donnyp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  I recently picked up a nintendo Wii for myself (YAY) . As it goes with getting a new system you 
 must venture into that territory and buy new games based on what you've seen or what you yourself 
 have played. Thus i have purchased 2 Games, Plus Wii Sports (that came with the system) . So i bought 
 This game as well as Zelda and Twilight Princess. I'll do a review for that later. Now to the review.
 
  
  For slight background. Metroid Prime 1 was the first game in the, as it has now come to be known, 
 Prime series. In the first you are visiting the home world of the chozo called Tallon IV. After 
 arriving to a distress signal she ends up finding everyone is dead and must fight some parastie. 
 Sorry for the quick explanation but its all that mattered here. As shes escaping she loses all 
 of her upgrades and sees Ridley. I'll just assume everyone knows who ridley is and continue. She 
 gives chase to ridley which leads her to the planet Tallon IV in which the game truly starts.
 
  
  -=-=-=-=-=
  Story:
  -=-=-=-=-=
  
  The story continues the series with samus the hunter on her journey to help rid the galaxy of Evil 
 Samus. Now that does sound lame. But the story is good if you played Metroid 1 and 2 and understood 
 them. As you journey through the game not only is there a main story but many side storys to the 
 areas your in to make the story of the places more in depth. As a example Planet A in game A is 
 there to conquer. No story behind it. Sure the game explains. Now Planet B from metroid is a lost 
 civilization that blah blah blah. Each section your in has its own background giving the game a 
 feel of great depth. For this i give story a 9/10. Woulda given it a 10 but there were just small 
 things that annoyed me along the way like having to FIND the story.
  
  -=-=-=-=-=
  Controls:
  -=-=-=-=-=
  
  Being on the Wii theres so far one verdict in my mind. They either 
 suck or rule. These controls rule. At times yes i did have troubles but thats cause the sensor 
 lost alignment or soemthing else. But Aside from that the small puzzles requiring you to twist 
 and pull or just twist your controller certain ways the controls are awkwardly smooth. I say awkward 
 because its as if your always in fine aim. This scheme works out. Though when i first started playign 
 ti was awkward for me to even move around. But after roughly half an hour or so of play and in 
 game brief descriptions of how to use your controller it becomes easy. For the semi hard start 
 and sometime twitchy controls im going to have to give it a 7/10.
  
  -=-=-=-=-=
  Sound:
  -=-=-=-=-=
  
  The Music in this game is beautiful and gives a great feel to areas. 
 From the Skytown to the Space Pirates Homeworld the music changes perfectly to each areas different 
 theme. A dark and brooding style music for the evil Space Pirates home world and a depressing but 
 mellow tune for the Skytown world which has been turned into a extinct planet minus robots. Its 
 not only excellent from how well the music is but is wonderful in areas like Jeniffer Hale though 
 not speaking but makign noises that make the pain seem real. From the explosions to the gun fire 
 to enemies dieing the game has it all around for sound. But where there is light there is always 
 darkness. Unfortunelty at times the music would have problems loading single tracks and try to 
 mix match. I dont know if it was a problem with the system or the game but it was annoying none 
 the less. for this i give it a 8/10 because even thought the glitch was annoying it still only 
 happened in specific areas and no more then the Space Pirate Homeworld.
  
  -=-=-=-=-=
  Fun Factor:
  -=-=-=-=-=
  
  This game has hours of fun. From trying to get everything to unlockign 
 all the bonus materials. Being able to go just about anywhere and do just about anything will keep 
 you entertained until you have no bettery power left or until your sleeping while playing. That 
 being said im giving it a 10/10
  
  Now that all is said and done i must Say some final words and give my final rating based on my 
 other scores. Now i love this game and am giving it an 8.5. I think thats a good score for it due 
 to changes being done between the Game Cube Version and the Wii version but with those small differences 
 and miniscule glitches out of the way it is just a wonderful game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterEgo
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime is a very interesting game... it has been one of the Ninendo classics and fans rejoice 
 with the Wii to play the conclusion of this once great masterpiece.
  
  -Overview
  The original Metroid Prime was a breath-taking game. It was big, complex, mysterious, and incredibly 
 mind-blowing. If you expected the third installment to be up to standards with the first... you 
 are terribly mistaken.
  
  -The Setting
  The world that is Corruption is very, very, very polished. With it's beautiful new graphics and 
 environments this game is a very tasty piece of meat. One thing that bothers a Metroid fan and 
 critic such as myself though, is the lack of mystery. The first Prime was one, huge planet that 
 you had to explore, you were just left on your own with a feeling of isolation to find the world 
 out yourself. This game was broken down into three smaller planets, and your constantly being told 
 what to do through the entire game. I believe this limits Metroid Prime's overall theme of "exploration". 
 One thing I want to clear up, in the video review over at IGN they said there was an ice world... well 
 sorry, but they couldn't be more wrong, there's a small section where ice is around you, but it's 
 very tiny, no bosses and hardly any enemies. (Yeah, I liked Phendrana Drifts too) In the original, 
 everything had some sort of meaning, a purpose. It was all one big picture, now with MP3, the planets 
 limit curiosity and the game holds your hand almost every step of the way.
  
  -Difficulty
  The puzzles are just as ingenious as they were in the previous Primes, but they're 
 dumbed down a bit to be a little more friendly to the casual "Wii" audience. The boss fights are 
 tricky, but you hardly ever die. The new hyper mode that you can use really just massacres everything. 
 They've also reduced backtracking a bit, but it's still present in MP3, I've read in a few places 
 that people have complained about backtracking, obviously they hanv't played many metroid games. 
 Your ship in this game is basically just a shortcut to get around the map and there are multiple 
 landing zones on a single planet, cuts down the time you spend walking in half. For Metroid veterans 
 I recommend (kind of obvious) veteran mode. Easy mode is just too... easy. After beating the game 
 you unlock hyper mode (hard mode) , this is where masters of metroid will want to test their skills, 
 as all enemies have crazy amounts of health and deal out much more damage to you, this mode is 
 a true challenge.
  
  -Gameplay
  So you solve cool puzzles and blast through really big and scary enemies, what's new? Well, it's 
 not what you do that's new in Metroid Prime 3, it's HOW you do it. The new aim function that Retro 
 Studios has put into this game is creative, I wouldn't say I'd want to use this mode for every 
 shooting game I play, nothing is wrong with it though, and you can get use to it very easy. However, 
 the worlds are so colorful that sometimes your aiming reticule gets blended in with the background, 
 but I really didn't have much of a problem with this, it was really just a small inconvenience. 
 All the controls are responsive and solid. Unless your a picky, fussy gamer, you shouldn't really 
 have any trouble handling this game.
  
  -Conclusion
  The first Metroid Prime has dazzled people across the globe and continues to this day, it's the 
 absolute best Metroid game in existance, no questions there. MP3 is fun and really that's probably 
 all people care about these days. I enjoyed MP3, but I wish Retro Studios would've put a little 
 more time into this game and made it just a little bit bigger, then it would've definitely had 
 the same WOW effect the original Metroid Prime had.
  
  Thanks for reading,
  
  MisterEgo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimybrit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. This is my review for one of the best games of the year!
  
  Graphics-9.5 The graphics are awesome. The models and enemies and enviorments are all awesome. 
 Great for a Wii game!
  
  Story-9.5 The story was elaborate and emotional. It is really great!
  
  Controls-9.2 The controls 
 were pretty sharp, but some things like grappling frustated me. It's some of the best out there 
 though. ( unlike SOME games)
  
  Gameplay-9.1 Fun but hard. It's amazing. The fighting is fun. The bosses are fun. The shooting 
 is fun. It's all just reall really fun!
  
  The game gets a 9.5. It's the best shooter on the Wii so far. If you don't buy it rent it cause 
 you have to try it! Too bad it's the last Metroid Prime. Anyway this is one of my favorite Wii 
 games and i know anyone else who tries it should like it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smasher_crazy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  this is a kickass game, i played it for a couple hours for the first time and it felt kinda boring. 
 but i picked it up a week later and i got stuck in the game. the graphics are THE best on wii, 
 i love how the first person control is easy, and the adventure part of the game is awsome as well. 
 i only played through 2 bosses, but they each required a lot of strategy, which makes it a good 
 game. the hyper mode is like the coooolest ever!!!! i hadnt played any metroid games before, but 
 im glad i picked up metroid prime 3: corruption, i would say its about the third or maybe fourth 
 best game on wii. but if u like games like halo and stuff, u shud definetly get this game, anbd 
 u'll get more than ur money's worth. [ [ [ [ [  rroighriojhg 
 iojroig rg rgejirg jioerg rag riaog ri rig rijog r rgajpmgmdzkfxbja giare aregjrj ijti htehaspkdvm 
 gkjrgr5bndfmnbnaseirfg nrjgnrgrgnorugunrao] ] ] ] ] ] ] ]  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK-47-M4
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good: * Excellent shooting controls * Impressive graphics for the Wii * Some boss fights are 
 very well designed * Game is generally a blast to play
  
  The Bad: * Some boss fights get frustrating * No online or multiplayer mode 
  
  Metroid Prime 
 3: Corruption is the third entry into the Metroid Franchise, one of the many successful Nintendo 
 Franchises. Unfortunately, this is the first Metroid game I have played, so I won't be able to 
 compare it to the previous installments for the Gamecube. But anyway, let's get onto the review!
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The graphics in this game are fantastic, especially for the Wii. Retro Studios did a very good 
 job in making the game have a nice, artistic, look. It is definitely one of the better looking 
 games on the Wii, perhaps only behind Zelda in terms of best looking. The only complaint I have 
 is that some things in the game seem a bit blurry or washed out, which is a bit odd. Other than 
 that the game looks excellent. 
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The sound in this game is passable. I was looking forward to some good music that I would remember 
 after playing the game, but it's all pretty forgettable. Although it is good enough to get you 
 through the game. The voice acting is very well done though. 
  
  Tilt: 7.5/10
  
  I enjoyed playing Metroid Prime 3 Corrruption. However, I did have some problems with it. For some 
 reason, I had to be in a certain mood in order to play this game. However, this is probably just 
 me. The other problem I had was the boss fights. While some of these fights are fine, others are 
 very frustrating. I remember I was about to throw my controller at the t. v. during one fight. Depending 
 on how good you are and whether or not you use a walkthrough, the boss fights may or may not be 
 frustrating for you. For me however, they were.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  The gameplay in this game is a unique experience to say the least. The shooting controls will redefine 
 the shooting genre. However, I could have done without some of the Nunchuck controls. For some 
 reason, I found the ball mode stuff a bit pointless and boring as well. I mean, isn't it a bit 
 convenient to have so many little holes and vents that are just big enough for the ball mode and 
 just happen to lead to where you need to go? Seems a bit stupid to me. Although fans of Metroid 
 will probably love the gameplay, I found some of it to be a bit weird.
  
  Value: 8.5/10
  
  You'll get plenty of value from Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. You should spend plenty of hours 
 playing it. The only complaint I have here is no multiplayer or online mode. It would have been 
 nice to see those modes.
  
  Total Point Average: 8.2
  Gamespot Round: 8/10
  
  Conclusion: 
  
  If you have been a fan of the Metroid Series, get Metroid Prime 3 for sure. 
 If you are a newcomer,, you may want to rent it before buying it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex6294
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I love the metroid series, and this game delivered. The wii controls add a whole new depth to the 
 game. It makes it fell like your in the game. The visuals are not next gen but are still stunning. 
 The puzzles are fun and some can be difficult. I like how in this game your not entirely alone. 
 It fells good that the Galactic Federation hasn't completly left you alone. The boss fights are 
 fun but I find them easier than the old boss fights. In the other two games for the gamecube, there 
 was that one boss who got me so mad because I could not beat him. In this game, most of the bosses 
 where very easy even on the veteran difficulty. Hypermode is just too fun, I just would just want 
 hypermode integrated more into the game. I also wish that you could use the ships bombing run and 
 missile attacks more often. 
  Overall this was a great game and deseves more than an 8.5. I would rec\comend this game to everyone. 
 I just hope that the this is not the last game of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIOShazard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 has the characteristics of a true FPA, a First Person Adventure, and even in the 
 previous installments, the entire series is an awesome FPA.
  Sound: This game has its own original soundtrack that is similar to the previous games. The Sound 
 Grows on you, and you grow on the sound. Think of it as Moss on a Tree. It grows the more you let 
 it sit, but in this games case, it grows the more you play it.
  Storyline: In pretty much all Metroid games, you stay on one planet until you complete your quest, 
 and you stay isolated. In this game, you have control over your ship, letting it do various tasks 
 that are far to large for you, you also have the ability to speak with other people in the game, 
 such as Federation Troopers and the other Hunters. You also have the ability to go to other planets 
 in Samus's journey.
  Enemies: The bad guys are so well designed, and original. Some, like the Metroids and Ridley, are 
 given new powers, but the same idea of "Life Sucking Jellyfish thing" and "Giant Dinosaur that 
 just won't stay dead..." 
  Overall: This game is a very good game. Some people who have played this game and say that this 
 game isn't good at all, probably hasn't played the first 2 games, or just don't like FPAs.
  Sound: 9.5/10
  Storyline: 10/10
  Baddies/Enemies: 9.5/10
  Overall: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  It may have took a bit longer to wait for Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, but it was well worth it. 
 Corruption simply has the best controls an FPS has ever had. It is also just as fun as the other 
 two Metroid Prime games. Corruption is yet another Wii game you should own. This is a spoiler-free 
 review so anyone who hasn't even heard of this game can read this.
  
  THE GOOD
  Controls are simply brilliant, another set of huge planets, a lot of secrets to discover like in 
 the other two, there's voice acting now.
  
  THE BAD
  Too much like the previous MP games, not much improved graphic-wise.
  
  Graphics
  Unfortunately, 
 the graphics haven't improved very much from Metroid Prime 2: Echoes back on the GameCube. But, 
 the graphics still have the goodness contained in the previous big Metroid game and you think that 
 they're just fine. However, I still have noticed a fair bit of HD added to the graphics, which 
 is alright!
  
  Sound
  While the sound in MP3: C may not be as good as it was in MP and MP2: E, the music is still fair 
 and is still awesome to listen to (however they forgot to put the main theme in) . Plus, there is 
 now voice acting which the previous two didn't. Voices aren't too bad and they are acceptable for 
 the first time around. Overall, the sound is passable.
  
  Gameplay
  Plays like the previous Metroid Prime games. You shoot space pirates, find upgrades for your suit, 
 scan all sorts of interesting objects and find your way through each planet found. Yep, that's 
 once again the objective in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. But i've always liked the Metroid formula. 
 Somehow it never runs dry. But there's this new mode you can go into called "Hypermode". Which 
 makes you turn into this sorta blue form, but if you use it for too long you can become "corrupt". 
 Samus also has a new starship. Now you can get in from the bottom and it looks pretty cool. And 
 you still save in there and do what you do in the Metroid games with the ship. There are a lot 
 more Space Pirates i've noticed throughout Metroid Prime 3. They even appear from the beginning. 
 The controls are very special. It uses very good use of the Wii Remote's features, such as when 
 grappling for instance, you wave the nunchuk around and there are all sorts of puzzles that require 
 the Remote's actions. Like usual, the planets are very big and puzzling. It takes a while to get 
 through them and figure out what to do. There are also a lot of items to pick up that can upgrade 
 your suit and they're scattered all over the place and can be found in hidden places. That's why 
 you need to look more carefully. The Morph Ball returns as well with yet again more puzzles that 
 you require the ball for. You also get some new types of powerups which are rad. The Ice Missiles 
 to name one. Always wanted to walk across lava? You can now!! Metroid Prime 3 has some really good 
 gameplay that may sound like a copy from the previous Metroid games, but it's still very good!!
 
  
  Character Design
  The beautiful Samus is back, along with some Hunters on your side and the rest of your team. It's 
 pretty decent actually.
  
  Storyline
  The Metroid Prime Trilogy fits within the stories of Metroid and Metroid II: Return of Samus. And 
 Corruption is the final before Metroid II.
  
  Overall
  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is simply brilliant. If you're a fan of Metroid games, then you can 
 make yourself at home with Corruption. Even if you've never played a Metroid game before, you'll 
 probably enjoy the goodness of MP3. However, this game isn't the best one to start with. But this 
 must be bought eventually.
  9.5/10
  
  MUST BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Takoulya
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Sure it has some of the most advanced controls ever, but it just doesn't cut it compared to the 
 first two of the series. For some, it's a game you want to keep playing on and on, but then again 
 for someothers, it's not enough of a challenge. For the game to be the most anticipated release 
 for the wii, it is somewhat of a let down. The boss fights are too easy to figure out, because 
 of the lack of variety. Even though there are a lot of areas to explore, there are not a lot of 
 things to find, except missile expansions. Plus, the atmosphere was a big fall compared to the 
 first Metroid Prime game. From the harsh caverns of Magmoor to the dangerous and disturbing space 
 pirate research base in the first, you could feel the intensity. The other ideas for hyper-mode 
 , the add-on beams, and the ship controls, were stunning, but alas the game is too easy, the atmosphere 
 was like staring into a postcard, and the variety was not impressive at all. 
  
  AMBITIOUS BUT A SLIGHT LET DOWN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi892
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 has been eargerly awaited since it was announced for the Nintendo Wii. It was to 
 be the final instalment in the Metroid Prime trilogy and promised to take out the back-tracking 
 of the previous games in order to make a much more fun experience. So did it succeed?
  
  The answer to this question is yes and no. Unfortunately the back-tracking is still present. Not 
 as much in the previous games but its still there. As far as production values go the game is the 
 very good. The story is portrayed well through some excellent custscenes and voice work is good. 
 The back-tracking however though still annoys me and I feel a game like Metroid Prime should be 
 fast paced action all the time.
  
  Graphics are pretty crisps and character animations smooth all running at a nice 490p progressive 
 scan and it is one of the Wii's better looking titles. Sound once again is top notch as is expected 
 of this series. 
  
  Level design is very good also. They are mostly varied, they all look good and some of the areas 
 you vist are very memorable. But however, the back-tracking ruins it. It is one of those games 
 where you will be sitting there thiniking "what do I do now?" I feel if Retro had elliminated back-tracking 
 completely, the game would be much better.
  
  As far as controls go the game is very good. The shooting sections work excellentely and you can 
 take out far distant enemies with pin-point accuracy. You will not want to use a joypad again. 
 Unfortuantely the gesture based controls (such as twisting the Wii-remote to unlock doors) do not 
 work as well. But as I said generally the controls are very good.
  
  To summarise. Metroid Prime 3 is my favourite game of the series. They have taken out back-tracking 
 to a certain extent (which was something I despised in Metroid Prime 1 and 2) and they have implemented 
 the Wii Controls well. It is a decent length with several difficulty modes and should keep you 
 entertained for a fair while. 
  
  Summary
  + Excellent Production Values
  + Controls work well
  + Elliminated back-tracking...
  - ... To a certain extent
  - No multiplayer 
 is a missed oppurtunity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sun_and_earth
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I didn't have high hopes for the Nintendo Wii system... until i picked up a copy of Metroid 
 Prime 3. This isn't only the best game on the Wii so far, it may be the most addictive, immersive 
 FPS I've ever played.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  This game controls very smoothly with the Wii Remote, and almost everything the game is interactive, 
 to a greater or lesser degree. Many actions can be carried out using only the remote and Nunchuck, 
 without any interference from buttons at all. The controls are simple, and don't require too much 
 controller waggling. You simply move the Remote around to turn and aim, make a whipping motion 
 with the nunchuck to use the Grapple Beam item, and hit A to shoot. That's about it. The Scan Visor 
 is fun as ever to use. Almost every item in the game has a description to accompany it, including 
 enemies and static scenery. You can see how much work Retro Studios put into every detail of this 
 game.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  I don't expect much out of the Wii graphically, but this game is BEAUTIFUL. Everything in the game 
 world is beautifully detailed and the art is very creative, with mechanical and organic elements 
 overlapping each other in a very natural way, like a hand in a glove. The areas are very dynamic. 
 Platforms raise and lower, and you can see the gears behind them spinning. Special effects are 
 excellent for the Wii hardware. The HUD looks really nice, it appears to be sort of an LED display 
 on top of your visor. It doesn't intrude too much while you're playing the game, and even recedes 
 into the top of the screen when you're pointing your weapon up there. Bloom lighting is present, 
 but not overused like it is in many 360 and PS3 titles. Small details abound. Liquid Fuel gel ignites 
 when shot, and local wildlife is present in both foreground and background.
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  The music sounds very retro, but it doesn't sound bad by any stretch of the 
 imagination. Many synthesized instruments play in the BGMs, but this really fits the game's Sci-Fi 
 atmosphere. Voice acting is featured in this game, and the actors sound decent, if a bit lacking 
 in emotion. Monsters make noises even when they're not attacking or being hit, and you can swear 
 you hear enemies issuing commands to each other in the heat of battle.
  
  Summing up:
  
  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is the best game I have ever seen on the Wii, and is definitely 
 in the top 3 games I have ever played. This is a must have for any Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  Being Metroid Prime 1 and 2 were my favorite games of last generation, my incentive to buy a Wii 
 was through the roof... especially for this title. The story is now told through cut-scenes with 
 army generals and marines... which is a nice move into next-generation from the previous text filled 
 log reading (will go more into later) ... The visuals are vastly improved and look awesome... sure 
 they aren't onpar with 360 or PS3 but they do a great job and give attention to the finer points. 
 The music is outstanding, as always (my fav videogame music series) however the audio effects are 
 decent but the quality sounds dated. The controls are near flawless... the work well with the mechanics 
 and although they take some time to get used to, once you learn them they feel effortless. I played 
 the game on Veteran and beat it in just under 20 hours.
  .
  .
  My complaints
  1) The story, although we've moved on with actual voice acting, it has completely taken away whats 
 made Metroid so great: Isolation... As Samus, you always has this unnerving feeling in the worlds... especially 
 in Prime 2. But communication constantly with the marines, the whole atmosphere felt more like 
 a shooting game and less of an adventure game (i consider the series adventure) ... I know this was 
 to help align the story and finish the battle... but it just doesn't work and could have been implemented 
 better.
  .
  2) Planets feel all too similar, the level design is done well but not as creatively as the first 
 two in the series.
  .
  3) Boss battles were fun, but again weren't as creative as the first 2. 
  .
  .
  Ya, Im comparing 
 it a lot to the first 2 games... I expected a lot more from Retro... I know they are a talented team 
 and could have done an overall better job with the game... especially when you consider the first 
 2 were award winning titles. This one feels like it was just tossed in to help sell Wii's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kablay
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  It is obvious that Nintendo tried really hard to make this game great. However, they failed in 
 many ways. I loved the first two Metroid Primes, but I knew once I saw a demo that I was going 
 to be disappointed. But I had to buy the third one. Who doesn't want to know what happens to Dark 
 Samus? Anyway...
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in MP3 are really great. The environments are really amazing and... that's about it. 
 Even though the surroundings are awesome, everything looks airbrushed and unreal. You can tell 
 that Nintendo is trying too hard to hide the pixels. It's missing some of the geometric sci-fi 
 look it had in the last two games (especially MP2) . It does make it more seamless, but less bold.
 
  
  Sound:
  The soundtrack is okay, but most of the time you're wondering what you're supposed to be running 
 from. Where's the beautiful serenity of Phendrana Drifts, or the robotic sound of Sanctuary Fortress? 
 I guess Nintendo decided to leave the best tunes to the old games. I do like the voice acting, 
 though. It's pretty cool. It makes it seem so much more real.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is where Nintendo really made their mistakes. But who couldn't? The Wii isn't meant to have 
 complex games since it's controller only has, like, 4 buttons. And the nunchuck hurts my hand when 
 I hold it. Anyway, the controls are really unnatural. I am constantly accidentally turning into 
 a ball when I try to lock on to something. And jumping? I have to constantly keep reminding myself 
 which button it is. 
  
  Basically you run around and shoot stuff and sometimes use the nunchuck to do some unresponsive 
 crap. The only thing that one would think would be easy is shooting. But Nintendo managed to jack 
 that up as well. Whoever thought it would be a good idea to not have the screen move with the gun 
 must have been smoking Wii fumes because that was the worst idea ever. YOU HAVE TO FREAKING TOUCH 
 THE EDGE OF THE SCREEN TO TURN AN INCH TO THE LEFT. How is that helpful? But I guess it would have 
 to be like that or else the screen would constantly be shaking. WHY IS THE WII REMOTE SO SENSITIVE?!?! 
 OUR HANDS DON'T WEIGH FIFTY POUNDS. IT'S NOT HARD TO MOVE THEM. And even with the sensitivity options 
 it still sucks. The lowest one makes it too hard to turn and the highest one makes me dizzy. 
 
  
  The lock on thing sucks, too. Since the Wii remote is too sensitive it's hard to aim, and since 
 you have to aim on your own most of the time (since it's so hard to turn) it's freaking like trying 
 to thread a needle on a treadmill! Did they want to make it less convenient than the last two or 
 something? Why would someone make their game more frustrating? Whatever...
  
  And why are there so many enemies? "JUST LET ME FREAKING SOLVE MY PUZZLES IN PEACE!!!!!" I know 
 it's a shooter, but if you want to play a shooter then BUY HALO. There are some pretty cool puzzles, 
 but it's like "Oh, lemme just unlock this lock," "Put my hand on the scanner," "double bomb jump!" 
 "Oh wow! I need to pull some stuff off with my grapple beam!" Like we haven't done that at least 
 4 times already. It's not that impressive. If you've ever played any version of Prime before you'll 
 know what to expect.
  
  And then there's the entire concept of the game: the PED suit! "Wow I'm so powerful -- Hey! WHERE'D 
 MY ENERGY TANK GO!" How is that useful? The enemies don't do that much damage, but sometimes you 
 HAVE to use to PED suit to continue an end up with like 50 energy units left or something. It's 
 stupid.
  
  Replay Value:
  None. You're hand's going to get tired from moving the Wii remote around, and your other hand's 
 going to cramp from the awkward nunchuck controls. It will take over 2 hours to get the hang of 
 it. Maybe even three. I can't imagine playing this game again. The frustration is reminiscent of 
 Kingdom Hearts'. But not quite as bad. But for a threequel? The second KH was and IMPROVEMENT from 
 the first, so why is MP3 more frustrating than the previous TWO?
  
  Tilt:
  The game's okay. The controls suck, but at least it's not MPH. THAT game sucked. It's kind of disappointing 
 to end a series on a bad note, but Nintendo just HAD to make it close the release of the Wii. Whatever. 
 I just hope they'll make another one to make up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercoolgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption changes the meaning of a good FPS. The main thing about it is that 
 you aim and do things using the motion sensored Wii remote. 
  
  Go through an understandable story line and blast anything that gets in your way! Get upgrades 
 for your suit. Turn into morphball and drop bombs. Use your grapple to pry things open. Fight challenging 
 bosses and enemies. And a lot more!
  
  The graphics are good. The sound quality is good. Everything about it is good. I can't thik of 
 one bad thing about this game.
  
  What more can I say? It's perfect, perfect, and perfect.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 4:50 am PT
Review:  lots of wii owners were hoping that this game would make it out at launch but it arrived about 
 9 months later and you cant really argue with that because retro studios has done a fine job.
 
  
  they have easily made the best FPS on the wii so far and one of the best wii games of the year, 
 and mainly because the controls are so good. they obviously spent a lot of time mapping the controls 
 to the wii remote and it certainly shows.
  
  the action is top notch and there are plenty of enemies to blast and scan and numerous boss fights 
 which are quite spectacular s well. the graphics are amazing and the sound and music is great also. 
 but one thing that I find is really good about this game is it's atmosphere. I dont really know 
 why but it feels so alive and ... well, atmospheric.
  
  my verdict is that this is a fantastic game and one that every wii owner should have in their collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BEYOND-CREATION
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  this is where the wii shines !! 
  first , this game provides real interaction with the material surronding SAMUS , the hero in this 
 action/adventure/sci-fi game
  
  The game starts in your ship , where you interact with all the options you can play with , then 
 you choose the area you are heading towards, and with a hand scan, off you go !! 
  
  you head to the mother ship, where you learn how to move around, use your weapons , jump, interact, 
 and blow up all you desire !! 
  in this METROID PRIME 3 : corruption, you will be accompanied with many other heroes as well ... 
 which you will join to "help" the universe, but instead, you and YOU alone end up helping them, 
 and saving the universe !! 
  
  this game offers many hidden objects you will enjoy discovering.
  this game offers many puzzels 
 you will enjoy solving.
  this game offers fantastic story line you will enjoy strolling down, unvealing it
  this game 
 not only offers that , but the graphics are well designed, and quite impressive !! 
  
  you wil have your fire arms, your missiles, heat/ice weapons and sooo much more !! 
  the story 
 is interesting enough to kep you wanting more, and not dosing off in half-played wii game like 
 many others.
  
  Could be one of the best .
  Definitly best in series !! 
  
  highly recommened !!! "chapeau bas" 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amvis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I have never played the first two Metroids in the Prime series. Nevertheless this game is very 
 fun. I can only say that I hope their is another Metroid like it. This game is worth a lot more 
 than it is priced at. It has the first person shooter qualities, and it has the adventurous qualities 
 that make it a very unique game. It forces you not only to shoot at enemies, but to explore and 
 learn about the history of the worlds, and the creatures in the game. That is what makes it so 
 great. I enjoy it as much as I enjoy the Halo games. This is a must have for the Wii. If you do 
 not have this game then you are missing a lot. It is under 30 hours or so of gameplay, so do not 
 expect it to be a marathon game. Its graphics are pretty good as well. If you are still unsure 
 about this game then download the sneak peak of Metroid Prime 3: Corruption on the Wii Shop Channel 
 for free and watch it.
  
  Go with God.
  
  Amvis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desulated
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  The first Metroid Prime game involves the discovery of a dangerous substance on Tallon IV, and 
 ends up in a major battle between a Phazon Behemoth only known as Metroid Prime. The second Prime 
 game involves a little-side quest and a battle between light and darkness on Planet Aether, as 
 well as your first meeting with your evil self. This game continues the story and wraps up the 
 entire storyline.
  
  As if you don't know already, Corruption is basically similar to the first 2 prime games, except 
 there's a whole new way of controlling Samus to this game, new allies and enemies, new gunship 
 abilities (i love the airstrike capability they added to ur gunship, sure saves a lot of time trying 
 to find a way around a huge brick wall LOL) and new worlds to explore. This game is hard, even 
 on the wuss skill level. Basically, Dark Samus is back, and she has new pirate friends and they've 
 started crashing "Leviathans" at planets. your job is to rid of these meteors and save the universe 
 from corruption, and finish Dark Samus once and for all.
  
  This game also has a new slew of weapons, like ice missiles and the nova beam. Classic upgrades 
 like the seeker missiles and screw attack make their appearances. All of these weapons will prove 
 to be valuable, as well as new allies who are just as determined to save the universe as you are 
 (although i found them pretty useless.....)
  
  If you finish the game once and u found it too easy, play it on hyper mode. I guarantee you it 
 will be INSANELY HARD.
  
  Rent or Buy? BUY!!!! If you're a longtime metroid fan (I sure am one of em) then get it!!! Even 
 if you're a newbie to the metroid universe, it'll still provide you with a good gaming experience. 
 Longtime metroid veterans should not miss out on this game if they found Prime 1 and 2 too easy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmthywtsn
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Out of all three metroid prime games this one challenged me the most. Learning the controls and 
 battle system along with having the game on hard mode was almost impossible for me in the beginning, 
 but eventually I got the hang of it. 
  I love all three games because of the in-depth information they add about both the creatures you 
 encounter along with the massive worlds you visit. 
  Retro should definitley be proud of their accomplishments with this game trilogy. I've literally 
 enjoyed the music, and the interactive gameplay so much that I can honestly say that this is THEE 
 GAME trilogy for anyone seeking sci fi adventure.
  For all the gamers that have played the first and second games to the letter, this one will prove 
 to be a challenge and also the end to a incredible trilogy.
  One thing I do wonder about is the future of the metroid series and in what direction will retro 
 go next in terms of either first person or second person type games for the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rammaster2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This is my first Metroid Prime Game that Iplayed andI didn't know what to expect. I all know that 
 it used to be side-scrolling game and its hero is a hot girl that I used to think that was a guy. 
 I got a action-packed game with great puzzles and boss fights.
  
  The main thing to be mentioned in Metroid 3 is its control sceme. You point to the screen towards 
 your enemy and fire your weapon with the A button while you move with your nunchuck. You easily 
 kill enemies with your weapon but some enemies are tough. You do some other actions but all of 
 them are easily done.
  Samus gets equipped with a PED suit in the early parts of the game which gives Samus an increase 
 in firepower. But if you use it too much you'llget corrupted and get killed. Yougain other weapons 
 such as missiles, grappling hook and ice missiles.
  Asfor the rest of the game, ypu usually get very well made puzzles and sometime you might be stuck 
 at one place for a while. So you should always use your scanning screen to figure out the puzzlles.
 
  My suggestions who wants tobuy this game is if your a fan of Metroid and likes FPS you'll probably 
 like Metroid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BassBoy45
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 starts out in a different way from the rest. Samus Aran begins her journey inside 
 her trusty ship. You get to control some mechanics of your ship, which is a new feature to the 
 Prime series. This sounds cool in theory, but it does little to add to the game, besides some slick 
 motion controls. Speaking of controls, that's the thing that this Prime game gets down perfectly. 
 Aiming in this game is top notch, as long as you use the advanced settings. There are also a good 
 amount of secondary action based controls, these controls are very fluid and never really feels 
 like a gimmick. 
  
  Another area this game truly excels is in the graphics department. When the game came out, it was 
 the best looking game for the Wii. The bloom effects engine that the game runs upon really works 
 well (espeically for areas infested with phazon) . All the environments looks especially good, and 
 they vary it up too. You'll encounter completely natural surroundings, tech/buildings, and even 
 the inside of a living organism. Corruption manages to look great in all of these settings. 
  
  Like previous Metroid games, as you progress through the levels, you will gain various expansions 
 that are more powerful than others. This is where Corruption fails to compete with previous installments. 
 Unlike in other Metroids, such as the original Prime, this version does not implement 'old' beams 
 that you pickup. Every time you upgrade your arm cannon, you have effectively replaced the previous 
 one for the rest of the game, there is not switching back and forth. Also, certain upgrades have 
 been eliminated or replaced (ice beam anyone?) , this was also a shock and dissapointment to me. 
 
  
  That being said, the game is still an epic adventure and a wonderfully crafted story that continues 
 the path that Metriod Prime started. You get to finish off Dark Samus once and for all, and you 
 get that sense of accomplishment at the end, even though it was just a tad too easy to do it. What 
 you get in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is an example of how good a Wii game can be if the proper 
 amount of time is put into production, and an example of great controls for the first person shooter. 
 While Corruption may not be the best in the series, it is one of the best games available for the 
 Wii, and a must have for any Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude_1_rules
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is well balanced game between adventure and shooter. At the beginning of the game 
 you instantly notice the best feature i think in this game, Voice Acting. The Voice acting was 
 done very well but sometimes i think the people talking could have had something better to say 
 or say it in a better way, but most of the time it was just right.
  At the beginning you are asked for help along with other bounty hunters from across the galaxy. 
 A meteor is coming downwards on planet norion and you and the other bounty hunters have to stop 
 it from hitting.
  When you start off there is this great starting of story and action that sucks you in instantly. 
 But for me it seemed that it starts off strong and slowly starts to weaken as it goes along, but 
 when you come to the pirates home world, it all starts to pick up again. After that you are really 
 close to finishing the game. The ending boss battle, actually seemed like the easiest boss i faced 
 in the game and after you defeat the boss, the story for me just seemed to cut out with a cheesy 
 ending.
  The game was relatively short for me, and once you beat it you probably want to beat it again on 
 a harder difficulty, but after that there is really nothing more you can do in it. So i would say 
 its better than average buy, and a really awesome rent.
  Overall, this game is great and for people who loved the first two Primes, this one will be your 
 favourite if you pick it up. I give this game 2 thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrupted19
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Stuck between life and death, Samus is back for one final epic journey, but is it really her last? 
 As you struggle within yourself to remain from being corrupted, you find yourself flying throughout 
 the universe, saving and destoying your friends one by one. It's a game of darkness waiting for 
 its time to shine. Without a doubt a great game, with great contro handeling. The storyline is 
 great if you follow the metroid series. If you don't like happy, cheerful games, then this game 
 isn't right for you. In away its almost sad. Another great thing about this game though is that 
 it is a lot like the zelda series, where as you go on through the games you get upgrades for your 
 suit ship and everything else. You also usually get upgrades that help you throughout the next 
 level. I give this game two thumbs up!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Not too much of a Metroid fan, only played some GBA versions and played through Metroid Prime I 
 was looking forward to this game. 
  
  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption (being the end of a trilogy or something, still expect more Metroids 
 though) is a fantastic game, and as the title suggests, there is corruption in the plot. Heres 
 a summary; Samus is fighting space pirates, gets infected with phazon which is uber powerful, space 
 pirates planning something, Samus gets mad, fighting ensues. No point in ruining the plot for you.
 
  
  The phazon plays a pretty big role in game play, as when it is initiated Samus gains unbelievable 
 power and can demolish everything in sight within seconds (bosses not included, and many other 
 things actually) . You need to activate the phazon at certain points as part of the whole puzzleish 
 aspect of Metroid, and as an attempt to keep some things fresh for a new game. Nothing is new.
 
  
  You got your other bounty hunter friends roaming the galaxy too, but for some reason, they all 
 just leave you in the dust and then you have to beat them up. I won't say why, but there is a little 
 gap in the plot as to why Samus is alone on this mission. I also must complain about something 
 on the whole series itself, shooting doors to open them. I get it, they act as load screens (you 
 can tell when they don't open right away, and you think its frozen or something but its actually 
 loading) however, when in a federation ship you have to shoot open their doors, but when you shoot 
 the people on board they have these awesome shields on them that are not mentioned or used in the 
 game anywhere else. It makes no sense.
  
  All that being said, for the Wii, this game looks amazing. Highly detailed environments with rich 
 detail to the atmosphere. The animations are fluid most of the time (some pirates could have used 
 polishing) and the graphics maintain a nice consistency. In fact it is safe to say that this is 
 the best looking Metroid game ever. The developers made this from the ground up for the Wii, and 
 their labor shows.
  
  The controls on the Wii and I are in conflict. Many games fail for me because they can't grasp 
 the controls well enough and so I've grown to resent motion controls. Metroid does a nice job of 
 minimizing these motion controls. Point the remote to aim, and sometimes swing the nun-chuck to 
 activate your energy whip. There are some neat switches that require twisting and pulling, but 
 because they are not in an intense situation there is no pressure to get them right away. In most 
 cases they are also fun. 
  
  The puzzles in the game are really finding your way through the rather linear environments. Because 
 you may need to find a crack to get through a hidden hallway to get a device to open a door and 
 back track it does create a sense of linearity. This is not bad as the level design is great, and 
 there is action to keep you awake. While a nice physical attack would have been appreciated for 
 when you get close and personal with the aliens, the shooting is good. Although it lacks, because 
 aiming is really easy with the remote and you need to fire like a thousand times to kill anything 
 to make up for the ease.
  
  What I like is the devices you get, like the grapple, ice missiles and even upgrades for your ship 
 which become crucial for the game. Like when you get missiles for your ship, you get to activate 
 them plenty of times. 
  
  The sound is great, music is wonderful and accents the atmosphere and there is full voice acting 
 (except for Samus, she doesn't talk) which actually is not bad.
  
  You got a Wii to play games, and this delivers in a sea of terrible titles. A must buy as it has 
 a great atmosphere of puzzle and action game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yodas_Boy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Trilogy endings tend to be fairly epic, as they take what was great about the previous two iterations, 
 and pull it all together into some big conclusion. Star Wars Episode 3 is a good example of this, 
 as it's generally seen as the best of the prequel movies. Halo 3 is another great example, as it's 
 arguably the best of the Halo series thus far. Metroid Prime 3 is no different.
  
  Prime 3 retains what is great about the previous Prime games, such as exploration and suit enhancements, 
 but also pushes the series in exciting new directions (as cliched as that sounds) . For one thing, 
 it has a strong Halo feel to it, with significantly more interaction with NPCs than in previous 
 Prime games, large scale battles, ally and enemy AI going at it against each other, and the general 
 feeling that you are part of something bigger. For example, in Prime 1, you fought Meta Ridley 
 all by yourself in an area where no one would ever witness the battle. In Prime 3 though, you first 
 see Meta Ridley's shadow fly past you, and hear a nearby soldier say, "what was that!?" Then you 
 see Ridley fly over to another area of the battle, and can witness him hose down that area with 
 fire. See the difference? Prime 3 feels a lot like Halo, in a good way.
  
  Visually, Prime 3 is excellent. Until Mario Galaxy came along, Prime 3 had the best graphics ever 
 seen on the Wii. Environments are large, and there is a lot of geometric detail, with high polygon 
 counts and greater texture resolutions than previous iterations. Light blooming is used quite liberally 
 throughout Prime 3, and looks gorgeous. Bloom lighting isn't just splashed over environments randomly, 
 it's very strategically used, sometimes creating the illusion of depth on a model, or glow from 
 circuitry, or light from the sun - it's used very well. Textures in the game also have some form 
 of bump mapping applied to them, as lighting will play over their surfaces in such a way that they 
 appear to have protrusions and bumps.
  
  The controls in Prime 3 are absolutely incredible. This is the first time the Wii remote has been 
 so proven since Wii Sports. You will fall in love with the motion controls, as they make aiming 
 faster and more precise, and interactions with control panels fun.
  
  Finally, if you've played the previous Prime games, you will enjoy all the references to Prime 
 1 and 2 in 3's storyline, and also the fact that it all comes together as a full, cohesive, plot.
 
  
  Great game, go play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 Corruption is truly beyond expectation. The final chapter of the Prime series comes 
 to a close and the game provides a fitting end to the Phazon conflict.
  
  Story: Several months have passed since the Aether incident; Samus was called by the Galactic Federation 
 along with other bounty hunters to investigate a problem.
  The newly created bio super computer called the Aurora unit have been infected by an unknown virus, 
 fortunately a vaccine has been developed and prevented one of the units from malfunctioning. 
 
  The virus' was believed to be from space pirate origin, the hunters' have been assigned 2 missions, 
 first to deliver the vaccine to the other units, second to investigate the pirate's activities.
 
  
  Game design: OK when getting this game you'll probably think "yeah, Wii game, meaning last gen-graphics, 
 probably not gonna be that impressive" well I must disagree. The graphics in Prime 3 Corruption 
 is amazing! I don't think there will be a single moment where you will not be impressed, I'd say 
 its around 1 to 2 steps away from PS3 and 360, only the difference being is that the graphics flows 
 smoothly and won't have any sudden pauses.
  So how is Metroid Prime 3 any different from the last 2? Well the answer is, it's pretty different 
 and will be a new experience.
  The last 2 games involved having to explore an entire planet and going through different sections, 
 well this time you will travel to different planets instead of sections, and note that each will 
 have around 3 sections of their own and each with their own unique environment.
  Your Gunship this time around will serve a bigger role. While it still can be used to reload ammo 
 and energy and save your progress, you will now use it to travel to different planets.
  In the last games doors and elevator rides were used to mask the game's loading time, while doors 
 still serve the same purpose elevator rides have been replaced with air ship rides, so you will 
 constantly see your ship either flying in space or soaring the skies of planets, and you will love 
 every moment of it.
  As mentioned before each planet will have different sections, each will also have landing pads 
 from where you can fly your ship to.
  Back tracking in the game has become less of a pain, since you will receive messages from people 
 telling you where to go (pretty much a replacement to the hint system, but can also be switched 
 off) .
  
  Game play: Like the previous games the game will be in first person. 
  You will be using the Wii-mote for your weapons and visors while you use the nunchuck to move Samus 
 around. This has been seen in previous shooter games on the Wii but this time its done right!
 
  The controls are super responsive, buttons are a lot easier to use and after a while you will 
 be able to hit enemies with incredible accuracy, you can still lock on to your enemy using the 
 R like previous games but can also aim around even if locked on, of course you can set the controls 
 so that the aim stays at the locked on target. There are options available to make you a lot comfortable 
 so there is absolutely no need to worry, its all there.
  The new features in the game is the PED suit. The PED suit will allow Samus to neutralize Phazon, 
 and as a result can go into hyper mode. 
  In hyper mode Samus's defence increase and the power beam will change into Phazon beam, which packs 
 a punch, even for boss enemies. 
  Using hyper mode will also suck up your energy fast so its not wise to always rely on it, and if 
 you don't have enough life energy then you won't be able to use hyper mode.
  The PED suit is just one feature, there are other features that greatly take advantage of the Wii 
 controls such using grapple been to rip things or simply operating switches. 
  Nothing will feel gimmicky and you will have plenty of fun doing things.
  There are many old 
 and new features, but I don't feel like talking about them, all you need to know is that the game 
 play is fun and you won't be disappointed.
  
  Sound: The game comes with lots of cut scenes, making it look epic, so there will be plenty of 
 things going on, but of course if you are interested in story you will get better information out 
 of scanning logs from different planets. 
  But the biggest addition to the game is the extensive use of voice casts, that's right you will 
 hear lots of people speaking, except for Samus, which is how it should be, a perfect example of 
 how future Metroid games (and Zelda games) should be like. The voice casts were well placed and 
 the dialogues are interesting and well written.
  The music and sound effects are handled well.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 Corruption is a game you MUST 
 get for Wii no doubt, and if you don't have a Wii get one for this game, its brilliant and it sets 
 the standard for future shooter games.
  Though I can't say the game is entirely perfect, there are times you might get stuck in a puzzle 
 and will sometimes have to travel to different planets to get certain items, which can be a bit 
 of a pain, but then again back tracking is the strength and weakness of Metroid games. 
  Another small issue is the targeting point. 
  They should have made it a bit more visible because 
 sometimes its hard to tell if you are hitting a target or not, and the scanned information could 
 also be a bit more accurate, because sometimes they don't give you the detail you need, (for example: 
 they tell you if the back is exposed, but don't tell you HOW to expose the back) but this problem 
 on accurse a few times.
  Although I don't think this is a big problem over annalistic fans might get disappointed that this 
 time Samus' weapons will be replaced with different armaments, so there won't be any beam switching 
 (although it could have been possible for the control scheme, since in the end there were still 
 3 buttons that were free) .
  All the little problems aside Metroid Prime 3 Corruption is a very neat game and I absolutely recommend 
 this for ALL Wii owners, or even consider getting a Wii for this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aznhut
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 Corruption is one of the games I like the best. This game has great environmental 
 puzzles, slick controls, and great boss battles. I love this game especially for the controls and 
 the way this game ends. Sadly at the end your asking for more and this game, I am very sorry to 
 say this is the last in the series. Even if this is the last game in the series and usually the 
 last is the worst this game I preferably say that this game is the best game in the series. If 
 your a Metroid Prime fan this is definitely a game you must get. For those that are not Metroid 
 Prime fans this is still a very good game to have. 
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkknight313
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I love this game so much it is one of the best I can't believe the rating is only 8.5 it deserves 
 a 10 this is the best metroid game I ever played unlike any of other metroid games this one includes 
 talking and you can use a hyper mode which is so cool and there are 3 visors into one I really 
 think the rating should be higher I wonder why the rating is just 8.5 I wonder if there will be 
 any new metroid games after this I wonder so people give this a thumbs up people come on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie_bm
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 stars Samus, a bounty hunter. In this game, you get to know the origin of phazon, 
 a strange element with the power to corrupt whatever it touches. In Metroid Prime, a meteor of 
 phazon corrupted the planet Tallon IV. In Metroid Prime 2 Echoes, another meteor corrupted Aether, 
 creating a parallel dimension of darkness. Corruption features the corruption of the entire universe, 
 and that is your objective; to investigate the source of this element and stop the further corruption 
 of the galaxy.
  
  This story takes on a major scale. It is really nice to know that you are part of something big, 
 the Galactic Federation. When you visit the great ships and receive direct orders from them is 
 awesome. The super organic computers, the Auroras are a great element, and they help you to get 
 immersed in the sci-fi technology. But since you receive orders from them, this game seems much 
 more linear than previous metroid games. Don't worry metroid fans; you will still get stuck in 
 some places. Also, the search for missile expansions and energy tanks remains challenging.
  
  The worlds are big, creative and gorgeous. From the advanced, modern Galactic Federation Ships 
 to the obscure, dark Space Pirate Home world you won't get dissapointed with the visuals.
  
  In terms of game play, the boss battles are great. Every single one of them is a remarkable 
 experience. I remember each as an epic struggle, with a glorious soundtrack for each.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 is indeed a great game. I won't say it's perfect, but it is very near to that.
 
  
  Best aspect: Level and worlds design
  Bad aspect: Somehow linear
  Could improve: can't think of anything 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meandmewii
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  One of the best new games for the Wii. Wonderful level design and stunning graphics. Each level 
 is unique and amazing just to look at. Puzzles are cleaver and fun- you'll end up banging your 
 head for not seeing the solution sooner! Cool new weapons too. It's just plain fun to point and 
 blast the alien enemies. The controls are nearly flawless. Metroid Prime III is a perfect game 
 for the Wii's motion sensing controllers. Good story line- easy to followand get involved. Audio 
 has a crisp, clear, true sound. Easy to learn and play but very addictive. Well worth $50 bucks. 
 Truly an overall great game. If you have a Wii and love playing it, Go get MP3: C! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 was slated to be the first major first-person shooter on the Wii to engage you 
 in a true feeling of simulation. While there are many great things about this game, I will say 
 upfront that the Wii does nothing to really upgrade the look of the game (except that it is a little 
 bit cleaner) and it simply feels like an extension of the other two (minus a couple of really cool 
 features.
  
  So what's new? Similar to the other games in the series, Samus travels between area to explore 
 and upgrade while tracking down the enemy presence. The major difference here is that you actually 
 get to use Samus's ship this time. The controls inside don't let you control flight, but they do 
 allow you to check corruption level, see your kill count, transition between worlds and communicate 
 with your fleet.
  
  What motion play? So as expected, you use the Wii remote to aim the cannon and press the B button 
 to fire. All of the other item controls are on the remote, including missles, visor changes, menu 
 access, map access and hypermode. On the nunchuck, you move with the control stick, lock onto enemies 
 and use your grappling hook to yank enemy shields. All of the regular morph ball and bomb features 
 are still present. Hypermode is Samus corrupted with greater power and awareness. If you stay in 
 it too long the meter fills up, you die from corruption. Otherwise, you can simply fire off the 
 remaining energy to survive.
  
  The story line acutally puts Samus in communication and contact with fleet friends and superiors. 
 There are a couple moments of fire support, but you mostly still go this one alone. There are a 
 couple cool fighting schemes, including a falling fight with Ridley, but most of the fighting and 
 gameplay mirrors the previous games. One of the additional benefits is that you can outfit your 
 map with item markers so you know where everything is.
  
  I would highly recommend the game due to its time-tested success and entertaining story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crankypinoy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is an awesome shooter or adventure game or whatever you want to call it. Let's 
 start with the controls. The aiming is extremely easy and all of the movements ( opening doors, 
 typing on keypads, etc.) are flawless. The story is great and it takes about 25 hours to finish 
 it. The boss fights are very fun. It isn't just walk in the room and continuously shoot the thing. 
 You have to find it's weakness and use your huge assortment of weapons against it. The only problem 
 with this game is that there is no multiplayer and it takes forever to open a single door other 
 than that this is a game worth getting for your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link2193
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 Corruption is the first Metroid console game I have played, Hunters was great fun 
 and interested me greatly, Corruption caught my eye but I wasn't too sure at first
  
  How suprised I was, if there was no Super Mario Galaxy or The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess, 
 Corruption would be the best game on Wii. The first thing you notice about the game is the Wii 
 implemented controls which work perfectly if set on Advanced and are the next best thing to the 
 mouse for accuracy. The graphics are stunning and are the most realistic yet on Wii with fantastic 
 depth and particle effects. 
  
  Plus, the story is brilliant, wondefully well written with plenty of twists and turns to keep you 
 playing. Samus must now help the Federation to destroy Dark Samus and the spreading Phazon virus. 
 The game also features some of the best boss battles I have every played, the first boss is fantastic. 
 They even beat the Zelda bosses and are a lot more difficult. But what makes the game so dramatic 
 is the fantastic soundtrack which mesmerised me while playing through the planets. 
  
  Unfortunately, the game features no online mode like it's little DS brother but the incredible 
 single player makes up for it. Overall, the game has a much more dramatic and desperate feel thanks 
 to the visuals and music which makes it eerily similar to Halo. In conclusion, Retro Studios have 
 done Samus proud in her final Prime adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleLev
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  While the latest Metroid offering is a good solid game, you should take care not to approach it 
 thinking you are getting into a traditional FPS. This was the mistake I made. It's been well over 
 a decade since I have even touched a Metroid game, so I guess my expectations were just a little 
 bit off.
  
  I was led to believe that this installment was going to simply be a first person shooter, and while 
 from a technical standpoint this may be so, the game plays out a lot more like an adventure game 
 than a typical shooter.
  
  Technically speaking, Corruption is very well done. Controlling our hero, Samus, is quite easy, 
 with only a few exceptions. The audio and visuals are also some of the best on the Wii to date. 
 There are also small touches, which contribute to the attention to the overall to detail. You may 
 not consciously notice them all, but there are many fine touches which create an overall subversive 
 experience. For example, at the top of the screen, there are four lights inside your visor which 
 indicate your Wii remotes battery life, and when you switch into the scanning visor you can see 
 the reflection of your own eyes in the glass of the visor. Even your health meter is three-dimensionally 
 stationed inside your visor, so when you look to the right or left you can notice the health meter 
 distorting ever so slightly. These are just a few, of the many, fine touches the developers took 
 in creating a highly polished presentation.
  
  The control scheme resembles a slightly modified and refined system you may be familiar with if 
 you have ever played Red Steel, which I feel works very well. You use the required nunchuck to 
 move around, and aim the Wii remote at the screen to target what you want to shoot and where you 
 want to move. Aiming to the left, right, top or bottom of the screen rotates the camera in that 
 direction. The overall control system feels very intuitive, although there were a few "problems" 
 I felt should have been addressed. First of all, when you are in the morph ball form, it is not 
 possible to rotate the camera, which makes dodging incoming attacks virtually impossible. I also 
 encountered one or two specific areas in the game in which maneuvering around on the mag rails 
 was difficult if you were going throw a spiral - initially pressing the directional analog stick 
 in one direction would have you going one way, and then it would suddenly have you going in the 
 opposite way, often leading you into hazards that would knock you clear off the railing. But the 
 issues with the control scheme are few and far between and enough to forgive since the overall 
 setup works very well.
  
  Graphically, the game is a wonder for the Wii. While, no where near as detailed and intricate as 
 similar games on the other next-gen consoles, Corruption does a great deal in pushing the highly 
 limited power of the Wii to it's limits while still running very smoothly. Even better, the frame 
 rate never dipped even a single time throughout the entire game for me, which is something most 
 modern games cannot boast. While many of the environments consist of the run of the mill industrial 
 type settings you see in most futuristic shooters, there were a few environments in the game that 
 had excellent style and design. While I cannot recall ever encountering water in the game, there 
 are several pools of orange gel, with water-like properties, that look absolutely amazing. The 
 three-dimensional mass of these liquids is superior to even many of the best looking 3D water you 
 may have encountered in other games as it moves quite realistically in relativity to your own movements 
 inside it. With so much done right visually, one can forgive the few, yet noticeable faults. Some 
 areas lack the level of detail one might expect in a contemporary game of this type, and many of 
 the space textures (while using your gunship) are sloppy and simply don't match up or repeat properly 
 at all - this becomes ever more apparent as the level of your TV's brightness is increased, and 
 it leaves space looking really shoddy. Fortunately, the visual weaknesses of Corruption are limited 
 and the game's overall look is quite superb if compared to other titles currently available on 
 the Wii.
  
  While not necessary as strong as the sights in Corruption, the sounds are not without merit. Many 
 of the songs of the sound track are quite moody, while others server more as ambiance. Whatever 
 the case, the music you are hearing always seems to fit the location you are in perfectly. Unfortunately, 
 the voice-overs are nothing special, but at least they are not horrible or distracting. The sound 
 effects are also merely average without anything that really stands out. Without a doubt, the music 
 is the high point of what goes into your ears when playing the latest Metroid offering.
  
  Sadly, there are a number of debatable issues one might question with Corruption. One of the most 
 annoying is the lengthy load times between opening nearly 50% of the doors throughout the game. 
 While many doors open nearly instantly upon shooting it, there are a large number of doors that 
 take at least five seconds and in many cases up to ten seconds. This can make exploration stressing 
 if you are in a hurry or are trying to leave a room in which there are still enemies. It's obvious 
 that the game must be loading at these points, but it makes no mention of this, so in many cases 
 you are left to wonder if don't have the necessary suit upgrades to enter the room or if the game 
 just decided it doesn't want to let you in. It wouldn't be so bad, if it wasn't so frequent, but 
 it is a really common occurrence and interrupts the game play experience.
  
  One of the most irritating feelings I experienced in playing the game was the obscene amount of 
 backtracking that is necessary to progress. I guess one could argue that it is simply a matter 
 of taste, or that this is the result of my expecting a traditional shooter, but in any case, you 
 will spend most of the time playing the game in areas you have already been in earlier. This left 
 me feeling that the game was more of an adventure game than a shooter. Actually, many times Corruption 
 feels rather schizophrenic - some parts have too much of an emphasis on experimenting in your surroundings 
 and backtracking, while other parts are total action-packed phases of shooting up the bad guys. 
 Even when taking the whole Metroid formula into account, it still feels as though there is a mis-balance 
 between the number of action elements with the number of adventure elements. For a shooter, there 
 is far too much backtracking and dependence on power-ups to progress. And yet, for an adventure 
 game, navigating through the galaxy is too cheesy and simplified, and disposing of your opponents 
 requires hammering down the fire button way too much. When playing many futuristic shooters, I 
 am left to wonder if weapons in the future are no more powerful than soft-air guns, because it 
 always seems that killing an enemy requires a ridiculous number of shots. Just is the case here 
 with Metroid, as after a while your finger is likely to get sore from hitting fire so often. And 
 you can't just hold down the fire key either, since doing so charges a shot. This brings me to 
 another poorly thought out choice development took in regard to charging shots.
  
  For some reason, firing a round from your cannon, or even a rocket, occurs as the key is pressed 
 down, not as it is released. This means that every time you want to charge a shot, you shoot once 
 first prior to charging up. While this makes no difference in terms of your cannon, since you have 
 unlimited ammo, this isn't the case with your rockets. There are many doors that need to be opened 
 with a certain number of rockets launched simultaneously. This means that you waste one rocket 
 just to charge up the number you intend to shoot, so for each door that needs five rockets you 
 need to have six on hand instead. While, not a very serious problem at all, I am left to wonder 
 why the developers didn't simply program the launch of the projectile upon releasing the key as 
 opposed to simply pressing it.
  
  The baddies of Corruption are not only challenging, but sadly even frustrating sometimes. Using 
 your "scan" ability to find out information about how to dispose of the foes is usually quite helpful, 
 but in some cases it doesn't really provide you with what you need to know. Fortunately, if you 
 just try to remember that Corruption follows the same basic theme that games have been following 
 for ages, you will be alright. That is: every boss has one or more weak points - focus on those 
 and those alone or all you attempts at destroying it will be in vain. Since the battles are often 
 quite intense, you will get a nice satisfactory feeling when you do prevail.
  
  Metroid Prime 3, is by no means perfect, but is definitely a memorable experience. It's tried and 
 tested formula holds up very strong, even decades later. While it does have a small list of problems 
 and concerns that should have been addressed, they are all relatively minor ones that you will 
 likely be easy to forgive. If you go into the latest Metroid game expecting a basic shooter, be 
 in for a surprise, because it is much more than that, for better and for worse.
  
  
  Gameplay: (9) Variation of action and exploration, with some Zelda-like puzzle solving to boot. 
 Unfortunately, you are forced to backtrack way too much.
  
  Graphics: (8) Great environments and little touches to the presentation create a lovely looking 
 Wii title.
  
  Sound: (7) Some moody tunes keep you in the game, but otherwise, many of the sounds are just generic.
 
  
  Lasting appeal: (7) Quite a lengthy adventure, although most of it is spent going to areas you've 
 already been numerous times. Not as many hard to discover secrets as you'd expect, but fortunately, 
 multiple endings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1871995
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Well everyone knows the Metroid formula, you are Samus Aran a bounty hunter that uses a cybernatic 
 suit with powerfull weapons to explore alien planets and also to defend herself from the native 
 life forms, you must solve puzzles, look for suit expansions, and defeat big bosses, all of this 
 is done with a lonely feeling . 
  
  Prime 3 changes the formula just a bit , the lonely feeling is still present, but at times that 
 feeling disappears with your galactic federation allies, for me, that change is good becouse it 
 makes it feel like NEW not like a repetetion from the last two, but for some metroid fans this 
 might not be good. 
  
  This prime improves many things especially the controls, yes, they are perfect, using samus has 
 never been so realistic, and the FPS gameplay is ideal for the metroid franchise and gives Prime 
 3 much more action than the last two primes. Enemies are more intersting and dynamic this time 
 with their shields, whips and teleporting abilities making them very fun to fight. Graphics feel 
 a little bit the same, but the impresive and colorfull world enviroments with incredible views 
 makes you feel that the graphics were improve somehow. Boss battles are intense and the bosses 
 are huge, the bad thing is that almost all the bosses have the same attacks like the shock wave 
 attack were they jump and when they land they create a huge wave of energy which can be evaded 
 by just jumping and some other attacks that makes them a little bit repetitive but trust me each 
 one of them have some moves that makes them different . Samus s weapons and abilities are still 
 fun and impressive with the grappling hook as my favorite which you use by swinging your nunchunk, 
 the bad thing here is that you dont have a lot of weapons to choice like in the last two, BUT that 
 is fixed with the inclusion of the hyper mode were your weapons cause a lot of damage, its fun 
 to use and dangerous to, each time you entered in hyper mode you will lose one energy tank plus 
 that if you stay to long on hyper mode you will die.
  
  So in my conclusion Metroid Prime 3 is an amazing, were persons that had never play a metroid game 
 will love it and SOME metroid veterans will either love it or hate it, despite being a little bit 
 short and a little bit soulless in story the game doesnt deserves a score lower than 8.5, so I 
 recommend this game to everyone, to the fans and to the persons that doesnt even know that samus 
 is a women
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brazenhead
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 5, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  It's difficult not to be harsh to a sequel that doesn't live up to the promise of the original. 
 Whether or not the game itself is bad, the inevitable comparisons between it and its prequel can 
 often cause players to become overly critical. While it's frequently irritating to hear Die-hards 
 complaining that only the original of anything will ever be the best, games like Metroid Prime 
 3 Corruption continue to rightfully add fuel to their flame.
  
  The Metroid Series has been a cult classic since the first game was released in the 80s; a side-scrolling 
 platform shooter that mixed puzzle solving and exploration to rewarding and often dizzying effect. 
 This trend continued with Metroid 2 and Super Metroid, widely considered by some (myself included) 
 as one of the best games ever. Since then, the Metroid formula has seen very little deviation in 
 its 20-year lifespan - with only Metroid Prime Hunters and Metroid Prime Pinball providing series 
 fans with slightly more casual endeavours.
  
  The Metroid Prime series, the games first foray into the 3-Dimensional domain, was nothing short 
 of incredible. The original gained near-perfect scores from almost all publications, and despite 
 being the first Metroid game in nearly a decade, was a perfect representation of the Metroid formula, 
 transferred near-flawlessly into 3D. 
  Fast forward beyond Prime 2 (which was almost as enjoyable bar a few flaws) and we're taken to 
 the next generation of gaming with the Wii - and the conclusion to the Prime trilogy. 
  
  With the new hardware, the graphics are much crisper this time around - some wonderful bloom-lighting 
 and improved texture work make quite an impression over the original games, which had fantastic 
 graphics anyway. Furthermore, the Wii-remote and nunchuk offer some wonderfully smooth gameplay, 
 which makes the combat so much more accessible than the previous titles. Aiming is a doddle, the 
 various controller setups will please gamers of all skill levels, and, most importantly, the gunfights 
 are much less clunky. Sadly, the great technological leaps and wider target market that come with 
 this iteration are overshadowed by schizophrenic gameplay design, repetitive and ironically overused 
 combat, and extra features so contrived and unimaginative that their inclusion alone is questionable.
 
  
  Admittedly, the game stays true to Metroid's most basic conventions. The infamous Morph Ball ability 
 is here (with the much-appreciated jump option readily available) , puzzle solving is carried out 
 by using a combination of Samus' interesting powers, and some of Samus' long running and familiar 
 foes make a more than welcome return.
  
  Yet, at the same time, the biggest problem with Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is that the game tinkers 
 with everything else in the Metroid formula so as to please both long-time fans who feel that the 
 game's conventions may be a little stale, as well as make the game more accessible to the now more 
 casual market of Wii gamers - many of which have never played a game before. As a result of this 
 fence-sitting, the game is simplified beyond measure. There'll be no knowing grins as the player 
 solves the game's conspicuously-placed environmental puzzles, nor whoops of delight as he or she 
 takes down the game's sprawling (yet repetitive) bosses - just blank indifference.
  
  The Metroid formula has been praised by fans (and equally berated by non-fans) for a number of 
 series mainstays: giving the player a sense of utter loneliness as they trawl alien planets, the 
 sense of utter helplessness as they find themselves stuck with nowhere to go, the sense of acheivement 
 as they acquire hidden items that access new areas, and the sense of progress as they backtrack 
 through old areas with new and improved abilities. Prime 3 throws all this out of the window by 
 giving you poorly-implemented and inconsequential allies, a downright patronising mission guide 
 that tells you almost exactly where you need to go, items that are acheivable simply by walking 
 where the game tells you, and backtracking so contrived (not to mention obvious with the game telling 
 you where to go next) that you wonder why the game didn't just remain linear. 
  
  The allies themselves serve as nothing more than a means for protagonist Samus to visit a number 
 of alien planets. For the brief periods that they appear in the game, they serve as little more 
 than annoying sidekicks, constantly gloating about their abilities and cracking wise at every storyline 
 event. Eventually, they become corrupted by the game's non-human nemesis "Phazon" and each serve 
 as one of the many repetitive boss battles. Implementing these characters was an obvious risk to 
 a series based on isolation, yet there's nothing commendable about their inclusion. They appear 
 at pre-scripted yet seemingly random periods in the story and infuriatingly break the silence of 
 your own footsteps. Had their inclusion been better-realised, the elimination of the series' wonderful 
 sense of loneliness could have been forgiven. In reality, they will likely annoy long time fans 
 of the series and be of little more than a passing disturbance to newcomers.
  
  The double-edged failures live on in nearly every other respect. The planets themselves look absolutely 
 wonderful, yet are so architecturally repetitive the player can almost see the seams joining them 
 together. Indeed, many of the planets are damn-near symmetrical in design, proving to be uninspired 
 in construct and eliminating the sense of a genuinely organic playing ground. The fact that each 
 individual level, while beautifully represented, varies very little means that the game is both 
 confusing and repetitive to navigate. Strangely, this is barely rectified by the game's navigation 
 system. It tells you where to go next, and what to do next - effectively removing the "What Now?" 
 situations that made previous Metroids so rewarding. Backtracking takes place within each individual 
 level, with your target destination often an absolute trawl from your position. When the game requires 
 you on the rare instance to leave the planet for a new one, it tells you precisely where to go 
 next. When you know where to go and what to do just to progress, yet have to travel miles to get 
 there, the game becomes less of a challenge and more a chore. Presumably, this is to make the game 
 more accessible to newcomers - but whether you've played a game before or not, having to go through 
 familiar monotony just to progress is little reward for a quest based more on endurance than skill. 
 
  
  On the more succesful side of deviation, Samus' abilites in Corruption are somewhat more streamlined 
 too - and to much better effect. Weapon enhancements are "stacked" rather than sidelined, meaning 
 that as opposed to previous Prime games where the player had a number of different weapons, your 
 main weapon is replaced as you gain improvements to it. Admittedly, this is perhaps due to the 
 Wii remote's lack of buttons, but it eliminates the annoying weapon-switching of the originals 
 (as well as the highly infuriating ammo system of Prime 2) . While the missile button has been criticized 
 for being in an uncomfortable area of the remote (down on the D-pad, to be precise) , I never found 
 it to be too much of a hassle. If anything, the finger stretching gave me a better sense of power 
 behind each missile - I imagine firing a missile is heavier on one's anatomy than a simple beam 
 weapon.
  Samus's visors are back, although these don't fare quite as well. The visors in past games (such 
 as the brilliant Echo Visor in Prime 2) were used much more often, and to better effect. The visors 
 available here are the usual combat visor (for fighting, natch) , the scan visor (for people that 
 like to research what they're shooting at before shooting at it) , and the slightly-less interesting 
 Ship Visor. With this, Samus can call her spaceship to her position, having it carry out airstrikes, 
 provide support, transport her to other areas or simply save her game. However, this visor can 
 only be used in certain areas, and more often than not is used to solve a glaringly obvious puzzle. 
 The fact that the visor is only useful in pre-scripted areas renders it almost redundant - little 
 more than a "Solve Puzzle Now?" question with a "Yes / No" option. The whole concept could have 
 easily been implemented with a hotspot placed inconspicuously at that particular point. The other 
 visor is a series favourite - the X-ray visor, although it's nowehere near as exciting to use as 
 you gain it much later on in the game and barely need to use it except in one of the game's final 
 boss battles.
  
  But what's new to the series? Well, the grappling hook has finally gained the recognition it deserves, 
 far beyond simply swinging beyond gaps. It's useful right from the outset and gains one or two 
 new abilities as the game progresses. Most importantly though, it's almost as fun as intercourse. 
 Whipping the nunchuck forward will have samus launch the hook, and snapping it back will drag whatever 
 it latches onto towards the player. Grabbing an enemy's shield, whipping it out of his hands, and 
 seeing off a flock of his mates with your Wii remote at the same time is nothing short of gunfight 
 bliss.
  
  On the subject of combat," Hyper-Mode" is the game's latest new feature and it's useful, in an 
 underwhelming kind of way. Holding the plus button will launch Samus into a Phazon-blasting tank 
 of pure unadultarated ass-kicking, in which her attacks will rip enemies to shreds. However, the 
 player needs to be careful when using this, as spending long periods of inactivity in this mode 
 can "Corrupt" her, killing her. Furthermore, using a Hyper Mode reserve depletes your Energy Tanks 
 - requiring some tactical use. The Hyper Mode is fun and interesting, yet also underdeveloped: 
 often, it isn't a choice as much as it is a necessity. It's used in very specific scenarios against 
 certain enemies, or to solve certain puzzles. Its abilities are upgraded as the game progresses, 
 although these don't stretch much further than a means of solving some of the game's most obvious 
 cut and dry puzzles, or an obvious alternative to fighting an otherwise unstoppable opponent.
 
  
  Which brings me to the combat; it controls perfectly, flows smoothly, feels good and is a lot of 
 fun. Sadly, it's wasted on the games repetitive enemies. Enemies tend to attack in groups, some 
 requiring more precise aim than others, yet all similarly uninspiring. Many of the bosses have 
 similar attacks, all requiring the same tactic of aiming and button-mashing, with the occasionally 
 required use of Samus' abilities here and there. That nearly every boss in the game has the same 
 "Shockwave" attack means that players will quickly think that no matter how fine-tuned the controls 
 are, a little more variety in the bosses could have meant players would adapt and improve to them 
 rather than just "deal" with them.
  
  Reviewing a game based on a series I have a huge fondness for is very difficult. It's hard not 
 to be too biased, or to be infuriated by what, like this game, it could become - a huge disappointment. 
 It's worth mentioning that the game plays great, looks incredible, and may present a challenge 
 to some. However, I'd have to also mention that the developer's choices are completely haphazard, 
 removing everything that made the game great, adding features that aren't quite exciting enough, 
 and leaving everything else so humdrum that players both old and new will be left just shrugging 
 their shoulders and continuing on unrewarded. The game's presentation, polish, and playability 
 are undeniably top-notch - it's just that the potential surrounding this is so unrealised you may 
 well wonder just how far fancy graphics and great gameplay go to making an adventure that's genuinely 
 rewarding.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biendeo
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is a good game, but didn't survive MP1 and MP2's ultimate backtracking. 
 The game does give you a few moments, but it doesn't really use it much.
  The game sets a large story as Samus and three other hunters head to the Galactic Federation Station 
 Olympus to recieve some briefing on a new mission. You must destroy a virus that is affecting Federation 
 computers, Aurora Units. Suddenly, Space Pirates attack and you must evacuate and help the troopers 
 down on the nearby planet, Norion, in the real battle.
  The game gives only one new suit which comes right after a few bosses, the Phazon Enhancement Device. 
 You'll also get a shield but the Space Jump Boots are on the whole game. Plus, straight in the 
 second room of Norion, is the Grapplebeam. It seems early but the game gives two more updates on 
 this.
  The PED suit allows you to enter Hypermode which uses phazon into a deadly weapon, however after 
 ten seconds of use, you'll become corrupted and will not be able to exit out of Hypermode the way 
 you came in (holding down + for a second) . You must shoot all the phazon before you become completely 
 corrupted.
  The game will not let you change your beams (beside missiles and Hypermode) . Pressing down on the 
 D-Pad will fire missiles, and A shoots the beam weapon. All of your weapons will recieve upgrades 
 along the way.
  Pressing C will transform Samus into Morph Ball (also available through the start) and can boost, 
 bomb and spider later in the game. The problem though, is that there is no loss of powerups at 
 the beginning of the game. This results in less exploration.
  The game also gives the screw attack, which is a deadly somersault. This is not used much. To grapple 
 beam, press Z to lock on (which you can do to enemies) and then shove your nunchuck forward. Then 
 pull back or move the stick.
  The game will allow you to aim the Wii Remote, even when locking on. This is extremely handy, as 
 you can avoid the evil enemy and shoot one coming at you.
  There is only one visor to unlock. Hold down - and aim at a section of the screen to change to 
 a visor. There is the scan and command visor. The scan visor can trace objects and enemies and 
 the command visor can allow your ship to grapple beam, fire missiles and land.
  There are five planets in the game, all with different environments, like Elysia. You land on a 
 Federation site in the sky and there are zipline cables which you grapple beam across.
  However, to some flaws, the game seems shorter. The first time takes around 15 hours and playing 
 after that, even when going for 100%, takes 10 hours. The game however must be played in all three 
 difficulty levels.
  The graphics seem better than the GameCube. I played MP1 after playing this and it seemed not as 
 beautiful.
  The game seems good in bosses however. The bosses all act differently and can only be destroyed 
 by different means.
  The game's sound however seems ripped from MP1 and so it doesn't seem different. The music however 
 stands up.
  Overall, the game is only for Metroid fans. It doesn't really put enough gameplay to make it awesome. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex-0
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  the trilogy end in the wii. good job nintendo! for this game is awesome.
  i have a question. which is the next game of samus?
  
  i want to now that -.-
  
  metroid 
 is a master piece. samus excellent job. i think metroid, is a game
  who you need to spent playing 1 hour more. 
  i going to describe metroid: The Galactic Federation's 
 Base Sector Zero is under attack by Space Pirates. Samus must boot up the generator to restore 
 the defense systems. But at the end of her path, someone awful is waiting for her. The war initiated 
 by Dark Samus and the Space Pirates rages across many planets as they attempt to corrupt each with 
 Phazon seeds. Players use the Wii Remote and Nunchuk to explore alien landscapes, hunt for weapons 
 and information, and destroy the seeds. Saving the planets from Corruption isn't enough, though. 
 Eventually, players must take down Samus' mortal enemy, Dark Samus. Besides using the Wii Remote 
 and Nunchuk controllers to pull off amazing feats like aiming and blasting in midair or at a full 
 run, players also will have an array of different weapons at their disposal.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: isawthelight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  Background:
  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is the latest game from Retro Studios. It is the third and last game 
 under the Metroid Prime name. The game follows bounty hunter Samus Aran after she has been infect 
 by Phazon and must travel the galaxy in her new PED suit designed to fight the infection to locate 
 the Aurora Units on these planets and rid the galaxy of extinction.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is basically what you expect out a first person game on the Wii. The big difference really 
 comes when you compare it to past Prime games. The past Prime games had a slower pace and was more 
 methodical in every aspect of its game. Here the game has switched to a faster pace on every level 
 and the Wii controls accomodate that. You wave the remote like you would for a light gun and basically 
 point and shoot. As simple as it may sound, this is a big deal the game controls like a dream. 
 Not only that, but Retro mapped all the visors onto the minus button and all the missles to the 
 dpad. The thing is that every single upgrade minus the visors stack on top of each other. That 
 means that when you get ice missiles they replace all your missiles. Then when you get another 
 upgrade to those missiles then they'll have the upgrade plus the ice mod and any other upgrade. 
 Other neat features to mention is the combat visor. This visor will allow you help solve puzzles 
 by having your ship help out and by doing bombing runs. Not only that, but there are gesture based 
 commands. These pretty much fall down the same point and click mechanic. The biggest feature in 
 this game is the hyper mode. In hyper mode you basically enter God Mode. Your invincible, your 
 attacks do a crap load of damage and you look pretty sweet doing it. However, stay in hyper mode 
 too long and you face corruption. If you don't take out all that excess phazon then you are dead. 
 Literally. This basically helps balance out hyper mode, but you'll end up using it a lot anyways.
 
  
  Other things to mention are basic Metroid stuff. You will go through different areas and explore 
 planets. Thats right I said planets. This time Samus will go to different landing points on different 
 planets. This makes the map fairly easy to navigate and makes the game far more enjoyable. Anyway 
 the exploration and puzzles are smartly handled and combat is fun. The boss battles especially 
 are a blast to fight against. Oh and more thing. Retro decided to add a new "achievement" like 
 thing in this game. Bascially you get these for scanning, fighting, and doing whatever to use to 
 spend on unlocking goodies. These goodies range from music, to art to little gizmo's for Samus' 
 ship.
  
  Now that being said the gameplay isn't perfect. Sometimes during battle the controls will wack 
 out. Also some gestures won't register right away and the exploration is kind of dumbed down by 
 the linearity of the game. You will pretty much never be confused by what you should do next. Heck 
 theres even a huge help system in the game. Oh and that fetch quest (I know I know...) was a pain.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Graphically this is one of the prettiest Wii games ever. On a technical standpoint it isn't much 
 different from the Prime games on the Cube. However, its the little thing that makes the difference. 
 These come in the form of hi res textures, some bloom among other things and these do make a lot 
 of difference. The art direction helps too and Retro used it to their advantage with the dfifferent 
 planets and enviornments. You'll traverse through ruins, jungles, ships and the oh so gorgeous 
 Seeds (find out for yourself) . Its also worth mentioning that this game is far more cinematic featuring 
 cutscenes this time around.
  
  Sound:
  The audio in this game is great too. The music is moody and sets the atmosphere up pretty well. 
 You'll probably won't pay too much attention at first, but when your solving a puzzle and you take 
 the time to listen, then you'll notice how beautiful it is. Heck, you'll start noticing it for 
 the rest of the game. Prime 3 is also the first Prime game to feature voice acting and it is fantastic. 
 The game feels far more cinematic and epic with the voice acting and the each character was casted 
 well. Don't worry though Samus does not speak.
  
  Overall:
  Overall Metroid Prime 3 is a great game. Fans of the Metroid series will love this game and fans 
 of Prime 1 and 2 will love this game. Heck even newcomers will love this game. I know I did and 
 I am one of those new comers. Yes, this game has its flaws, but what game doesn't. All that matters 
 is that this game is fun to play. Besides isn't that why we play games anyways? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kelkian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  The first Prime for the Gamecube was a marvelous experience. Prime 2 was good, but not as good. 
 Now the third installment in the Prime series has arrived, and it's better than the first. Yes, 
 better.
  
  Let's start with the graphics. Graphics look absolutely gorgeous. We all know the Wii isn't a hardware 
 monster, but MP3 has great lighting, a smooth frame rate, it never stutters, and has no load times. 
 From the lush jungles on Bryyo to the gold-lighted city of Skytown on Elysia, MP3 looks absolutely 
 wonderful from start to finish.
  
  Gameplay then. Controls are amazing, aiming with the remote feels so right. And switching between 
 visors is a breeze, just press and hold the minus button and pick, which is needed, because in 
 certain fights you need to switch visors alot. And using the plus button to go into hypermode is 
 also easy, just hold plus. 
  
  The story is fantastic. I don't want to spoil anything, but the story of Prime has it's twists 
 and changes, and is an overall good experience.
  
  As mentioned before, the game isn't flawless. The difficulty curve waves up and down, some parts 
 are murderous and others a total cakewalk. Even though there isn't as much backtracking as in the 
 previous games, MP3 has it's fair share, and sometimes the puzzles get a little repetitive.
  
  Where MP3 really shines is in the boss battles. Every boss needs a strategy, and it may require 
 you to become a morphball, or go into hypermode, you get the point.
  
  Overall, this is a must buy for anyone who likes Metroid and has a Wii. I heartely recommend it 
 to all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZF
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Whoa i don't know where to start Metroid Prime 3 is only my 1st Metroid game and it's already made 
 me see the greatness of the series. It is awesome i went 5 minutes into the game and thought it 
 deserved the 10 it got in Nintendo Power. The on; y flaw was it didn't have Wi-Fi. You know what 
 i say to that? WHO GIVES A SH**?! This is One of (and probably just this one) that i gave Hard 
 as a Difficulty. I've been waiting for that. Gamespot really Screwed up on giving this a 8.5. A 
 bigger Screw-up than giving TP a 8.8 This game is perfect. Enough Said 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kadenman123
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! Its like you are realy samus saving the world because of the features in 
 this game. You can press, hold, drop, pull, swing, shoot, twist, jump like real life! In all of 
 the other metroid game you are all alone and noone ever talks to you because everyone was evil. 
 I never liked that. Well this game is diffrent, you even have teamates! (For a limited time...) 
 You could even jump in your morph ball form without having to use a bomb!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 Cool huh? Well thats not it, there are even awsome weapons. You get infected with phazon in the 
 game so you can go into this special form where you go crazy and kill everything! This game is 
 the best in the series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  The Metroid Prime trilogy is probably my favorite of all time, with the first installment being 
 (together with Zelda OoT) my favorite game of all time. Metroid Prime 2: Echoes was also awesome. 
 But it didn't do much different from its predecessor. Metroid Prime 3: Corruption still sticks 
 to the formula pretty tight, but it does some new things that are quite interesting.
  
  The graphics are really great. Not that much has improved since the previous Prime games, but it's 
 really one of the best looking games on the system. What makes the game look so good is the artistic 
 design. You'll really get blown away when you reach skytown. Everything looks just amazing. All 
 the buildings are airborne thanks to some huge jet packs, and you travel between them with the 
 use of cannons and your trust worthy grapple beam. Every planet feels fresh and exciting thanks 
 to inventive design and good looking graphics. 
  
  The sounds are really nice. All though it isn't orchestrated there are some nice remakes of old 
 favorites, and the new music sets the mood just right. Sound effects are great, and especially 
 Samus's footsteps sound awesome. There are also a lot of nice voice work this time around. It's 
 okay, but nothing more than that. There are a bunch of standard dialog, but who cares! 
  
  What's most interesting about Metroid Prime 3 Corruption is the controls of course. You control 
 using the wii mote to aim and the nunchuk to move around and it feels just amazing. It takes a 
 little while getting used to, but after some hours you're fighting bosses with precision and speed. 
 This is probably the biggest new addition in Metroid Prime 3. But also the voice acting, and slightly 
 altered gameplay makes for a quite different Prime game than the previous two. You're not as lonely 
 as you once where, and I kinda miss that. Samus has always been alone on her missions, and fighting 
 alongside other bounty hunters and space marines isn't all that great. It works good, but not so 
 well suited for a Metroid game. The game still feels a lot like Metroid Prime though, and that's 
 good. There are a bunch of hidden suit expansions for you to collect and they're all very well 
 worth searching for. The boss fights this time around are also very good. They're not as big though, 
 but still very much fun. The game is more cinematic than any other Metroid game, and it makes the 
 story more engaging. The game has pretty much the same length as the previous games and that's 
 good enough. It's one of the very best reasons to buy a Wii, and I think almost everyone would 
 find this game entertaining, much because of the controls, but also because it's a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3AD-SH0T
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  A great mix of Sci-Fi and first person shooter game. The third and final of the Metroid Prime Series, 
 was an exellent finish. I couldnt have asked for a better game. This game has it all, good graphics, 
 great boss battles, exellent story line, difficult puzzles, and amazing environments. Why can't 
 there be more games like this. So far the best game for the WII. And another good thing is you 
 don't need to play the first two to follow the story. So if you are looking for a new game for 
 the WII, I would really recomend this game. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshsta7
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Absolutely awesome controls on the wii // A good length // Looks fantastic // Plays fantastic // 
 Very clever level design // Good, rewarding, puzzles // Boss battles are literally really fun.
 
  
  The Bad:
  
  It can get really dull // Its not a game that you really cant wait to play // NOT A FIRST PERSON 
 SHOOTER, more like FIRST PERSON ADVENTURE // You don't really look forward to playing it that much 
 // The story can be hard to follow // You have to stand in front of a door, waiting for it to open, 
 for up to 10 seconds.
  
  
  
  Don't get me wrong, it's still a great game, but it just wasn't what I expected. Gamespot puts 
 this game in the genre of "Sci-Fi First Person Shooter", but only occasionlly do you come across 
 monsters to shoot in planets. You mainly walk around, aiming to go and fix something, or get to 
 something. You might come across some attacking creatures two or three times the whole time on 
 that planet. Therefore, this game is a "First Person Adventure" 
  
  The Boss Battles in most levels are really great and fun to play. They usually have a different 
 weak point for you to attack, and you can find this out by scanning it with your scanning visor. 
 The controls are really brilliant and are very well thought out. It feels really cool, and they 
 work perfectly. The game is a very good length, and should take around 20 hours.
  
  As I said before, you mainly go to different planets in different galaxy's, to complete an objective. 
 It could be repair something, or destroy something, or many other things. It can get quite boring 
 within a level, which is dissapointing. I was wrong to think it would be non-stop action, because 
 that's certainly not what it is, unless you're in the middle of a boss battle. Also, the story 
 can be quite hard to follow, and can get confusing at times. For example, I had to assemble a bomb, 
 but I didn't know why, but I did find out later. I was also expecting it to be a game that I really 
 looked forward to playing everyday, but sometimes I even wish I had another game. 
  
  The level design is really, very clever and well thought out like a lot of this game. Mainly everything 
 seems to just click, but it can be boring waiting for it to do that. Talking about waiting, THE 
 FRICKIN' DOORS DON'T OPEN WHILE YOU'RE STANDING IN FRONT OF IT FOR 10 SECONDS!!!! This really puts 
 you off, and slows the game down even more.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 7
  
  The controls are some of the best ever on the Wii. But the reason the gameplay gets an average 
 score is because it can get boring and very slow-paced at times.
  
  GRAPHICS: 9
  
  The graphics are very impressive. Not the best on Wii, but very good.
  
  SOUND: 8
  
  The 
 sound is also good, and the blaster sounds cool.
  
  VALUE: 7
  
  Long game, just dont have the inspiration to do it all. It's not all boring, just at times, but 
 it greatly effects the game.
  
  OVERALL: 8.0
  
  Metroid Prime 3 still deserves "great", but it's still quite a let down to what I was expecting. 
 Buy it, for sure! But be cautious and just don't expect the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkLuigi1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  This was one damn awesome game to play on and not do my homework, and stay up till 1 o'clock every 
 night playing it. When i bought it i couldn't wait to play it. once i opend the game from the case 
 i knew i was gonna have a sick time with it, i pop it into the Wii, and play it.
  
  The graphics i have to say were sick, i loved the cutscenes, and the artwork when you spend the 
 token things (yes, i don't know what they are called) so i can tell they worked hard making this 
 game, and thats what i like, a good graphics game. i give the graphics a... 9.0
  
  The gameplay was fun, i really don't know why they said you had to stand up, i just sat on my butt, 
 untill a boss or a mini-boss came on i was crazy and sweating (i really go crazy once a boss comes 
 on) and pressing the A button like crazy to get in the weak point, and mabye i should've been shooting 
 missles instead... well, i beat the game so, i guess i'll know that next time! The only thing that 
 bothered me, was the doors, holy crap, when i was running away from an enemy with low health and 
 i needed to get to the nearest save point, but, the damn door wouldn't open, so i back away, go 
 back, and still wouldn't open, i try and kill the enemies to wait for the door to open, and finally 
 it opens, thats about the only problem i ahd with this game, and for god sakes Gamespot don't fire 
 me or ban my account for saying that. So i give the gameplay... 9.0
  
  The music, awesome, the battle music, boss music, last boss music, cutscene music, mini-boss music, 
 The levels, everything, i give The music a 9.5.
  
  Weapons, weapons were awesome, too bad the screw attack wasn't what i thought it would be, i thougth 
 it would be like the old metroid games where you keep pressing jump in the air and getting higher 
 and higher, i understand why they didn't make it like that, but, still, would've been awesome. 
 9.0.
  
  The controls, were A-okay, nothing wrong with them. 10.0.
  
  My overall score, 9.5
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii4panta
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  I played MP3 with great pleasure and the first thing I noticed is the controls. The controls are 
 absolutely perfect and way better than I thought!
  Also the visuals are great too and one can say freely that it has the best graphics so far. Finally 
 the music creates a great atmosphere and feelings.
  Now, the big disadvantage is the length of the game. On the other hand though it is a complete game 
 and you will enjoy every part of it. What I personally despised in this game though is Samus's appearance. Metroid 
 Prime 1's model was way superior and I cannot understand why they changed it... Anyway if you are 
 a fan of adventure games, this is a must IMO. Do not hesitate it and buy it by every chance if you 
 haven't already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  This was my first metroid game ever. I bought it because it is on the list of nintendos super series, 
 so I judged it after Mario and Zelda standard. Compared to them, it really wasn't so good. However 
 still, it is not a game I regret buing.
  
  I considered Metroid Prime one of the best opportunities for nintendo to show us what the wii remote 
 is capable of. The point and shoot technology is as good as you would expect, not any better or 
 worse. This was actually my first first person game, so I was afraid it would make me kind of claustophobic, 
 but luckily it didn't.
  
  It is a story in there. The planet of Norton is attacked by space pirates that try to hit it with 
 a comet. Luckily Samus Aran (you) stop the attack. However just as she is finished, dark Samus 
 appears and blasts her and the other hunter with som heavy weapon. Turns out this weapon corrupts 
 the hunters with a substance called phazon. This phazon is used to improve the skills of the hunters, 
 however it is destroying them from the inside. The hunters are sent to nearby planets where the 
 pirates have been active. However when the other three fails to return, Samus must complete the 
 task for them.
  
  But there is a lot more story for those who are interested. All the planets have their unique history, 
 which you can discover during your quest. For instance, Bryyo have had a long war between the Primals 
 and the Lords of Science.
  
  But over to the gameplay. Samus' weapons are upgraded along the way, but you always have three 
 kinds of weapons. One normal weapon, one with rockets and a grapple, which comes in pretty handy. 
 Also, she can turn into a morph ball, which is a little round ball. You will need it a lot during 
 the game and some of the morph ball tracks are more like puzzles. If you want better attacks you 
 can go into hyper mode with your PED-suit, but this will cost you health.
  
  Samus has the ability to scan things, she has a remote control which she uses to command her ship 
 and after a while you get an X-ray visor. Along your quest you can scan enemies and objects to 
 get certain emblems which you can buy "extras" with in the menu. This really doesn't add much to 
 the game though. So you migth instead try to pick up all the pick-ups, which gives you more missiles, 
 more energy, you name it.
  
  There are a lot of bosses in the game. You will visit three different seeds, each with a boss and 
 you will also run into the other hunters during your quest. Since they are corrupted both physically 
 and mentally, you will have to fight them.
  
  The bosses might be the best thing about the game. Apart from that, the gameplay is pretty much 
 the same. However the gameplay is great, as long as you don't get sick of it. Sometimes it feels 
 a lot like being a detective and sometimes you haven't got a clue what to do next. Some of the 
 places you visit is not that good, but all over it is acceptable.
  
  The graphic is good. Normally, I don't find graphics important, but since this game shows of intergalactic 
 technology and culture the way it does, it is more important than in other games. This is actually 
 a big plus for the game, that you see the culture and history of the planets, though it would be 
 nice if not all the planets you visited was dead.
  
  All over it covers good gameplay, but it gets kind of boring after a while. Not a bad game, but 
 not quite tha standard I had expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCrunner161
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Finally, a good wii first person game that got the controls right. When I first saw the wii, I 
 thought, "wow, that would be sick for fps games." Then, all of the fps games had terrible controls. 
 After many failed attempts, a game with amazing controls finally arrives. This game is everything 
 I had been looking for in a wii first person game. The controls as stated above are amazing. There's 
 just something about ripping off the shield of a space pirate with your arm while you blast away 
 at another with the other arm thats satisfying. It really feels good. But, thats not all thats 
 good about the game. Exploring the many gorgeously designed planets gives you a sense of wonder. 
 It really gets you into the mood to play. The game moves at a pace thats not too fast so you get 
 that adventure feeling while not too slow that it bores you. Also, while most fps games are just 
 mindless shooting and not much else, MP3 makes you really think about what is happening. You explore 
 the worlds and solve puzzles that are satisfying. The puzzles are fresh and not overused, giving 
 the whole experience a better feeling. Overall, metroid prime 3 takes all of the good of the first 
 two games and adds new and refreshing wii features to make the game a memorable and exciting adventure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xShR3Dx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Best graphics so far on Wii almost up to snuff with the 360 graphics. High detail on 
 textures and good artistic look.
  
  Sound: Good music but other then that nothing to great.
  
  Gameplay: Some of the best Wii controls 
 for an fps.
  
  Value: Metroid Prime 3 is around 15-20 hours. The game has a lot of puzzles. Although this game 
 is very good and entertaining there are some downsides. First the way they hide loading is the 
 door some times it takes 5-14 seconds of waiting for one to open. Metrioid is a fun game and if 
 you have a wii I would deffenetly recommed it to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption has been a show case for the Nintendo Wii, because it will or will 
 not show that the Wii is a good platform for first person shooters. Luckily I can tell you that 
 Metroid Prime 3 delivers its expectations.
  
  Story continues after the conclusion of Metroid Prime 2: Echoes. Samus is sent alongside 3 other 
 bounty hunters to help Galactic Federation in their quest to stop the phazon corruption from spreading. 
 Unfortunately Space Pirates attack the Federations headquarters and it seems that they have enhanced 
 their armors and weapons by using phazon. Dark Samus seems to have something to do with all of 
 this. I do not want to give you anymore spoilers so I encourage you to play the game for yourself.
 
  
  Graphics are outstanding on Wii standards and that means it is slightly better than what previous 
 games were on GameCube. Of course a true widescreen display and an HD-TV support helps a lot. Loading 
 times are again hidden between rooms, but now they are longer and for the first in the Prime series 
 you will notice this. Frame rate on the other hand stays solid and stable all the time, no matter 
 how much stuff flies on the screen at once.
  
  Music has been redesigned which helps to differentiate this third iteration of the series from 
 its predecessors. Sound effects are mostly the same as you remember, but some of them have seen 
 changes. But here is the big difference: there are other characters to interact with and there 
 is real voice acting in this game. Samus herself is always quiet just like Gordon Freeman in Half-Life 
 saga. All in all the audio visual presentation is that same high quality you have come to expect 
 from a Metroid Prime game.
  
  Gameplay has seen changes, because the control scheme is now totally different. Wii controls work 
 like a dream most of the time and many of the games puzzles (and boss fights) are done with the 
 Wiis unique controls in mind. There is just no way to get this kind of experience in any other 
 system besides Wii.
  
  There are three different control options to choose from, but most of you will choose the advanced 
 setting, for it is the closest choice resembling a mouse and a keyboard. There are some problems 
 with the Wii controls though, but you will only notice this during tough boss fights, because of 
 the excitement you might perform those needed motions too quickly to the Wiis motion sensors to 
 register. Usually this involves the use of Samus Grapple Beam.
  
  Instead of exploring a one single planet Samus has a whole solar system of planets to choose from. 
 This gives the game more variety and makes the structure of the game much easier to understand, 
 because one giant map is divided into smaller pieces. There is some backtracking here too, but 
 not as great amount as in previous games. Biggest reason for this is that in specific spots you 
 can call your ship to land and use it to fly into a new area.
  
  Save stations are here again, but you can also save in your ship and for the first time in console 
 Metroid Prime games there is a checkpoint system, which was first introduced in Nintendo DSs Metroid 
 Prime: Hunters. Unfortunately there is no way to know when you have reached a checkpoint, but luckily 
 you do not need to test that very often.
  
  There are 2 difficulty options to choose from: Normal is for those who have not played a Metroid 
 Prime game or a shooter before and a little harder Veteran mode is for  you guessed it  players 
 who consider themselves as veterans in Metroid Prime games.
  
  There is still one big disappointment: there is no multiplayer what so ever. Hunters on the DS 
 showed that it could work in the Metroid universe, but for some reason it did not happen in Prime 
 3. I personally can not understand why they did this: I was so anxious to play Metroid Prime online 
 and all of that waiting was in vain. Shame on you Nintendo and shame on you Retro Studios.
  
  In the end I must say that if you have a Wii you should also have Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. 
 An FPS game can work on the Wii, if it is done properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starmetroid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  If you believe a good FPS is one where you go online and mindlessly shoot other players, leave. 
 Half of this game is about exploring and collecting power-ups.
  
  The jump from gamecube to the Wii has changed this game for the better in a few ways like aiming 
 with the Wii remote, using the nunchuk to rip off shields and move objects, flicking the Wii remote 
 to jump in the morph ball, and some minor interactions with levers and switches. In addition to 
 the control changes there are a few changes like stacking beams instead of switching beams, active 
 use of your ship, and the introduction of hypermode
  
  There are five major planets/space ships to explore which range from futurized floating city to 
 the lair of the space pirates. Each of these areas feature epic bosses, a multitude of enemies, 
 awesome power-ups, and morph ball mazes.
  
  The difficulty is just right because there is easy, normal, and hard so players of any skill level 
 can enjoy it. There is also alot of bonus features that can be unlocked with credits earned in 
 the game. 
  
  If you like the metroid series of just want a great single player game I highly recommend Metroid 
 Prime 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meetroid8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Gameplay : Well this game pretty much follows the same formula as the last several with a few changes. 
 Lets start with the controle scheme. Utter awesomness this game obsoletes dual analog and you may 
 never be able to play with one again. It allows for far faster paced boss fights and battles and 
 is extremely fun.
  Now for visors. Sadly this time around the visors aren't really used that much in combat. There 
 is the scan visor which if liked scanning in past games you'll like it here as it hasn't changed 
 any. The thermal visor makes a reappearance but the only thing you'll ever use it for is unlocking 
 occasional doors and several fights against a certain types of enemies. For the final visor we have 
 the cool new ship visor. This is pretty cool but its not used very often.
  For beams the game uses a new build on feature that takes away some the strategy in fights but 
 is necessary. Hyper mode is pretty much the same thing as god mode. You kill everything. The morph 
 ball doesn't have any new abilities but many of the puzzles have been changed up like you know 
 boost over gaps. There is now more use of the grapple beam, now you can use the nunchuck to lock 
 onto and pull objects out of the way. This is very responsive and extremely fun.
  
  Graphics: As a Wii game these are easily the best thus far and really show what the Wii can do. 
 Everything is done over with a strange glowy effect that is hard to describe but it really adds 
 to them. Everything but the human models without the suits is awesome.
  
  Sound: Lets just say amazing.
  
  Value: As always there are plenty of things to try and collect 
 like missiles and energy tanks which should take you awhile but now you can also collect ship missiles 
 and different acheievment points that can be used to unlock multiple bonuses. As well as three 
 difficulties you'll keep coming back.
  
  Tilit: Though the core formula doesn't change much new collectibles and a new controls scheme keep 
 it feeling fresh.
  
  + and -
  
  +Amazing new control scheme
  +Changed up morph ball puzzles
  +Ship visor
  +More fast paced fights
  +Awesome voice acting
 
  +Truly alien worlds
  
  -Unfulfilling story
  -Not enough capitulation on visors
  -Not enough exploring of alien flora and fauna
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyder90
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is great and is worth the wait. I havn't played any of the other metroid prime games 
 and this game doens't help to introduce you into the story but this isn't halo and the story is 
 not the major factor. Its gameplay and controls are.
  
  The controls are great. There are three options to chose from which helps you play as you like. 
 You simply point at the screen and shoot and perhaps using the grapling hook is even more fun. 
 If you've seen any of those metroid prime commercials with the guy jumping around you won't be 
 doing that (unless you want to) . I think the controls are great and thats the formula that nintendo 
 and other developers should stick to.
  
  The level designs in the game are also extremely excellent. There are a handful of planets each 
 with a unique design and you will appreciate nintendos's creativity.
  
  The sound in the game is amazing. The opening of the game gives you this sound which brings chils 
 down your spine. There is also voice acting which is carried out well but there arn't too many 
 lines of dialogue and the sounds of the weapons and enemies are good.
  
  If you own a wii not just as a party system but a real game console you must buy this game now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icarus212001
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  When Metroid Prime 3 was first shown in playable form at e3 '06, people were blown away by it intuitive 
 control using the then unreleased Nintendo Wii. After an 10 month delay, Metroid Prime 3: Corruption 
 is released, and it isn't too shabby. 
  
  The game takes place right after the events of Metroid Prime 2: Echoes and sees Samus aboarding 
 the G. F. S. Olympus, a giant ship which is oddly familiar looking to those giant rebel ships in 
 Star Wars. The story basically revovles around Samus going around planets destroying sources of 
 phazon on different planets with her bounty hunter bretheren. As the story goes on, Samus finds 
 Dark Samus being the cause of it all (surprise surprise) and now she must go and defeat her before 
 the universe is engulfed by Phazon. 
  
  The problem with the story is basically that it detracts from that lonely, deserted feeling you 
 get when you play the original metroids, or even Metroid Prime and MP2. Instead it has a lot of 
 parts in the game that make you think that they are trying to make it like Halo. I found it disturbing 
 that Retro Studios succumbed to the "How can we make it like Halo?" approach to making FPS's. For 
 example, you have a giant space fleet... with a Colonel... dress in green. Then you have Corta- I 
 mean Gandryada, one of the Bounty Hunters on your side. She's basically a Cortana look alike. You 
 get the picture. Thankfully, the Halo-isms end after you get to the first planet, Bryyo. 
  
  When it comes to gameplay, the game is truly innovative in its control. You point the Wii remote 
 to the screen and your on screen pointer moves Samus' gun around for more precise shooting. This 
 is great because now you have the ability to much faster than ever before. If more Wii FPS's adopted 
 this form of shooting, the Wii could most likely be the central hub for FPS fanboys the world over. 
 The only flaw with the system is in turning. Its not that big of an annoyance, but it would've 
 been good to turn around just a pinch faster so your don't get cornered and attacked from all sides.
 
  
  The difficulty, if you have played earlier Metroid Prime games, is very easy. The problem is that 
 enemies are either too weak (in both attack and stamina) or Samus become a god between MP2 and 
 3. It feels like most enemies only take a few shots to kill while Samus can make like an energizer 
 battery and keep going and going. The only difficulty the will have you sweating a little bit will 
 be the Hypermode difficulty, but its not hard compared to MP's hard mode and lightyears away from 
 MP 2's hard mode. The boss battles are truly the most engaging part of the game, spanning almost 
 3-5 different forms each. In fact, the only times you'll die in the game are within these boss 
 battles. 
  
  The game also sports a sort of achievement points system. Whenever you complete a certain action, 
 whether it be saving your friends from dying or killing a certain number of enemies, you get something 
 known as a friend voucher. If you give it to someone, they get a friend token (as well as being 
 able to get other tokens of different difficulty on your own) which can be used to buy fun little 
 items such as bumber stickers for your ship and a bobblehead doll featuring your Mii's head on 
 a Samus shaped torso (which is really fun to poke at) . 
  
  The games graphics are great, but do not stretch the Wii's graphical capabilities. It feel more 
 like the gamecube enigine with shinier surfaces and more bloo effects. Its still a feast for the 
 eyes as the artistic presentation will blow you away. 
  
  Despite how my review may sound, Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is one of the best games on the Wii. 
 It will keep you sucked into the game from start to finish, and its near impossible to resist playing 
 the game again on a harder difficulty. While its impossible to recreate that first awe that you 
 felt when you played Metroid Prime 1 for the first time, this game is still a great game and one 
 that anyone, even casual gamers, will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonic91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Metroid prime set a high bar for what a great first person shooter can be. Now the 3rd and final 
 of the trilogy, can easily be summed up by the common expressionthey save the best for last"
 
  
  Gameplay: Many have said this and i agreeits brings a new great feel for first person shooters, 
 excellent boss fights, plently of unique and interesting puzzles and a little more action compared 
 to the first 2.
  
  Story: First game in the series to have full voice over story lines, and the corruption only sweetens 
 the story. New characters including 3 new bounty hunters ( who are not from the ds game) . ill keep 
 it short but phazon plays its biggest role yet and it will add to your gameplay. You finally see 
 what true power it holds!
  
  Graphics: Normally i dont care much for graphics, only when there revolutionary to the system that 
 there on and metriod prime 3 has those graphics. Clear, bright and dark, crisp and a nice framerate. 
 With so many desings, huge enivronments one gets the urge to explore and sometimes stop just to 
 see some of the detail.
  
  This is my first review and i couldnt have chosen a better game to start with. A must have for 
 nintendo fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuck1234526
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  "Sir, a space pirate cruiser has just appeared from some sort of wormhole," Says a galactic federation 
 guard near the beginning. Gaming's first lady returns, and it couldn't have looked or played better. 
 Ever. The adventure begins as Samus Aran is invited to a galactic ferderation meeting on their 
 big and awesome mothership. You begin in the cockpit of your ship, where you have to tinker with 
 the controls for a while to finally enter the mothership. This immediatly immerses you in the amazingly 
 realistic ways that Corruption uses the Wii Remote. Once aboard the G. F. S. Olympus, you must do 
 a weapon calibration test, recharge, and save. I'm not going to spoil any more. 
  
  When you first step out of your ship, the first thing you notice is how well the Wii Remote works 
 as a gun arm. The game is sure to make it as if you have a gun arm right from the start. When you 
 reach the big battle on norion (sorry, a little spoiler there) you get what I find the coolest 
 and most responsive use of the Wii Remote, the grapple lasso. It feels really natural, ripping 
 a lock off a door or a shield off an enemy. 
  
  I may be sounding like the Wii Remote makes everything so realistic (which it does) the other key 
 factor to how immersive the game is would have to be the graphics, (which don't even use high definition!) 
 It almost feels like you are actually talking to hunter Rundas or beating the tar out of dark Samus. 
 
  
  It's also great to see voice acting in the series too. Though Samus stays mute, it's great hearing 
 all those cool Star Wars-esque troops talk to you when you are in the middle of a huge battle. 
 
  
  I have seen some good games in the past, and this is one of them. I can't wait for a new metroid 
 series to come out, assuming it's like this one. This is one sci-fi shooter you don't want to miss. 
 So if you find a Metroid stuck to your face tomorrow morning, don't say I didn't warn you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machod_19
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  The whole game is great, from the boss battles which are always great, the puzzles which can be 
 hard in a good way, the game play and the use of the wii motion sensing controls, and the graphics. 
 This game is the best game in the Metroid series and it is one of the greatest of all time. I have 
 no complaints except that the game should of been longer, and there should of been more weapons, 
 sometimes the controls are hard to use when trying to open a door, and i just wished you could 
 use your ship more and have a Starwars type air battle. But overall just great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLuFAlc0n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 Corruption, one of the games that wii owners or you should have, one of the most 
 greatest and the best in the series!
  This game suppose to refil your top 3 killer app. for the Wii, one is Super Mario Galaxy, second 
 Twilight Princess, and this is the third one.
  Metroid Prime 3 Corruption is obviously a first - person shooting game and it is easier to play 
 than any other FPS games you have played, the game has immense graphics (not as good as galaxy) 
 but still good, this game got 360 graphics and the visuals are really look awesome, you can actually 
 compare it to halo 3, Gameplay!! this part is really the bit than makes the game itself special, 
 if a lot of you played some FPS games, this has the best control for it, plays very smooth, not 
 glitchy, not as annoying as red steel and definitely better than any FPS games, once you've played 
 this, you'll get bored playing any controller button based FPS, the game is that good, and sound 
 (ohhhh the beautiful sound) have you heard of metroid prime and echoes opening? well that is nothing 
 compared to this any halo, any killzone NOTHING COMPARED TO METROID PRIME 3 CORRUPTION!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 once you press start, you want to watch the opening, you want to hear it's awesome sounds, you 
 don't want to skip it!! it sounds legendary!!! Presentation, ohh the sound, it still has the gorgeous 
 sound, you pick your mii head, you pick a save slide and play the game, and also the first metroid 
 in the history to have voice acting!! awesome huh?
  although I hate voice acting because they sound teribble, Corruption actually sounds ok!! and this 
 game has a lot of value, you scan stuff... you get tokens and can unlock galleries the soundtrack (best 
 unlockable) secret items and you get friend vouchers for every 100 kills and you can even use the 
 ship itself, yup samus' ship for the first time, you can put mii bobblehead, and nintendo bumper 
 stickers if you have online and you can even be watched by your friends like watching a movie by 
 friend codes.
  Overall this game is better than halo 3 by sounds (definitely) gameplay (definitely) , value, graphics 
 ( compareable) the game is good and its guarrandamnteed decent game!!!
  
  Goods/ +
  Awesome graphics
  Legendary Gameplay
  Legendary Sounds
  Lots of collectibles
  Easier and 
 more understandable than the previous 2
  Lots of collectibles
  Controling spaships
  A game needed for fps people
  At least uses online
  
  
  Bad/ -
  No multiplayer
  Even 
 worse no online multiplayer
  Thats all really, the rest are all good points
  
  Gameplay/Innovation - 10/10
  Graphics - 10/10
  Sounds - 10/10
  Value - 10/10
  Presentation 
 - 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selbie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption opens on a space cruiser, where Samus and several other bounty hunters 
 have been called to help out the Galactic Federation. A virus, seemingly of Space Pirate origin, 
 has been unleashed on a number of Aurora Units - biological supercomputers that manage the vast 
 computer networks of all major Federation facilities. The networks have been taken down, and it's 
 up to Samus - along with some help, to bring them back online.
  
  Firstly I need to explain the context of this review. I had read players complaints that it was 
 too easy on the game's "normal" mode, so I decided to jump straight to Veteran difficulty seeing 
 as I already knew the basics from Metroid Prime. (I must also note I haven't played MP2: Echoes 
 so I don't exactly know much about it gameplay-wise) . I also used the Advanced aiming mode for 
 Samus' weapons. You may wish to use something easier, but from my experiences with this game, you 
 don't need to be scared about trying the harder difficulty. There is a nice, gradual learning curve 
 and the game lets you get used to the control style before throwing you into the action, although 
 not too late either. Plus there is also Hypermode to unlock once you finish the game.
  
  Unlike in previous versions of Metroid, you don't lose all of your equipment from the start and 
 already have a substantial amount of gear such as the Space Jump and Morph Ball abilities. However, 
 that does not imply that you won't be getting anything more for your efforts. Instead of switching 
 between different beams like in the previous two games, they are now "stacked" on top of each other. 
 This allows you to open up new areas and fight different enemies without having to fiddle around 
 switching between weapons. This method hearkens back to Super Metroid albeit without the ability 
 to select different weapon combinations. Also, instead of having an individual ice beam, it has 
 now become integrated into a missile upgrade.
  
  This wouldn't be a Prime game without the involvement of that little creepy substance called Phazon 
 and, now that Samus has been exposed to the element and the Federation got their hands on a Space 
 Pirate stash of the stuff, you now become equipped with an upgrade called the PED or Phazon Enhancement 
 Device. This basically acts like a supercharger for your weapons allowing you to deal a lot more 
 damage. This comes at a price however, because it is fed by your energy tanks and the more Phazon 
 you use, the less life you will have afterwards and this is an excellent reason not to use it as 
 a gameplay crutch - I commend Rare and Nintendo for this because there were too many "hold-your-hand" 
 moments in Zelda: Twilight Princess. It also feeds directly into the game plot and lets you feel 
 an emotional connection with the changes going on in Samus' body.
  
  The controls in Corruption are very intuitive and even challenge you to do your own aiming (advanced 
 mode) instead of locking-on and firing without thinking. The context sensitive controls such as 
 plugging in energy cells and turning door switches really helps you connect with the game. Some 
 reviewers complain about it being a little awkward but, as I've said in my SSX Blur review, it's 
 usually because you're not concentrating enough on how your doing it. For me everything worked 
 perfectly and I was not once thinking why an action didn't occur, and if I did, it was only before 
 realising that I wasn't doing it right in the first place.
  
  The level structure in Corruption is also new. Instead of having to traverse an entire planet in 
 one game, there are now several different planets and locations for you to visit thanks to Samus' 
 trusty ship with each world having multiple landing platforms to access. This also gives you the 
 added benefit of saving your progress and recharging your energy before setting out for more. Each 
 of the planets you visit are entirely unique which really helps you immerse yourself in the environments 
 and focus on exploring the wonderfully crafted worlds - from ancient, overgrown temples, to flying 
 cities to the clean, militaristic tidiness of the Galactic Federation outposts, to the dark and 
 sinister tunnels of the Space Pirate Homeworld they are all diverse and all captivating. Bryyo, 
 for example, made you genuinely feel like you were alone on a completely alien world on which an 
 ancient culture once thrived. This also spurs you on to learn about each of the different inhabitants 
 of the worlds and the backstory to the events in the game. You do this by using the Scan Visor 
 which is very much improved over Metroid Prime. There are 3 visors in the game which are the Scan 
 and Xray visors as well as a new visor called the Command Visor which lets you order your ship 
 to do specific tasks and land on newly discovered platforms. It also adds another element to the 
 gameplay with certain puzzle-solving benefits if you take your time to scan what's around you. 
 Where mission objectives are concerned there is plenty of variety from basic search and destroy 
 missions, to sequential puzzle-solving situations.
  
  The action in this game is practically non-stop and really keeps you on your toes towards the end. 
 There are also plenty of times in the game that let you slow down to take in your surroundings. 
 You will even find yourself a little anxious about entering an unexplored room because, after scanning 
 several dead bodies and finding they've had the life sucked out of them, you start to dread what 
 will be on the other side. That being said, the game is far from frustrating and even though you 
 may die the first time (or several) in a boss/enemy fight you don't end up feeling cheated. You 
 feel like you've learned something from the initial encounter and are ready to take a boss/new 
 enemy head-on. The bosses in this game are really fun to fight and make use of all the necessary 
 weapons in your arsenal. Many are also huge and each one is very unique.
  
  Graphics in Corruption are a step up from the previous games and quite vibrant at times, showing 
 that there is plenty of room to move for developers. It also reinforces Nintendo's philosophy of 
 gameplay over visuals. That is NOT to say this game isn't beautiful, because the artistic elements 
 of the game are more vibrant and detailed than ever and never cease to make you stop and stare. 
 Understandably they don't have the high definition clarity of a powerhouse console but, again, 
 you never really notice it because of the sheer variety.
  
  The sound is also excellent and really makes you feel like you're finishing the epic finale to 
 a trilogy. My only gripe with it though is that it still uses the tiresome midi/synth music which 
 unfortunately becomes noticeable after a while. However, it still holds up as being a good accompaniment 
 to your environments and lets you enjoy the game.
  
  With all this in mind, Metroid 3 Corruption is a game that lives up to it's reputation as being 
 a benchmark for other games to follow. It provides you with enough action to keep your heart racing, 
 yet drops your jaw with tranquil vistas and seemingly vast worlds. If you haven't at least played 
 the original Prime and looked at Prime 2's events you won't really gain the full potential of the 
 excellent backstory. That being said, you won't be disappointed either. I also recommend you look 
 up my videos of the Gametrailers retrospective and check out the Metroid Manga which has been translated 
 from Japanese into English. This really helps you understand the role of characters in the backstory 
 and gives you a basis for what this game is trying to achieve. So if you want a fun game for the 
 Wii, this is another one to add to your library. Now go finish the fight!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoracleofgame
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin, let me tell you this: In the short time that I have owned the Wii, this is the 
 best game yet. I love this game, so if anything I say seems a bit euphoric, I understand. Now, 
 the thing about Metroid 3 is, is that it has two different perspectives. The first is the more 
 joyous one: That Metroid is the best game for the Wii, it's a great game, and to all Wii owners, 
 it is the best game. Why? It's the best the Wii's got. But to us Metroid fans, we see the darker 
 picture. It's still a great game, just not as great. Retro Studios has decided to give us a more 
 action packed Metroid game. This is not to be unexpected, for Metroid with simple Wii controls 
 is an obvious formula for an action game. With the wiimote instead of analog sticks, Metroid doesn't 
 need auto aim, but Retro Studios threw it in there just for fun. Although the game centers on action 
 and minor puzzles, the action isn't that hard. Any situation (besides bosses) can be dealt with 
 with an itchy trigger finger. The game is a bit too streamlined as well. Overall, this is the best 
 game for the Wii you can get, so if you bought the Wii so you could have fun, there is no question 
 that you need to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goten_king
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Now, i want to start off by saying, this game is not for everyone. Little Jimmy who plays Mario 
 Party 8 all day is not going to like this game. 1, the controls are very precise making it hard 
 to those who cannot control their motor skills well. 2, it takes a brain to solve some of the tasks. 
 and 3, well its just not for kiddiez. 
  
  Lets take this one section at time. 
  
  Presentation : 9.5 : The best looking Wii game to date. In some respects, it trumps Mario Galaxy 
 in my mind. It is the most realistic/sci-fi looking game. Good cut scenes set the stage well. Menus 
 are fine. I do have a slight problem with the whole, lore/research/creature stuff. I just felt 
 it was a bit, bland and such. It might just be that I'm used to it from the earlier two, but nothing 
 stood out. 
  
  Graphics : 10 : In overall bloom and particles, nothing on wii really tops it. Sure Mario Galaxy 
 has polish beyond, but it doesn't have all the extra effects that really make Metroid Prime 3 stand 
 out. 
  
  Sound : 9 : Amazing as always. But nothing stood out as Amazing. Everything fit well, but there 
 was no mind changing music. In MP2 there was the echo theme at the beginning, and in Prime 1 there 
 was Phendrana drifts that awed me. Nothing amazing, but still darn great. 
  
  Gameplay : 10 : Wow. Talk about amazing controls. Best I've ever used with an FPA/S. Sure, the 
 game features more shooting and less searching, but it still balances it well without "haloizing" 
 it. I loved the entire game finish to end. The basic game was a bit too easy, but with the added 
 difficulties, it certainly makes up for it. 
  
  Value : 8.5 : Hmm.. this is probably my only gripe. Its short. I don't know if it was the lack 
 of a "major" searching objective like in MP1 and MP2, or if the game was just easier, but it felt 
 about 5 hours shorter. I managed to clear it in about 14.5 hours. MP1 took me aobut 23 and MP2 
 about 24. So... who knows the reasoning behind it. But luckily with the difficulty changes, it 
 adds good replay. Also with the "achievements" you have a reason to do more in the game. 
  
  OVERALL!!!! 
  
  Best wii game since Zelda... sure we had to wait about 9 more months than 
 promised, it was well worth the extra work. 
  
  If you played MP1 and MP2, this game is a must, If not, get MP1 and MP2, then buy this game and 
 enjoy the heck out of it! i know you will! 
  
  Overall 9.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Logeth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  This year's perhaps most anticipated Wii game is well worth the wait. Pop the disc into your Wii 
 system and prepare for awesomeness. There are many things here new to the Metroid series. As soon 
 as you start playing you'll notice that unlike the previous Metroid games, you actually have contact 
 with live people - and other hunters - in this game. Samus' ship also plays a more central role 
 than usual, letting you command it to do various actions such as bombing enemy installations. Some 
 people might say all this makes it feel less "Metroid", and to a small extent I agree. But it sure 
 feels a huge lot more "bounty hunter Samus Aran". And I like that.
  
  The controls are just great. Aiming with the Wii Remote is just wonderful, and the fact that this 
 makes strafing possible is more than welcome. Even when out of battle you'll have the crosshair 
 move back and forth, up and down, across the screen. Why? Because you can. Because you point, and 
 it obeys. This new mechanic also forces you to actively aim at your enemies. In Metroid Prime 1 
 and 2 you could just lock on and jam the fire button, but now the lock-on only makes you face your 
 target, and you need to aim manually in order to hit that boss' weak point. The Wii Remote's motion 
 sensing capabilities are also frequently used. Fling the Nunchuk forwards to throw the grapple 
 lasso, then pull it backwards to rip shields out of Space Pirates' grasp, for instance. The various 
 interactive machines making you tilt, twist, push and pull the Wii Remote to operate them also 
 add to the game's charm and make a little more sense than activating everything just by scanning 
 it.
  
  I'll let someone else tell you about the graphics. Let's just say that great graphics and awesome 
 graphical design together with great music create a great atmosphere, just like in the other Metroid 
 Prime games. The game designers have once again done a great job.
  
  The name "Corruption" fits well with the scenario - several planets are being corrupted by Phazon, 
 and you need to save them all before taking the fight to the Space Pirates and Dark Samus. But 
 not only the planets are corrupted - so are Samus and her fellow hunters. One by one the others 
 turn rogue, and Samus herself isn't far from joining Dark Samus, either. Visiting multiple planets 
 this time around feels just right, it makes sense that Samus can't stop the Phazon corruption once 
 and for all only by visiting one more planet. It feels right that the conflict elevates to a new 
 level. Also, both the Space Pirates and the Federation, including Samus, now use Phazon to enhance 
 their weaponry. Receiving the PED suit is with mixed emotions. I'm trying to remove Phazon from 
 the universe - I don't really feel like using it in my suit, but unfortunately the firepower will 
 be needed. It's not with happiness alone that you acquire more and more Phazon upgrades.
  This game also ties up some loose ends from the other Metroid Prime games and gives some new perspective 
 to the story. Data logs tell of the Tallon IV and Aether incidents from multiple points of view, 
 of the history of each planet, and of the Space Pirates' relation to Dark Samus, each entry making 
 you want to know more. This compelling story, together with the usual Metroid must-get-the-next-upgrade 
 mania, is what keeps you glued to your TV until you realize it's not today anymore.
  
  All in all, the only bad thing I can think of is that the music isn't quite as spectacular as it 
 was in the first Metroid Prime game. But the rest of the game more than makes up for it. This review 
 is actually just a fraction of all the good I have to say. This game almost beats Ocarina of Time. 
 Some say this game feels more like a regular shooter than a Metroid adventure. I say they're dead 
 wrong. Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is a more than worthy game to end the Prime trilogy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  Were it not for the unique Wii controls Metroid Prime 3: Corruption would be just another shooter. 
 Granted, there are some pretty well thought out environmental puzzles that helped it stand out 
 a little.
  
  I suppose if you are a fan of the series this game may have more value to you, but coming from 
 a first timer judging and ranking it among other shooters there isn't a whole lot of excitement 
 here.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The fluidity of the animations is great. Using the Wii remote to aim at the screen and shoot is 
 pretty fun.
  
  There are quite a lot of puzzles you are going to have to solve. Either you love em or don't. I 
 personally found that on more than one occasion I just wanted the puzzle to be done because it 
 seemed like a long time since I last blasted something.
  
  The puzzles are of good quality though, and will require you to use everything at your disposal. 
 There are sure to be one ore two that will have you stumped for a while.
  
  Another thing MP3 has going for it are its Boss fights. Bosses are quite huge making fighting them 
 quite fun.
  
  GRAPHICS
  These are the best graphics I have seen on the Wii thus far. Everything is crisp and clean and 
 well done. Still won't have you ogling the graphics.. they aren't that good. But at least you don't 
 feel like your playing a last gen console.
  
  SOUND
  Good, not much to report here.
  
  CONTROLS
  These are what give this game any fun at all. It's great to aim at the screen to 
 blast bad guys, it's even cooler to grab onto one of their shield and with a jerking motion rip 
 it from their hands.
  
  All in all the work and respond well with my only complaint here would be what felt like the constant 
 flipping through screens to do his or that... I guess a person gets used to that after staying 
 with a game for a while but meh, I found it as a turn off initially.
  
  VALUE
  Buy it used. You probably won't find yourself plugging it in all that much after you have beaten 
 it, and with no multiplayer to back it up, you'll soon find it collecting dust.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheese_Wow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Metroid prime 3 is the latest installment in the Prime series. 
  This time, with more innovative controls and closure to the story, its never felt so good to play 
 as a woman in hevy armor XD But seriously.... on to the review.
  
  Graphics 5/5 - *has heart attack* wow is that really the wii on screen? Yes it is, without a doubt 
 the best graphics on the wii. Not as good as the 360 or ps3, but to nintendo fans, thats pretty 
 good compared to before. The environments seem more alive than before, and the Voice acting isn't 
 half bad either, (how the voice acting has to do with graphics puzzles me too)
  its like red vs blue, when they talk they mainly just bob their heads (ooh, thats how) . A nice 
 change from the the previous games, is the fact that it is a more open area. You don't feel as 
 though you are traveling though a tunnel the whole game, and most of the time you can see little 
 creachers moving around in the distance.
  
  Gameplay 5/5 - At first, its kinda iffy about how the wii mote will fit all of the features the 
 previous prime games have done, but they managed to pull this off. Gameplay is smooth, there are 
 no loading screens, and using the wii mote to aim and shoot allows for more precise shooting, and 
 free aim while locked on! Boss Battles are very simmilar to the old metroid games... as in, its 
 not just run in, cannon blazing, fire at anything that moves. Nope, first you must scan it to figure 
 out what, and where it is weak. After blasting that for a while, you can then shoot at it like 
 a maniac. Some enemies as you may have seen by now, require you to use the nunchuck to pull/and 
 or rip their shields/and or body parts off. Though the controls take a good 5 min. to get used 
 to, jumping up and fireing a rain of engergy balls will soon become second nature. But lets not 
 forget about the New hypermode shall we? In short: hypermode allows you to sacrifice 1 energy tank 
 to become pretty much godly. You are infulnerable during this time, and your attack doubles. Be 
 cautious though, if you let the bar atop, fill to the red point, its game over. 
  
  Single player 4/5 - Well seeing as how there is no multiplayer, its pretty obviouse that the single 
 player should be great. The only problem i found with the single player is that it was too linear. 
 Had this been like the previous Games, you could have spent about 10 more hours exploring the game, 
 but i guess the producers wanted to apeal to the casual gamer more.... AGAIN... but other than that, 
 its a great single player. In all, if you are a vet to the series, it should take about 8-11 hours 
 to beat. Virgins to the game will find it around 10 - 15 hours. And people with out hands will 
 find that they should seriously not have chosen a Wii. (ya that was bad i know : ( )
  
  Multiplayer 0/5 - ........ DIDN'T YOU HEAR ME BEFORE, THERE IS NO MULTIPLAYER!!!! probably for the 
 better
  
  Replay value 3/5 - Yes it is a shorter story this time, but it is still tiresome playing through 
 it multipule times. All in all, its good for mabey 2 or 3 runs, but it just kinda looses its lust 
 after that.
  
  So anyway there you have it! The final Part in the trilogy is over.... it was a nice ride while 
 it lasted. Those who are prime fans will find this MUST BUY, as well as the casual gamer. 
  
  For these reasons, we give Metroid prime 3: corruption.... a 9.75/10
  
  o=== [] =======  Reviewed 
 by Sun Assassins
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangstaa9
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 corruption is a above average shooting game I wish I can say more but I can't. 
 The start of the game is kinda boring and theres not enough shooting. You know those Wii and DS 
 games that try to use the touch screen or the motion sensoring a lot and end up over using it that 
 what happened to this game. Despite that it's still a great game with a lot of shooting and rolling 
 around in a ball. If you're a fan of this series or just like shooting games ad the Wii you should 
 get this game. I hope hat the wii will come up with more shooting games like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isthisnametakn
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong; I love the Wii. It is a great console with a lot of potential. However, as 
 far as its library goes, it has been somewhat lacking in content. There's no doubt that Nintendo 
 has a nack for making classics, but many of their exclusives never seem to catch on with me. I'm 
 more of a shooter person and was sadly disappointed with their starting lineup for that genre. 
 With that said, I had been watching Metroid in production with great interest. With its arrival 
 the Wii finally feels... whole, now that they have a great shooter. Metroid Corruption is amazing. 
 With its intriguing story, entertaining boss fights, and orginal control scheme it has set a high 
 bar for any future Wii shooter.
  
  Good
  
  - The control setup is flawless. Believe it or not, I wasn't "in love" with the Wii remote untill 
 I played this game. Sure it was fun for party games but I could never play it for hours like I 
 would with the Xbox. While I wouldn't say it makes analogue controls obsolete for shooters (like 
 that one demo guy said) it adds a brilliant twist and makes the game much more immersive. At first 
 I was afraid the sensitivity would be too high, but it turned out rather nice. The feel was perfect.
 
  -The story was very captivating. I liked the corruption twist. That this phazon that you use to 
 make you stronger is actually a symbiont trying to take you over is a neat concept. And that all 
 these, once decent, bounty hunters get corrupted by it is cool. It adds "conflict"- sort of like 
 the venom thing in Spiderman.
  -Action! It was good. I loved fighting the space pirates. Everything from the guns/missles, using 
 the Phazon, to the grapple line was awsome. Using the grapple to yank off an enemy's armor is very 
 satisfying. And while I've never been much for boss fights, this game handled them well. They were 
 fun and not insanely hard like in some games, though I did have to refer to the guide ocassionally.
 
  -The game had cool level designs. While they integrated a lot of puzzles and stuff, just looking 
 at the enviornment, they looked neat.
  
  Bad
  
  - I'm a shooter; not a thinker. So when I get a game that is in the FPS genre, I'm not looking 
 for puzzles. While I'm not saying that a shooter with puzzles couldn't possibly be entertaing to 
 anyone, I'm saying that I didn't find them entertaining. Sorry, Nintendo.
  - There was also a lack of long firefights. Sure the boss fights could get very intense, but the 
 main gameplay didn't have enough shooting in it to suit me.
  - Everything else in the sound bit being great, the music didn't do much for me. When you first 
 pop it in you hear this eary music that sounds so hauntingly cool and you think, "Sweeet." But 
 the in-game music was just boring. And while sound, itself, isn't something that I pay close attention 
 to in a game, music is. So this was mildly dissapointing.
  
  
  With all its minor faults, this game is still amazing. I'd recommend it to any Wii owner. It is 
 hands down the best shooter that the console has at the present.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallen-Emanuel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This games is a must have for any kind of gamer. Once again we see our so loved Samus starring 
 in yet another must have shoot 'em up game, and this time, better looking and more powerful than 
 ever. 
  
  The characters have good graphics but nothing really to write home about. What is most beautiful 
 about this work of art though is the backgrounds and settings which create an atmosphere that make 
 you feel like you're living the impossible. This and the Wii remote put together mix together to 
 make a game that makes you feel like you are actually in the game, shooting the aliens and exploring 
 the MP galaxy. This time the game also engages you in an interesting storyline witch makes you 
 want to play it for ever and ever, witch can be a problem since you will get tired of holding the 
 Wii remote up after 30mins-1hour. 
  
  The only let down i can think of about the game is not having a multi-player mode or a just a minigame 
 mode (like "capture the flag" and "king of the hill". none the less this is still a very good game 
 and overall a close to perfect product
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HumanIce2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  since I bought Prime 2, my first 3D Metroid game I've never really been a 3D Metroid player and 
 I mostly ignored them because I don't like FPS.
  but I kind-of wanted some Metroid because there hasn't been a 2D Metroid since Zero Mission.. I 
 kinda played this game for the first time while playing Metroid Prime 1, and I won the first one 
 days before the 3rd one because it's a lot shorter, but it's really nothing THAT better than Metroid 
 Prime 3.. I think Metroid Prime 3 is BETTER than Prime 1, Prime 1 was short, so you'll play that 
 one much more often, but HELL Metroid Prime 3 at least has some nice Ridley boss battles and fun 
 cut scenes.. I've never in my life seen Samus just puge in a middle of a Metroid game and make 
 you feel bad for her. so you pretty much try to be nice to Samus in the third game and friggin' 
 do your best to dodge these annoying bombs Space Pirates always throw at you.. but when it comes 
 to those, do not try to shoot it out of you because it just wont work.. go change into a morph 
 ball and that way you CAN get it out of you and survive instead of beginning from the start.
  but there happen parts in this game when you get stuck and everything gets REALLY boring.. like 
 the parts when you were suppose to TALK to the good version of Mother brain.. whatever it's name 
 was, and how were you suppose to know? I walked around for 6 hours searching everything through 
 the huge ENTIRE galaxy you had on the map.. but in the end I just had to go to gamefaqs. com and 
 get help from someone else.. urrghh.
  but the part when you go and 12 teammates help you out to get to Omega Ridley for no reason was 
 a really good Metroid experience I haven't had ever in a Metroid game. I didn't like the beginning 
 and how much random people were talking to you. but at that part when you've been through the game 
 for many hours you somehow want some action like that.. and that is what you'll get.
  Omega Ridley is the reason this game is good.
  Meta Ridley is the reason Metroid Prime was good.
 
  no Ridley was the reason Metroid Prime 2 sucked.
  it's all about Ridley battles!! and Metroid Prime 3 had many of them! some extreeeeemly amazing 
 Ridley fights for fans. but right now they are getting boring. and Metroid Prime 3 seemed to have 
 too much of things that created too much freedom. Metroid Prime is short in a fair planet and you 
 always know where to go. Metroid Prime 2 is confusing and you NEVER know where to go, and the dark 
 world helps a lot. Metroid Prime 3 had all kinds of different new planets and that made the game 
 soooo big that it will take you the longest time to beat of all the other Prime games.
  and it's a good feeling when you get to the part you see that old wrecked space station again where 
 you were at beginning of the game.. only this time, no people and only ruins... coooool...
  but I hate that rail planet when you go always on these time-sucking rides, it was not interesting 
 and it was just boring. only one part was a little.. weird, where you went to the place that looked 
 VERY much like Tourian from Metroid, Super Metroid and Zero Mission.. you were walking around in 
 confusing rooms filled with Metroids and you WERE pretty much expecting a Brain boss battle, but 
 rather like the 1st evil brain, then another in the end, but all you got was a upgrade and energy 
 tank.
  overall.. this game was fine. it's just as good as Metroid Prime 1 even if it had a lot of Boss 
 battles.. it was just too big and too long. so I think it's just as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dese1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  MP3 where do i start...
  
  rented first then decided to buy, after buying regreted the decision, foreced myself to play untl 
 i thought i got my moneys worth, ended up enjoying it alot
  
  well it only lasts about 20 or so hours so i wouldnt take it to heart to say that its not as epic 
 as it was supposed to be, and a little easy at times
  
  oh and btw, boss fights are usually annoying and frustrating, why do so many people claim "excellent 
 boss fights"?
  
  but the gameplay is really fun as it progresses plus there is alot to discover
  
  and the graphics 
 although nice arent quite up to par considering galaxy came out only a few months later
  CONTROLS WORK GREAT!!!!!
  
  graphics = 7.5
  gameplay = 9.5
  controls = 10
  replayablilty 
 =8
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyauau
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:56 am PT
Review:  To make long story short, Metriod Prime has scored the highest level to heart as a single player 
 game, follow by the only multiplayer game Metroid Prime 2 now this game has everything you want 
 but for the price of the level design.
  
  Compare to the last two games, this game makes good use with the Wii remote like any other games. 
 Even the boss fights makes good with all these toys and even have temporary invincibility.
  
  The graphics is as good with the last two games the ability to explore the world of say like 
 space aliens.
  
  The sound is the biggest to say the least that the voice acting from Samus has added another and 
 probably the first game of Nintendo when voice acting has come to good use. As always the music 
 is an epic Titanic.
  
  Lastly like the two games, this game has the lasting value of Zelda.
  
  I have nothing left 
 to say except that this game is now in the hall of fame with the other Nintendo classics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toshido201
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  The graphics are incredible. I have a 75 inch plasma screen TV that I sit 10 feet from while playing 
 games. Nothing compares to the sheer detail in this game. I've played Halo 3 on this TV, and it 
 is still hard to say which one was more beautiful.
  
  They might have overemphasized the walking noises some, but the sound is just as amazing as the 
 graphics. I've played many games, and watched quite a few movies, in 5.1 surround, but so far I 
 can't find one that has immersed me more.
  
  If you like first person shooters, then this is the game for you. I highly suggest that no one, 
 not even people new to first person shooters, use any control scheme other than advanced. Several 
 of my friends played the game using one of the other schemes and none of them could control Samus 
 until we switched to advanced. The sheer control over aiming is amazing. In a lot of FPSs, you 
 end up walking sideways for a considerable amount of time. In MP3, you still walk sideways, but 
 somehow you don't when you're outside of battle.
  
  A lot of the creatures are familiar. From shriekbats to those exploding-gas-ball-things (sorry, 
 I can't remember what they're called) . The new creatures all feel just as at home though. The creatures 
 all hang out in a place that makes sense and none seem to have a personal vendetta against Samus, 
 except the bosses.
  
  The bosses are all interesting and varied. There are a couple repeat bosses, but you only repeat 
 them once. As would be expected, all the bosses require using your new item and a feat of timing 
 so awesome that only Samus could pull it off. All bosses give you a very satisfied feeling watching 
 them fall.
  
  The story is the best in the series. Samus doesn't lose her power-ups at the beginning of the game. 
 This time she starts without them. This doesn't get in the way of the rest of the game though. 
 A metroid fan should not feel disappointed in their story direction.
  
  Overall, Metroid Prime 3 is a game worth playing, no matter who you are.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  The Metroid Series is roundly known for its excellence. From Metroid Zero Mission to Super Metroid 
 to Metroid Prime this series rarely let's its fans down... if ever. Prime 3 is no different. Now, 
 its not prefect, but its shortcomings are so minimal that they don't do anything but add character 
 to a beautiful masterpiece of a game. 
  
  The Good:
  The gameplay the gameplay the gameplay! Man, are these Wii controls tight. I was very worried that 
 the point and shoot fundamentals of the game would be Prime 3's downfall but Retro took their time 
 and got it right. These control are so good that they make the game more Immersive than the series 
 always was. Samus's new lock and strafe while still aiming at stuff mode is perfect for the FPS 
 genre and will become a new standard of gameplay. You Gunship is finally being used as just that 
 a gunship. It can pick things up, drop bombs and even save your game. This is a welcome change 
 that hopefully leads to further use of the gunship in future games. Maybe an adventure shooter 
 or even a top down space fighter game on the DS. The morph-ball puzzles are still there with new 
 twists here and there and the visors again aid you in your quest. Visually, Metroid is the best 
 looking Wii game to date and the different planets with their distinctive art styles add to the 
 authenticity of the game. Anyone who played either of the first two games will be overly pleased 
 with the polish and care used in Corruption's overall aesthetic. The Grapple Beam has turned into 
 an all around tool for multiple uses and becomes crucial to the advance of the game and the collection 
 of the games many hidden upgrades. Corruption has a good number of extras one of the funnest being 
 the inclusion of bumper sticker for your ship. Collecting the tokens in game gives you "money" 
 to purchase bonus features, which adds to the replay value at least a little. 
  
  The Bad... If you can call it that:
  The voice acting, while good, seems really out of place at 
 first, and the inclusion of secondary characters takes away some of the charisma of Dark Samus. 
 Also, if you add more ship duties and the ability to travel between planets, it would help to have 
 more than like 4 and a half planets to visit, With both Metroid Prime Gamecube games being set 
 on a single planet moving the setting to multiple planets makes you feel like the adventure should 
 be longer... sadly, it is not. There's no multiplayer at all nothing online and nothing offline. 
 Echoes, multiplayer may not have been great but having the Morph-ball in a death-match was crazy 
 fun. The tokens are fun to use but the only way to get Green ones are through the use of Friend 
 credits which seems silly if the game doesn't support Wi-fi play why would you really need friends 
 online. And finally, Metroid Prime 3 is way too easy, Prime 1 was a torture-fest at some points 
 and Prime 2 was a great challenge that worked out my fingers. Prime 3 was much easier than it predecessors. 
 
  
  Overall, Retro has done it again, over the past 7 years they have transformed the almost forgotten 
 Metroid franchise into their own universe of Sci-fi playground-em. I can't imagine what Retro will 
 do next... (hopefully Metroid: Dread) but whatever they do I hope Nintendo holds on to them because 
 they are freaking golden. Hey Nintendo! don't pull a Rare and drop them at the top of their game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanboy-buster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Every once in a while, there are a few games that set up a bar wether in gameplay, graphics, physics, 
 controls, etc.
  In this case, the controls in MP3 make the game. Not only because it is easier to point. They are 
 more accurate than the rest of the console shooters with almost the same level of sensitivity as 
 in a PC.
  
  Metroid Prime3: Corruption is the last episode of the Prime Trilogy based on the Metroid univerese 
 in which our favourite bounty hunter Samus Aran finally gets to defeat Dark Samus. 
  
  Samus is awaked from a cryogenic sleep in her spaceship and summoned before the Aurora Unit, a 
 large brain-like creature which controls almost anything in the federation. 
  The Aurora unit has a request for Samus, to inyect an antivirus to the infected Aurora Units in 
 the Federation Solar system, which have been infected by Phazon.
  
  And here is where the story begins to unfold and the adventure starts.
  
  The game looks beautiful 
 and very detailed, every planet has its own ecosystem with living creatures, environments, etc. 
 There is a lot going on in the screen other than shooting. The graphics look well above the previous 
 Prime games because it adds particle effects and bloom effects while keeping the picture sharp 
 and a very few jagged edges. It is certainly one of the best looking games for the Wii.
  
  But as we know, the Wii isnt meant to have beautiful, HD graphics, it is about the way you control 
 the game. And here is where Prime 3 makes an stellar appeareance.
  There are 3 levels of sensitivity, but when you buy it make sure you put the controls in advanced 
 so you get the most fluid, accurate expierence in a console game. The control scheme is basically 
 movien with the Analogue in the nunchuck and shooting with the Wiimote pointer. There are also 
 some places where special gestures have to be made in order to continue with the adventure and 
 they add immersion to the game. This gestures are fluid most of the time, but there are some place 
 in which there may be some mistakes in the mapping.
  
  Prime 3 doesnt have online, let alone multiplayer, which somehow harms the replay value, but with 
 a lot of environments to explore and 3 difficulty levels, there is a plenty of things to do in 
 the game. Like completing it with 100%.
  
  In conclusion, Corruption is a must buy for any Wii owner and Metroid fan since it brings back 
 some nostalgia but it is at the same time fresh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flawie
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  Metroid. A word that can get any old school gamer and/or Nintendo nerd to go haywire. The adventures 
 of Samus Aran have, since the beginning on the NES, defined and reformed platforming/adventure 
 gaming and many consider Metroid to be some of the best games ever. I have never agreed and I still 
 dont.
  
  Metroidgames have always had the same major problems that has really made it hard for me to play 
 through even one of Samus adventures and Im going to start this review by going through all of 
 them since most of these points are still valid and very appearant in Metroid Prime 3. For starters 
 Metroidgames lack the ability to motivate the player. For some people its enough to be dropped 
 off on some random planet and be expected to for some reason explore it. For me its not enough. 
 Why should I care about this random planet? My ship lands on this remote planet and I go "sigh, 
 what am I doing here and why should I care?" In every Metroidgame up until now the developers thought 
 it would be enough to count on the players will to explore random caves. In MP3 they have for the 
 first time introduced a real story and objectives to complete. You have voiceacting, sidecharacters 
 and a screen that clearly shows you what youre supposed to be doing. Theres an actual story that 
 tries to give you some wind in your sails and it kinda works. I finally feel I have some story 
 to back up my actions and I finally have a reason to explore these random cavesystems. The metroidseries 
 2nd big problem has been that you never know where youre supposed to be going. A serious attempt 
 at completing Super Metroid or some older Metroidgame always ends up with me screaming like a raving 
 madman, spitting and tearing my hair at the TV because theres no more places I can explore and 
 I still havent found what I was supposed to be finding. Ive been backtracking for hours and and 
 I still cant get further into the game. Again this is finally adressed for the first time ever 
 in MP3. Objectives! You are told where on the map you should go next and what is waiting for you 
 there. a HUGE step in the right direction. Finally I dont have to run around until I fall asleep 
 trying to figure out what the developers were thinking screaming "WHAT WERE THEY THINKING?!!" as 
 I go into the same cavesystem for the 23rd time to see if I can blow up another random wall with 
 my morphball.
  
  The 3rd problem of the Metroidgames is Samus Aran. Many people scream like teenage popculture-junkie 
 girls with 3 layers of mascara and a new push-up bra every day when they see Samus leave her ship 
 with the camera showing her blue eyes through the visor. Again, thats not enough for me. Samus 
 has always lacked personality and humanity. Something that turns me off alot. You dont know who 
 you are, WHY you are, and where you came from unless you dig into loads of internet reading. Samus 
 has never showed any emotions and that spacesuit pretty much makes her into a boring robot with 
 lovely eyes. So I am again very greatful that Retro has finally realized this. This time around 
 you get to see Samus without her suit and/or helmet several times and shes got this infection spreading 
 through her body corrupting both her mind and her humanity. Samus struggle against herself is a 
 huge injection of humanity and personality and the sidekicks that talks to her, calls her "Sammy" 
 and stuff like that works pretty well to give me a feeling that I am actually a person.
  
  BUT. Because there is a "but" here. This dosent work all the way. As you progress through the game 
 it starts to feel more and more like the old games and after 13 or so hours Im stuck again and 
 I havent seen a cutscene or another sidecharacter for hours. The feeling of loneliness and boredom 
 hits me in the face again. The first 8-10 hours of this game are really great and at points I finally 
 feel "wow, this is a great game" but the efforts Retro studios has put into the game wears thinner 
 and thinner as you play it and the cool characters, cutscenes, storysegments and cinematic moments 
 dosent deliver enough and again I end up with what Cliffy B calls "the shelfmoment" where the gamer 
 (me) hasnt been motivated enough to continue through the game so he/she takes the game out of the 
 console and puts it on the shelf to play something else. This is really the worst failure of all. 
 A developer should be very concerned with making the gameworld so engrossing that the player wants 
 to explore it and they have to give the player carrots to constantly drive him onwards.
  
  When it comes to graphics and sound, again Im not overly enthusiastic. Its OK, thats for sure, 
 but its nothing special. I dont completely agree with the graphical designers at Retro. I think 
 the world youre exploring feel very cluttered and uneven. They have just put in every kind of 
 shape and color imaginable in every room. Theres no consistency to the environments. its like they 
 wanted "that and that and that and that" to be in the games environments and they just end up with 
 a mess! The same thing goes for the monsterdesigns. Again they pass as OK monsters but nothing 
 more. Theyre just a mess of wierd shapes and colors making me yawn at their design. Technically 
 its a Wii game so.... I guess its a good looking Wii game, one of the better looking ones but I 
 have no doubt you can do more than this with the Wii hardware. 
  
  The thing that this game does above avarage however, are the controls. After playing this game 
 I never ever want to go back to playing dual-stick shooter on PS3 or 360. I played this game for 
 a couple of hours then tried to play HL2-Episode 1 on my 360 and went "eeew, whats wrong with the 
 controls". The controls in MP3 are a wet dream. Its like your thoughts are direcly transferred 
 to the game, you never ever have to think, you just look around and shoot by slightly moving your 
 wrists. This game is really what they had in mind when they designed the Wii. Its like playing 
 with mouse and keyboard but even better. 
  Another thing that the game does really good and that makes me play for as long as I did are the 
 bosses. Big, intimidating bosses with complex patterns and different kinda tricky weakspots. They 
 are always a blast to fight and some of them really makes you scream of joy when they go down.
 
  
  Overall this is a big injection of vitamins to the Metroidgames that managed to capture even the 
 biggest of metroidhaters (me) for a very long time due to the more cinematic, story & actiondriven 
 type of gameplay that this game aims for. The controls are a dream, bosses are fun and Samus manages 
 to captivate me with her fragility and beauty this time around but at the end of the day I didnt 
 finish the game because I really didnt want to know what happened next and I started to think just 
 like in the old SNES days, "sigh not another cave, not another corridor e. t. c", and that says alot... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitch_no_freak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  I really liked this game. The graphics, the sound, the atmosphaire... all was perfect.
  What i really really really like is the Scanning. That is what mades of a game METROID!
  And 
 also the handling was very good. No other ego-shooter was to handle like this at this time. For 
 me et was even the best handling for egoshooters.
  The story is the only thing which was not perfect. I'd liket when they hat made more inputs... 
 but ok
  And also the final fight was not as good as the game... so i can't give the game 10 of ten
  
 
  I give the game score: ---  9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STICK_ON_MARIO
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is VERY incredible. It takes great use of the Wii's features, for instance you can use 
 your Mii's in some features. While the game is short it makes up in controls and graphics. If you 
 dont oen this game and you have a Wii you MUST go out and buy it right now. Even if you dont own 
 the first two its all around just plain fun. It revolutionized the way first person shooters function. It 
 even changed the look of Space Pirates and the P. E. D gave samus an amazing new look. Probably the 
 best new mode about the game is P. E. D. a. k. a Hper Mode. If you have a Wii and have the money buy 
 it. What are you waiting for??!?!?? Go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SfGiants11
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  I played the first Metroid Prime after reading the raving reviews that it recieved for the atmoshperic 
 depth, complex level design and engaging exploration. I'll admit, I was a bit disappointed by Metroid 
 Prime (simply put, it just got boring to me) but I could still see why everyone else was calling 
 it the greatest gamecube game. I beat Metroid Prime, bought Echoes, and found myself getting so 
 bored by the second game that I couldn't even finish it. Corruption is leagues better than Echoes, 
 but it still falls way short. I just didn't have much fun with it. Reviewers will try to tell you 
 that the story is much improved and engaging. Well, it is improved over Echoes, but this plot is 
 by no means engaging . Corruption does absolutely nothing new in terms of plot- the cutscenes are 
 ho-hum, character development is non-existent and the backstory that develops as you scan lore-data 
 and such is overly simplistic. Come on, this is a sci-fi game. Spend some more time on the plot! 
 Aesthetically this game does a fine job. Technically this is the best looking Wii game thus far, 
 what with the spectacular backdrops and lighting effects. The art design is very good as well, 
 but a few areas of the game start to feel monotonous. I was in awe of Skytown, but most of the 
 other areas in the game do nothing for me ( I don't want to spoil anything, but the second to last 
 planet was almost mind-numbing. Ironically, this is the area that most reviewers seem to enjoy 
 the most...) . The sound effects are nice and the music is just okay- nothing special. Finally, 
 the gameplay. This is the area of the game that I was referring to when I said that Corruption 
 had an identity crisis. Is it a Halo-esque, story driven action game or is it an exploration based, 
 first person adventure game like the first Prime? The answer is both, and this is a bad thing. 
 The action segments in this game (of which there are many) are just plain unsatisfying. I think 
 this may have to do with the fact that there is no array of weapons to choose from ( just the one 
 arm cannon and missiles) , and also because the enemies are so stupid. There's no challenge, just 
 point and shoot until the enemies explode. But then how are the exploration segments of the game? 
 In the first Prime the satisfaction came from the feeling that you were alone on some far off planet, 
 basically exploring every nook and cranny as if it were a tangible world. There isn't much of that 
 here because the locations are just so fragmented, and there isn't much of a story line to tie 
 it all together. The first hour or so of the game feels awesome, filled with loads of wow, this 
 is so cool moments, but it doesn't take much for the excitement to settle down. I will say, however, 
 that the boss fights are inventive and puzzling. It took me a while to figure out how to bring 
 most of them down, and then even after that there was a challenge in execution. The problem is, 
 the vast majority of the game does not revolve around boss fights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime was a revolutionary game for the Gamecube back in 2001, or something. I found myself 
 comparing that and Halo a lot. I liked Metroid Prime more because I felt it had more of a scifi-based 
 feel to it than Halo. Halo just had superb multiplayer though (but I still love the game) . Metroid 
 Prime 3: Corruption has the best feel and the best control of any First Person Adventure I've ever 
 played. So interactive that I can't even describe it. The graphics in the game are the second best 
 so far for the Wii (Super Mario Galaxy being the first) . They are slightly better than the Gamecube. 
 Of course, if you are familiar with the series, then you know it is not just an FPS, it is a First 
 Person Adventure.
  
  This is a short review, but I really can't explain much more of the game. If you like these kinds 
 of games, then there is no reason for you, if you are a Wii owner, to purchase it. By the, this 
 game would better than Halo 3, in my opinion, if it had more content to the game (characters, better 
 weapons, POSSIBLY a multiplayer function of SOME kind) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  And the final statement of the Prime series comes! Right at the introduction you see what's coming, 
 an epic and totally worthy Metroid game, the music and the introduction itself are great, they 
 bring a thrilling felling right at the start, new characters are introduced, new areas, and of 
 course new weapons!
  
  The graphics are sharp, not the best you can see comparing with others consoles, and maybe not 
 even fulfilled by all the power Wii can show, but still beautifully crafted with the visuals more 
 shiny than ever, the light and bright effects were nicely done, and comparing with the previous 
 GameCube games, graphically speaking this may be the most noticeable improvement since the improvements 
 were pretty much little details.
  
  The controls are the top innovation in the game, of course possible by the Wii's controls, and 
 it fits perfectly in the game! My fear was that the controls would become imprecise and uncomfortable, 
 but that's not the case fortunately, the controls are tight and incredibly well-responsive, and 
 the adaptations made for turning the main mechanisms possible actually fits perfectly, since we 
 don't have a backup control stick and a digital pad in a very comfortable position for the bean 
 and visor change, and now the bean change is definitive and the visor change occurs when you press 
 and hold the - button; missiles are shot by pressing down in the d-pad (the easiest button to reach) , 
 hyper mode in the + and so on.
  
  Sound effects and music is something to be considered in a Metroid Prime, and like Metroid Prime 
 2, this game fail a little at this aspect, it's not really bad, but most of the later moments the 
 music almost feels like it's not there, sound effects always great as usual, but the music is not 
 memorable and addictive as the first Metroid Prime, more at the beginning in Bryyo you can listen 
 to some great music, some kind of thrilling obscure chant, and it's great, not holding up until 
 the end though, making you stand there wishing for more musics like that.
  
  Another bad thing about the game is the length, it's a very short game, even comparing with the 
 other Metroid Prime, it's easily not just the shortest of the tree, but the easiest as well; but 
 the good thing is that it demands a second playthrough, maybe even more, to get 100%, and good 
 thing, now you get to keep your scans after beating the game, you start in the same file and stay 
 with logs, creatures, pirates data you have, but the items you have to get again anyway. Another 
 good thing is phazon, remember how annoying it was? Not anymore because, like the name of the game 
 suggests, Samus is now corrupted and phazon recovers your energy now!
  
  We can not forget about multiplayer, and better, the lack of multiplayer, yes, even though the 
 second game had a simple multiplayer mode, this one not even that, a shame because it could use 
 the internet connection for some good online action, the main focus of the series is not multiplayer 
 anyway, but we could use an online multiplayer mode, even more now that we don't need to keep closing 
 the aim to shoot while moving, we could really use an online multiplayer, but truth be said, the 
 single player holds up well the game.
  
  The main mechanisms of the game are there, energy tanks, missile expansions, hi-fi atmosphere, 
 lots of rooms with their respective names, mighty bosses to be defeated and all you would expect 
 from a Metroid Prime, if you played the previous games and enjoyed them you can't go wrong with 
 Corruption. This game does not come close to the piece of art that the first Metroid Prime is, 
 but is better than the second one, and even if you never played a Metroid Prime, it's always a 
 good time to start! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveXLR
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  With amasing controls you can't go wrong with Metroid Prime 3 Corruption. It definatly uses the 
 Wii's ability to use motion as controls. From aiming to using the grapple beam motion is used. 
 Along with the edition of entering hypermode whenever you want. We all know that in previous Metroid 
 Prime games hyper mode was achives through standing in a good old phazon pool and unleashing your 
 rage on the unsuspecting enemies you face. Well, now you can do that same thing whenever you want 
 after obtaining the P. E. D suit, but be aware of its affects. Not only can you enjoy the P. E. D any 
 time you want there are also plenty of puzzles and boss fights. As puzzles go these mainly are 
 only passable through power-ups gained as you progress through the game. the same thing goes for 
 most boss fights. so over all this is a must-have for hardcore gamers and Nintendo fans and most 
 definatly deservs a solid 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is worth every penny and should be added to any Wii library. Thought 
 I'd get the obvious out of the way first.
  
  Metroid is also sports the best first-person controls of any Wii game to date. It also adds in 
 a few gameplay elements, mainly the use of Samus' ship as more than a save station and an expanded 
 role from the Grapple Beam. It even adds in credits, tokens you can earn throughout the game by 
 scanning creatures and lore, and by defeating bosses.
  
  Make no mistake, Metroid is a very immersive game. Featuring voice work, plenty of context sensitive 
 motion controls, and several areas to explore, all with it's own atmosphere.
  
  Everything about this game seems to be bigger and more complex than previous Prime games. The puzzles 
 are more difficult to solve, and many of the creatures can conievably take you down if you're not 
 careful. The boss battles are also with larger enemies who are also more complex to take down, 
 often having as many as 5 or 6 changes in the fight. Despite this added complexity, the strangest 
 thing about the boss fights is that most are easier this time around. I only had issues taking 
 down two bosses. Both of which I found more difficult than the final showdown.
  
  Out of my current collection (disclaimer: some are actually the family's ) Metroid is easily the 
 best looking and most fluid. That being said, not everything is picture perfect here. Beside the 
 boss battles, the biggest sore spot is in the context sensitive controls. Typically when you need 
 to move the Wiimote away or toward you there is an issue in noticing that the Wiimote is moving 
 in either direction. Despite my own gripes, Metroid is something that Wii gamers should get and 
 will enjoy immensely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoldOnHold
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  When Metroid Prime 3 was unveiled at E3 2006, it bought forth plenty of praise, but also some skepticism. 
 Many commented that the controls felt very smooth and precise, and some said that the graphics 
 were of early Gamecube caliber. Even so, fans of the series were hotly anticipating this game, 
 eager to control Samus with the Wii remote. Now, more than two years later and after several delays, 
 the finale of the Prime trilogy stands tall as one of the finest action-adventure games of all 
 time.
  
  Corruption follows Samus Aran and her fight against the ever popular Space Pirates. Things go horribly 
 wrong, however, when the Galactic Federation encounters gigantic infestations hurtling into several 
 planets, which Samus is tasked to destroy. This leads to an epic voyage all across the galaxy. 
 Pretty soon, players discover the meaning of Metroid Prime 3s subtitle; Samus finds herself infected 
 by a virus called Phazon, which slowly corrupts her internally and allows her to enter hypermode. 
 This is sort of a double-ended blade; in hypermode, Samuss attacks are extra powerful, but at 
 the cost of precious health. Furthermore, if she stays in this mode for too long, she becomes corrupted, 
 and she might lose her life permanently. The story gets much more complex, and is full of twists 
 and turns.
  
  The game is played almost entirely in a first-person perspective. Many will call it a first-person 
 shooter, but it simply is not. Granted, you will spend a lot of your time shooting, but you will 
 spend equally as much time exploring the massive environments and solving ingenious puzzles. Samus 
 gets several upgrades throughout the course of the game, including the classic ice missile and 
 new abilities such as calling in your ship to perform an air-strike. Corruption also has several 
 fantastic boss fights. These boss fights are epic in scope and will generally force you to use 
 all the tools at your disposal, always in an intuitive way. As mentioned before, the developers 
 did a fantastic job getting across the adventure element of Metroid Prime 3. Planets are always 
 massive, offering plenty of opportunities to explore, which of course, is always rewarding. You 
 will always find energy or missile expansions, but even rarer are the tidbits of lore and information, 
 filling in the ever rich backstory. Perhaps even more satisfying than the exploration are the numerous 
 puzzles. They will definitely lead to some thought, and will always some new gameplay element you 
 just discovered. They never feel outrageous or nonsensical however; its always logical. In short, 
 the puzzles are nothing short of amazing.
  
  Perhaps the single most important aspect (something that truly sets it apart from its predecessors 
 and competitors) of Corruption is the controls. The Wii controller simply works well here. Combat 
 is amazingly fluid and precise with the point-and-shoot scheme, accessible to beginners, but taking 
 practice to master. Also are the various implementations of the power-ups, such as the morph ball 
 and grapple lasso. Even non-combat actions, like activating a scanner or releasing a valve, benefits 
 from the control scheme, and adds to the overall immersion. After spending a good deal of time 
 with this, it will be difficult to return to dual-analog shooters. All Wii first-person shooters 
 simply must emulate this control scheme.
  
  The presentation of the game is simply astounding. The art direction is stellar, for starters. 
 The very talented artists of Retro Studios managed to craft an awe-inspiring galaxy, complete with 
 plenty of lush environments, beautiful textures, and even small details that continually surprise. 
 The flourishing jungles of Bryyo and the intricately detailed Skytown are just some of the many 
 memorable environments. Furthermore, there is plenty of atmosphere, managing to create feelings 
 of foreboding and triumph and are always appropriate. The music of Corruption also captivates, 
 right from the main menu. There is plenty of great music appropriate for the various environments, 
 as well as constant sound effects, like the whirring of an axle and the grinding of a nail, and 
 the bits and bytes of high-tech surrounding. All of this comes together into a truly immersive 
 experience.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 is not perfect, however. The story, while complex and surprising, never really 
 manages to captivate you. You never get a sense of urgency, never a drive to go the next area to 
 find out whats going to happen. The story trudges along, and while good, youd be too busy getting 
 into the game to care too much. Corruption is the first Prime game to feature voice acting, and 
 it is not too impressive. Its certainly not bad, but you would just expect better from such an 
 epic and hotly anticipated game. All in all, Metroid Prime 3s shortcomings are quite minor. The 
 game simply excels in so many fields. It provides a rich and engrossing adventure that you will 
 have just as much fun exploring than you will have blasting through enemies. Puzzles and boss fights 
 come as great breaks, and reemphasizes the fluidity and intuitiveness of the controls. The presentation 
 is also fantastic, providing for an engaging experience from beginning to end. This is one adventure 
 that you will definitely not want to miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Finally, the finale of the awesome Metroid Prime Series. With 1 and 2 being so great, everyone 
 was hoping 3 would be just as great, well, they wont be disappointed. GRAPHICS The graphics on 
 MP3 (metroid prime 3) are stunning, and not just for wii standard either, they just look nice in 
 general, with some awesome lighting and fire effects and crisp character models with huge land 
 scapes all looking amazing. The best looking Wii game to date, only Mario Galaxy has a chance of 
 looking better this year, and even that will struggle. There is also no slow downs, keeping a solid 
 frame rate, and with loads of great looking, and varied enemies and bosses, this is the game that 
 shows what the wii can really do when publishers try to make things look nice.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound track is also amazing, iv always loved the sound tracks for metroid games, i actually 
 have the intro theme for Metroid Prime 1-3 and super metroid on my I-pod lol. The sound track is 
 epic, and fits in perfectly with what area you are in, and with the addition of Voice Acting, it 
 just sounds great. The best part is that they have kept Samus silent, if they had done that with 
 LoZ TP, it would have been awesome, but who cares. Keeping samus silent adds mystery, and doesnt 
 spoil her hard core character, and plus, having a American dub would sound awful in my opinion.
 
  
  CONTROLS
  
  Lets get one thing straight, to all you people who have wrote The controls are slow, sluggish and 
 crap well how about putting the controls on advanced?? Anyhoo, back to the point. If you put the 
 control method onto advanced, you can move and aim with with the precision that you cannot easily 
 obtain using a analogue stick. And you dont go into spins... iv finished it twice, and have NEVER 
 got into a spin, so if you do, then be ashamed basically, its not hard.
  
  More cool things with the controls are the motion sensitive areas, like some locks on doors require 
 motions with the wii mote that simulate real life motions, which is great to do every time, but 
 they aren't on every door, so it doesn't get boring. The grapple beam is also great, having to 
 fling it out then pull back to rip covers off doors and walls, to pulling off engines from flying 
 robots, theres no end to how useful this upgrade is.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The story in MP3 is about 20 hours long, and is filled with huge bosses, massive levels and great 
 puzzles that challenge you, but never make you think oh my god, this is stupid!!! i want to kill 
 something , which is a fine balance. For the first time possible EVER in a metroid game, Samus 
 does not lose her powers at the start, she starts with most of them, and just keeps on gaining 
 more and more making her more and more powerful. The upgrades include, plasma beam, ice missiles, 
 hyper modes, morph ball, boost ball screw attack and many more.
  
  The game isnt all that easy either. Some people may find that having motion sensing controls makes 
 the game easier, but its that a good thing? Not the easier part, but the fact that having these 
 controls makes playing the game noticeably less nail grindingly hard? i cant explain it well, but 
 basically, the game is just as hard as the others, but the controls are so precise and amazing 
 that it feels so much easier. Which i say is a great thing, and you can always turn up the difficulty 
 cant you?
  
  OVERALL
  
  It would be impossible to say every great thing about this game, so im ending it here, and concluding 
 with this:
  
  With its great graphics, awesome controls, super gimicky stuff that isnt nessasary but you just 
 WANT them in the game, the great story AND the awesome sound track, this is definatly a must buy 
 for any FPS shooter fan that wants something amazing to play. Overall, better than HALO 3 by a 
 long shot, and a must buy for the wii, 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amarant15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  This metroid is probably the best ever made! im not that much into FPS but the metroid prime series 
 can really stick me to the screen like my T-shirt to my body in the summer... (stupid thing to say, i 
 know...)
  I cant really describe what makes this game so special, it's like really being samus, nut just controlling 
 her. i realised that i almost did'nt think about aiming, it felt so natural just to move my hand 
 in the direction of a space pirate and blowing him to smithereens with a missile. i enjoyed scanning 
 almost everything i could, and was quite curios about the history of each planet. The hyper mode 
 gives the game play a pretty cool boost... nothing can stand against me... MUAHAHAAA DIEE!! it just 
 feels awesome.
  I had also wondered about how samus hold the energy beam cannon, but i got the answer along with 
 the X-ray visor...
  The boss battles really test your skill with your gear... i had a rather hard time beating the metroid 
 hatcher because i had no idea of what to do...
  In the end it's just the same as metroid prime 1 and 2... SO WHAT?? i think that's what everybody 
 was expecting! A great and worthy end to an epic trilogy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigfish2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  From the start Metoid prime 3 blew me away. The visuals, the sound, the controls, the gameplay, 
 it has everything and more. The plot is that the evil Dark Samus is infecting the galaxy with phazon. 
 A chemical whcih once it manifests itself will turn you evil and you'll be at the whim of Dark 
 Samus. However both the Galactic federation and the Space pirates are using it for their personal 
 gain. Thet have both used it to create PED packs to be carried by troopers in battle against each 
 other. The PED (Phazon enhancement device) packs once activated send a contolled dose of Phazon 
 through the trropers body giving them much better firepower for a short period of time. Early in 
 the game your character Samus Aran gains the use of this but not in the same way. Her Phazon is 
 being generated by her body so it's highly dangerous and somtimes can't be controlled. Activating 
 the PED is called entering hypermode. The main objective throughout the game is to defeat Dark 
 Smaus and stop the spread of Phazon.
  
  Metroid prime 3 offers the best graphics yet seen on wii. They are clean and crisp and the art 
 style is perfect. With the art style they are better than many 360 and ps3 games to me. It proves 
 that all the arguments about the wii not being able to generate good graphics are completely thrown 
 out of the window. Sound wise it's top notch as well. The sound effects are well recorded and are 
 used at exactly the right moments and the voice work is superb. However as always Samus doesn't 
 utter a word. The games musical score is something else. It's amazing and is only beaten by the 
 music from Twilight princess.
  
  Revolutionary FPS controls enhance the game even further. They set the mark for all future FPS 
 game son the wii and any game that doesn't use them isn't worth buying unless it's controls are 
 somehow even better. The controls are easy to pick up and make Samus' gun arm feel like an extension 
 of your own arm and the wii remote.
  
  Like all other Metroid titles backtracking is present but not as much this time. It doesn't even 
 feel like backtracking it's so well implemented. Visors also play a large part in the game. At 
 the start all you have is the combat visor and scan visor. The combat visor is the regular view 
 but the scan visor allows fr scanning of red and blue items. You can only see the colous with the 
 scan visor enabled. Red items are mission critical but blues ones are not. You'll need to scan 
 to get one hundred percent complete in the game. To get 100% you'll also need every pickup. Pickups 
 are things like energy tanks and missile expansions. Back on the them of visors there are More 
 to collect later on. Visors aren't all there is to upgrade either. You can also upgrade weapons 
 and other items. I won't spoil the game by revealing them but they are very useful and there are 
 plenty to get.
  
  Cutscenes do play a role but thankfully there aren't to many and those that there are, are very 
 well put together and thought out. Set pieces also make into the game. I won't spoil them but some 
 are truly fantastic. Bosses are fantastic as well and you'll need to use all your nounce to beat 
 them as well as a variety of your upgrades.
  
  Upon scanning lore and creatures you will recieve red and blue tokens. You get gold tokens for 
 completing significant obejectives and greent okens from friend vouchers. These tokens are used 
 to purchase items in the shop mode. These range from diaromas to a screenshot mode. You get friend 
 vouchers to send to people in a variety of ways and it's up to you to discover them. The game doesn't 
 suffer from any notable loading times but they are there. The game is clearly loading the next 
 area when doors take a while to open. It's better then a black screen so i'm not moaning.
  
  All in all Metroid prime 3 is a well rounded and captivating experience that every wii owner 
 should be a part of. I'm not even an FPS fan and I loved it so it is truly exceptional and could 
 well be the best game on wii at the moment.
  
  Score= 97% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bauerpower324
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Of all the first person shooters on the wii, Red Steel, Call of Duty 3, Vanguard, ect. No game 
 has ever made me stay up past my bed time like Metroid Prime 3 Corruption. This game would have 
 been a perfect 10/10 if it hadn't been for one thing, no multiplayer. If u don't mind a game not 
 having multiplayer, then get Metroid Prime 3, if u do, then read this first.
  It's been a trend for many years that 1st person shooters should have multiplayer, weither online 
 or off. Look at Halo and Timesplitters, both had amazing multiplayer options, without there multiplayer, 
 the games would have been nothing. Im not saying that metroid prime 3 is nothing, its just that 
 it could have been more. If u have a wii and u r looking for the next best action game, well, here 
 it is, Metroid Prime 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ped101
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Corruption has just broken all records for the Wii. We finally see a game that has 
 used the motion sensors to perfection, not like almost all games that just require a hefty shake 
 once in a while to get through it. The soundtrack is also spectacular, the visuals are breath-taking, 
 and the fun is amazing. It mixes action and puzzles in a very smart way, which leaves both the 
 blood-thirsty and the brainiacs happy. I really loved this game, it is worth buying and putting 
 it on a frame. However i would recommend for some people (mainly Mario fans) that they rent it 
 first because there is quite a lot of backtracking just to find you didn't see that minuscule hatch 
 in the first room, which delayed the gameplay in a bout 30 minutes. All in one: one of my favorite 
 games ever, i seriously recommend you to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guidono123
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  When I was in the store, I saw that I had the choice between Super Paper Mario and this Game. Since 
 I love rpg, Super Paper MArio would have been an excellent choice, but i said, what the hell? Lets 
 buy metroid. SInce the second I started playing I knew it would be great. And it was. Its excellent 
 and inventive boss fights left me scratching my head wondering how to defeat them. And the planet 
 design was great, too. The puzzles where inventive, but a tad easy. And the A. I was sometimes very 
 dum. But the excellent Story makes up for that, and I was pleased that this game had voice acting. 
 It just made the the game more fun! And the graphics showed me what the Wii is capable of doing. 
 Samus had never looked so good.
  
  - But not everything is about his game is perfect. Some energy cell hunting you have to do at the 
 end really bored me and I left the game unplayed for 1 week just beacause of that. Some actions ( 
 like pulling or pushing switches) did not respond well. And that game was too easy. They could 
 have made the difficulty like in Metroid Prime 2...
  
  - In conclusion, this gameis a worthy end to the prime saga, and will grab you when youplay it. 
 If you have a Wii, I reccomend you check this game out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabz_95
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Now before i start, don't call me a fanboy for giving this a ten
  Its just that the game was absolutely perfect for me
  Some people may find the game too hard, 
 but i personally have been looking for a hardcore game and the difficulty is perfect for me in 
 the game.
  At first glance, when you start playing the game just looks amazing! Best looking game on the wii! 
 In your space station if you look outside the windows the galaxy is beautiful and the other space 
 stations look amazing. There are some amazing lighting and fire effects, you can check this out 
 int he beginning when the space pirates crash into your station and cuts off your path.
  And when you save your game, use that to check out the lighting effects, its just amazing. Basically 
 the detail in the walls and the landscapes of the game is just amazing, it will just shock you. 
 Finally a game that shows what the wii an do. The game just looks like a game that the PS2 just 
 can't do. Thats in the face of all the developers who say that the wii is last generation technology 
 because this game just proves those people completely wrong.
  Because i'm using advance controls in the game, the aiming of the wii remote is absolutely perfect 
 and the game just destroys the aiming system for any other FPS on the wii. I suggest that if you 
 aren't using advance controls then you have to use it. Now!
  PLus there are so many extra little things that just add to the gameplay, like when there are motion 
 sensing controls for controlling your ship or for opening certain doors by twisting door handle 
 things. Plus the puzzles with the morph ball are amazing.
  The story is great, there is some good replay value for people who want to play veteran and theres 
 always the friend vouchers.
  Basically what i'm trying to say is
  Buy it, love it, beat it, beat it on veteran and don't be stingy with those friend vouchers.
 
  Gamers looking for a hardcore game on wii, get this (still non-hardcore gamers can still get to 
 grips with this if they try)
  Btw i would have given this game 9.8 if it was not for gamespot's new reviewing system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:08 am PT
Review:  The conclusion to Retro Studios Prime trilogy was a long time in coming. Though initially announced 
 as a launch title fans had to wait nearly a year after the Wii hit the market before they could 
 sink their teeth into Corruption. Metroid Prime 3 was supposed to be the game that revolutionized 
 FPS controls and show Wii owners how good ground-up games for the system could be. The question 
 is, after such a long delay, is the game worth the wait?
  
  In a word, yes. The controls are spot-on, the environments are evocative, and the boss battles 
 are frantic. There is a superb balance between exploration and combat, and the backtracking aspect 
 the series is known for remains although it has been streamlined and tightened up in such a way 
 that getting hopelessly lost is a rarity. This may be a disappointment to some, but what is gained 
 in exchange more than makes up for the slight shift towards linearity.
  
  The games plot isnt going to win any prizes for originality but it serves to keep the action 
 flowing quite nicely. I wont go into any potential spoiler details, but the game features Samus 
 and a collection of fellow bounty hunters being recruited by the Galactic Federation to repel a 
 series of Space Pirate attacks. This mission will take Samus to multiple planets, from the Federation 
 military base on Norion to the stratospheric Skytown on Elysia and beyond.
  
  Each world is unique and graphically impressive and their brilliant design motivates you to seek 
 out all of the hidden passages and secret goodies sprinkled throughout. Much has been made about 
 Retros artists and the praise is well-deserved. It would be truly impressive to see what these 
 guys could do visually on one of the HD systems. As it is, Retro shows that the Wii can produce 
 some gorgeous imagery in its own right.
  
  You cover a lot of terrain during the adventure, and a faulty control scheme would severely handicap 
 your progress. Thankfully, Metroids controls are as good as advertised. Looking and aiming is 
 done with the pointer. Shooting is handled by the A button, the B button jumps, Z locks onto targets, 
 and C transforms Samus into her Morph Ball. The down button fires missiles, and although you get 
 used to it in short order there is no denying that it isnt as intuitive as it should be. The minus 
 button brings up a HUD where you can select from your various visors, and the plus button activates 
 Hypermode. The 1 button brings up the in-game menu and map.
  
  There are three control schemes to choose from. I played the game using the Advanced controls, 
 and I would recommend that setup to anyone new to the game. After an hour of play time it was simple 
 to cruise through the levels with ease. At first I found the setup to be as good as dual-analog 
 but not necessarily better. However, by midway through the game I came to believe that the Wii 
 controls are superior to traditional control. Aiming is a breeze and offers pinpoint accuracy. 
 The game just controls so smoothly that its hard to go back to dual-analog controls. Its not 
 as groundbreaking as dual-analog was when it made its debut, but its a definite improvement. I 
 cant wait to get my hands on future Wii FPS titles.
  
  Those who fear that Prime 3 is too linear now neednt fear. You get lost much less, yes, but what 
 you lose in backtracking is more than made up for in revamped and more enjoyable combat. In the 
 first Prime game, combat was a chore and I normally tried to avoid it as much as I could. Not so 
 in Prime 3. The new controls scheme makes fighting Space Pirates and the various other monsters 
 inhabiting the Metroid universe a blast. Whereas before in Prime 1 it was only fun to fight the 
 bosses, Corruption makes killing the grunts equally desirable. Speaking of bosses Prime 3 has 
 some of the best boss battles Ive experienced in a game for a long time. These battles are also 
 made sweeter by the controls and are an absolute blast to play. They are definitely one of the 
 games highlights.
  
  Corruptions primary gimmick, Hypermode, is also a solid addition. Early on the game you gain the 
 ability to switch in and out of Hypermode while sacrificing an energy cell. Doing so washes out 
 the games color pallet and slows the action slightly in bullet-time style. While activated, Hypermode 
 enhances your attacks and makes killing the games enemies all the easier. Of course, there is 
 a drawback to this ability aside from the loss of health. While in Hypermode, a meter at the top 
 of the screen displays the amount of Phazon you have available for use. Shoot too quickly and the 
 Phazon depletes to a point that takes you out of Hypermode. Since the meter fills on its own you 
 can pace your attacks so as to stay in Hypermode longer, but be warned: do this too long and the 
 ability malfunctions and the meter begins filling much more rapidly. If you fail to expel the Phazon 
 by firing your weapons before the meter fills up you become corrupted and die. It is an interesting 
 (and crucial) ability that is both very cool and very well implemented.
  
  Ive barely scratched the surface of Prime 3. Words cant do this game justice- you have to play 
 it to notice the attention to detail and the effort that went into in. The game is amazingly smooth, 
 the graphics are amazing, and the gameplay is both cerebral and frantic. If you own a Wii then 
 you are missing out if you dont pick this game up. Is it the best game on the system? Perhaps, 
 although Zelda gives it a run for its money. In the end it will come down to taste whether or not 
 you think this game is better than Twilight Princess, but either way its an impressive title that 
 is well worth the price of admission. Nice job Retro. Well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qupidxoxo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  Its one of the best metroid prime games their is, it brings me back to when Metroid prime one came 
 out for the GCN, it was like no otheir game ive experience with top notch graphics tight controlls... thought 
 I have to say it would have been a perect ten if it had multyplayer options but otheir then that 
 this is a pretty one of the best wii titles their is. also the fact that they added voice acting 
 surprise me not perfect though because of the fact that you haft to keep pushing the a button which 
 breaks up the diaolog the cut scenes are a great touch but the coolest feature about the game is 
 missions were you haft to involve youre ship.. so a 9.0 is the grade for this classic ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_sauce
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  Pros: it is a metroid game, great use of wii controls, some items new to metroid series, good action, 
 good puzzles, new perspective on samus, other bounty hunters, use the ship.
  
  Cons: mostly gay music, phazon, don't use the ship for anything cool, annoying near end of game 
 treasure hunt or in this case energy cell hunt, mostly lame new items.
  
  My Rant:
  What ever happened to the cool metroids like in metroid 2 for gameboy? where the game titled metroid 
 was actually about metroids and not only had them in it, but was also all about them and not phazon. 
 Metroid prime was good, but I, personally, didn't like the whole phazon thing. They need to do 
 a zero mission style remake of 2, forget about prime and fusion. The first 3 metroid games and 
 zero mission, where, in my opinion the best in the series. I think having a game like metriod is 
 best in 2-d, having a huge 3-d environment full of secrets is kind of overwhelming, unless you 
 have the time to submerse yourself into the game till you beat it.
  
  Bottom line:
  If you're like me and started on metroid playing the original all night and have played the other 
 prime games this is a must have, all the things in prime are improved greatly and great controls.
 
  I really can't see someone new to the metroid series enjoying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Depending on the sort of gamer you are - and what you want from your Wii - Corruption is either 
 the best game since Zelda or a space adventure that misses the point of Nintendos humble, motion-sensing 
 gizmo. For hardcore gamers and series aficionados, Corruption is a gripping quest that reinvigorates 
 Metroids familiar formula with slick and instinctive controls, allowing players to target monsters 
 by simply pointing at them or swop between items with a gentle flick of the wrist. The stunning 
 visuals - including elaborate, intricately-designed alien worlds and striking special effects - 
 also make Metroid the best-looking game on the Wii, while the labyrinthine plot, oppressive atmosphere 
 and imaginative bosses even give Halo 3 and BioShock a run for their money. But for casual players 
 whose console sessions are limited to p***ed, post-pub bouts of Wii Sports, Corruptions deliberate 
 pace, constant backtracking through areas youve already explored and tedious loading times are 
 exactly the reason you shirked the PS3 and Xbox 360 in favour of Nintendos straightforward approach 
 to gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbertoML
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I must say I was really impressed with this game. I'm not a huge Metroid fan but I enjoyed MP1 
 and 2 very much on the GC and this seemed as a step forward for me. The game, which relied on adventure 
 and TEDIOUS backtracking, has softened this slightly only to make the game more accessible (as 
 RE4 did, which features backtracking as well but slightly softened) .
  
  The story follows the events of MP1 and 2, where Samus must fight one last time against Dark Samus 
 to stop her once and for all. The game features more cinemas, and now they have voice-acting, so 
 the game feels like a more interactive experience than before. Other backstory regarding the locations 
 or background characters can still be read via logs.
  
  Graphically, it looks really good. At times you even forget you're missing amazing graphics as 
 in the 360 or PS3, because the game is very immersive. Some textures do look a little weak and 
 the game could have used some bump-mapping to make some things more realistic-looking, and some 
 parts of the game look as they could have been pulled-off on the GC, but the gorgeous lighting 
 effects more than compensate it. In fact, the lighting effects are what make this game look very 
 next-gen.
  
  I liked that the game ditched the claustrophobic feel of MP1 and 2, where most rooms were very, 
 very short or narrow, and instead opted for bigger - even if still-enclosed - areas and the use 
 of the Wiimote to interact with the environment gave the entire game a different feel, even when 
 everything keeps very similar to the past games.
  
  It plays great, controls are very accurate but at times a little slow, and your crosshair can get 
 lost in the heat of battle, but you can get used to it. This game demonstrates that FPS games CAN 
 be done, and DONE RIGHT on Wii. At times it feels like the Wiimote could have used more buttons 
 to get some actions easier, but it still feels good and responsive. As you can guess, the game 
 has been tweaked and it feels now more of a shooter than before, but still keeps puzzles and the 
 adventure elements (albeit somewhat much easier than before) .
  
  The music in this game is a HUGE leap in quality from MP2 (MP1 was OK) . I personally loved the 
 epicness of the soundtrack, especially the Main Theme. Also, I enjoyed the voice acting, as it 
 made it easy on the eyes hearing instructions of what you have to do, briefings and story. Sound 
 effects weren't that great but not bad at all. I didn't think this game pushed Dolby Pro Logic 
 II that hard, as most sound effects aren't that well separated in 5.1, I know it's still stereo 
 sound but after RE4 pulled it off that well, standards are set higher.
  
  The presentation is EXCELLENT, and I really wish more Wii games follow this example, as the game 
 oozes that we really made an effort to give you a polished game feel. Menus are great, music and 
 game setup.
  
  The only complaint here is the difficulty. I started playing on Veteran difficulty (instead of 
 Normal) and still found it TOO easy. And then, I played on Hypermode, and in the beginning, it 
 was too easy as well, but all of a sudden, difficulty BUMPED UP EXPONENTIALLY, the last bosses 
 kick your rear so hard that it feels cheap.
  
  Anyway, the slight complains aren't a reason to detract you from this great game. To put it short, 
 this is an excellent action/adventure game. If you're a Wii owner, don't hesitate and buy it. If 
 you're not a Wii owner, you should really consider getting one to play this marvelous gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is the third installment in the series but only the first for the Wii. It is very 
 fun to shoot using the wii remote. It is the best shooting since Duck Hunt for the NES. It is easier 
 to move as the morph ball in this game. Samus and her ship have visually improved. The story takes 
 place on Norion at the space center thingy when it is attacked by space pirates (surprise) . A black 
 hole opens and a comet comes rushing toward the station. You are about to escape with your other 
 bounty hunter friends when someone comes flying through the window. Its DARK SAMUS (duh duh duuhhh) . 
 She turns all blue and blasts you and your friends. You wake up two months later feeling all wierd. 
 That comet was covered with this Virus called Phazon and it infected you and you friends. Pjazon 
 can make you invincible and nobody can hurt you (except lava and falling to your spiraling death) 
 and your shots are much more powerful. But Phazon has a consequence. Every shot you make takes 
 a little bit of health and if you take to many shots you can be corrupted (hence the name) and 
 die in an instant. Dark Samus has Phazon too (thats why she was blue) . Anyway all of your friends 
 went on other planets too search for the space pirates and never return. It is your job to save 
 your friends and defeat the space product.
  Some people think this game doesn't have enough action in it but all you have to do id raise the 
 difficulty.
  
  THE GOOD: Good graphics, fun gameplay and awesome boss battles.
  
  THE BAD: No multi player. What the Heck?!? And sometimes the lock feature is a little glitchy.
 
  
  OVERALL: Everything you would expect from a Metroid game. If it had multi player and online it 
 would be getting a perfect score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoyholyhoy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  skibibly boo pop bow zinky swink shkibity soo gin poo gin hooja bench googashi simba soo quee zem 
 ta pi pow this game is fanscooballytastic wow i just have to get this game the fist day it comes 
 out (already have it) darn tootin himer this game rattles my teeth with its amazingness! i got 
 this game because i be squircle.... anyway i like it alot and i think its my favorite game maby 
 besides hmmmmmmm..... dunno even more revolutionary than halo cause im not a fan of it and i really 
 like this game because its a first person shooter an you get powers like some stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razoroo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of Metroid, I have been waiting for this game with a mix of anticipation and anxiety. 
 To be honest, as much as I love the Wii, I have been disappointed more than once. The hype about 
 how great first person shooters would be was quickly ravaged and spat out with the uber-cack Red 
 Steel and Ubisoft made things worse with less than decent ports of Far Cry and God knows what. 
 So here is Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. A first person shooter on the Wii. Not only does it have 
 to live up to expectations on that end, but it is also the final chapter of the Prime trilogy. 
 This means it has a lot to live up to. The first game was almost a flawless masterpiece. It took 
 the atmosphere of the traditional Metroid games and threw it into a 3D realm. It was vastly different 
 from other FPS', most notably Halo, which it is often compared to (for some strange reason) . The 
 combat used a target-based lock-on system and the level design encouraged exploration. The flaws 
 could only be seen by a player who was looking for them. Technically, it was a beautifully realised 
 adventure game whose main problems were back-tracking issues and sometimes steep difficulty. The 
 sequel, Echoes , was technically better with improved graphics and far more sophisticated menu 
 and log-book system. However, I was personally put off by the horrendous difficulty among other 
 things. It was too damn hard in places, the backtracking meant traversing the dark world several 
 times, the map system was overly complicated and the atmosphere was suffocatingly claustrophobic 
 with way too many corridors and darkened areas and too few organic-looking open segments. In short, 
 I didn't like it. The multiplayer felt tacked on (although I did have fun with it) and the single-player 
 was too demanding. Thankfully, all those ailments have been cured. Metroid Prime 3 truly is a superb 
 game. Everything about it says look at me, I'm good quality! The graphics are very good indeed. 
 I would describe them as high-end Gamecube graphics. In this day and age of Gears of War and Crysis 
 etc etc, this may not mean much. But nonetheless, the graphics do their job, and they do it well. 
 The art direction is great; there are several organic areas interspersed with cool metallic designs. 
 The whole world feels alien and inspired. This helps with the atmosphere, which is similar to Metroid 
 Prime in that it can often inspire awe and wonder. As I mentioned before, MP2 was a bit too claustrophobic 
 for my liking, but this has thankfully been turned around. No longer are you limited to one planet; 
 now there are several that you can travel freely to and from anytime. Each planet feels different 
 and has several areas that differ in tone so the game is constantly throwing diversity at you which 
 keeps things fresh. There is a much stronger emphasis on action this time round and this is probably 
 a result of the new control scheme. For 95% of the time, it works wonderfully for me. It feels 
 slick and responsive. In fact, the whole game feels clean and complete and the controls ease you 
 in nicely. It combines the traditional Prime targeting system but you can mix and match this with 
 a more streamlined run-and-gun approach. This makes battles fun and tense and not as awkward as 
 they may have been at times before. It's not 100% perfect though and there may be times when the 
 controls seem too sensitive or unresponsive and turning corners may annoy a few of you. I reckon 
 it boils down to the player's skill though, and the game allows for your skills to improve. All 
 Metroid games are highly rewarding experiences, and this is no exception. Backtracking to a previous 
 area in order to use a recently gained power-up to unlock new areas never feels like a chore. You 
 genuinely feel like you're becoming more powerful and are achieving something. This is coupled 
 with a new reward scheme where you are given credits for accomplishing certain tasks. For the most 
 part, this involves scanning objects and enemies and storing data in your log-book. You can use 
 these credits to unlock bonuses found in the Extras menu. These are basically conceptual art, soundtracks, 
 and even funky upgrades to your ship. The flow of the gameplay feels neater than it did before. 
 Your objectives are now clearly defined but not so much as to make you feel inadequate. The game 
 is still challenging but I would say that it is much more lenient than previous titles, particularly 
 the second game. The new abilities and power-ups are either completely new or remixed versions 
 of older ones, though they are all pretty damn cool. Another aspect that has improved is the story. 
 It seems as though the developers have decided to expand the Metroid universe and this is a good 
 thing. However, it is not developed enough and makes me hunger for more. For example, this is the 
 first time there have been proper NPCs in a Metroid game that you can walk up to and talk to. They 
 even have speech! However, they are practically lifeless and don't have the same effect as the 
 Marines from Halo.
  Disappointingly, it feels like some ideas are directly taken from Halo. This is prevalent in the 
 opening level which is very reminiscent of the first Halo game. We now know that there is actually 
 a world beyond what we see through Samus' eyes. There are other planets, races, organisations and 
 characters out there. The only problem is, MP3 fails to use them to their full potential. It's 
 nice in that now you feel you are not so alone as you thought you were and this makes the game 
 less scary and (here we go again) less claustrophobic as before. I personally prefer this idea 
 but some Prime fanboys might not appreciate this expansion to the mythology so much. There are 
 more cutscenes than before, and they are nicely directed too, but again, they leave you wanting 
 more. You can even chill out in Samus' new ship; the opening of the game teases the player into 
 thinking they are about to fly it themselves. This makes me wonder what it would be like to actually 
 have flying sections in the game. There are a few other gripes too. The graphics, although good, 
 are not excellent. Sometimes you might notice a jagged line here or a poorly textured wall surface 
 there. You'll soon forget that when you see some of the set-pieces and backdrops in the levels 
 which can be quite stunning. The music is great as usual, although it could do with a little less 
 synthesizers and more orchestral pieces. The sound effects are typical metroid and some melodies 
 and effects will actually start to become recognizable, such as the moment you realise you are 
 about to face the Metroids again, and the terror that comes with that revelation. The lack of multiplayer 
 is disappointing but it risked being rubbish anyway and to be honest, I don't miss it. The single 
 player and the bonus content is enough for me, and there is plenty to see and do. I am still optimistic 
 about a possible multiplayer-only Prime title on the Wii that uses the same engine as MP3. Now 
 that would be sweet. Online multiplayer would be great with some of the gameplay features implimented 
 in this one too. As I haven't yet finished the game, there is no way for me to spoil the story 
 but I can say that it moves along at a nice pace. There are plenty of cool cutscenes and the puzzles 
 make you feel like they are actually important to the objectives or the story, which they are. 
 The overall experience is highly immersive and very addictive and very very playable. It just feels 
 right. There's no other way to describe it. Basically, an excellent game that plays very well and 
 has a truly wonderful atmosphere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  With echoes of a decent sequel (Metroid Prime Echoes) left in my mind, I couldn't help but feel 
 a little worried. Reason due to this is that Metroid Prime 2 studdered compared to its predecessor; 
 The original Metroid Prime. And considering from the screenshots I saw, I felt like the series 
 may have been headed in the wrong direction. Thankfully Retro pulled through and not only exceeded 
 Metroid Prime 2, but it also exceeded the first Metroid Prime as well. Now, I have been one of 
 those few that thought the Metroid Prime series was great, yet felt like it was a tad overrated. 
 And thats where this one caught my attention.
  
  Unlike in the first two, you never completely felt immersed, or ever felt like you are indeed Samus 
 Aran. Luckily with the Wii controls, Retro was able to make the player feel that way, and make 
 them feel at home with it. As the editors have said, Retro has made the perfect FPS on the Wii 
 and its hard to figure out why others have had so many problems with it. The controls are not only 
 spot on, but they have sweet little quirks with it. Like take for example, the grapple beam. You 
 are now able to rip doors off with a quick throw, and yank of the wrist. And using levers with 
 motion is for some reason, extremely fun. You are also now able to commandeer your ship to the 
 fullest. Enter the ship, fiddle with the controls if you like and check on your corruption level. 
 And you are no longer alone, you now have a few fellow bounty hunters by your side. Which now brings 
 me to my next point; sound. The sound as always is great, but now, for once, they actually have 
 full on voiceovers. It may not mean alot to some, but voiceovers in a game not only get you more 
 involved into the story but it also helps make the game feel more complete. One other thing I have 
 got to mention is the graphics. By a long shot, these are indeed the best graphics on the Wii so 
 far. Not only do they look gorgeous, but they also look better than some games on the more powerful 
 consoles (Vampire Rain anyone?) . Retro really tapped into the Wii hardware and pulled out a great 
 experience and have indeed got my attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike-revo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  metroid prime 3 corruption is a must have wii game for any serious. the wii control system works 
 perfectly me being an experienced wii gamer and huge metroid fan i chose advanced control and i 
 must say that i dont ever wanna play a shooter with duel analogue sticks again. The new voice acting 
 and cinamtics give the game a more movie like appeal while at the same time the game still keeps 
 to its metroid prime roots with loads of logs to scan and read to unfold more about the games story. 
 Action is non-stop, enemies have certainly become more challengin almost forcing you to use the 
 new hypermode feature, not 2 mention many new species of pirates. Boss battles are fun but most 
 of them aren't very callenging but most of them make me wanna play the game again just to battle 
 them.
  The new weopon system is less stressful as each weopon is an upgrade to the last although i wudve 
 been nice to try out different weapons at your own will but it doesnt effect gameplay in the long 
 run.
  metroid prime 2 echoes was a great game i dont know why some reviewers keep putting it down but 
 i must admit it did over do it with the morth ball and definately with backtracking. metroid prime 
 3 has given enough morth ball actions without overdoing, backtracking is present but no where near 
 as much as it was in metroid prime 1 and 2. This is good because it means your moving forward most 
 of the time but it can make the game feel shorter than it is since there isn't much to look back 
 for.
  Visually metroid prime 3 is one of the best looking wii game to date rivalling some of the games 
 on the xbox 360 with many bright colours, detailed effects metroid prime 3 is a great game to play 
 and visualise.
  The new wii interactions are good such as flipping switch, pulling and pushing etc are good, but 
 can be a little bit unresponsive. The grapple lasso is also a brilliant new wii interaction adding 
 a new way to battle enemies in metroid allowing you to yank stuff off of enemy and opening new 
 areas all in all adding more spark to the game. Also the new lock on free aiming is a great feature 
 that allows you to fine tune your aim or aim at something else while your lock on to an enemy or 
 object. Its a brilliant and handy new feature and with the wii controls it at a near perfect balance.
 
  Overall metroid prime 3 is a brilliant end to a brilliant trilogy. The action is non-stop the 
 visuals are great and so far I don't think theres any better game on wii to date. Not as revolutionary 
 as the first metroid prime but easily superior possibly the best of the 3. The only thing I could 
 ask for is more content, more challenging and possibly some online multiplayer but putting all 
 that a side metroid prime 3 corruption is a great game and a must have for any metroid fan and 
 any wii gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krendog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun. I have not played much of it but can already tell that I am liking it. You play 
 Samus Aran, a bounty hunter, who fights space pirates and all that jazz. You get tons of cool weapons 
 and armor. There are plenty of enemies for you to test you thumb (or index) finger tapping, firing 
 skills on. There are many different puzzles and mazes for you to try and solve. All together you'll 
 have one heck of a time shooting things and blowing things up. But don't forget you're there to 
 save someone. Whether it be the federation of woopdidoo or....... you know what just have fun. I 
 hope you enjoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madribub
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  A game for me must be an experience. Half Life was an experience; GTA3 was an experience; WiiSports, 
 I must say, is an experience. Metroid Prime 3, though high in production value and filled with 
 some incredibly inspired moments, at times falls short of something truly excellent. As much as 
 I liked this game, I found it really hard to love the game, to feel that ground had really been 
 broken. As impressive as it is to play an FPS with Wii controls, all of the implementation feels 
 expected and predictable. Good: Great boss battles, high production values with great art production, 
 the exploration elements are top notch and keep you going, the world is pretty awe inspiring, Bad: 
 pretty generic story, formulaic, feels a bit like Zelda in space with a gun and in first person, 
 too easy even on hard, no real motivation to get 100%
  
  Now for my biases and editorials: BIAS 1: Half Life. A great game with a thin story, but the devices 
 in the game used at that time really pulled you in on an emotional level. You really feel the anxiety 
 of the battle. Now, I understand that MP3 has a different objective, but I think it's time for 
 Nintendo to have some other game design elements that are as revolutionary as their controls, and 
 devices that aren't limited strictly to the controls. I have a hard time understanding why cutscenes 
 are still used. To reiterate, I need a game that is an experience, something that pulls you in 
 fully. If Nintendo is really trying to do something revolutionary with the controls, which I believe 
 will only work if complemented by revolutionary design schemes in other parts of the game (i. e. 
 gameplay, non-formulas, a better story) BIAS 2: As a writer and avid reader of fiction, I do expect 
 the story to be top notch, especially for a game that apparently puts emphasis on those parts of 
 the design. For a game that doesn't put in multiplayer, why is the story so weak? MP3's story is 
 generic and just doesn't stand out. With all that said, it's a solid game with some solid action 
 and compelling puzzles &amp; exploration (albeit formulaic) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroiddeity
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  THe best prime game of the series. From the story-line to the intuitive controls, Metroid is a 
 classic on the Wii. Samus is better than ever, and she proves once again that she can save the 
 galaxy. THe introduction of the bounty hunters scared me at first being a metroid enthusiest, but 
 there small role was perfect for this title. Never pacing down, every element works like it should. 
 From grabbing controlls or operating switches the game puts you deep into the experience. The atmostphere 
 and the overall feeling is true to the metroid series, something that was missing from the other 
 prime titles. Lets hope the metroid series continues in this fashion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jpleblancfinal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Now the one thing that is the best part is the conteroles they are implaminted well, althogh it 
 dose get a little fidgety if only a few times. But I fell that the visers are a little under used 
 and I would have liked to use them a little more. But this isn't a mager issue that getts in the 
 way when your in a tight spot. there is a slight loud at some of the doors that fell a little longer 
 than they shoud, but again this isn't at critical times. the graphics are a slight improvment, 
 but I was only plaing in standed not 480i. althou the framerate is varray smoth, and rawly gets 
 jitery witch is a plus. As usaul the enviermental puzzals are hidden well some times it seem to 
 well. Now if you are a fan of the other primes this one will seem some what shorter. This is because 
 the action dosen't go to deep on each planet, but this makes back tracking trumindasly eseyer and 
 faster. Another is the music and sound efects are top noch and add to the atmispher of each area 
 visited. The voice work is al so another plus that adds to the overall experinence.
  
  Alsa this game is for me the best in the seres, and my main points is the back-tracking is faster 
 and simplefied. The conteroles are effectivly implamented. the sound is the best yet, and voice 
 is a nice suppries.
  And it all makes for an enjoyable and memrable experence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidfan523
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  I was sad when Samus' suit came off in Echoes because I new, it was over. Within a few months I 
 got the 100% ending, saw E3 2005 video and was hyped. I new it was for the so called, revolution 
 and knew there would be a wait... too long for my taste. By May 06, I saw some vids and pics and 
 that ridley battle. EPIC. Thats when I new that this game would rock. Eventually I found out about 
 the delay the delay and was disappointed but it was definitely worth the wait... That was the past... now 
 the present...
  
  I was at my friends house when my dad brought me the game... I left 10 minutes later when I fell 
 in love with it and wanted to be... ALONE!!! I beat it August 31 1:16 am. I expected a better ending. 
 (SPOILERS!!!)
  
  
  
  Aurora unit was disappointing. I expected a SUPER DUPER MEGA ULTRA METROID PRIME!!! Plus Dark Samus 
 disappeared the same way she did in Echoes. I can't accept the fact that she's dead.
  
  
  
  Overall the game is without 
 doubt amazing. Don't believe the 8.5! This game should get  
 out of 5!
  Maybe retro will hear our cries for help and give it 3 more games for us. Anywho...
  
  METROID 
 FTW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  PS. I think that big number is.................. I'm pretty sure it's...... dectillion... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kansasdude2009
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 manages a lot of things. Not only has it accomplished to be the single defining 
 Wii game that represents just what Wii is capable of, it has also set a bar for all other WIi games 
 to surpass. Developer Retro Studios has outdone themselves with this well fit end to a superb trilogy. 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Introduction:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The first thing that you will notice about Prime 3 is its cinematic flair. You start the game 
 with a quick tutorial in your ship. You will be asked to click buttons, type in a code, and ignite 
 your engine, all with ships flying around you. All of this does a fantastic job of getting you 
 familiar with just how you will control Samus through the game. You will find (on the Advanced 
 Setting) that you can easily maneuver around making quick decisions and executing them faster than 
 any previous First Person controlled game. As soon as you touch base on solid ground, this becomes 
 even more obvious. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Controls:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Controls are what separate Prime 3 from Samus's previous missions. The setup is similar (with 
 a few changes to fit the Wii-mote) , but the new, speedy controls make for a faster paced game. 
 Whether it hurts the experience or not is objective, but it is important to know that this is NOT 
 your ordinary easy-going Prime game where pure action is rarely the main focus. Because of the 
 controls, the game tests you to aim in 2 or 3 directions at once. You will find several things 
 that need attending to but you must complete them one at a time. Luckily, the controls make this 
 experience a fun one. Zipping from enemy to enemy is a breeze, perhaps too much so. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Difficulty:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Difficulty has taken a slight hit. Prime 3 is the first Metroid game to have 2 difficulty settings 
 right from the start. Make sure you choose the harder one (Veteran) as it makes for a more enjoyable 
 experience.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Difficulty: Enemies
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Enemy AI is still not nearly as good as it should be. It doesn't seem like the enemies are even 
 thinking about their surroundings at all, but instead follow a basic pattern of dodge, shoot, stand, 
 dodge, lunge, stand, etc. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Difficulty: Bosses
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Bosses are a joy to watch and play against. You will find yourself enjoying bosses so much that 
 you don't want them to die. The only complaint that can be made about them is that the smaller 
 bosses are much more creative than the larger ones. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Difficulty: Backtracking/Puzzles
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Backtracking is present, but kept to a minimum and not nearly as difficult as it is in Metroid 
 Prime 2. This could be seen as good or bad, but some of the magic of completing a particularly 
 difficult puzzle is gone. You will find clever puzzles (particularly near the end of the game) 
 that test you in both intelligence and patience. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Environments:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Much like its predecessors, Prime 3 creates an imaginative world for Samus to explore. With significantly 
 larger and more detailed worlds, Metroid Prime 3 has the best environments of all Prime games. 
 Whether it be the floating sky city of Elisia, or the chained-moon planet of Bryyo, Metroid Prime 
 3 delivers! A good thing to mention is that environments have a much more drastic change in appearance 
 than in Metroid Prime 2's dark purple drab. This should be a comfort to all those who enjoyed Prime 
 1's classic environments. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Story:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The story is a limited affair. Dark Samus is back and causing chaos for you and your newly acquired 
 friends. You all have become corrupted with the phazon that has taken over entire planets. The 
 Federation has decided to have an all-out war against the Space Pirates' attempts to corrupt more 
 planets. It's much more epic than before, but it does not compare with other, much better stories. 
 The scanned Lore delivers as always though. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Music/Sound:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Music in the game is superb. Environments become all the more interesting with the well fit music. 
 Boss music does an excellent job of fitting the characteristics of the battle on hand. Sound effects 
 ring with more solidity than previous Primes, and the newly added voice acting is well done. You 
 will find yourself stopping to listen to the music which is an accomplishment on its own. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Conclusion:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Metroid Prime 3 is an ambitious game that hits in all the right places. It is easily one of the 
 best games of the year and is begging to be played. The new controls, voice acting, and fantastic 
 pacing make for a superb game, but the easier difficulty and change in focus (from more exploration 
 to more action) creates a game unlike any other Prime game. Pick it up and you will enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeisaniceguy
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I originally got this game for my dad because he loves Metroid and I've been watching him play 
 since I was a small lad. But you I just can't help but to immerse my self in some sweet shooting 
 aliens, jumping over cliffs, and killing huge creatures with nothing but a small arm gun. You know 
 it might not be exactly like halo 3 but it seems like it to me. It may not have the best graphics 
 either but thats not all a good game is. Its the creativeness and the hardship that people have 
 put into it to make it a good and enjoyable game. And I hope thats what the gaming people are a 
 least trying to do. Good job Nintendo. Keep up the good work.:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTRGRZA
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Whether you call it an action\adventure or FPS, this satisfying end to the Metroid Prime trilogy 
 will win you over. The story is wel written (and well-voice acted) . Samus is once again called 
 on by the Galactic Federation to stop the Space Pirates, who have corrupted a computer network 
 called the Aurora Unit, which they are planning to use to corrupt all planets in the galaxy with 
 Phazon. When Samus encounters her evil doppelganger, she becomes infected herself. While this grants 
 her new powers to use against the Space Pirates, too much Phazon can orrupt her. The gameplay is 
 challenging without being frustratingly difficult. This is still the same game we know, Zelda, 
 only you kill monsters with a kickass arm connon. This may be a good thing for devoted fans, but 
 not good enough for those looking for a new experience. The puzzles are challenging, but not frustrating. 
 The best part is that the developers won't make you back-track as much as you did in previous installments. 
 The firefights are intense. You'll be constantly surrounded by hostile aliens, space pirates, and 
 more. They do have a good AI, and not all of them can be defeated by mindlessly shooting at them. 
 Samus' aarsenal of ass-kickery is vast and it will all be put to good use. The boss battles are 
 the game's best feature. They are all large-scale, epic, and will make you use your thinker. The 
 graphics are sharp and its one of the most good-looking wii games out there. The controls work 
 great as well. They're by far the best FPS controls I've seen on the wii. It's a big indication 
 that shooters may improve in this console. The only problem is that they really don't bring anything 
 new to the gaming experience. It feels that the style of gameplay is mostly unchanged with some 
 motion sensitive controls throught. I was expecting a litle more. The overall feel thoug is amazing. 
 Nintendo's femme fatale has really made a comeback. I was very satisfied when I finished the game. 
 All those delays were worth it. This is one worthy addition to your wii's library you don't want 
 to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RED_X_ROBIN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is something that Wii owners, including myself, had been waiting for. 
 Utilizing the Wii's motion controls to dead on perfection and accuracy, it brings new light to 
 FPS's that was promised almost a year ago. Some of the game play issues include turning. It never 
 felt fast enough to react the way you wanted, but once your enemies were on screen and locked on, 
 it was a lot easier to handle. The lack of online play was a bit of a disappointment, but the online 
 features it brought (a screen shot tool to trade pictures and the exchanging of credits to gain 
 exclusive content) were a nice and welcome addition. It left me wanting more. The lock-on free 
 aiming worked perfectly. Most enemies required shots in certain areas of their body and such, so 
 it was easy to keep an eye on them and shoot where it was necessary. The use of motion controls 
 to turn on switches and such was very nicely presented and executed. Graphically, it wasn't groundbreaking 
 in how many pixels were thrown at you but at what you were actually looking at. It is a prime (excuse 
 the pun) example of art making it's way into video games. It really looks like no other game I 
 have ever played and doesn't go through the played out ice, fire, water and all the other elemental 
 regions. Each of the worlds you visit is very unique. The story kept me intrigued because it wasn't 
 overly complicated and you were given your mission at any time you needed it. The only issue was 
 the lack of communication coming out of Samus herself. I think it's time we get passed the grunts 
 and start using dialogue. I wanted to communicate with the soldiers around me, not just listen 
 to what they had to say. Overall I think this is the best game on the Wii so far. It is a great 
 adventure and plenty to explore along the way. I think retro made this game just right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  So, the long anticipated Wii sequel to the Metroid Prime franchise has finally landed, after delay 
 after delay. Was this time well spent? After playing through the game I can safetely tell you that 
 Metroid Prime 3 delivers on its promise of being the epitome of Wii first person shooters. Metroid 
 as a series has known to be a space equivalent to Zelda and this is apparent in the latest installation. 
 The puzzles within the game are challenging and deep, and the boss battles are even better, challenging 
 you to use the new weapons you acquire throughout the game. It is not without its faults though, 
 this is certaintly no Halo and with the wealth of FPS games out there this one fails to be in the 
 upper tier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lrrydaqcumber
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  great game, fun and all around greatness
  metriod prime is always great! now im just wasting words.............
  because im speechless!
 
  i hope the series is continued or another series is created!
  please retro!
  omg why 100 words this sums it up
  great graphics and all around pwnage wut else do u want?!
 
  o m g t h i s g a m e i s a w e s o m e !
  w 0 0 t !
  i love this game with all of my heart okay.... well not really but its a pwnage game!!!!!!
  omg 
 how is this not 100 words
  almost there sooooo closeeeeeeeeeeee
  yess mabye finally!
  no yes woot finally! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddk
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  On Metroid Prime 3 you take Samus Aran on a fantastic adventure with a very immersive and intuitive 
 gameplay, very precise aim, fantastic boss fights. It's without a doubt for most the best wii game 
 yet, and if you're not part of that most, I'm sure you'll love, if you don't you sure got some 
 problem. Some say the wii motion-sensing isn't that good and stuff, for they have not played this 
 game.
  If you own a wii and don't have this game, go ahead and buy it. You won't regret it.
  It's a 
 must for any wii owner.
  Too bad this is the last in the Metroid Prime series, a sequel would be just perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batosaims
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  this game has alot of depth added to it its really a great game and the wiimote makes this game 
 even more fun
  
  it takes a while to get use to the wiimote controlls for the game and i can do without the lockon 
 system but this game does something that very few games do now adays
  
  it creates atmosphere the game does a good job of immersing you into the world and the boss fights 
 are fantastic especially the first one if u own a wii this is a must have game and while it may 
 not be the best looking game on a technical standpoint the game is bursting with eye pooping effects 
 and visuals and has a fantastic art style and design
  
  bottom line if u own a wii GET THIS GAME!!! 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiMan21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 Corruption is the Best Fps I've played so far next to Halo 3, With its almost perfect 
 controls, and with its flawless story lIne, makes it the best Metroid Prime game known to date. 
 Considering it being the last prime game in the series, I think its very well made to be the last, 
 although Sometimes I think it can get a little to hard. And I think the lack of online hurts (Even 
 thought the Mertoid Series is not supposed, to have multiplayer) .
  My favorite part about this game would probably be the boss fights, Every one very well planned, 
 and hard enough to even make the hardcore try. I think this games gets a 8.5. For its lack of online, 
 and almost Perfect graphics and controls, I think its very well deserved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Metroid is like the brainchild of... well... nothing. I see Metroid as a genre defining kind of game. 
 I see it as the series that brought life into the sidescrolling adventure style of gameplay. People 
 shouldn't see Metroid as a sidescrolling shooter, or as a first person shooter. They should see 
 it as an adventure game with that touch of action involved. The Metroid series has always been 
 one of my favorite video game series ever, so if there is a bad Metroid game, I am really going 
 to be harsh on it because I expect so much out of each game in the series that has came out. Today 
 I will be reviewing the latest game in the series, Metroid Prime 3: Corruption.
  
  Did you like Metroid Prime? Did you like Metroid Prime 2: Echoes? (Okay, let's face it, Prime 2 
 was a disappointment; however, Metroid Prime goes down as one of the best games ever created) . 
 If you liked Prime 1 or 2, you will absolutely love Metroid Prime 3. Sure, it's not better than 
 Metroid Prime, but it comes so close, and surpasses it in other aspects. Metroid Prime 3 is still 
 in the first person viewpoint and is still an adventure game, but it seems like this time you will 
 be doing a lot more shooting. In fact, Prime 3 is almost as much of a first-person shooter than 
 it is an adventure game. So let's talk about every aspect of this game.
  
  First, the controls. I am going to say it straight out, Metroid Prime 3 is the best controlling 
 game on the Wii. If you thought Call of Duty 3 had the best FPS controls, play MP3, it will blow 
 you away. So many Wii games fall flat because they lack good controls. Either that or they don't 
 even really use the Wii's novelty motion controls. MP3 controls so well, it's unbelievable. You 
 use the control stick on the Nunchuck to move and strafe and you aim with the Wiimote. You shoot 
 with A and jump with B, but you can switch those around if you think it feels better to shoot with 
 B and jump with A. The Z trigger well be used as your lock on, but what it does is it locks onto 
 the area of the enemy and then you just aim with the Wiimote and blast away. If you hit minus and 
 then move your Wiimote in a certain direction you will select your visor. The plus button is used 
 for Hypermode, which you get early on in the game. The C button on the Nunchuck is used to go into 
 Morph Ball mode. The 1 and 2 buttons are used for your maps and the game options screen and to 
 use missiles you press down on the D-Pad.
  
  The controls feel extremely fluent and after playing Metroid Prime 3 with motion controls, I never, 
 ever want to go back to playing it with a Gamecube controller. It's just that good. Maybe the only 
 flaw with it is that I wish there was maybe a different way to shoot missiles. It's not much of 
 a problem shooting with Down on the D-Pad, but it is not perfect either. Other than that, I literally 
 have no gripes with the control scheme. It is probably the best and funnest controlling game I 
 have ever played.
  
  The controls really add to the gameplay and this game is a blast to play! Right from the start 
 all the way to the finish (and this game is not short) , there is hardly a dull moment. The new 
 aiming system makes shooting enemies non stop fun and the new enemies can get pretty tough because 
 of the addition of Hypermode. Keep in mind, Samus is not the only one who can use Phazon. The Space 
 Pirates find some nice uses for it as well. I've hardly even started yet! The boss fights are downright 
 amazing, everything you'd expect from a Metroid game and more! The bosses are now tougher and just 
 like before, all come with some kind of catch to beating them, just like it should be in every 
 video game that features such legendary boss fights. I do not want to spoil things for you, but 
 be ready for an early on epic fight with Ridley and possibly one later. This game has some of the 
 greatest boss fights there is thanks to the fun motion controls and fun Metroid style.
  
  Try not to forget that Metroid games are always loaded with puzzles. Puzzles in Metroid are what 
 kept the 2D and 3D Metroid games very similar to each other. Prime 3 does not fall short in this 
 category either. Expect to see some traditional Morph Ball puzzles frequentely, and they are as 
 fun as ever before and this time I found some to be pretty challenging. In addition to that expect 
 to see puzzles for the new use of Phazon in Hypermode. None of these are very tough however. Actually 
 Metroid Prime 3 seems somewhat easier because of the motion controls. They are extremely good, 
 that even though the enemies are stronger, you can kill them quicker and funner. I wouldn't have 
 minded a bit more challenge.
  
  Now I am going to move onto the graphics of this game. Metroid Prime 3 is THE best looking game 
 on the Wii. It does look like the past two Metroid Prime games, but the thing is, those games look 
 great even today. In addition to that, Metroid Prime 3 just has a much cleaner, glossier look to 
 it and most aspects of the graphics have been bumped up somewhat. Plus the art style is amazing 
 and never fails to impress. There is a ton of detail everywhere, almost no places in the game have 
 bland design and overall the textures are great. Expect to see some nice character design thrown 
 in there and some ingenious boss designs. All of this and it runs at a smooth framerate. You'll 
 see a bit of slowdown but overall it does run very smoothly. Heck, I think this game could pass 
 as a decent looking Xbox 360 game.
  
  But, with all that said, this is still a Wii game so expect the limitations every other Wii game 
 has. For Wii games to truly shine in the graphics aspect, they require a strong art style above 
 everything else. We all know by now that half the games, if not more, on the system look worse 
 than your average Gamecube title. I'm essentially saying that Wii game aren't too pretty. Metroid 
 stands out above the rest because Metroid Prime is still a great looking game, Prime 3 does have 
 noticeable better textures and detail than its predecessors, and the art style is extremely strong 
 and well delivered.
  
  It seems the complaint every professional reviewer had with the last huge Nintendo Wii title, The 
 Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess was that the music was not orchestrated. Well I'm not a professional 
 reviewer so I am going to try to make a point. Orchestrated music is not essential for the game 
 to have great music. I'm not going to take the time to find out if Prime 3's music was orchestrated 
 because I really do not care too much. Sure, it may sound better than your average midi but it 
 really matters how well the game's music sounds bottom line. As long as the game's music is powerful 
 it shouldn't matter. Metroid Prime 3 makes a massive improvement from the past two games which 
 if you have played them, you'll realize that the music was the worst aspect of the games. The music 
 could get very repetitive and just could have been better in most ways. Metroid Prime 3 has very 
 nice music that definitely has a ton of variety to it. Overall, it's just a big improvement from 
 the past two games.
  
  I like the honesty in Metroid Prime 3. You probably don't have any idea what I am talking about 
 so let me explain. A lot of video games would have that Nintendo W-Fi logo stamped on even if they 
 just had bare bones online options included. Those games, you'll see the Wi-Fi stamp and think 
 that you are in for a treat because you will get to play some fun online multiplayer with your 
 friends. Well, Metroid doesn't have that stamp; however, it does have Wi-Fi built in so you don't 
 expect it to be there and then it's just a small surprise instead of a big disappointment. The 
 Wi-Fi in Metroid is just used for giving people 'Friend Vouchers.' When you receive a Friend Voucher, 
 it will be turned into a token. There are different colors of tokens and you can buy stuff with 
 these tokens. Normally you get other colored tokens from doing various things in the game. Kind 
 of like achievements in a way. You can only get friend tokens from Friend Vouchers and most of 
 the things you can buy require these friend tokens and other colored tokens. You can buy some neat 
 stuff, and a lot of it too.
  
  The last thing to talk about is the replay value of this game. So you're wondering, how long is 
 Metroid Prime 3? Is it longer than the past two games? Is it worth playing all the way through? 
 Prime 3 averages about 20 hours long on your first play through. However, if you know Metroid games 
 than you'll know that you'll be spending a lot more time with this. First off, you'll want to shoot 
 for 100% meaning you'll have to scan everything and get every single missile and energy tank. That 
 will add some time to the clock definitely. To answer the second question, yes it is longer than 
 both games. Prime 1 took about 10-15 hours while Prime 2 took around 15-20 hours, so yes it is 
 longer. Finally, it is definitely worth playing all the way through. You'll want to play a couple 
 times through before you set this game down for good.
  
  The final question is, how does Metroid Prime 3: Corruption stack up in the end? Well, it is definitely 
 the Wii game to own. It is the best game built for the Wii. (Zelda for Wii was a port) . In addition 
 to that, it is quite a bit better than Prime 2 and tied with Metroid Prime. That is very tough 
 to do because this is the third game in the series meaning by now it could be getting a tad stale. 
 However, Prime 3 isn't because of the new motion controls. They add so much to the game, it's unbelievable. 
 I never want to go back to a traditional controller after playing this game. For the best example 
 of how to make a Wii game, see Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazelnutman
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 made me excited when it was announced - I'll admit. But I didn't have any plans 
 on getting a Wii (have a PS3) so I shrugged it off. When it was released, I read the reviews, and 
 concluded that one way or another, I would play it somehow. So when my friend bought it and we 
 sat down to play, we didn't get off that couch until our arms were sore and our eyes burned with 
 fatigue - because it was so damn awesome.
  
  Graphics: Not horrible graphics, but it wasn't impressive at all. The lighting was great, but it 
 looked like it could have barely been on a last gen console. There's something about the lighting 
 and atmosphere that gives it that fresh look. Not impressive at the slightest, but not bad.
  
  Gameplay: The learning curve for this baby is pretty high. Since I didn't really own a Wii 
 (therefor not having experience with the controls) the learning curve was a good 1 to 2 hours for 
 me. But as soon as you get a feel for the controls, you wonder how you ever went an FPS without 
 it. The Wii-Mote is used as Samus' blaster, and the Nunchuck as your grapple hand. The controls 
 are ingenious here. The whole game is pretty linear as in having a general objective (unlike the 
 old-school Metroid games) There's basically a stage with a theme in it (lava, ice, etc) you go 
 through it, and there are a few enemies, but what surprised me the most was the large number of 
 puzzles. These puzzles range from annoying, to flat out hard to figure out. And then, there's a 
 boss at the end. I swear that I was playing a futuristic FPS Legend of Zelda, as it feels so much 
 like it. But it has many Metroid characteristics such as collecting upgrades, morph-balling (in 
 3rd person) , and blowing up random walls/floors up in search of secret paths and tunnels. The difficult 
 is fairly large as some puzzles and enemies are hard as hell. The AI for the bosses and enemies 
 are very standard. They follow a pattern and don't really react well to subtle changes in your 
 attacks. If you like Legend of Zelda games or the old-school Metroid games, it'll feel familiar.
 
  
  Sound: The sound is personally amazing to me. If you've played the old Metroid games, then you'll 
 take joy in hearing your favorite Metroid songs and chimes remixed into a solid package of sound. 
 Even the new songs are fantastic as it sets the right mood with catchy-ness. The sound effects 
 are great, except the noise of Samus' blaster gets old really fast.
  
  Value: With no online multiplayer, I'm not sure how long you'll be playing this game, but it's 
 still one of those games you would want to have to add to your collection. The game is fairly long, 
 and worth a buy. Playing it though again and again doesn't get boring as you look for other shortcuts 
 and more power-ups. Metroid games are known for it's re-playability, and it's no exception here.
 
  
  Story: I haven't played the previous 2 Prime games of the trilogy, but I have played Fusion, Super, 
 and the original to know enough about what's going on. You play as Samus - a space bounty hunter 
 - who doesn't talk much, but she still kicks a ton of @$$. There's a space virus thing going around, 
 and Samus is commissioned to free each planet from it. Sort of like Ratchet and Clank if you will. 
 You'll uncover secrets about this virus as you keep Dark Samus in check who I assume was a threat 
 in the last game or two. You can also scan objects to get more of an in-dept story.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  If you have a Wii and want a solid, satisfying, yet unique adventure/FPS, then I 
 highly recommend this game. If you don't have a Wii, but know a friend who has a Wii you can play 
 from, then try out Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, for the sheer uniqueness and experience. There's 
 nothing quite like it.
  
  ~Hazelnutman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is fun tho not that different than Prime 2, except for the controlls whitch 
 are amazingly responsive and just overall work very well. The boss battles feel epic and take time 
 to figure out instead of just the typical shoot 'till its dead like most FPS use. Another thing 
 I love is there is less backtracking and more action, props for that nintendo! There is a story 
 but its not good or bad. The motion sensing minigames feel tacked on (like most Wii game minigames) 
 but work well so im not complaining.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are meh, I played on a 70+ HDTV, 56'' HDTV, and 22'' SDTV and it looked 
 best on the SDTV because there arent as many jaggies tho its less colorfull than the HDTV. I think 
 nintendo could have done some better work on the graphics.
  
  Sound: The sounds feel dated but sound great and bring you in the game more. The music is a blend 
 of techno and metal whitch is a good blend and nintendo executed it very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spixter534
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  i've been pretty excited about this game for quite some time now. i've been putting off beating 
 the game and writing the review because ive been playing halo 3 a lot. anyway, this game is amazing. 
 the graphics are astounding, especially for the wii's standards, the gameplay is mostly functunal 
 and fun but there are times where the remote can be bad at times. i don't particularly like the 
 wii remote twisty moments, because they are used far too much. this is not the wii's best game, 
 by far, but it will certainly give you some enjoyment while it lasts. While the story is good, 
 the end 5 hours of the game are awful because the game sends you on this pointless quest to find 
 the stupid energy cells which made me really pissed off. the boss fights are certainly the best 
 on the wii and in the prime series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stomachworm
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  I have been having a really fun time playing this game. The wii control works well and they use 
 it many interesting ways but it never really gets frustrating especially in the heat of battle. 
 You may need to practice on some of the bosses but its really fun while you are learning. The graphics 
 and more importantly graphic design are amazing. On the last game, ECHOS, altough I finished it, 
 it really felt like a chore toward the end of the game when you are going back and forth and back 
 and forth on the same maps to figure it out you need to get X but need Y first but can only get 
 Y if you have Z. They fixed a lot of that here and its much more fun to explore and discover, things 
 happen more organically and you are having fun right away. I'm still finishing the game but its 
 been a joy so far. I'm actually taking my time finishing it because I don't want it to end!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franklinstein
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  From the start of Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, you find yourself where you left off in MP2, if 
 you played it, if not it's ok, because the controls are so different that you pretty much have 
 to learn how to play the game completely over again. And, don't worry it gives you enough time 
 to get used to the controls before it thrusts you into combat. And just like any good game it doesn't 
 throw a hard boss at you until you have learned how to fight.
  All and all, it's definately my favorite Metroid Game to date, and it gives other FPS's a run for 
 their money, I haven't played a lot, but I love a good one, and I definately love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seniorDK
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  The Good: one of the best in the prime series, awesome graphics, great gameplay, fun lelevls, an 
 overall awesome first person shooter!
  
  The Bad: doesnt have any wifi.
  
  Well this game is one of my favorite games on the wii, and actually is my favorite metroid prime 
 game, the controls really just feals perfect for this game, the games not too long but at the same 
 time not to short, its one of those games that u would expect to get done in a few weeks, but fifty 
 bucks is alot of money, but believe me i would pay eighty bucs for this game!
  if u are a metroid fan or just plain a first person shooter fan, this game will be the next level 
 in the fps gen! this game didnt just work on graphics obviously the games speaks for its self, 
 but i do reccomend a game guide for some parts because the game isnt the best explainer
  i give this game for the first time in my reviewing history i will give it a...9.5!
  yes i hav 
 givin some games 10's before but never have i gave a game a 9.5!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cruncher_77
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Name: Metroid Prime 3 Corruption
  Release date: Tuesday August 28 2007
  ESRB Rating: T
  System: Wii
  Genre: First Person Adventure
  WiiConnect24 Support: Yes
  Developer: Retro Studios
 
  Publisher: Nintendo
  
  Note: I am aware this review might be a little one sided, or contain opinionated. Please focus 
 ON THE REVIEW, not the ratings I give and tell me how to fix it up. Thanks.=P
  
  Introduction
  Recently the new Wii game Metroid Prime 3: Corruption was released. Originally 
 it was intended to be a launch title for the Wii. Eventually though, it was delayed. This happened 
 a few times. The game was one of the Top 3 most anticipated Wii games (the other two are currently 
 Super Mario Galaxy and Super Smash Brothers Brawl) . However, it no longer is. Why? Now it is available 
 and can be enjoyed be all gamers!
  
  Reward System
  Metroid Prime offers something completely new to the series: the reward system. What this does 
 is reward you with a symbol every time you complete a certain task required to earn them. There 
 are 4 different colors of symbols: Red, Yellow, Blue, and Green. Red, yellow, and blue can be obtained 
 from completing in game tasks. Green however; require you to trade what are called Friend Vouchers 
 with a friend (the friend must have save data for Metroid Prime 3 on their Wii to do so) . Each 
 voucher contains 1 Green symbol. With these symbols, the player can purchase a variety of bonuses 
 from 3 categories: Music, Bonus or Concept art.
  The products that can be purchased are rather amazing, particularly in the Bonus gallery that allows 
 you to purchase two very cool items: the Screen-shot tool and the Bumper Stickers. The bumper stickers 
 take the save data on your Wii and turn them into little stickers that spruce up your ships appearance. 
 For example, my ship now has a Triforce on it (among other things like Mario, Wii Sports etc.) . 
 The stickers can be all over the ship, not just one area. Now as for the screen shot tool, it is 
 especially amazing. It takes screenshots of in-game footage when you press up on the control pad. 
 This can be used if you want to show something cool you did in the game like fighting a boss or 
 showing a glitch (or even show your bumper stickers) !
  Bonuses: 10/10
  
  Genre
  Metroid Prime 3 Corruption is generally called an FPS (First Person Shooter) , but Nintendo prefers 
 to call it a First Person Adventure, which is in truth more fitting. The action is shown from what 
 Samus sees, like youre behind the helmet. Samus can obtain several different upgrades during game-play 
 which include beams (which power up her main weapon with new abilities) , suits (each has something 
 new to offer) , and more.
  
  Story-line
  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption continues where Metroid Prime 1 and 2 left off. Samus works for the 
 Galactic Federation and Dark Samus, Samus doppelganger has returned once again. In the last game 
 Dark Samus was seemingly destroyed but it somehow regenerated itself. This mission, Samus wont 
 be alone though. Other Bounty Hunters such as Rundas will aid her during her mission. New things 
 and twists are constantly occurring and are very suspenseful. Sometimes your heart will be pounding 
 to find out whats going to happen next.
  Storyline: 10/10
  
  Game-Play
  The game-play in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is the best part! Due to the tight controls, things 
 are easy to do. Shooting your enemies is a blast (no pun intended) and the Boss battles shine. 
 One of the highlights is that the game offers some great puzzles and they actually seem to match 
 with their location. The game-play is fairly simple, but addictive. Pointing your Wii remote at 
 enemies is a great new feature.
  Game-play: 10/10
  
  Hyper-Mode/Corruption
  Near the beginning of the game while Samus is performing a mission, Samus encounters Dark Samus. 
 Dark Samus then shoots large amounts of Phazon at Samus and leaves, knocking her on the floor (barely 
 living) . 1 month later, Samus awakens and learns she has been given a PED suit (Phazon Enhancement 
 Device) , which allows her to use Phazon to enhance her abilities. This power is know as Hyper Mode 
 and lasts about 25 seconds. However, it has a price and can ultimately destroy her if it is over-used.
 
  
  Controls
  Metroid Prime 3s controls are something new to the series due to the fact that the game is on 
 the Nintendo Wii, which means something will likely change for the better. If the player wishes 
 to fire a shot of the Power Beam (the main weapon) , they will press either the A or B button depending 
 on their preference. You must aim the Wii-Remote at the screen to fire a shot. The remaining button 
 of the two is used for jumping. The 1 button opens up the Menu containing several things from a 
 map of your current location to Options to your Inventory while the 2 button displays helpful hints 
 during game-play sessions. The  and + buttons allow you to switch between Samus visors and Hyper 
 mode. The D-pad can be used for a few things but the main one is firing missiles by pressing down 
 on the D-pad. The control stick moves Samus around, the C button transforms Samus into Morph Ball 
 form, and the Z button can be used for locking onto enemies. The controls are tight and always 
 responsive from what Ive experienced.
  
  Controls: 10/10
  
  Graphics
  The graphics of the game are gorgeous and brilliant. The cut-scenes have amazing quality, and show 
 much detail. For example you can sometimes see Samus eyes through her visor in a realistic manor. 
 The enemies in the game are detailed and always match their environment. In some games when the 
 environment is hit in a useless position etc. it does nothing. But in Metroid Prime 3 you can see 
 the shots effect shooting in a totally realistic environment. I cant believe they put so much 
 detail into the graphics of the game. They are stunning considering what the Wii can produce
 
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Sound
  Prime 3 contains great audio from the title screen to the exploring, to the epic boss battles. 
 The sounds made in game are very realistic and interesting. The shrieks of enemies etc. also seem 
 to match with their appearance and it is convincing. Some of the games music also seems to get 
 stuck in your head. Thats a good thing! There are no sound problems or music that doesnt match 
 with something it should (like a certain world) . However, one of the best things about the sound 
 is the great voice acting. When you talk to someone, receive a transmission, have a cut-scene, 
 etc. there is real people speaking which makes the game that much more fun.
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Difficulty
  The difficulty of Metroid Prime 3 Corruption is well rounded. There are 2 options 
 for players when creating their files and that is Normal and Veteran. Normal is recommended for 
 those new to the series or to the game and vice-versa. Normal mode isnt too hard or too easy; 
 its a perfect difficulty level. Veteran offers a great challenge to players though and is quite 
 fun.
  Difficulty: 10/10
  
  Replay-Value
  One of the great things about Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is the replay value. It can take about 
 20 or so hours for the average person to beat the game. But unlike most games and series, the Metroid 
 has great replay ability. The fun is great and action packed just like the first time you played 
 the game. If you chose Normal last time, you can turn things up a notch now by choosing a higher 
 difficulty.
  Replay Value: 10/10
  
  Overall
  Overall, Metroid Prime 3 is an excellent game and possibly one of the greatest titles to hit the 
 Wii console so far. I highly recommend that you purchase this game even if you dont like the First 
 Person Shooter/Adventure genre. If you havent played the previous titles in the series though, 
 it would make things a lot easier and more fun to understand if youve played the other titles 
 in the series (you dont need Metroid Prime Hunters though) or you can just look up some information 
 on the internet about the storyline. Metroid Prime 3 Corruption is a worthy way to complete the 
 Metroid Prime series.
  Overall: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  At last the conclusion to the Metroid Prime series has finally arrived. And what a joy it is to 
 play. Never before has Prime controlled so well, in fact you'd be hard-pressed to come up with 
 an fps with better control. If there is a problem with the gameplay it's that you can't always 
 be in the perfect position for the sensors and may have to adjust your position to somewhere maybe... less 
 comfortable. That's a pain, but it's a price you have to pay. Retro Studios has always made technically 
 proficient Prime games, but this time they've outdone themselves. The level design is amazing and 
 blooming with incredibly detailed art surrounding the unique and beautiful worlds. In Prime 3 you're 
 not restricted to one planet for the majority of the game, you will traverse several planets and 
 even a few space stations. How is this? You actually get to fly your starship. That is just amazing, 
 huh? Actually they should of done that long ago, but I'm not complainin. It can be annoying to 
 watch cutscenes of your ship flying over and over but it definitely one way to get rid of backtracking 
 in this series. Though, in actuality backtracking is still a major part... to my dismay. I noticed 
 that most of the equipment in Prime 3 seem to be the fan favorites in the Prime series. From the 
 plasma beam, to the screwball attack, to the always presented spiderball. Of course they did drop 
 a few good ones, most notably Super Missile and Power Bomb (replaced by Hyper Bomb) . In fact the 
 whole game seems to be made for the fans, the ability to use your ship (to travel and attack) , 
 the fan favorite weapons, the other hunters, and Ridley. There are two points that really seem 
 to go against everything Metroid is: Voice Acting and well talking in general
  This is the first Metroid game to have voice acting and fans like that. It adds to the lonely feel 
 of the game. It feels like you're the only one in the whole world and it's all up to you.
  
  But.. for the most part MP3 has decent voice acting. Sure some of the characters say stupid 
 things and sometimes the actors aren't great (Although decidedly better than most videogame voice 
 actors) but it really is kinda cool to be able to talk to people. Then again... it isn't. This is 
 one thing I can't decide on and I don't think you will be able to either. It's tough, I don't know 
 if it makes it better or worse. This is the conclusion of the Prime games . Anybody with a wii 
 should buy this game. It is arguably the best game on the wii although it has its problems. As 
 a last second thought I would like to add a question. Why does everyone like the ending so much? 
 It didn't seem satisfying at all. Nothing you wouldn't expect. The 100% bonus ending atleast gives 
 that secret you're still not safe cutscene as usual which don't get me wrong is cool and all but 
 the ending just felt so forced and predictable. The Mission Complete was especially corny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abobo2000
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Cutting right to the chase here, Metroid is simply awesome. There is very little wrong with this 
 game and so much done right. It is very appropriate that this game is the final chapter and done 
 on the next Nintendo console, the Wii, which allowed it to be given everything a Metroid fan wants. 
 The Wiimote is perfect for a true feeling of a FPS and is one of the more interactive games in 
 terms of actually putting you 'in' the game.
  So... down to business, the basics:
  
  Graphics: Unbeatable and tried and true Metroid formulas work here again. Following the incredible 
 first 'Prime' game for the Gamecube, Corruption gives a great variety through the eyes of Samus. 
 The interior of the ship and the varied worlds are done great. Nothing much else to say here... simply 
 perfection done right. 10/10
  
  Gameplay: Of course the most important aspect and the Wiimote lets you blast away with ease. The 
 lock on system still works great, but the addition of the 'free aim' is great for a more true FPS 
 style of play. Using the various visors is also fairly simple as well as the hyper mode. Not much 
 to complain about here also, pretty damn sweet if you ask me. 9.9/10
  
  Sound: Finally!! Voices have come to Metroid!... No but seriously, it seems like a different world 
 with voice acting of other characters (PLEASE BRING THEM TO ZELDA NOW) . Other than that, similar 
 sounds to blasters and such that we're used to from the Prime series. One more gripe... give us 
 REAL ORCHESTRATED MUSIC PLEASE!! (ALSO TO ZELDA!!!!) Epic Music= Perfect game... haha. 8.5/10
  
  I've kept it pretty simple, so I'll end it. Overall, the game is about as perfect as games 
 can get. Despite what critics say, I am enjoying my corruption with the lovely Samus. See you on 
 the other side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dc456
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  The games is great and ties in all the Wii controls to give it an inovative experience. the first 
 person aspect is also perfected with the wii contols and makes it much funner to shoot things up. 
 the only thing that really was a let down was the diffuculty, the game was too easy in the puzzle 
 aspect and the battles. if you are going to play this game try it on vetern ASAP. garphics are 
 great and bring out the systems best and also gives other games a basis to build on to make graphics 
 better in other games. The storyline is also much better told than in previous games do to good 
 cut scenes. the only thing with the cutscenes is that Samus never actually says anything, you just 
 hear everybody else while they assume she is listening. the ending boss fight could have been so 
 much more as well with just a little more work, which made it extremely easy. but aside from that 
 the game showed as much promise as everyone anticipated. and many others will agree this is just 
 one of hopefully a chain of games that are realesed this year that are must haves.' im sure that 
 evryone will enjoy this hame as much as i have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonamy4ever
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption takes everything that is metroid and perfects it. With a great story 
 line, better gameplay, and jaw-dropping graphics that made metroid, metroid. The game starts out 
 sorta where Prime 2 left off, only, Dark Samus isn't dead, and she's still out and ready to kick 
 some ass. When the Aurora Units (organic super computers that spread throughout a network of data, 
 supposedly to have some link to the mother brain) are infected by an unknown virus. Aurora Unit 
 242 is the first of them to receive a vaccine for this virus, and it purged all traces of the virus. 
 As stated by Admiral Dane in the beginning of the game. But, Samus, along with three other hunters, 
 Rundas, Gandrayda, and Ghor, need to see to it that the other Auroras get the vaccine. But... the 
 evil space pirates, just happen to attack as their briefing is complete, once you get back so your 
 ship, you fly to Norion, and purge the assault on the planet. Once you get the super laser back 
 online, and stop a mysterious meteor from sending everyone on Norion to kingdom-come, Dark Samus 
 appears, and infects the hunters with Phazon Corruption. A month later, Samus wakes up to find 
 that she has been in a coma for a month, and over that time, her body suit was equipped with a 
 PED (Phazon Enhancement Device) , which uses the Phazon in her body to supercharge her weapons, 
 and make her an unstoppable force. But, the other hunters were already sent out on their missions, 
 and the federation lost all contact with them 1 week ago. So, now it's Samus's job to locate the 
 Aurora units, give them the Vaccine, and purge the planets of Phazone corruption, as well as locate 
 the missing hunters. Phew... my arm hurts. Once you get sent off to the first planet, Bryyo, the 
 game becomes a pure Metroid Game, with backtracking, power-up getting, and lots of other kewl stuff. 
 The controls work perfectly, once you get the grapple lasso, you can grab onto stuff with a flick 
 of the nun chuck and yank it away by pulling back the nun chuck. Aiming is handled by pointing 
 at the screen, and moving the cursor to the left edge, or right edge, of the screen, will turn 
 Samus around. Lots of other motion based control are hidden away in the game, but that's all for 
 you to figure out.
  
  The graphics are solid, nice, smooth framerate, great use of special effects, and the awsome, and 
 sometimes scary, looking creatures, make the graphics, by far, the best part of this game. The 
 music is also a heavy shine point for Prime 3, it uses a great combination of techno like music, 
 with some choir in the background. The sound effects make the game come to life as beams shoot, 
 guns fly, and things go boom.
  
  Overall, Metroid Prime 3 sets the mark as the greatest game ever, and will still be, in years to 
 come. Let's hope that mysterious 100% ending means that there might be a Metroid Prime 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkfire514
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  An excellent first person shooter. Metroid Prime 3 really represents how nintendo can make any 
 type of game, from super mario bros to this. If your dying for an impressive and satisfying shooter 
 for the Wii, this is the game for you. Buy it now now now now now now now now now now now now now 
 now now now now now now now now i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flimsycat
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I liked the older Metroid games a lot. I mean, your Samus Aron! You get you carry a huge gun and 
 shoot weird space monsters. Well when I heard that they're making a game for the Wii, I decided 
 to get it. I was really disappointed in how Metroid changed over the years. I played the other 
 two and they weren't halfway impressive. I would recommend renting this game before buying...
 
  
  Sound / Music - The sounds is well... space sounds. It's a space game so we need space sounds right. 
 The voice actors were amazing. I think this is the first Metroid game to have voice acting. It 
 wasn't necessary but still ok. The music was another story. What ever happened to the fun catchy 
 songs we all used to love from the other games? Well the didn't make it in this one. The music 
 was enough to make little kids cry... enough said.
  
  Graphics - The graphics were amazing. Very improved and everything was beautiful. You can see Samus's 
 refection in glass and water and it's just so perfect! If youre a video game geek like me you 
 know that they use home-made 3D graphic programs. They held this game a year longer so they could 
 redo their program after the glitches found in the other game. If they didn't gold it bad the graphics 
 would have stunk. Be thankful that the graphics helped raise the score.
  
  Plot - Most Metroid games have no plot, I know that already. So let's throw in some weird space 
 monsters that get corrupted and while we're at it, let's make Samus corrupted too. Yeah, let's 
 go with that! Ok what am I saying? It had an awesome plot. The new characters were amazing thanks 
 to the graphics. Each and every one of them died too! Ok that's the sad part but back to the happy 
 part. The plot was great. Much more spacey if you ask me. You get to travel to different planets 
 and everything. It gave you more freedom.
  
  Overall Gameplay and Controls - Easy, easy, too easy. Hypermode is another story. The controls 
 were too easy for my taste...
  
  Overall it was a good game. Some levels were hard and others downright easy. It isn't the best 
 game and surly isn't worth the buy but still really good if you want a space themed game without 
 the Halo in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demanboy666
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 was the first Nintendo Wii game I bought and I was disappointed ! Im not a fan 
 of first person shooter games, but I thought Metroid would be fun. I was wrong. Metroid is a serious 
 first person shooter game. I found the controls easy to get use to in the first hour or so. The 
 only problem I had was that i would get tired of holding the Wii mote steady, and if you point 
 the Wii mote all the way to the left she would spin around in circles like crazy. That made me 
 get head aches after only 2 to 3 hours of playing. Another thing I don't get is the main character? 
 She's a women right? If she is a women how does she role her self up into a ball? Women are flexible 
 but not that flexible. Any way just because I don't enjoy playing this game doesn't mean it's not 
 good. The game does have a good story to it and good graphics. If your a fan of first person shooter 
 games or Metroid Prime then this is the game for you. I Give Metroid Prime 3: Corruption For The 
 Wii an 8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is an epic adventure, with dazzling visual art style and sound. The 
 story and presentation makes for a lively and entertaining experience that doesnt let up until 
 the mission is compete. And Metroid has by far the greatest first person controls on Wii.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 has you once again playing as the bounty hunter Samus Aran. Samus and a few 
 select hunters are sent to repair and get back online the infected Aurora units, which are biological 
 supercomputers for the Federation. But along the way you and the other hunters get corrupted with 
 Phazon that not only greatly affects the story but the gameplay as well, which Ill get to in a 
 second.
  
  Now then Metroids controls are by far the best first person controls on Wii. Youll notice there 
 are three different control types, but dont bother with the first two just use the advanced system 
 as youll love it! Metroid uses the closed box system of movement. Basically the father you move 
 the cursor, through the Wiis IR controls, the more youll turn around. While this system has been 
 used for games in the past; Metroid has perfected it into a smooth and accurate control making 
 past games obsolete.
  
  Because of these new fast and accurate controls Retro has upped the combat a bit. You now find 
 more aerial enemies since you can see higher faster. Youll also notice that there is more combat 
 then previous Prime games, but that isnt a bad thing. While it does have more combat they still 
 keep the exploration part of Metroid alive. There are also new additions to the combat. Besides 
 scanning enemies you can use a new visor, you switch visor by holding  and pointing to visor you 
 want which works great, to control your ship to land places and bomb the crap out of things! This 
 adds a whole new layer of interactivity with you ship that makes it feel almost like a partner 
 with you on the adventure. And of course there is hypermode. While in hypermode Samus uses the 
 power of her infected Phazon to become super powerful. But of course this comes with a cost. When 
 you use hypermode you are using Samuss life force, every shot you take decreases you life force. 
 This creates a find balancing act that especially comes into play with boss battles.
  
  As for the other controls you use the analog stick on the nunchuk to controls Samuss movement. 
 You can jump with B and shoot with A, or vice-versa if you wish to. You press C to change into 
 the morph ball, where you use the control stick to move and you can now jump up at any time with 
 the flick of the Wiimote; you can still jump the normal way if you wish. :P And for people who 
 didnt like the lock on system in past Prime game prepare to fall in love. The new lock on system 
 has you press and hold Z and youll lock onto the nearest enemy. But when you are locked on you 
 can still move the cursor so you can aim at anything on the enemy and it works great! The only 
 problem with this is that some enemies can break out of the lock on, mainly flying enemies. And 
 you have a new ability in Corruption, the grapple hook. The grapple hook is assigned to the motion 
 control on the nunchuk. You can use it to rip off doors and shields which feels awesome.
  
  One of the best things about Metroid Prime is the amazing presentation and polish of the game. 
 Nearly all of the scenes have great voice acting and cut-scenes. But it doesnt stop there. Retro 
 went the extra mile and made all the menus in the game interactive. Whether is controlling Samuss 
 arm to pilot the ship, to using the grappling hook to power up keys, etc. While this doesnt seem 
 like all that much it adds up to making really fell like you are Samus and are inside the game.
 
  
  Wells thats enough rambling on about the gameplay lets finally get to the graphics! :P While Metroid 
 doesnt necessarily push the Wii technically, it has some of the best art style of any Wii game 
 to date and is very polished and detailed. Everything just looks amazing, each world and setting 
 has its own art style that is very believable and unique. Everything blends in perfectly and the 
 level design is amazing. And the effects are spectacular! Setting off a bomb, using charged shots, 
 blowing up things, ripping a door off its hinges all looks amazing and is easily one of the higher 
 points of Metroid.
  
  And the sound of Corruption is equally impressive. The opening is a full choir singing making for 
 an epic feeling that is just amazing. The music for Corruptions is amazing; it can be upbeat or 
 moody, but it all blends perfectly into the game. And the sound affects are just as good. Hearing 
 the boom as your ship bombs the place or hearing the roar of a boss makes for and incredibly epic 
 feel to the game.
  
  Even if you beat Metroid dont think the game is done yet. Once you beat the game you can replay 
 it on Veteran or Hyper which adds a huge challenge to the game combat wise. And of course you probably 
 didnt collect every single powerup in the game. Youll want to get those missing powerups since 
 the best ending is only available if you get 100% of the powerups and scans. And of course there 
 is also a huge selection of unlockable content. Varying from a screenshot tool, to concept art, 
 to music, it adds a lot to the replay value if you want it all.
  
  Up until now I havent said much to the negative side of the game and with good reason. There really 
 isnt much to complain about in the game. The major complaints I have are for the motion control. 
 When you are in the morph ball and want to jump sometimes it doesnt read the motion of the Wiimote 
 at first. This doesnt happen often but it does happen. I also found the grappling hook to be a 
 bit unresponsive at times, but for the most part good. Besides that and the above mentioned enemies 
 breaking out of the lock on there isnt anything to complain about which is great because I dont 
 want to put down the game and the complaints Ive listed so far are sort of pushing it. :P
  
  Overall Metroid is an amazing and epic game. It has spectacular graphics, presentation, and 
 sound. And it has gameplay rivaled by none on Wii so far. This is a true game for gamers on Wii 
 and should be in every Wii owners collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disworldsuckz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2002, Metroid Prime was translated to 3D for the Nintendo Gamecube. It was an amazing game, 
 and it won many honors. It also marked the only Platinum Award winner in EGM (Electronic Gaming 
 Monthly) . In 2004, Metroid Prime 2: Echoes was released. While not as good as its predecessor, 
 it was still a worthy game to play, and a great sequel. Now, 3 years later, the last in the trilogy, 
 Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, has finally been released for the Nintendo Wii. For a console which 
 desperately needs a worthy game to play, this is definitely it.
  
  MP3 leaves off where MP2 ended. Samus is on her ship, finally waking up from her deep sleep. She 
 returns to the G. F. S. Olympus when space pirates attack the ship. After you ward them off, you 
 get sent on a mission to rid the planets of Phazon, a microscopic organism that can infect and, 
 at its peak performance, corrupt the host, leading them to their doom. In the process, Samus becomes 
 corrupted herself, and it's your job to get rid of the Phazon before it corrupts the universe. 
 As a Wii title, it uses the IR of the Wii Remote. This is definitely the basis of a first-person 
 shooter, as controls are tight and comfortable, and the aiming feels just right. You also have 
 access to different planets, which can be easily viewable from your map. This is good, since the 
 planets were very confusing in the last MP game. Also new are some visors. The very awesome one 
 is the ship command visor. If you find a landing spot for your ship, you can bring up the SC visor, 
 and the ship will go to the location. You can also call aerial strikes and can carry off important 
 objects. Don't think of it as weird if you start to have a bond with your ship. Now, for the bad. 
 Since it uses motion sensitivity, the game's difficulty has been toned down, and it is noticeable. 
 Veterans will complete the game in a matter of hours, but it will still take them a while. Even 
 for newcomers, this will be a easy game. This is a massive game, and you will notice it once you 
 pop the disc in. This is a beautifully crafted game, and the graphics are top notch. All in all, 
 this is a worthy end to the trilogy, and this will settle down the hardcore until the delayed SSBB 
 comes out. If you own a Wii, you should get this game by any means necessary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  The Metroid Prime series comes to the Wii and takes off in the right direction. Being able to look 
 around while moving is the one thing the previous 2 Prime games didn't have. This one has it and 
 it's an amazing ability. You once again control Samus Aaron who is called upon by the Federation 
 to finally put a stop to Dark Samus and the Pirate menace. This time you have help from 3 other 
 bounty hunters, or so it seems. The hunters are disbursed to different planets in order to destroy 
 the Pirate Seeds but soon the other 3 hunters have broken contact and Samus must now destroy the 
 seeds herself. Samus soon finds out that the other 3 hunters have been corrupted by Dark Samus 
 and must be destroyed. Once they are destroyed then Samus can destroy the seeds.
  
  The game has a familiar play to it and enemies are easy to destroy. This game has more space pirates 
 than monsters because of your trip to their homeworld but the combat is very intense on many levels. 
 The Boss battles are memerable and unique. Falling down a shaft while fighting Ridley, 3 hunters 
 with 3 different attack styles, Metroid hatchers, Berserker Lords and of course, Omega Ridley &amp; 
 Dark Samus. Being able to aim anywhere on the screen while moving around is your key to winning 
 these battles. Each enemy has their weakpoints and your suit upgrades help you find them.
  
  As for the items and upgrades, there is the standard Morphball upgrades of Spyderball and boost 
 ball. You can get ice missles and Hyper missles along with the Plasma and Nova beams. There is 
 also the Screw attack which is not used as much as the previous games. In this game your ship plays 
 a big part in solving puzzles as well. You can use your ship to attack certain areas and also to 
 grapple large objects. I was hoping for a level of actual ship combat but there is none.
  
  The level design is flat out amazing and the graphics are up to par and beyond what I expected. 
 Very colorful and detailed. There is a lot of exploration to do and items to scan. You get red, 
 blue and gold credits for different scans and things you do in the game. But finding all 100 pickups 
 is the most time consuming part of the game. You dont need all 100 but you get the best ending 
 with them. There is a lot of back and forth between the worlds but this is necessary in order to 
 fidn everything and progress in the game. It's not too tedious and makes more of a challenge.
 
  
  Overall the game is not very difficult and the enemies all have a certain pattern or style of fighting 
 that can easily be picked up on. Having all the energy tanks helps as you can last longer in battles. 
 Definately worth playing and it has even a slight replay value with getting all 100 pickups and 
 the Hypermode difficulty opening up after you beat the game.
  
  Great job Nintendo and I cant wait for more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NarutoGNT4rocks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  The best shooter I have ever played made for any of the Nintendo systems. The boss battles are 
 challenging and fun. Puzzles difficult. Awesome weapons. Great graphics. One of the most amazing 
 games I have ever played in my entire life. Once I started playing it, I couldn't put it down. 
 I love all the Wii remote and nunchuck interaction, which I love in Wii games. The story is so 
 easy to get tracked on even if you haven't played the first two games. But it would be so much 
 more fun if you actually got to fly your ship instead of the computer doing it for you. An AMAZING 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSuper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Has anybody wondered why the avarage critic score is 9.1 ? Has anybody wondered why those 52 critic 
 sites and magazines rate this game a 9.1 avaragely and why gamespot gives this game a mere 8.5 
 ? Incompetence ? Probably. But even worse : halo fanboys !
  
  As everyone knows, metroid and halo are each others equivalents, one is for Nintendo, the other 
 is for Sony, the one encourages great single player while the other encourages great multiplayer. 
 But most of all, metroid prime hunters is way more innovative with a great new control scheme and 
 technically proficient graphics, that, although they're not so different from the Gamecube version, 
 are pleasent for the good ol' eyes. I've enjoyed this game, and while the campaign wasn't as long 
 as i'd hoped it to be, it was excellent, innovating and a great experience. Although one might 
 say i'm a nintendo fanboy, i wouldn't say hes lying, i've been a nintendo fan since i was only 
 3 feet tall, and i'll continue to be nintendo fan, untill i die. But, and i must admit, i do love 
 microsoft as well. I got age of empires when i was only 7 years old, and i absolutely loved it. 
 I'll continue to buy microsoft computers as they make new age of empires games. That's why i think 
 i can judge fairly objective, as i love both microsoft and nintendo. And to be honest, ive come 
 to the conclusion that the reviewer of this game was looking for a halo game disguised in metroid 
 style. He didn't find it, and only rated it avaragely for a metroid game. Yes, it's too bad it 
 doesn't have such a decent online gameplay as halo, but don't forget, 10 years ago, people didn't 
 complained because there was no online gameplay, no, they actually ENJOYED single player gameplay. 
 I mean, i know it's everybodies dream to play online with other puberescent little boys, but i 
 certainly don't enjoy online gameplay that much.
  
  So to come to a conclusion here : buy this game ! No, seriously, if you want a decent shooter with 
 excellent gameplay, just buy this, and the new controls are quite fun ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wima5ter-134
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  When I picked up this game I was like YA, SWEET, and it was everything I wanted from the beginning. 
 The game starts off 6 months after Prime 2's events with Samus the Bounty Hunter sleeping in her 
 gunship. She is called onboard the GFS Olympus to recieve a message and things start getting to 
 business quickly. Space Pirates attack the fleet and launch an attack on nearby Norion. Samus then 
 fights off the flagship and down to the planet, where the plot really starts to thicken.
  Lets start with the controls. After the chunky controls of Metroid Prime 1 and 2 the point to aim 
 accuracy just can't be beat. Sometimes I found the controls a little hard to get to, such as the 
 visor button and the map button, but still worked. One of the things I liked was the stacked weaponry. 
 Instead of having the nova beam, plasma beam, and regular beam at the same time, each one replaced 
 the other. Same with missiles, instead of ice and reg. missiles, you have just ice missiles, which 
 cause more damage and can freeze people.
  For something the series hasn't done in a game as far as I know, They sure covered flying from 
 planet to planet very well. Even if you couldn't skip it, it was very well done. Another new thing 
 was the objectives. You accomplished objectives and if you died you would respawn at the last objective 
 you finished, still very helpful, but not if it was late. The respawn points go away after you 
 turn off your Wii.
  The environments were very detailed and fun to explore. It really had that metroid feeling where 
 you had to keep coming back once your weapons upgraded. Something Metroid Prime Hunters lacked. 
 I also liked the monsters. They were very well created and had some cool ways to destroy them. 
 The bosses, in my opinion, are some of the most original and best experiences I have ever seen. 
 Some are hard until you realize the weak point and then its quite easy. I found most of the bosses 
 quite linear but still a fun puzzle/challenge.
  Another odd thing to the game are collectibles. If you scan an enemy/creature you will get a red 
 token, yellow for beating bosses, blue for something, and green for something. And in the extras 
 menu you can trade these in for things as image galleries and soundtracks. And also for the first 
 time..... drum roll....... ONLINE!!! well....... sort of. You can trade accomplishments with other 
 Wii friends that have MP3. Not much, but still something.
  Overall this is, in my opinion, the best of the series and anyone who has a wii or is a fan of 
 the series should get this game.
  
  actual score: 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalSonic803
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 to me looked like the best Prime game so far but it wasn't. The game is quite differnt 
 form the other Prime games. The areas are much smaller because go to planet to planet so it dosn't 
 feel as much area as before. Also the areas themselves are very small expect for Bryyo.
  
  The game itself has gotten easier thanks to the corruption mode so some enmies are easy to kill. The 
 good part is there is little backtacking this time. Mostly your going stairght forward in the game 
 and there few times it askes you to go back. There is a iteam finding mission in end of the game 
 but you just to need to find half the iteams if you do it right.
  
  Graphics- They are the best I've played in the Wii. There are nice affects that weren't done in 
 the GC games. At times the game gives the background stange colors so things look stange and unrealistic. 
 Score 9.4
  
  Gameplay- I pretty much allready talked about it. The controls in the game are good. I don't play 
 all of FPS games so it hard to compare. They take a while to get used to. The only probelm is sometimes 
 to the game thinks Iam not pointing at the screen when I really am pointing at the screen. Some 
 say they stoped locking on enemies because are so good but I don't believe the controls are that 
 good because Iock on all the time. Score 8.5
  
  Sound-Its much better than the other games. But there are some times were there hardly any sound 
 but just that quite music you heard form other Prime games so it seems lazy. Like in the Vallhala 
 when reach a certian point in the ship the music changes froever to some lame music that seems 
 unsipered compared to when you frist laned on the Vallhal. Score 8.5
  
  Value - It too short compared to the other Prime. It the main reason I didn't really like the game. 
 Score 6.8
  
  Tilt- You have to destory the Seed in each planet but you get to it is allways different which 
 is good its not like getting into the Dark Temple in MP2 Score 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrapnel4423
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  here is my 100 letters good job retro studios you really hit the nail on the head dd ddd dd d d 
 d d d dd d d d d dd d d d d dd d d d d dd d d d d d d d d dd d d d d d d d d d dd d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d dd d d d d d d d d d d d d d dd d d d dd d d d d d d 
 d d d d dd d d d d d d d d d dd d d d d d d d dd d d d d d d dd d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d dd d d d d d d d d d dd d d d dd d d d d d d d d d dd d dd dd d d d 
 d d d dd dd d d d d d d d d d d d dd d d dd d d d d d dd d d d d d d d d d d d dd d d d d d dd 
 d d dd d d d d d d d dd d d d d d d dd d d d d ddd dd d d d d d d d dd d d d d  
  ddddddddddddddddddddd  
 finger slipped 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 10:50 am PT
Review:  I pretty much knew what to expect with Metroid Prime Corruption going into the game except how 
 the controls would work for a FPS on the Wii. If you played the GC MP's then expect more of the 
 same. When I first started playing I was amazed on how well the controls worked. I was jumping 
 and spinning Samus around in no time. The game uses the Wii controls in very innovative ways which 
 keeps the gameplay feeling fresh throughout. Other developers need to use the same control scheme 
 for FPS. If that happens we might just end up with a good online shooter for the Wii. The graphics 
 and music are top notch. I did not feel like I was playing a dated game even after playing a lot 
 of XBOX360 games.
  
  I did have a sense of deja vu though. It definitely has a lot in common with its predecessors. 
 Retro did try to make this game feel different and they succeeded in some ways where they failed 
 in others. There is more of a story in this game than before. There is actually voice acting, well 
 except for Samus. The one aspect I have mixed feelings on is the jumping from planet to planet. 
 While this is good in the fact that each level is easier to navigate. I did not get lost near as 
 easy as before. You also get to use your ship more than ever before. You even get expansions for 
 your ship. I don't know why you get missile expansions because I only remember using it twice. 
 But it also makes the overall sense of scale in the game feel a little smaller. Well I did finish 
 this game in about five hours less than the previous two games, about 20 hours. Also even though 
 a lot of the power ups were cleverly hidden it seemed that I was thrown into a lot of the energy 
 tanks and missile expansions just going on the mission I was completing. That is one thing I have 
 always loved about Metroid is the exploration. While this game still has that I was able to find 
 95% of the items just naturally going through the game. All of the regular items return such as 
 grapple beams, morph balls, screw attack, etc. There are a few new items that are based on the 
 phazon corruption. While all of these items are good and put to use well through excellent level 
 design I just can't help feeling that I have done this all before. The bosses are another plus 
 in this game as they have been in the past. The couple of fights with Ridley are extremely enjoyable. 
 But the regular enemies are not very smart and just take a lot of hits to kill. I would have rather 
 seen more intelligent AI to really get the most out of the Wii controls. The controls are the main 
 difference as you might expect. You will use the grapple beam a lot more because of the controls. 
 There are also medals you earn for finding secret paths, scanning enemies, lore, and killing enemies 
 in unique ways. You can use these medals to unlock some of the extras in the game. You also earn 
 friend vouchers that you can trade online with your friends. But considering I don't have any friends 
 that have played these vouchers didn't do me any good.
  
  Overall with excellent controls, graphics, and level design this Metroid ends the trilogy well. 
 I do think it is time to use a little more innovation on the next Metroid game because without 
 the new Wii controls I would give this game an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordLanz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I have to honestly say, I am not a fan of Metriod at all, but I have a Wii and this game looked 
 so good, I had to pick it up. To day I haven't played it that much due to time, but I can tell 
 you that the time I have played it, its a great game. Easy to pick up and play, make wonderfull 
 addition to Wiimote and Wii Library, best Graphics to date on Wii. Look for this to be a Fan Favoriate 
 for yrs to come. Metriod Prime great ending to series, great allround title. For those who wouldnt 
 normally play games like this I would recommend giving this one a shot. Instant Classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmedWolf001
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is by far one of the best releases for the Wii. Playing with the Wiimote 
 really brings the gameplay to life, once you get the controls down. There's a lot more action in 
 this one then in the past Metroid Prime games. You'll find yourself fighting more then wondering 
 around scanning everything in sight, but what would a Metroid Prime game be without scanning and 
 puzzles? Expect to bump into some of those situations, but not as much. The game has nice visuals, 
 although the graphics aren't exactly next-gen the art presentation makes this game look stunning, 
 like most Nintendo games.
  
  Surprisingly, the voice acting in this game is pretty good for a game that's new to it. The music 
 hasn't really changed from the past Metroid Prime games, but that doesn't make it bad, just somewhat 
 repetitive. The story goes in the right direction throughout the game, but the ending does seem 
 like it could have been a little better. Overall the game is worth playing through and is a must 
 buy for any Wii owners looking for another epic game like Twilight Princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbrown86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is the final act of a 3 part story which started on the Gamecube with 
 Metroid Prime, then Metroid Prime 2: Echoes. The controversial decision to take the 2-D side-scrolling 
 Metroid series to a 3-D First Person perspective has payed off, with both Prime and Prime 2 doing 
 very well. Prime 3 uses the Wii Remote and Nunchuck to shoot and look, and does very well with 
 it.
  
  The Remote is used as your crosshair, just aim at anything, and shoot with the B button under the 
 remote. The Nunchuck controls the moving, and dodging. It's a really good system, and works much 
 like a keyboard/mouse combo. Within a little bit of getting used to it, you'll be making overwhelming 
 battles look easy, and stylish. The story involves Samus Aran coming into contact with the Galactic 
 Federation to solve a problem with a virus being put into the Aurora Units, living computers that 
 power the GF net basically. Samus gets in contact with several other bounty hunters, but things 
 turn out going south after a Space Pirate attack on a Federation outpost brings about Dark Samus, 
 and Samus is then overloaded with Phazon, which she must now control in order to solve the attacks, 
 and save herself. The basic Metroid formula is here, explore, find new items, explore, etc. You 
 actually begin the game with a good amount of your items equipped, so you aren't totally helpless 
 in this one. Which is one of the big points in Prime 3, it's a tad bit easy. Metroid games have 
 always been much like Alien's chilling teaser tagline: In space, no one can hear you scream. In 
 Prime 3 however, it seems like all of space may not hear you scream, but they want to talk and 
 shoot the breeze with you. Anytime your stuck, there usually is a helpful message telling you where 
 you need to go. It helps keeping the game moving, but classic Metroid fans might be a little turned 
 off by the holding your hand aspects of this game at points. Beams get stacked in this one due 
 to the lack of buttons on the Wii controllers, and the missiles get a ice upgrade during the game. 
 The big addition is Hyper-Mode, in which Samus can go into a Phazon-induced killing spree, shooting 
 super blasts at enemies. Sometimes it's used to clear paths, and later in the game a Missile, Bomb 
 and, Grapple Hyper are obtained. The catch is it drains a energy tank from Samus, and if left in 
 Hyper too long, goes into corruption, in which you need to shoot rapidly to keep Samus from becoming 
 corrupt from the phazon and dying. This adds a certain sort of risk-reward gameplay, but it can 
 be easy to control the corruption, and Samus is a invincible killing machine when in Hyper-Mode, 
 and can easily dispatch a group of enemies then recoup losses with the numerous energy balls that 
 appear. There are Wii controls, such as making a motion to pull off a enemy shield, or remove a 
 power core from a socket. It's sometimes hard for the Wii to pick up what you are doing with the 
 remote, but never really frustrating and never a moment in the game in which it's a life-or-death 
 situation will you be asked to do these controls.
  
  Overall, the game does the franchise well. It's easier than most Metroid games, but it's still 
 on of the best Wii games out there, and the best so far to use the Wii controls well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_Smash_You_Bro
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Even if you didn't like past Metroid games you will enjoy this one. Metroid Prime 3 really uses 
 the Wii's motion controls you aim by pointing the wii remote at the screen flick the remote upwards 
 to jump when your in the ball form and pull off shields on enemy's by throwing the nunchuk forward 
 then back. Be careful in the game there will be moments when the Phaszon will overload and you 
 get corrupted and die. Boss battles are sometimes tricky but fun to fight. The graphics are better 
 then Metroid games before. In the end Metroid Prime 3 Corruption is a great game for anyone who 
 owns a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donerik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  The Wii has found a way to bring the feel of a fps on my computer to my tv. I never quite got into 
 shooters on platforms. They've always felt forced and I always found myself wanting my mouse. The 
 wii hit its first home run with MP3. The shooting is crisp, the control's made me feel immersed 
 in the game. This kind of interaction is what I hoped would be possible when I was a child playing 
 track and field (NES) . The game is paced about right and it presents things as you move along in 
 an understandable way, you find a grapple point, you get the grapple beam. You need a weapon you 
 find the weapon. It's definitely a departure from previous Metroid Prime games where you found 
 a place when you though the grapple beam might be useful, to bad you won't find it for 4 more hours, 
 after you get the ice beam and traverse the lava, ect. If you liked crossing back through rooms 
 doing tedious tasks that felt less like a puzzle and more like a trap, this might not be the Metroid 
 game for you. But if you wanted a shooter with the kind of single player game that makes you almost 
 forget it doesn't have multi-player, instead of a shooter with a great multi-player that almost 
 makes you forget the campaign was way to short, this game is for you.
  
  It was for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMatoro
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Well, the controls are easy to learn, the graphics are outstanding, and gameplay is terrific but 
 for me it just doesn't make me want to play it every day.
  
  The controls are easy to master. A to fire, B to jump, D-Pad Down to shoot missles, and Z to grapple, 
 anyone can learn that in 5-15 minutes. Sometimes you have to do these special moves, but they give 
 you instructions! It's just impossible to look at the instruction manual for 5 minutes and STILL 
 not get the controls. They are easy as pie.
  
  The graphics are really outstanding for the Wii's standard. They put as much detail into them as 
 maybe for an early PS3 game! You could crisply see Samus's ship at the beginning and tell where 
 everything was. And the G. F. S. Olympus's crew were really like they came out of a XBox 360 game, 
 I mean, you all coud see that!
  
  Overall, this game is superb, but I really had trouble playing again after I shut the power off 
 on my Wii. Well, I'm finally done with my review. But, this is only my opinion. You might think 
 the game is addicting and fun. Well, yeah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaideng123
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  so lets break this game down
  
  story: superb it is great and intricate and plenty of twists and turns to keep you on your toes 
 through the whole game
  
  control: it is like the wii was made for this game i mean way better than any shooter even halo 
 great
  
  game play: good streamlined battles so you cant wait to fight another enemy
  
  graphics: great design and good graphics so fun to look at
  
  so buy it if you have a wii
 
  i am sick of all the other crap on the wii it discourages people from this game it is good trust 
 me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkknightFXR
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  To begin my Review of this I will go on and say this game does have flaws but every immersing, 
 innovative, and violent action this game has to give far surpasses what flaws it has no matter 
 how slight of irritating they could be.
  
  Flaws I found:
  Shooting door shields too closely can cause them not to open and you have to re-shoot and move 
 back and forth a bit until it opens.
  
  Bosses are quite easy but I guess that goes with difficulty but other than those two I find nothing 
 else is wrong and well it's a game that will maybe last long enough for someone to scan everything 
 possible, fill up the log book and find all the one hundred upgrades possible throughout the game.
 
  
  Upside:
  Great addition to the series and giving Dark Samus a powerful role in the whole taking over fellow 
 bounty hunters and making them fight you. Puzzles creating headaches which means those that love 
 to think will feel rewarded because no matter how simple some things are I guess there could be 
 the possible overload and then OH NO what do I do then it's like OHH im an idiot makes well at 
 least ME feel rewarded I don't know about others.
  
  Controls are as good as they can get, maybe room for improvement I wouldn't really know but I find 
 that the controls are easy and not over sensitive or under sensitive and great use of the Wii-mote 
 for turning switches and moving levers makes you feel like you're Samus Aran yourself.
  
  Great new characters as additions for the storyline making some mystery of a whole what are they 
 doing there, oh no they're killing me but I win.
  
  But the stress of scanning to add to the galleries are I guess the only real big downside but everything 
 else will be a breeze for the puzzle game players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkw22
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games out this year for any console. The game delivers one of the most 
 engrossing, fast-paced, and frenzied experiences on any console ever. Most importantly, the Wii 
 controls are integrated to perfection. Never has a first person shooter played so well without 
 a mouse and keyboard. The story flows nicely, and the action is frequent and not overly repetitious. 
 There is still a Metroid-esque element of exploration, but the back-tracking has diminished significantly. 
 New to the series are the voice-acting elements, which added a great deal of immersiveness. Also, 
 Samus now has control over her ship, which comes in handy in solving puzzles and traveling from 
 planet to planet. No longer is Samus confined to one planet; she now gets to explore multiple planets, 
 as well as ships. While the graphics are not 1080 or 720 HD, in full 480 widescreen, the visuals 
 are extremely impressive. Much of what is impressive is the environment. Gears twist and turn, 
 steam shoots from pipes, plants spin and move, objects float through space, ships speed past, etc. 
 The environment is phenomenal, and it does not matter that it was not done in 1080 or 720. You 
 will be impressed. The bosses are unique and challenging. And the powerups are extremely enjoyable. 
 Another first in the series, Samus does not lose most of her abilities at the start. Instead, she 
 starts with a plethora of items, and only adds to her already impressive arsenal as she goes along. 
 The phazon powerups are extremely powerful, and make the gameplay exciting. It's embarrassing that 
 Gamespot showed its bias towards other consoles by downgrading such an impressive game. I agree 
 that this game is likely not a game of the year candidate, but to give it an 8.5 is embarrassing 
 at best. Gamespot should be ashamed. a realistic rating, and one that consumers should consider 
 far more accurate would be 9.2 - 9.4. While the game is not perfect, it will certainly stand the 
 test of time as a game that will be played and enjoyed by many, many people for years to come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OneWingedAngeI
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  Prime 3 is definately a game every Wii owner should play. But probably only once. I rented it myself. 
 Ill explain why later, but first the facts. The game looks great, but it looks not much better 
 than a gamecube game. I played on an HDTV with component cables. For the hardware, its superb. 
 The only issue I had was wondering how it would look on a real next gen powered system.
  
  The sound was very well done, and the length of the game was satisfactory. I really loved the way 
 it wrapped up the plot of the trilogy, and overall I can say I had a blast with the game. And oh 
 god, the motion controls were done so well. So why dont I love it as much as other people?
  
  Simply put, the game is not something I will ever likely play again. Since going 3D, the prime 
 series has lost something intangible. I have replayed the 2D metroids dozens of times. I have absolutely 
 zero desire to replay prime 3. And that brings me to my next point. Difficulty.
  
  While the game was fairly challenging, it did not rock my world. I am the type of person, especially 
 when it comes to the shorter shooter games, who likes to use difficulty to increase the longevity 
 of the game. This I could not do with prime 3. The so called hard mode is really the normal difficulty. 
 Hyper mode is what I would have liked to play off the bat. All that said, I can't fault this one 
 game in particular for this, because almost every game makes you unlock the hardest difficulty. 
 Im a huge advocate against this. Anyway this is starting to sound negative, and thats not how i 
 look at the game. It is so well paced that you never get bored of playing. Every day I looked foreward 
 to see what was next, and every time I was pleased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ParkCarsHere
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  --This review contains no spoilers, and to you lazy folks, the last paragraph is a very short summary 
 of the review --
  
  The Metroid series has been around for a long time now and they have always been a staple for Nintendo 
 gamers. However, it seems to be a love it or hate it type of game. Some people really enjoy the 
 aspect of adventuring around the world and going back to previously explored areas with a new power-up 
 to see what new treasures can be unlocked, while others would much rather never see the same place 
 twice, let alone three and even more times in a single play session.
  
  Enter Metroid Prime. Arguably one of the greatest games to come out for the struggling Gamecube. 
 It was the first time Metroid Prime went into first person, and the first time the Gamecube received 
 a killer app in the eyes of most gamers. However, the same Metroid gameplay was in this game as 
 it was in the past games: explore area, find a power up, move to next area, find another power 
 up, go back to first area for another power up, go to second area to use that power up, then go 
 to a new area to use all those power ups to find another power up, and then the cycle restarts.
 
  
  Sound boring? Well, that's why the Metroid series isn't as popular as the rest... at least, that's 
 how it used to be. Enter Metroid Prime 3.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 sticks to the Metroid formula but adds the most important layer that so many Wii 
 games have been messing: a great control scheme. Simply put, the Wii controls for Metroid Prime 
 3 are the best I have ever seen in a first person shooter. Forget waiting three seconds while you 
 hold the analog stick to the right to look behind you. Here you simply move the Wiimote to the 
 right side of the screen and Samus will be quickly gunning down those unsuspecting Space Pirates 
 (nice and original name, eh?) .
  
  Even with the low number of buttons on the Wiimote and Nunchuck, Metroid Prime 3 controls perfectly, 
 especially if it is on the Advanced control setting (don't let 'advanced' scare you... this way 
 is much more intuitive and is the BEST way to play Metroid Prime 3) . Missiles are sent flying with 
 the bottom button on the D-pad and the '-' and '+' buttons control visor switching and corruption 
 mode accordingly.
  
  Corruption mode? You mean we're talking about politics now? Well... not quite. New to Metroid Prime 
 3 besides the amazing control scheme is the introduction of Corruption, an element which is so 
 important to the game that it earned its way into the title of the game! When you hold the '+' 
 button, Samus will let Phazon take over her body and she becomes a woman on a mission, destroying 
 anything stupid enough to get in the way of her  laser beams.
 
  
  I'm glad to say that, while Corruption does make the game much easier, Retro Studios did a decent 
 job of limiting it's usage. While it can still be used frequently, it will take away an entire 
 health cell, so it's costs sometimes outweigh the benefits. Something about with great power comes 
 great responsibility?
  
  Now, to you non-Metroid fans, why should you buy this game? You've hated Metroid ever since you 
 first had to backtrack to a level you had already beaten in your first Metroid game. Why is this 
 game any better? Besides, you obviously didn't play Metroid Prime 1 or 2, did you?
  
  Good thing for you, the story in Metroid Prime isn't the most in-depth storyline we've ever seen 
 in a video game. Something about Samus fighting things called Space Pirates and these weird floating 
 things called Metroids. That's about all you need to do. Metroid Prime 3 gives you a great sense 
 of story through its entirely voiced cutscenes (sorry, Samus is still mute though!) . Even if you've 
 never played Metroid Prime 1 or 2, you'll still get a good sense of the story and feel like you 
 accomplished something at the end. So, you can easily get through the game without beating the 
 first two games in the series, and still understand the story.
  
  Like I said in the beginning of the review, the control scheme makes this game much better for 
 fans of FPS who have never gotten into the First Person Action Adventure type of games. Metroid 
 Prime 3 seamlessly transitions from a FPA to a FPS throughout the game, so fans of constant action 
 will be pleasantly surprised at how much work their trigger finger will get in.
  
  That's basically Metroid Prime 3 in a very small nutshell. The sound is great, the graphics look 
 amazing for a Nintendo Wii game, and the controls are unbelievably perfect throughout the entire 
 game. Some small quibbles such as the short length (8-14 hours for most people) and still the reliance 
 on backtracking are put aside at how great this conclusion to a trilogy is. Even if you've never 
 touched a Metroid game before, I highly recommend this game to anyone who is looking for a great 
 FPS-type game on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption was defintely a game to get on the Wii because it's improved on a lot 
 since the gamecube Metroid Primes. Too bad it was a single-player only game. I just think it would've 
 been better if there was multiplayer or Wi-Fi. Other than that, I liked this game. It basically 
 begins like the first two Metroid games, only thing that was better was that other than Samus, 
 everyone else talks. The voice acting is so well-done that it almost sounds like a movie. Weapons 
 are good too but too bad you can't switch them like in the gamecube games and you always have those 
 ice missles. Puzzles are still challenging as ever and you can send friend vouchers on WiiConnect24... if 
 you have friends on your roster. This game was visually great and the controls were definitely 
 amazing. This is a game that people were waiting for and from the looks of it, it really shows. 
 The bosses are kinda easy, environments are looking great and there is a new ability where you 
 can kill things faster but it causes your health. Something with Phazon. Basically, the story is 
 that Samus is corrupted with Phazon and she has to get herself cured. I think that Retro Studios 
 really outdid themselves with this game and it being on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saga_gemini
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  i think this is the best shooter for the wii that has been released so far, yeah i say shooter 
 inside quotes because metroid prime cant be called a shooter, and this is why:
  
  1. shooters usually have more than 4 enemies in the same room at the same time.
  2. in shooters 
 you dont usually go out of 1st person to become a non-firing weapon (morph ball)
  3. in shooters you dont usually jump doing front-flips
  4. unless you are in a star wars game, 
 the graple lasso is not normal on shooters.
  
  here are 4 reasons to not consider metroid prime just a shooter, i think it is also a puzzle/adventure 
 game. (this reasons also apply for why you cant compare halo to metroid)
  
  so anyway, going on to the review, this game is great, its stunning scenerios, the way it provides 
 lore by scaning stuff, the puzzles, which are really easy but really fun at the same time, the 
 boss battles which are the ones that make this game shine. also even if it doesnt have wifi gameplay 
 which would have been cool, it has a thing called friend vouchers which you can send to your friends 
 that have metroid and they cash it in for credits which help unlock cool extras.
  
  so i highly recommend buying this game, or at least renting it, it will entertain you and make 
 you go back to your wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhannibal
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  well who says the wii doesnt have games for the hardcore gamers, well this is the next game since 
 zelda.
  
  The controlls this is the first game to use the wiis contolls just about perfectly, sometimes they 
 go out but their fawless most of the time.
  It does take a while to get used to the controlls but once u do u will be kickin ass the whole 
 time.
  The graphics
  amazing, while there no 360 or ps3 these are solid graphics they really upgrade from the last metroid
 
  Length
  about 20-40 hours depending on what u get and if u want to scan and get all the upgrades a solid 
 game
  Compliants
  yet sadly their is some problems
  1. the save system while it doesn but u back when u die its sometimes hard to find a save system 
 and u are forced to play great amounts of time to find the next save point. but this is really 
 a minor detial
  2. last the wii remote sensative parts sometimes dont work, but this rarely happens and is due 
 to the fact that ur not in front of ur tv
  
  the game is a great ending to the series, and is a perfect game for the hardcore gamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinigamiLink
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  This in my opinion is the best of the Metroid Prime series by far. This being said this and mp2 
 are the only mp games I have played (this one being the only one i completed) . The main thing i 
 like about Corruption better than Echoes is that you don't lose everything you had started off 
 with at any point in the game. This game also has extremely good graphics, especially with the 
 texture lighting. The gameplay is also pretty simple and easy to catch on with. The plot moves 
 on pretty well and is easy to understand. I have heard people say that mp games are way too confusing. 
 Most people who say this usually don't get that far in the game, aren't used to the mp series, 
 or are used to simpler games. This game is meant to be challenging so that you actually have to 
 think to solve puzzles. Also scanning makes finding what to do a lot easier and when finding energy 
 cells or weaknesses to bosses try scanning the Boss or whatever and actually press 1 to see what 
 it says. For energy cells make sure you see the planet and find a place on the map with the word 
 in read or in a place you remember not being able to get to before. Just saying on a side note 
 I'm 13 years old and was able to complete this game within about a week and a half on Veteran, 
 so it isn't as hard and frustrating as the previous mp game. The interface is also very easy to 
 understand and the controls are easy to get used to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  The Prime trilogy comes full circle with Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. After the critically and 
 commercially adored Metroid Prime and the low-key Metroid Prime 2: Echoes, Retro Studios delivers 
 a satisfying end to an absolutely fantastic series and delivers the best game yet on the Wii. In 
 a wave of never-ending minigame compilations and half-assed PS2 ports with even more half-assed 
 waggle controls, Corruption stands out as a game full of substance that provides much gaming nirvana. 
 If you own a Wii and you consider gaming as a major hobby, you might as well be slapping the face 
 of your god if you don't own this game.
  
  Set 6 months after the events of Echoes, Samus and some other bounty hunters are tasked with vaccinating 
 organic supercomputers called Aurora Units (AU for short) that are threatened by a virus strain 
 most likely created by Space Pirates. While carrying out this mission, Samus and the other bounty 
 hunters are attacked by a blast of phazon from Dark Samus -- Samus's alter ego, who was first revealed 
 in the secret ending in Prime 1. Samus and friends are corrupted by the phazon and the only thing 
 keeping them from being consumed by the corruption's by integrating themselves with a P. E. D. suit 
 (Phazon Enhancement device) . This integration also the bounty hunters to unleash much more devastating 
 attacks upon their unfortunate enemies by utilizing the phazon coursing through their veins.
  
  The story provides a much more epic conflict than past Metroid games. Fitting, considering 
 this is the end in the Prime trilogy. Unfortunately, as interesting as all of this might sound, 
 the story's largely forgettable. The voiceovers (yeah, they talk with actual vocals, a rarity in 
 Nintendo games) are fair and and the writing settles on the norm. Cinematography in the cutscenes 
 are generally mediocre, Twilight Princess -- a game basically designed from the ground-up on the 
 GC -- trumps Corruption's cinematic values. Most of the story substance is going to once again 
 come from the lore you find on the various locales you explore. There the writing's sharp and deftly 
 written, providing a rich background of the various planets you'll visit.
  
  A couple tweaks have been made in the third outing, the biggest being the controls. The back of 
 Corruption's box states, [...] the best first-person controls ever made! . While this claim is 
 quite presumptuous, it isn't that ludicrous. As far as consoles shooter controls go, Corruption 
 basically revolutionizes how first-person controls should work. It's precise, accurate, and natural. 
 It trumps the dual-analog setup in so many ways that going back to it feels clunky. Not only that, 
 but it gives Samus a feeling of nimbleness that wasn't quite prevalent in past Prime games due 
 to the GoldenEye-esque setup in terms of movement. It's second only to the keyboard-mouse combo 
 only because turning is a tad slow.
  
  The new controls allow Retro to throw more enemies at you at once, and the new controls are up 
 to the challenge. If that's a bit too much, the new Hypermode will let you obliterate your foes 
 with relative ease. Watch out though, staying in it too long will lock you in a corrupted state 
 and if the corruption takes over, it's game over. However, it's easy to stave off the corruption 
 -- just shoot like hell to vent it out. Hypermode makes some battles a bit too easy and makes it 
 the easiest game in the trilogy because regular firefights don't provide much of a challenge. It's 
 still challenging, but sometimes it feels like a cakewalk. Fortunately, the boss battles deliver 
 a good demanding fight. Each one provides an epic encounter, and each one demands precision shots. 
 The bosses provide the most hectic and fun moments in the game, and there's a lot of them.
  
  Other than that, Corruption plays like the Prime games before it, except everything is much 
 more tightly paced. The biggest change in the core structure is that you're not tethered to just 
 one world. The areas you'll traverse are split into various planets. Each planet has its own aesthetic 
 and feel, and Samus's galaxy feels grander because of this division. This also cuts backtracking 
 a ton. Riding up and down elevator's a thing of the past, all that's required is a hop into your 
 ship and choosing your next destination. This results in best paced Metroid game yet, reaching 
 different areas becomes a breeze and the deliberate pace is still here, just less pronounced.
 
  
  Little tweaks are included to accentuate the faster pacing. Beams are now stacked, ala Super Metroid, 
 so there's no need to switch to different beams to open up different colored doors. Visors are 
 now quickly accessible by holding on the minus button and then guiding the cursor to the mode of 
 vision you desire. Your ship also acts as a portable save station. By landing your ship on various 
 landing points, you can save and even lift off to another planet. It'll do much more, like full-on 
 bombing runs when you net the proper upgrades. Your ship becomes a reliable helper throughout the 
 game, and you'll get why real-life sailors treat their ships with such compassion. There's also 
 a bunch of other possible-only-on-Wii mechanics as well. You'll use the Wii remote to twist, pull 
 and push on levers. The nunchuck's used to whip out your grapple beam to rip off walls and enemy 
 shields. Both mechanics work remarkably well, and it only further enhances the feeling that you're 
 underneath that suit.
  
  What couldn't be possible on the GC visually is possible on the Wii. Visually, it dazzles. It may 
 not have the fanciest shader effects, highest polygon counts, etc., but Corruption succeeds visually 
 almost purely on its art. Every single area's interesting to look at. The intricacy of some of 
 the designs are simply incredible. The overlapping gears in the machines of SkyTown, the tribal 
 backdrop of Bryyo, the list goes on and on. Everything is just interesting to look at. You might 
 stop and look at things not because they're visual show-stoppers, but because they're intriguing; 
 you want to learn more about them. Retro also used the extra power of the Wii for grander areas, 
 sharper textures, higher polygon counts and extensive bloom lighting for good measure. Some of 
 the face models -- mostly Samus and humanoid characters in general -- are unsightly, but it's easily 
 negligible since the game rarely zooms up to a face model. All of this also comes in a smooth, 
 slick, never-hitching 60 frames. As far as Wii games go, Corruption sets the visual bar extremely 
 high. It can even hold its own with some 360 and PS3 games. Crazy, yes. But see for yourself.
 
  
  Aurally, it maintains the same level of quality of past Prime games. Creatures mouth off convincing 
 noises and cries, ambient sounds are crisp and blend well with the environment and weapon sounds 
 are punctual. The soundtrack is a lot more grandiose this time around, but some of the orchestral 
 pieces are hampered by the MIDI; it sounds like something from the GBA at times. The heavily synthesized 
 ambient tracks on the other hand, are as pleasing to the ear as they always were.
  
  Amidst all this praise, there's on sticking point. If there's one major point of criticism, it's 
 how you're constantly being guided by an AU. The AU constantly provides objectives, and while that 
 does keep things going at a brisk pace, it does pretty much destroy the sense going at it alone. 
 Rarely will the AU ever give you the chance to figure out where to use your new upgrade, the AU 
 will just tell you. It also destroys any sense of isolation, of going at it alone. You're constantly 
 being watched over, for better and for worse.
  
  Complaints aside, Corruption's an amazing send-off to a strong trilogy. It should take around 15-20 
 hours to finish and completionists will likely take much more time. An achievement system also 
 encourages multiple playthroughs, because you can spend achievements to unlock art galleries (which 
 are awesome) , soundtracks and a ton of other extras. Metroid fans who've been with Samus since 
 the beginning might find the changes in Corruption a bit unsettling, but for the rest of us, this 
 is one hell of a game. Dust off your Wii or stop playing minigame compilation #432, it's time to 
 let yourself go to the Wii's finest game and one of the best games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rlink0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Realistically, this game is amazing. It shows some capabilities of the wii, and I think we would 
 all have fun playing this game, except for the few people that do not like this type of game (sci-fi 
 shooter) . I'm not even close to finishing, due to seemingly millions of bonuses. This game brings 
 no shame whatsoever to the Metroid series, and in my opinion, brings it more glory than the other 
 two in the Prime series. If you want info on which you may like:
  
  Metroid Prime: Simple, yet great intro to this series, decent graphics and cool storyline.
  Metroid 
 Prime 2 Echoes: VERY challenging, unique, although not perfect storyline, and tough puzzles. Better 
 graphics.
  Metroid Prime 3 Corruption: Totally rewrites almost everything into something better, not too tough, 
 illustrates light excellently, and wonderful storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacepirate58
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  The look of the Prime franchise has always been a good one. One always looks upon the game that 
 is Prime and just wants to play it. Whether Halo or Metroid fanatic you be, you are surely, at 
 the least, going to take a good look at it. The view is as compelling as the story and fights, 
 leaving you to simply stare at a room and say, Dang, that Wii could take on an Xbox. Well, is this 
 game meant for you? In a word, yes. You, however, may not enjoy it if you look on exploding aliens 
 and find the need to blow your own chunks. Of course, that is why they rated it T. The game has 
 been easily changed to allow the enjoyment of the gamer to spread rapidly, and pull in the first 
 timeys and the old timeys (like me.) The difficulty settings, though, don't initially seem to fit 
 the average I've played the entire saga so far gamer. That is why they added in the Hypermode, 
 a suicide run meant to test the biggest veterans of the series. Even though it is a true fact that 
 this is indeed the last Prime game, Nintendo Power and other sources have clarified that this is 
 the last in this CHRONICLE. The story most likely continues. (Look at the 100% ending for a clue.) 
 The boss fights are challenging, mostly because of the pushover enemies. If you have trouble with 
 them, though, you can kick in Hypermode and blast the enemies to kingdom come. The catch is you 
 may become corrupted, and die, and it all costs an energy tank. But nobody said that that meant 
 forced backtracking, the energy tanks are sometimes in plain site. (A real dissapointment for treasure 
 hunters.) The first hour and a half or so are action packed, but this is not the case later. The 
 action all is crammed into one area, and then once you land on Bryyo, the second planet, it all 
 dies down, leaving the gamer with a sense of longing. Speed runs are mostly unavailable in the 
 game, due to the massive amounts of speech and cut scenes that stretch a long field. That is sad, 
 as a speed run would be very fun to try on such an interesting game. Mostly, as the final statements, 
 buy the game. It is definitely worth the price, and rivals and nearly (if not) defeats Halo, in 
 my opinion. Unless you are a Halo junkie, buy this now. If you are, wait for Halo 3. You will probably 
 find more enjoyment in it if you like that type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidRswii
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  its another Metroid game so you'll expect alot of things. Well this game continues from Metroid 
 Prime 2 (duh) . The story is kinda... confusing to me and it makes no sense but it makes me feel cool 
 for some reason but the story is where Samus is in her spaceship she goes to a planet for stuff 
 they talk blah blah blah; an attack happens so Smaus is off apparently its some virus so yea; then 
 they fight it make it to a tower there attakeby Dark Samus they get knocked out and they get phazon 
 powers and blah blah blah. Ok the story is long so this is where I stop. As u can tell I'm not a 
 big Metroid Prime fan this my second game from Metroid. The graphics are immpresive and well done. Sound 
 is pretty good. There is no loading screns well there is but there hidden really well which I like. Well 
 I really have nothing else to say about this game except this game is a pretty good game but it 
 turned a little easier some how but u should check this out rent it or buy it it don't matter. 
 But its not all that its craked u to be!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesus_knight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  I have to admit it, when I first bought Nintendo new console the over hyped wii and got my hands 
 on two of its first two games (the legend of zelda: twilight princess and red steel) , I feel very 
 disappointed, while legend of Zelda was a good game, controlling links sword was more about shaking 
 the wii-mote than actually having the feeling that you had a real sword in your hands, and red 
 steel.. well, that game had so many control problems that I started to think that the real problem 
 came from Nintendos console and not from the developers.
  
  Metroid prime 3 corruption proves that the real culprit is not the hardware but the developers. 
 Controlling samus feels so natural that you will actually feel that samus cannon is an extension 
 of your own arm, your movements translate almost flawlessly to what you see on the screen to the 
 point that makes you rethink about the wonderful future of FPS on the wii if developers used the 
 wiimote as Retro Studios did. Not only the control is good but some of the actions that require 
 the use of the nunchaku and the wiimote are very cool to pull off, for example if you want to throw 
 Samus grapple you will actually have to imitate the action with the nunchaku, and removing enemies 
 shields by simulating these movements feels very nice and natural.
  
  The gameplay is what youd expect from the metroid series but this time instead of a big, big map, 
 you get a solar system with planets, and each planet has its own map. In order to make progress 
 in the game you need to get new items, that will allow you to open new paths and doors in previous 
 planets (by the way, you are free to explore this solar system by using samus ship) , the good thing 
 is that metroid prime 3 graphics are very good for a wii game and the places are very fun to explore, 
 I have to admit that I really enjoyed scanning creatures and collecting information, probably because 
 you get xbox 360 achievements-like rewards that you can exchange for some goodies in the metroid 
 menu, among this goodies are things like figurines, soundtrack songs, pictures and stuff like that, 
 plus there are other very cool things you can buy like a feature that allows you to get pictures 
 from the game anytime you want and send them to your friends online. So every time you scan a new 
 creature, defeat a boss, open a secret etc you will have your reward.
  
  Metroid prime games have always had a very good soundtrack and this one is not the exception. Metroid 
 prime corruption soundtrack and sound effects are great too and some of the background songs really 
 help in making you feel as if you were in a distant planet or in the middle of space.
  
  If you still have doubts about the wii-mote, or if you are one of the persons who thinks the wiimote 
 is a gimmick device, then, there is only one thing I can say, play metroid prime 3 corruption please. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asm607
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I know that some people have given this game really bad reviews, and to be honest, I really can't 
 understand why. The absolute best thing about this game is the controls. They are magnificent. 
 I have never played an fps with controls as smooth and comfortable as this. The thing I love about 
 the metroid games is that every aspect of the game is challenging. Some of the bosses are pretty 
 hard, while at the same time many of the puzzles that you experience throughout the levels are 
 also difficult. There are only 2 things I have to complain about this game. I wish it could have 
 been a little bit longer. I beat it in 17 hours. And I also wish it had online multiplayer. It 
 was in MP Hunters for DS, so where is it now? Overall, this game is kick@$$, and I would recommend 
 it to anyone who has a wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jareddra
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  One word to describe this game WOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I have never seen a game with such 
 artistry and the graphics and the gameplay are the best ever. The controls which is unmatched by 
 any other game immerse you so much in the game that you don't want to stop playing because you 
 actually feel like you are there. The environments in this game are so detailed that I have to 
 say bravo to Retro Studios they did a superb job. I have played a lot of games in my time but I 
 think that all FPS have a new KING and it is Metroid Prime 3 Corruption end of story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azkotek
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I've played the other two metroid prime games on the gamecube and, after playing with the 3rd, 
 Corruption, I can say that: the controls steals the show this time around!
  
  The gameplay is not entirely different from the past 2 games but in a way, it is. Because there 
 is the added controls with the Wii remote AND the nunchuk, it feels quite new at the same time. 
 So, if you've played MP1 and MP2 and loved them, you'll probably fall in love with Corruption right 
 at the start. If you've never played the gamecube games, all the better if you're a fan of FPS/adventure 
 games. FPS/adventure... what does that mean? Well, it means the game, although in a first person 
 perspective 75% of the time (the rest in morphball mode) , the game does not emphasize on run-and-gun. 
 There's nice balance between action and puzzle solving requiring you to be aware of your environment. 
 Even a small detail sometime will hide either a way to open a new path or simply find a missile 
 or energy expansion. So for some of you expecting a Halo clone, you're straight out of line... 
 it's much better IMO.
  
  As mentioned in the Gamespot review, the boss AND mini-boss fights are among the best and most 
 exciting I've experienced in a console game. You always have to figure out a way to destroy your 
 enemy. For a hint, OFTEN use you scanning visor... this will help for boss fights AND puzzle solving.
 
  
  Although the maps are quite huge sometimes, the map system gets the job done in keeping you oriented. 
 The most noticeable addition though, as mentionned, is the FPS controls using the Wii remote!! 
 man!! I'm a PC gamer as well and for the first time I think the controls for a FPS on a console 
 comes really close to being as good as those on a PC using the mouse and keyboard layout. Simply 
 fantastic.
  
  Graphically, the game is wonderful and I'm pretty sure Retro Studios pushed the Wii's capacity 
 to its limit. I won't compare with PS3 and Xbox360 as some people like to do. For me, the graphic 
 engine is more than enough to enjoy the visuals and details of Corruption especially if you play 
 on an LCD or Plasma TV at 16:9 ratio and 480P resolution. On the down side, I only wish that there 
 was a multiplayer component to play deathmatches against other people on-line... that would've 
 been great. Bottom line: if you like adventure games and especially metroid games, treat yourself 
 by buying this gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Messer_Partei
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  I was intrigued with the control theme when I heard about it, but wasn't sure if it would make 
 the game better or worse. I can safely say, it DEFINITELY improves the game by far in the gameplay 
 department. That important fact out of the way I will grade this game in the way gamespot use to 
 grade it here:
  
  gameplay: 10/10 It truly is the best game in the series in terms of mechanics and playability. 
 Everything is sharply controlled and very precise. There are many aspects of the game that are 
 interesting seriously just to play with. They got rid of some of the unnecessary things that were 
 in the last games and replaced them with a more varied assortment of ways to torture your enemies. 
 Instead of having 4 different beams that all kill enemies the same way, you only get one. In it's 
 stead, you can use your ship to attack, or use your grapple to drain health or give health to overload 
 an enemy. I thought for a while about removing older guns, but if you think about it, you never 
 used the weaker guns in older games unless you had to. I always kept the plasma cannon ready in 
 prime one, and only switched for doors and specific enemies. This is not a problem in prime 3, 
 rest assured.
  
  graphics: 10/10
  
  Best graphics ever seen on any nintendo platform. Period. You can't even tell the difference between 
 a good 360 game unless you have them side by side as well. What really stands out though in graphics 
 is not just the smooth textures and such but the lighting. The lighting is amazing. Also the environments 
 and enemies are very intriguing and the bosses all look different and fantastic. The bosses are 
 on par with prime's in art and variety, unlike echo's 'all dark' bosses (though quadraxis was the 
 best boss out of all the prime games in my opinion) .
  
  sound: 7/10
  
  What sound... seriously, prime 3 does what echos did and failed completely to level up to prime 
 1's awesome soundtrack. Prime 3 is slightly better than echos however since it does have a few 
 quite epic sounding songs. It's all good though, it's not that prime 2 and 3 were that horrible, 
 but more so that prime 1 was so damn good.
  
  value: 9/10
  
  Prime 3's value is higher than the other 2 games slightly because of the sheer action involved. 
 It's like playing a movie, and add to that, there are a ton of unlockables including 3 different 
 difficulties instead of 2 which is awesome. The first difficulty is a little bit easier than prime 
 1's normal difficulty, and the other 2 I'm not completely sure of. But I could probably assume 
 that the difficulties go in this order:
   that was hard......) &gt; maybe, 
 p3, very hard.
  I really liked how there weren't so many 'keys/artifacts' to find in this game (only 8) and they 
 were relatively easy. I really liked that, since it was merely a way to make the last 2 games longer. 
 This game is just as long, but the time is spent more so in pure carnage.
  
  tilt: 9/10
  
  Overall, Prime 3 was definitely better than prime 2 since it improved on everything that game 
 had, but was 'technically worse' than prime 1, since I have massive nostalgia for prime 1. No other 
 reason, since prime 3 beats prime 1 in every respect imaginable except sound. This is a must have 
 game if you have a wii, and is well worth the money if you don't have a wii if coupled with zelda, 
 ssbm, smg.
  
  This game is actually a 9.3, not a 9 or 9.5. I hate the new scoring system... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shorelineryan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  Whether you're a fan of metroid or not, it's hard to deny how immersive of an experience this game 
 is. It's not jaw dropping visually, and really not that much different than the previous installments 
 of Metroid Prime, but that doesn't matter. The gameplay itself is reason enough to call this the 
 king of all home console FPS games to date. In fact, I'd put the use of control on a higher plane 
 than most PC FPS games. The controller just feels so perfect with the genre. It's immediate, responsive 
 and incredibly intuitive. Before dropping down a ton of cash to buy the overly marketed and hyped 
 Halo 3, give this a whirl. I guarantee you won't be disappointed,. It's not only a better overall 
 experience than the latter, but it's also one of the most amazing experiences you'll have with 
 a shooter this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkman159
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  The Metroid series has been around as early as the NES was released and it has always caused sentational 
 hits with its alien atmospheric adventures. For those who dont know what Metroid is, MEtroid is 
 a sci-fi adventure game which takes place in certain alen planets as the female bounty hunter Samus 
 Arans goes and faces the threat of space pirates. Enough of history clases and on with Corruption. 
 Metroid Prime 3: Corruption takes place after Metroid Prime 2: Echoes. You do not have to understand 
 the story of the past two games in order to enjoy this one, but it sure helps. If you are interested 
 then keep reading, if not then skip to the next paragraph. In summary, Metroid Prime 1 and 2 are 
 about this wierd Meteorites crashing agains two planets and bringing a wierd cancerous biological 
 toxin called Phazon. Space Pirates get to use this toxin to mutate creatures and developed powerful 
 but unstable weapons, also; during Metroid Prime one Samus looses one of her suits by the core 
 of the Metroid Prime which latter mutates into Dark Samus. As you might have already guessed, Dark 
 Samus is Samus' main enemy.
  
  In order to make this review more effective, im goint to split it categories.
  
  GRAPHICS Here 
 some complain and others go kissing nintendo for it. The truth is that these graphics are the best 
 the Wii has so far. Textures are very clear and even look sharp as you get close to walls. They 
 are not 1080p PS3 Blue-Ray graphics but they sure stand out. Lightning effects are very good as 
 you will see you beam iluminating dark areas and explosions causing Samus' reflection upon her 
 visor. Enemies are very well designed and dont look crumpy or last generation. One good news for 
 fans of Metroid Prime 1 and 2, i did not experience the dead Space Pirate glitch were it starts 
 to bounce off the walls like crazy so that is a very good sign.
  CONTROLS Oh yeah. This is the best controls i have even played a first person shooter with (Yes, 
 i have played both Gears of War, Halo 1 and 2 and Call of Duty) . As you may already know, you focus 
 on a target by presing Z and then point your shot at a certain point in the screen. You can also 
 adjust the settings to be more sensitive or if you are not very experienced, to make the pointer 
 be just as in old Metroid Prime games. You move by tilting the joystick, shoot a misile by pressing 
 down on the cross and jump and shoot with b and a respectively. you turn into a morph ball by pressing 
 c and move with the joystick. something new, you may jump by swinging up the remote while morph 
 ball. Another new feature is the graple beam which lets you attach to certain textures by shaking 
 the nunchuck and then pull it back to tear apart things like shields or door. You will also interact 
 with panels and switched to activate them by moving the nunchuck. BOSSES AND ENEMIES Enemies... 
 Mainly Space Pirates and other wierd aliens which go from bizare aliens to really cool Pirates 
 dressed like the Covenant guards from Halo (Sorry i had to mention it) . You will very unlike find 
 yourself dying in front of enemies unless you get Corrupted and dont know what to do (sorry i cant 
 spoil it) . But the action is still very intense as you may find yourself shooting many enemies 
 at the same time. If you do find difficulty killing certain enemies, you can scan them by chanhing 
 you visor to scan mode and collect clues on their weak spot and strengths. Bosses are really cool 
 and range from your size to giant and other wierd things. I found myself several times saying Wow 
 this is so kick *** or How in Jesus name im i going to kill this... this... thing? I really cant 
 say much in here because i understand how bad it is to spoil things to other peole. I will only 
 say bosses are amazing and very memorable.
  MUSIC AND SOUNDTRACK
  Have you ever heard chores mixed with tecno music? Thats pretty much it for the soundtrack. I personally 
 found many tunes stuck in my head specially the one from the opening scene and those from several 
 bosses. Beams will sound like they have to sound and explosions will bang as you expect them too. 
 A very good new feature is voice action which i personally find pretty good and that add a more 
 imersive feel. Dont worry though, samus does not speak except for when she yelps in pain as she 
 imerses herself in hot lava or is banged away by a close explosion.
  ANIMATIONS
  Cutscenes are very wellcomed to the series. Now you will have dialogues and action scenes acted 
 out very effectively. The opening scene is very well caried out and deserves good recognition. 
 Enemy movement is very smooth and there are no glitches. The nviroment acts very well to yourself 
 as you shoot leafs off a vine or leave a shining spot in a wall where you shot. You will also be 
 able to freeze enemies or sent them flying with explosions whcih are very realistic (if you consider 
 someone flying 6 meters away as a Phazon barrel explotes right besides him) .
  The opening scene is very memorable and it reminds me of Star Wars for some reason, i will not 
 say more since it is best to experience the thrill rather than hear of it . There is one particular 
 moment i really like in which you deliver a bomb to certain place and have a very cool animation 
 similar to that one in Halo 2's second or third mission.
  THE METROID FEEL
  Despite the new changes Metroid is still Metroid, it is not halo, it is not Zelda and it is definetely 
 not Gears of War. You will still go around collecting weapons and misiles. Creepy monsters will 
 still jump out of nowhere just to be blasted away and of course, you will always go around exploring 
 new areas ending with great boss battles. FINAL THOUGHT
  Metroid Prime 3 is definetely the best choice side by side with Twilight Princess and Super Paper 
 Mario you will have until Mario Galaxy and other big hardcore titles are released like Smash Bros 
 Brawl. The game will definetely satisfy old fans which will probably already have beaten the game 
 by the time i write this review. The new controls are very welcoming to new audiences and the adjustable 
 dificulty and controls are also very apealing for a wider audience. The only shortcoming i experienced 
 was completing the game in 14:45 first run which i find very short considering i beat the other 
 Metroid Prime Games in no less than 19 hours first time through. Of course, perhaps it is me being 
 too nerdy and experienced with the Metroid series since other players report beating the game in 
 about 18 hours (im not being cocky or anthing) . Anyways, Metroid Prime 3 Corruption is deffinetely 
 the game every Wii should have and will satisfy everyone who buys it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furious_flamez
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  If Metroid Prime 3: Corruption could be summed up in a single word, it would undoubtedly be ''Revolutionary''. 
 The new integrated elements that Retro brought to Corruption are indeed refreshing and fun. However, 
 it feels as if that's the best this game offers. For many that would suffice to label Corruption 
 as a Masterpiece. But when you take a step back and look past these ''new elements'' and juiced 
 up graphics and fix your gaze on the true value, anyone would be able to see some unused potential. 
 For one, I find that having to jump from planet to planet fragments the overall gameplay. It may 
 work for other games, but not Metroid Prime. Aside from the planet hopping, the actual terrains 
 you explore are small and limited. If you played the previous MP games and suffer from extreme 
 cases of claustrophobia, you might get uneasy. Also, I couldn't help but feel at times that the 
 game was getting too superficial in an attempt to compensate for its deficiencies. I much preferred 
 being launched into one giant, seamless, and beautiful world and exploring it all the way down 
 beneath the crust of the planet to its deep, dark crevices, as was the case with MP1. MP2 also 
 followed in those foot steps. But in Corruption, you lose that sense of grandeur and are left feeling 
 as if you're simply skimming the surface. I also noticed that the puzzle elements in Corruption 
 felt shallow in comparison with those in the previous two games. For me, there was little gratification 
 felt upon their completion, aside from the fact that I get to move on. As for Samus' arsenal of 
 weapons, it seems to have taken a step down from the scale of versatility. The game could also 
 have been more of a challenge in general, I found it to be a little too easy. Halfway through the 
 game, I find myself playing simply to have it over and done with. I defeated the final boss and 
 switched off my Wii with a feeling of indifference. By now, it may seem as if I'm bashing Corruption. 
 But I assure you that is not the case. I love the Metroid Prime series, they are among my most 
 cherished games (I've played the first 6 times over) . But I can't help feeling that MP3 lacks a 
 soul of its own. The story feels somewhat empty as you continually chase objectives rather than 
 explore at your own discretion. It's as if all the qualities that made the past games so breath-taking 
 took a hit in order to accomodate the new ''revolutionary mainframe''. Sure, Metroid Prime 3 is 
 a good game; but, is it all it could have been? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1nG_Gr4H4m
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  I've been a metroid fan since the first one came out. Although I prefer the 2D version to the prime 
 series (my favorite would be Metroid 2) , this game is great. Nice visuals and the controls works 
 fine too. I found it to be better than echoes. The multiple planets travel is a nice addition, 
 but it's not really different than the multiple sections in previous games. The only bad thing 
 I could say about this game: friend vouchers. It's annoying to have share them to unlock stuff. 
 The only Metroid game I didn't play is Hunters, so I was a little bit lost at first with the other 
 bounty hunters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smogtoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  Well I most definitely enjoyed this title to start off with! I admit, I was skeptical, since Prime 
 2 was a bit of a let down, compared to Prime 1. I didn't count on this game being this good, I 
 just couldn't put it down. Overall, I put in a little over 25 hours, just primarily because I kept 
 going back through areas searching, and for the fun of it. So Metroid Prime 3, is what a Metroid 
 game should be. And let me tell you one thing for sure, the first 4 1/2 hours of gameplay are totally 
 awesome, probably the best I've ever experienced in a game! Not Kidding! Anyway, you are the heroin, 
 Samus Aran, and in typical Metroid fashion you begin the game with a plethora of scanning, and 
 traversing around getting used to the controls. (That statement excludes Prime 2, to which most 
 players were already familiar with the Gamecube configuration) . So in Prime 3, the controls have 
 endured a complete overhaul, and in excellent form. The movement of Samus, forward and backward, 
 is controlled by the Nunchuk thumb stick, as is the morph/spider ball, and of course lock on with 
 the Z button, ( oh and how could I forget the grapple beam functions, which are mapped in motion 
 style to the nunchuk!) . The aiming of Samus' weaponry is with the Wii-mote, as is the launching 
 of missiles, power beam, morph ball bombs, phazon mode, space jumping, and the newly added way 
 to change visors. One would think that such an extensive re-design would be confusing to veteran 
 gamers of Metroid, but the truth is.......... the controls are better, ...... MILES better, and the 
 dominant of the two configurations. These controls, make me wish they would re-release Prime 1 
 with the new control scheme! In conclusion, the game is worth the wait, and has definitive replay 
 value due to the controls. So in relevance to the game being fairly still new, I won't add anymore 
 content as to avoid spoilers, but I will say this: For all you Metroid fans, you absolutely HAVE 
 to buy this game!! It is Absolutely Prime, and a MUST own title! Totally Awesome! I myself will 
 more than likely start over and go through it once again, and then play it on Hypermode. Cheers! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enrique_marrodz
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  You may be a newcomer to the videogame consoles as the Wii has proven to be a undeniable attraction 
 to all kind of public. You may also be a hardcore videogamer with experience in speedrunning and 
 getting up to the last bit of a game. In either case there is no denial that Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, 
 is just a beatiful ending for a great saga, and it's also the perfect game to enter the whole Metroid 
 universe.
  
  Let's go in detail.
  
  Metroid Prime is a subserie to the main storyline behind Metroid which, in turn, is a Science-Fiction 
 adventure where you play the role of a Bounty Hunter who works with the good guys on a per contract 
 agreement.
  In the Prime series, Samus Aran, the bounty hunter, had found some planets corrupted with a strange 
 substance called phazon, which actually have the power to mutate or even split the reality of an 
 entire planet.
  As the result of Samus fights in phazon polluted worlds, a negative being of herself is created 
 which will chase her for the whole galaxy.
  
  The Metroid games are heavily driven by it's story and each one has a lot of secrets to uncover. 
 The Prime series, specially, contains most of the story hidden along the adventure and, succesfully 
 creates an environment of desolation, isolation and tension ideal for exploration and adventure.
 
  
  In MP3 you'll find a game which adds a new layer to the regular solitary adventure, as this time 
 there are several other hunters working with you, as well as Fed Troopers. There are a lot more 
 action than in prior installments, and it also contains appropiate references to previous titles, 
 in order to set the mood for the newcomers.
  
  Talking about the rest of the game attributes there are a lot to be said. It not only improves 
 but show how a Wii game can look, as it sports, easily, the best graphics up to date in the platform, 
 showing multitude of effects and renditions which aid to show such vivid lanscapes as well as isolated 
 shipwrecks with such intensity and beauty, that you may pass more tome exploring just to see this 
 worlds.
  
  The music and sound efects are also great, and the game incorporates full voice acting to elaborate 
 on the sci-fi movie feeling all the game accomplishes.
  
  And for the controls. You may find yourself shooting like a wild gunnman before you note it, as 
 well as dodging attacks and jumping along Samus more often than you think. The pointing features 
 in the Wii-mote are put to ideal use, and some context driven actions make a good use of the motion-sensing 
 capabilities as well.
  
  If you're an experienced gamer, you may find the Veteran difficult setting more challenging, or 
 even the Hyper mode only available when finishing the game for the first time. But if you want 
 to get into the Metroid realms without too many frustrations, the Normal mode is your way to go.
 
  
  There are tons of collectibles which can be used to buy the bonus material in the game, and much 
 pieces of history and upgrades to make you go forth and back hundres of times, just to make sure 
 that you've uncovered until the last secret in each area.
  
  MP3: C, is an indispensable game in your collection, even if it's yours first Metroid! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodoo_goodoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is a great... no excellent game for the wii. to tell you the truth the Wii has had 
 no great exclusives (loz was for gamecube too) until this game has come through this game has just 
 the right mix of first person shooter and adventure. and the graphics compete with the xbox360, 
 retro did this by using bloom lighting and a superior artstyle. The wiiconnect24 uses a system 
 where you can e-mail your friends screen shots and vouchers you use to buy features such as bobbleheads 
 for your ship and bumper stickers for it too. This game is rich and complex in its gameplay but 
 does not overstay it's welcome being only 12-20 hours long, just the right length of time for this 
 kind of game. The boss fights are long and complex and at just the right difficulty, making it 
 just right.
  
  my only complaint about this game is the lack of actually flying the ship and using it for combat 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whirlbat
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Alright, before I have it thrown in my face, yes, I'll admit it, I do prefer the XBox 360. HOWEVER, 
 I have nothing to gain by reviewing this lower than everyone else because Wii fans will be Wii 
 fans and 360 fans will be 360 fans. (Does the PS3 have fans? If so, they get their own little place 
 too... like one of those islands off of Greenland. ;P)
  
  First, to the merit of Metroid, it makes good use of the Wii Nunchaku, although some of the more 
 complicated motion sensing (like pulling levers) still leaves something to be desired. It has an 
 interesting story and I do have respect for the game simply because it's a legendary series (similar 
 to how I have respect for Halo, though I wouldn't consider myself a fanboy of either) .
  
  The issues I have with Metroid outweigh it's merits, though. The controls can sometimes be frustratingly 
 clumsy (like when you're trying to twist and pull items) . The puzzle system of many of the levels 
 is more frustrating that it is rewarding. And possibly the worst part, in my opinion, is the horribly 
 uninspired character design! Now, the level design (at least in some of the larger rooms) is awe-inspiring. 
 That being said, you would thing the developers would take a little more time to make the enemies 
 look like something more than just spinning geometrical figures that shoot unknown substances of 
 displeasure at you. Yes, I realize it's a Japanese game, but does that mean that all of the Space 
 Pirates have to look like gundams? (The crappy-looking pirates has been an issue I've had with 
 Metroid since Super Nintendo, which was the only system that got it right in my opinion. &gt; P) 
 Some of the fights are simply monotonous, too. More than a matter of skill, it becomes a matter 
 of can you hit Meta Ridley enough times with your limitless ammo and do you have enough health 
 tanks? Also, I feel I should note that scanning different things around the levels is also probably 
 one of the least rewarding activities you will ever encounter in your video gaming lifetime.
  
  That rant being out of the way, you might find it hard to believe that I still actually like 
 the game. The story is intriguing (if not slowly developed) and... I mean, c'mon... it IS Metroid. 
 =P It may not be the best or most tactical FPS on the market right now, but it's probably the best 
 one for the Wii. It's a little disappointing that there's no multiplayer, but if you're a completionist 
 (as one of my roommates has termed himself) , this game will keep you entertained (or at least occupied) 
 for a substantial amount of time.
  
  Overall I'd say the game was pretty good. Worth a rent or borrow from a friend. Worth the buy if 
 you're a big fan of the Metroid series or if you're simply dying for a playable FPS on the Wii. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steinberger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Controls: I've said it before and I'll say it again. I love the Wii based controls. they are built 
 for first person shooters, and Metroid Prime 3 has one of the most sensitive controls for the Wii. 
 It is not without it's issues though. I personally prefer having the Controls separated to Movement 
 on the Nunchuck and Weapons/interactions controls on the Wii-mote. I also think the lock-on feature 
 made aiming a little too easy.
  
  Gameplay: The game had great gameplay. The movement was crisp, and the shooting was intense. Personally 
 the reason the game didn't get a higher rating was because of the lack of re-play value. The game 
 needs some other mode to play in. Things like, multiplayer, instant action endurance, boss replays, 
 etc.. After I beat the game on hypermode I didn't have much reason to play it anymore and I went 
 back to an FPS that had multiplayer and more instant gratification in playing. Where I can sit 
 down for an hour get great gameplay and then be done with it.
  
  Graphics: The graphics were top notch. I have absolutely no gripes about them. If all Wii games 
 looked this good I don't think Xbox 360 and the PS3 would have sold as many consoles.
  
  Sound: The sound was amazing. The intro song to the game was so Epic sounding the perfect precursor 
 to such a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PH0EN7X
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  Gamespot's review is total crap! Metroid Corruption is the best game out for any system and it 
 deserves a 10. This game never let's you down from start to finish and this is why you play a game 
 for thirty hours. There are multiple hidden items to search for which makes you want to get them 
 unlike other games where you just quit. Get the Wii Component Cable and play in high definition, 
 it looks amazing. Every line is sharp, every color jumps out, you can actually read and see everything 
 in detail. Great game! There is no let down in a Metroid game and this one is a classic.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SupremeNITEHAWK
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I loved Metroid Prime. It was amazing. I did not really play the second one. So when I heard about 
 the third one, I was ready, especially since it is on the wii. The game is amazing. From the beautiful 
 art-work, to the intense gameplay. It doesn't stop there! You have Amazing voice-acting, and as 
 usual, excellent music.
  I have no problems with this game, other than that it could have been nice if they had included 
 multiplayer, but that aside, this is one game that should not be missed out! The graphics are very 
 sharp, and probably the best so far of any wii game released. I tell you, if Retro Studios got 
 hold of a good powered system like the PS3, these guys could really give Killzone 2, or Gears a 
 challenge. They have produced on of the most beautiful games of this year. If you have a wii, GET 
 THIS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haziqonfire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for about 3-4 weeks now, still havent beaten it (i havent got the time to) but 
 im 75% done, so i feel that it is justifiable i that i should be able to write the review now. 
 Sound:
  This game has some really, really awesome music. From the classic samus start up theme, to the 
 classic boss battle themes, its just great. Very unique.
  
  Graphics:
  The best the wii has seem thus far (as far as releases) . They are better than prime 1 and 2, and 
 really look comparable to some PS3/360 titles on SDTV's. Really great for a Wii game, and very 
 unqiue. A very atmospheric game, just like the previous two. Love the art work
  
  Tilt:
  This game will last you about 15-20 hours, plus hyper mode, ontop of that, finding all the energy 
 tanks/missiles/ship missiles and scanning everything. Value:
  Great value for your money, definitely a must own for any wii owner.
  
  Controls:
  Man, these 
 controls are exactly what the wii needed. Not only does this prove that FPS like controls can be 
 done on the Wii, it also proves they can be done well, and be done so well that it exceeds and 
 destroys the dual analog control scheme. Honestly, these are some of the finest FPS/FPA controls 
 for a console, ever. Obviously its not going to be as good as Keyboard and mouse, but its damn 
 close.
  
  Now, as for the gesture controls in the game, they all work about 98% of the time. Every so often 
 you'll find one that just doesnt work for a split second or two, but its nothing major.
  
  Final words:
  
  I would recommend this game to all Wii owners, and further more, i would recommend 
 this game to all Metroid/ Metroid Prime fans, its a fantastic achievement in Video gaming as we 
 know it today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Metriod Prime 3 is the third and final game in the Metroid Prime trilogy. The game has Samus Aran 
 visiting various planets to destroy phazon corruption viruses that have plagued the Federation's 
 computer system. The controls work very nicely. There are many different control methods found 
 in the options menu, so there should be at least one that feels comfortable to your liking. The 
 default controls have you aiming your cannon with the Wii remote and shooting with the A button. 
 The B button is for jumping, and the control stick on the nunchuck is for movement. The graphics 
 have an obvious jump over the GameCube predecessors, but the sounds aren't as good. The voice acting 
 is OK, but the music is rather forgettable. The game isn't perfect, however. There is this small 
 loading problem when you open certain doors to advance to the next area. Sometimes, it will take 
 over 5 seconds for the door to open after you shoot it. It is a real pain when an enemy is beating 
 you down while you're trying to bypass to the next area. Also, the game isn't quite as long as 
 many (including IGN) had promised. I managed to get a 95 percent clear on the first playthrough 
 within 15 hours, and a 100 percent clear on Veteran difficulty within 12 hours on my second playthrough. 
 Speaking of difficulty, the game isn't too terribly hard so far. There is Hypermode, which is the 
 hardest mode, the mode I have yet to play. If you want a good challenge with this game, a playthrough 
 on Hypermode can achieve this. Despite the faults mentioned, this is still a stellar game with 
 a great story that should hold you down for $50. I would recommend picking it up if you haven't 
 yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranman1990
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 8
  Sound:8
  Control:7.5
  Value:10
  Tilt:8
  
  Metroid had been around for a long time. I believe that when this game was announced for Wii that 
 they obviously could not wait to get there hands on it and feel as if they were Samus. MP3 is a 
 very good game, the graphics are like no other for the Wii pushing it to every little detail this 
 system can squeeze out . The environments and planets are awsome to look at and to just wander 
 around and find things. The h. u. d feels realistic the mirror affects and lighting is outstanding 
 in this game. Action is intense and gets you really involved.
  
  This game needs to be played on a surround sound system. Unfortunatly im unlucky and do not have 
 one. The action is in your face and the explosions are just waiting to rummble your house. As this 
 game came out early it still is worth every penny you put into it. I recieved the first copy at 
 the EB at my mall and i couldnt wait to play it .
  
  Metroid Prime is an amazing game to finish the Metroid Prime series i cant wait to see what will 
 pop up next . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harleyrulesall
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: In MP3 your mission is to save the galaxy from becoming corrupted. You'll do this by 
 completing objectives and upgrading your health meter, missle compacity, and your suit. The basic 
 layout of the game is that you get an objective, you complete said objective and you get an upgrade 
 for the morphball or the powersuit. Besides completing objectives, you can also go hunting for 
 missle expansions and energy tanks. You'll need to get a decent percent of pickups before you'll 
 be ready to beat the game.
  
  Visuals: Well i'm going to tell you right now that the visuals can't compare to 360 games, and 
 PS3 games, but the visuals are very good for the wii. At the time of this posting MP3 has the best 
 visuals on the wii. There are great textures, lighting effects, and it just looks darn good.
  
  Sound: Form the start of the game you'll be able to tell that it has nintendo music. If nothing 
 else nintendo has some of the best composers in gaming and MP3 is a fine example of that.
  
  Lasting appeal: The main game might take you 20 hours at the most if you get all the pickups. 
 This game is very long for a first person shooter. After beating the game you'll be able to do 
 hypermode which more challenging. There are also achievements you can unlock to buy bonuses, such 
 as: mii bobbleheads, bumper stickers for the ship, and music. For some though you'll have to add 
 a friend and trade vouchers over wiiconnect24. Well, if you read the entire review, then you'll 
 know why i give this game a 9 out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fearthekrazzee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I said it, the Prime Quadrilogy, I call it a quadrilogy because many people forget the not-so-famous 
 Metroid Prime: Hunters, which was released for the DS in '06. It happens directly after the events 
 of the first Metroid Prime. Anywho, back on subject. This game is absolutely amazing! The graphics 
 aren't amazingly stunning, but the subtle things, such as seeing Samus Aran's reflection in the 
 visor, nice voice acting, and many other things wrap this game into a neat little package. The 
 game still has the makes you want to smash your controller into the TV puzzles, and pretty hard 
 boss fights. All in all, buy this game, it is worth much more than just a rent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bannamanag
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a good wii game then here's a match. Graphics. Many wii graphics on some 
 games have been so-so. Not with metroid. The graphics are pretty darn good and everything flows 
 smoothly. If you pay attention closely they put in very nice effects and detail in some things. 
 Whatever idiot is complaining about the glitches and things go wrong. Don't listen to them. They're 
 just uncoordinated losers that aren't ment for playing video games. These type of people rate this 
 game 8 or lower. The wii controls are very good but not quite perfect. But pretty close to perfect. 
 Puzzles, boss battles, weapon upgrades, interesting enviroments, graphics all were made up to make 
 up a great game. Don't listen to the gamespot reviewers, they don't always know what a good video 
 game is like. They're like 45 not 16. I still wish it had some sort of multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario_46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Perfect controls - Beautiful artistic graphics and great soundtrack - Great voice acting 
 - Superb boss battles
  ________________
  
  The Bad: Doors still take about 10 seconds to open
  ________________
  
  After much, and i 
 mean very much hype Metroid Prime 3: Corruption the latest game in the long running saga is here, 
 courtesy of Retro Studios, the developers of the previous 2 games. Did it deliver? Yes. Was all 
 the hype worthy? Yes. The last two games of the franchise are two of the best games ever, and Metroid 
 Prime 3 is worthy of the legacy.
  
  The story tells that Samus Aran, the beautiful space bounty hunter and some others friends are 
 sent by the galactic federation to repair a computer infected with a virus, while doing so the 
 get attack by Samus' arch enemy Dark Samus. During that attack she gets corrupted with Phazon, 
 providing her with new powers that will be useful during the adventure. With the risk of spoiling 
 certain plot twist im going to stop there, all i can say is that her mission will take her to numerous 
 places to destroy seeds and stop the corruption in the universe, and i have to give the story two 
 thumbs up. The game is very story driven, it tells parts of the story by very impressive cutscenes, 
 but you 'll also have to scan certain things on the planets to learn more.
  
  The controls are perfect, the gameplay is easily one of the best for a FPS, in fact i dare to say 
 that they're the very best console FPS controls. The normal controls are basically the same used 
 by games like Red Steel, but even better. However the best control scheme is the advance control 
 setting, thats the one i recommend for any hardcore Metroid players. You shoot with A and lock 
 on enemies with the Z button but you can also freely move the targeting reticle during this. The 
 different visors you get during the game are chosen by holding the "minus" button and chosing the 
 one you want on the screen, it works great but you'll need some practice to do it. To enter hypermode 
 (Samus' corrupted stage) you need to hold the "plus" button, but this last a certain period of 
 time, so you can't use it for long. If you don't like it then you can change the buttons interface 
 in the options menu. There are constant upgrades during the game, like the plasma beam and the 
 grapple and it's great, you can progress without the fear of loosing them later
  
  There are all kinds of environmental puzzles classic of the series, but for this one, they're even 
 better; you'll need to scan everything to find out what to do next. There's also tons and tons 
 of enemies in Corruption, from the classic Space pirates, to new ones, and while they're not as 
 hard as they look, it still is enjoyable to shoot them. 
  
  The boss fights are some of the best in recent history, they're not hard, but they sure are enjoyable 
 and they make you use your different abilities.
  
  The graphics in Corruption are great, they are an upgrade from the previous game. Artistically 
 it's one of the best looking games of all time and the lighting effects are superb, there are also 
 other effects worth noticing like Samus' reflections in her visor, also some great looking things 
 like the lava and the water look superb. 
  
  Technologically the game is a step over the last one, not a huge step over though, there are some 
 clean looking textures and overall it looks great. The soundtrack is also superb and it helps to 
 keep you in the atmosphere of the game. There's also voice acting, yes voice acting in a Nintendo 
 game and it's superb. The game includes an archivement system were you get tokens by scanning certain 
 things like enemies or lore, you can buy extras with these tokens, or you can trade them with a 
 friend via the Wiiconnect 24 and it's good, makes you feel a sense of accomplishment during the 
 game.
  
  So far so good, the game has incredible graphics, music, voice acting, boss fighting and its incredibly 
 deep in the atmosphere, but why not a 10? Well, because of a constantly annoying thing: The doors, 
 they take too long to open and sometimes they'll leave you waiting for at least 15 seconds. Other 
 than that the game is superb, a worthy get for all of those with a Wii and one of the best games 
 this gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obiwan59595
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  To start if you want to see a video review of this game you can check out a podcast that my friend 
 Ryan and I are starting. Look for it on Youtube in a week or so. It called ESU Powercast by the 
 way. Overview:
  Not having played the other games in this series, I'm a bit lost when it comes to story line and 
 characters. My sister bought the game and left it lying around the basement so I picked it and 
 gave it a shot. To be honest, at first glance I wasn't impressed. The game looked like Halo and 
 other than the fact that your a super armored chick. So yeah, your a bounty hunter who works with 
 the space federation and all hell breaks lose and it spins off from there. Ok after the first opening 
 scenes this game picks up almost instantly and becomes an addicting joy ride till the end. So lets 
 break down why this game is worth the price. Gameplay:
  This is important due to the fact that the Wii is solely basing itself on this aspect. The controls 
 seem natural and for once not gimmicky. Shooting controls feel like your right arm has a cannon, 
 due to the fact that looking around is based on it. The actual moving comes from the nun chuck 
 analog. The interaction with the scanner and ship command is fast and simple. Overall this game 
 has maybe the best controls out of all the Wii games. Hopefully other companies will take notice 
 and put some effort into control scheme. Graphics:
  Stunning, for a gamecube game. Yeah Sony and Xbox fan boys can say what they want about it. The 
 art design is amazing and really makes you want to explore every inch of the maps. As I went threw 
 some of the planets the lighting was surprsing perfect for the area I was in. (I don't have HD so 
 if it stands out on a tube TV it must be 10x better in HD)
  Other than Bioshock, which is easily the Best Game of 2007, no other game can come close to the 
 amount of skill and time that was put into the design and look of this game. Its shocking and impressive 
 and I hope this shows people that the Wii has some WOW factor to it. Other factors:
  The fact that ammo isn't a problem in this game is a odd relief you don't get in an FPS. The Hypermode 
 can be a bit tricky but it really shines when you need to lay down some real fire power down in 
 a pinch. The Boss fights in this game are amazing and really what makes this game combat interesting 
 and fresh. This game is long and at sometimes puzzling due to the amount of back tracking involved. 
 What I didn't like about the game was save points. There are ether too few or there everywhere 
 you don't need them. Overall:
  If you own the Wii, you have to BUY not rent but buy this game. Its that good and unlike other 
 Wii games this one makes the system show its true potential. It gets a 9/10 and gets the Wii Game 
 of the Month of August from Powercast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  Honestly, the Wii has not impressed me very much since it's release. There have been a few decent 
 games, but few must have titles. Well, all that has changed with Metroid Prime 3. This game takes 
 the best of the series, and adds even more using the remote for interacting with the enviornment. The 
 game has many sections in which you manipulate switches, solve puzzles, all using the remote, and 
 the controls are perfect. The core game hasn't changed much, but with the best visuals of the series, and 
 so much to do and see, this game will keep you busy for 12-20hrs depending on how much you explore. 
 There's a lot of hidden items to seek out. Really, the only grip i had with this game is no online 
 game. Still, this is the best game for the Wii right now, and you should check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainmakerrng
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  So, the last part of the Metroid Prime trilogy is finally here. And this time, it's on the Wii 
 with amazing control, graphics, sound, presentation, voice, multiple worlds to explore, new power 
 ups and an end (or beginning) to tie the knots together.
  
  After logging in 16 hours with this game, I am impressed but at the same time quite disappointed. 
 The Wii - mote really brings this game to life, point and shoot while you are moving is great. 
 The control is no doubt well done, however, the overall atmosphere of the game just doesn't feel 
 like a Metroid game. It's great that there are NPCs to interact with and voice acting, but what 
 made a Metroid game so good was also that sense of hopelessness, frustration, danger, wonder, mystery 
 and life (or lifeless-ness) in the environment that you discovered as you progress through the 
 game. Corruption threw that away and opt for a middle ground. I guess it's a fitting move being 
 that the Wii is targeting the larger audience. The music and atmosphere of Metroid Prime is lost. 
 The difficulty found in Echo was strip. What is left is medium difficulty puzzles, beautiful graphics, 
 good presentation and lots and lots of space pirates. There are many different worlds, I thought 
 there would be tons of different creatures to read about, but I just keep meeting more pirates.
 
  
  Lastly, the hypermode part of this game is what ruined everything for me. What made the previous 
 Metroid games great was that you have to depend on everything in your arsenal, every weapon has 
 a use. In Corruption, I seldom depend on the missiles other than to freeze gels for stepping stones. 
 Also as soon as you get the next beam upgrade, the last one is gone. Giving them almost no purpose 
 to exist. A couple of hours into the game you'll find that almost every enemy can go hyper mode, 
 making every weapon you have nearly useless. So, the most reasonable option left is to go hyper 
 mode. Surrounded? - Go hypermode. A tough boss? - Go hypermode. You're stuck? - GO HYPERMODE.
 
  
  There is a status screen in the ship that shows how corrupted Samus is, but it doesn't seem to 
 be that big of a deal. I have been using hypermode in almost every enemy encounter for the last 
 16 hours in Veteran difficulty and she's fine, she's invincible.
  
  In conclusion, it's a good game, however it's a couple degrees off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toribor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is an excellent game, hands down. The Wii remote lends itself perfectly to this 
 type of shooter. Right from the start I found myself thinking Wow, this feels so amazing. The control 
 is excellent, I can't imagine how much find tuning must have been done, but it definitely paid 
 off. Everything feels natural and fluid. I'm sure an even larger screen would have an even better 
 effect.
  
  I was most impressed with the beginning of the game. I'm sick of going through every Metroid Game 
 by starting with a lot of items, only to slowly earn them back. Metroid Prime 3 addresses this 
 problem by simply giving you a few of your old gadgets, and lets you pick up some new and exciting 
 tools along the way. I never quite had the feel that I'd already earned the item a hundred times 
 over. Each item felt like it came at the right time and didn't feel dated.
  
  The enemies seem to be placed a lot better than in previous games. Enemies tend to pace everything 
 quite well, without being obnoxious barriers, or too far between to be bothered with. Sometimes 
 they lack that certain Metroid feel, but others are very well designed. Dark Samus herself has 
 never looked cooler.
  
  One of the most impressive new features (from a visual standpoint) would have to be the hyper mode 
 function. The game does a great job of setting a cost for the power, making it worth it, and not 
 restricting you to a few short uses through the game. It's power is devastating, looks amazing, 
 and is simply a fun way to incinerate anyone and everyone in your path.
  
  Unfortunately Samus sports only one new suit for the entire game. After defeating different boss 
 enemies and achieving a heightened level of corruption the suit grows slightly darker, and Samus 
 herself (Even more difficult) changes subtly, her eyes glowing blue and her skin developing a sort 
 of Phazon scar. In the end the suit looks very awesome, but I almost wish I had some other cosmetic 
 options along the way.
  
  Boss fights are at the top of their game. The new aiming method makes many more options possible, 
 and every enemy feels as much like a puzzle as a boss fight. If you die in a boss fight it usually 
 isn't out of blind frustration as it is a sort of 'hmmm, well next time I'll try this' sort of 
 feeling. If your familiar with the series you may find the tougher difficulty settings more familiar.
 
  
  Unlockables are available through a series of tokens won through defeating difficult enemies, accomplishing 
 tasks, or finding a clever way to defeat enemies in style. A simple cruise through the game should 
 put you in a good position to begin collecting. There are also friend tokens, which must be exchanged 
 with Wii friends who also have played through Metroid Prime. This feature, from my standpoint, 
 is absolutely ridiculous. It serves no purpose, unless it is to force others to purchase a copy 
 of the game. Instead you may find yourself unable to unlock some features for one or more different 
 reasons.
  
  It's only true fault may be it's tried and true method. While I wasn't looking for a massively 
 different feel, I think that there could have been a bit more experimentation in the level design 
 and maybe a few updated sound effects. The wonky piff noises made by Samus' space jump have been 
 around since the gamecube days and I just want something cleaner sounding. (Though the animations 
 are much crisper and feel much more natural) And for gods sakes, can Samus say anything besides 
 'Eegh!' Everyone else in the game speaks, and it sounds beautiful, I'm not even asking for words. 
 A little more dynamic enunciation would be great.
  
  Overall Metroid Prime 3 is a worth end to the prime series. If you are new to Metroid I very strongly 
 suggest you pick up this game. If your a fan there is a chance you are already eyeing this game. 
 I wont promise a revolution for Metroid, but the controls, visuals, and character development is 
 enough to set a very high bar for first person shooters to come on the Wii console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxA
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is said to be the end of the Metroid Prime trilogy. But, does it live 
 up to the name that is Metroid? Let's find out.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 (MP3) starts out on the Galactic Federation's ship. You meet the other hunters 
 and are briefed on your mission: All Aurora (an organic supercomputer) units had been infected 
 with an unknown virus believed to be of Space Pirate origin. The AU unit (242) aboard the ship 
 was taken offline and quickly fixed, but the rest weren't. Your job is to apply the antidote to 
 the rest of the AU units. But, before you can leave, the ship is attacked by Space Pirates. A huge 
 story unfolds. A very interesting one, I might add. I liked the story better than in previous games. 
 In Metroid Prime and Metroid Prime 2: Echoes, it was very non-linear, but now in MP3 Retro has 
 made it more linear. For example, you DON'T lose all of your power ups right away. You still have 
 your Varia Suit, Missiles, Morph Ball, and a couple of other power ups. For those of you who enjoyed 
 the nin-linearity of the first two games, don't be afraid. This game still has a lot of focus on 
 exploration. I mean, it wouldn't be a Prime game without exploration, would it?
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as the previous two games, but it utilizes the Wii motion 
 controls very well. You blast through creative enemies new and old. One thing that I noticed was 
 that when you lock onto an enemy, now only your screen focuses on him. You have to do the aiming 
 and shooting. I for one found that a subtle improvement over the previous games. There were a couple 
 things I didn't like about the gameplay. For one, Hypermode is a bit cheap. Even though whenever 
 you shoot it uses up health, it's easy to find health. Also, many of the enemies seemed slightly 
 easy and repetitive to kill. Although, many of the boss battles were especially innovative. For 
 example, when you battle Meta Ridley in the beginning of the game, he knocks you out of the spacecraft 
 and you have to fight him as you both are falling into space. And, the battle is timed (by the 
 meters you have left until you land) . A few puzzles got my ol' gray matter running. For example, 
 there was a power up I needed. I could see it across the ledge. It took me a good 15 minutes to 
 figure out how to get across (I won't spoil it for you) . Overall, I found the gameplay very refreshing, 
 as I didn't like the previous games very much.
  
  The graphics are much better than MP and MP2. A lot of the textures seem more advanced, and the 
 water and fuel gel (a lava-like substance ingame) seem to move with more flow. Plants seem to brush 
 in the wind more, and the shake slightly more realistically when you walk through them. A lot more 
 of the environment is destructible. For example, I was on the planet Bryyo, and I was walking down 
 a hallway. I started randomly shooting at the wall, and all of the sudden the wall exploded. I 
 walked in, and there was a missile upgrade. There are a lot more cool renders in this game. Giant 
 robots, awesome looking aliens (and plants :O) , ships, and all kinds of other stuff. Overall, I 
 felt that the graphical experience was a great improvement over the last games. Even though I'm 
 the kind of person who supports the gameplay side of the Gameplay or Graphics debate.
  
  The music in this game is fantastic. The tunes make you feel like you're immersed in the moment. 
 Like, a soft tune for an underwater level, and a loud song for the lava level. The songs weren't 
 catchy in the sense that I found myself humming along to them, but more in the sense that I found 
 myself silently enjoying them and mentally accepting them as a part of that certain stage. The 
 musical experience the game was pretty good, with classic Metroid tunes, and new ones that I found 
 myself enjoying.
  
  Overall, I felt that this game was a great conclusion to the Prime trilogy. With a deep storyline 
 (that doesn't require you to have to FINISH the previous two games :P) , great gameplay, good graphics, 
 enjoyable music, fantastic Wii controls, and many other great things, this game is a must buy for 
 any Nintendo or Metroid fan alike. If you haven't bought it, turn off your computer and run to 
 your local game store. Buy it! NOOOOOOOOOOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostwraithe
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This game will change the way you think of First Person Shooter games for the rest of your life. 
 First and foremost, I am not a fanboy. I love Halo, and I love Unreal Tournament. This game has 
 got to be the best FPS game ever to date.
  
  The voice acting adds so much more to the game, then was ever expected. The graphics are awesome 
 to say the least. I am playing on a 42 LCD in 480P. I have never seen a game look so good. Nice 
 vivid and bright visuals, no slow down at all. No matter how much is going on on screen, the game 
 engine never once lets up. The controls are flawless, except that aiming too much, losing contact 
 with the sensor, tends to happen on occasion. I call this over aiming the wii remote. The only 
 draw back to the control is the missle button. It is attached to the down arrow, kinda hard to 
 get to it in the middle of a firefight. Also I tend to miss my target white trying to find the 
 down arrow. A minor annoyance at most though.
  
  The game is not too difficult, which is appealing to me. The first Prime was a bit hard in some 
 areas. So far with Prime 3, its not as hard, but still remains challenging. Scanning mode is wonderfully 
 done this time around, and doesnt feel so tedious as it was in previous games.
  
  The story is gripping and keeps you on the edge of your seat, however Halo takes the cake in this 
 department. There is no storyline in a game that is better than Halo. This game will be the most 
 competition that the Halo series has ever had. And the winner may end up being Metroid Prime 3.
 
  
  The most fun in this game is the gameplay itself. Thrusting your arm towards the screen, then ripping 
 it away to pull off a shield of a space pirate is amazing. Aiming with your hand, jumping to avoid 
 fire, and target lock ons that allow for error add to the realism. The pacing of the game is great. 
 As soon as something begins to feel tedious, the game changes the pace and all of a sudden, it 
 feels brand new again. You are in for a treat when you battle Ridley. Quite possibly the best boss 
 battle of all time.
  
  In conclusion, this game is fun beyond a shadow of a doubt, the visuals are the best to date on 
 the Wii. And no they do not look like an overglorified Gamecube game. It looks more like a very 
 well detailed Xbox 360 game. The screenshots do it no justice, you have to see it in action to 
 believe it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhazonBlazer
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with the controls
  The good- very slick, aiming with the wiimote is really fun, you have 2 options, the normal-which 
 allows you auto lockon enemies, for the other choice- the cursor locks on to the enemies but you 
 have to aim with the pointer but its still easy. Plus theres Hyper Mode which takes up one energy 
 tank but supplies you with great powers
  The bad- Nothing at all
  The graphics are next
  The good- The graphics are AMAZING they could not be any better
  The bad- Some places can be 
 a little dark but there are very few like this
  Time for the Story
  The good- This game has an amazing plot. The Galactic Federations Base Sector Zero is under attack 
 by Space Pirates. Samus and the other hunters sent by the Galactic Federation must boot up the 
 generator to restore the defense systems. But at the end of her path, someone awful is waiting 
 for her, Dark Samus. Samus and the other hunters become corrupted with Phazon which allows great 
 power but eventually the power corrupts everything. Dont worry the game starts a new story so you 
 wont have to play the other 2 (I would because they were both awesome)
  The bad- Nothing
  Finally the sound
  The good- The music has improved quite a bit from 1 and 2 I think it is better 
 than both of them
  The bad- I wish that they would have done a liitle better
  Overall
  The good- Great controlls, graphics, story, sound
  The bad- The one thing I hate is the doors 
 they almost never open when you want them to so if you are trying to escape from enemies you may 
 have trouble, But still the greatest game so far for Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NS_Sonic204
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to describe how much I love this game. It's just.. awesome. Let's begin with the beginning, 
 shall we?
  
  Part One: Beginning
  Well... The game begins with Samus envisioning Dark Samus coming back to life (?) . Samus wakes up 
 and activates her suit, the Galactic Federation radios her in and asks for her code, and tells 
 her to come to the GFS Olympus. Admiral Dane tells Samus and the other 3 hunters to stop the Space 
 Pirates, and the story unfolds there.
  
  Part Two: Graphics
  Well, I usually don't judge games by graphics, but this game has amazing graphics, and I love them. 
 Probably far better than any of the other released Wii games to date. Moving on...
  
  Part Three: Gameplay
  Gameplay is great. I really loved the combat, it was fun. and locking on 
 and being able to aim freely is really great too. Even though most bosses were hard to defeat, 
 they were fun, in the end. Heh...
  
  Part Four: Music/Sounds
  A lot of people were disappointed with the Music in this game but I question them: Why? The opening 
 music was amazing, and the rest was just great. I loved it all. You must be really picky if you 
 didn't enjoy the music in this game. It deserves its own soundtrack...
  
  Part Five: The only disappointing thing..
  .. was the final boss fight. I won't spoil anything 
 for you, but lemme tell you, I dunno if it's just I'm awesome (: P) , or it was really easy. Now, 
 this is on Normal mode, I have yet to find out what it's like on Veteran or Hypermode. I'm on Hypermode 
 now.. bosses and enemies are hard to take down on Hypermode. Even.. I hate to say it, but... Berserker 
 Lord. &gt;_&gt;
  
  Part Six: Closing
  Again, I dunno if it's just me but I think this review left a lot to be desired. Oh well, I gotta 
 get the hang of this reviewin' thing. Anyway, overall, the game gets a 10/10 and I don't know how 
 Gamespot wound up rating it 8.5 o_O; (No offense Gamespot.) Anyway, if you don't have this game, 
 and you have a Wii, I recommend you go buy it. Your collection is incomplete without Corruption. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  It's ironic that the Wii seems ideal for first person shooters yet the only decent FPS experience 
 we've gotten is the plunger shooting mini-game in Rayman Raving Rabbids. Finally Metroid Prime 
 3 is here to show other companies how shooters should be played on the Wii and once you play, you'll 
 wish all FPS games played this way.
  
  The story picks up right where MP2 left off. Space Pirates are harvesting phazon and corrupting 
 worlds and Samus is called along with fellow bounty hunters to meet with the galactic federation 
 on how to handle the problem. It is nice to see Samus interact with actual non-playable characters 
 who aren't enemies and the voice acting is actually decent. For some this is probably a turn off 
 because many liked the Metroid series for its sense of isolation. Samus, as with Link and Mario, 
 doesn't speak herself but for the first time, you actually see Samus without her helmet and without 
 her suit. In the past, you didnt' see Samus sans suit until the end of a Metroid game.
  
  I don't like shooters but I can get into the Metroid series because there's more to it than shooting. 
 It's even been classfied as a first person adventure rather than a first person shooter. Another 
 nice thing, is that you don't start out losing all your weapons again. You have your blaster, morph 
 ball and missles from the get go. Also shortly into the game, Samus's old foe, Dark Samus arrives 
 and corrupts Samus and her fellow bounty hunters with phazon. Samus can now use this phazon power 
 as a last resort in tough battles but if you use it too long, you can become corrupted and your 
 game will end so there is a degree of stategy when using the phazon enhanced blaster.
  
  The Wii controls work like a dream. If more shooters controlled this way, I'd be more willing to 
 play them. At first it might feel awkward, but soon after it will become second nature. There are 
 also options to map the buttons to your liking. Another cool feature is the grapple beam, while 
 you still use it for swinging, it also works as a lasso to rip open doors and relieve enemies of 
 shields. Though I had an occasional issue with the motion sensitivity, it was still so enjoyable 
 ripping things. Another fun new feature is Samus's ship. In past game, the ship just sat in one 
 spot and you'd go back to save, replenish ammo and reenergize but how you can actually drive your 
 ship, travel to various spots on one planet, command it to attack certain areas using a special 
 visor.
  
  Graphically this game does look slightly better than MP2 but at this point, if you're going to 
 whine about Wii graphics, then shut up and get over it. Go play some been there, done that, HD 
 shooter on your PS3 or 360. There's still some wonderfully designed worlds and great environments 
 to explore. This game is a reminder that Wii games can look good when developers put effort into 
 it. Also, unlike in past Metroid games, Samus can now travel to different planets as opposed to 
 staying on one planet which does make the scope of the game feel bigger.
  
  While there's no multiplayer mode, Nintendo did offer some nice online features like sharing progress 
 with friends as well as a slew of bonus features. I am a fan of unlockable extras and in this I 
 was happy because instead of having to scan a certain percentage of items or complete a certain 
 mode, you gain tokens for scanning things and completeting objectives which you can then use to 
 unlock concept art, dioramas as well as fun extras like ship bumper stickers and my favorite, a 
 Mii bobblehead.
  
  My only real complaint about the game is it is a tad on the easy side. This is probably to help 
 appeal to the casual audience Nintendo has been gunning for these days as well as fear that the 
 new controls would be difficult for some. Then there are times that the game can be downright frustrating 
 and you find yourself like a rat in a maze and trying to figure out what the heck you're supposed 
 to do now. Still, Metroid Prime 3 is a great additon to the Wii library and a must own for fans 
 of the first two Prime games. Let's hope other companies learn from MP3's example when making shooters 
 for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbez_13
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  This game IS the next step in first person shooters. Metroid Prime one and two were excellent, 
 this took it up a notch. Not only does if give all the elements one would expect from a Metroid 
 game, but also feels like you are there with Samus. While I was iffy about an fps on the Wii especially 
 after Red Steel, this bought me on them. the controls are slick and very easy to use, giving an 
 edge over a simple joystick. i just can't get enough of it. i keep playing it and playing it. even 
 just walking though the planet looking for space pirates to destroy keeps me busy for hours. One 
 of the best improvements from the first two is the item locations. unlike the first two where items 
 are hidden in areas where you pretty much either happen to pass buy using the exact right weapon 
 to find, or have to go look at a guide to find them all, they are in areas that are decently noticeable 
 regardless of the weapon you need as long as you remember to go back. and the mapping station that 
 locates and marks items on three planets is a very nice touch. While for the most the bosses are 
 a bit easier then before, it still doesn't displeasure. hours upon hours of fun. every day i can't 
 wait to get home and hunt down some space pirates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paksiwin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  It all started with the 2002 release of Metroid Prime for the Gamecube. Fans and critics alike 
 scored Metroid Prime high, and it was even given the title Game of the Year at that time. It was 
 amazing; a never before seen way of controlling Samus in a 3D world from behind the visor emerged. 
 With various engaging environments and beautifully constructed puzzles, weapon systems, and power-ups, 
 Prime became a hit in no time. At the end of Prime, we see that the defeated Metroid Prime takes 
 Samus' Phazon Suit, forming what we know to be as our bounty hunter's arch-nemesis in the games 
 to come: Dark Samus. Following its predecessor, Echoes continued the series, improving on Prime's 
 graphics and introducing highly-enhanced, never before seen environments. One of the notable additions 
 in Echoes is the Screw Attack. After double jumping, pressing the jump button would immediately 
 initiate the screw attack. Aside from that, Echoes contributed basically nothing plot-wise. Prime: 
 Hunters, the series brought to the DS handheld, introduced the concept of having other bounty hunters 
 around as Samus searched for the ultimate power. Now, the game we have all been waiting for has 
 finally arrived. For all of those who are expecting a lot from the third installment, you won't 
 be disappointed. If you thought the previous two (or maybe just Prime) were great, then you're 
 in for something when Prime 3 hits you. The fascinating use of the Wii Remote by Retro in Corruption 
 has made it even more enticing than usual. An engaging storyline with over 20 hours worth of gameplay 
 awaits (Longer than the previous two Metroid games, actually) . Believe me, it's worth every buck. 
 Let's get corrupted, shall we? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  The Metroid Prime series has come a long way since debuting nearly five years ago on the GameCube. 
 While the first game was a superb entry into the shooter genre, the second game had annoying instances 
 of continuous backtracking. Metroid Prime 3: Corruption stands alone as the best entry in the series 
 and a fitting end to a landmark franchise.
  
  Corruption begins with Samus aboard her ship when enemies begin attacking. After the initial attack 
 (which serves as a tutorial of sorts) , Samus comes into contact with her evil twin Dark Samus who 
 infects her with the Phazon virus, that makes both of you vulnerable (as it slowly takes over your 
 body) but extra powerful. The Phazon virus turns you into a corrupted bounty hunter, forcing you 
 to fight for both your life and the lives of others. The Phazon virus affects multiple parts of 
 Samus behaviors and appearance, and throughout the story you will see it gradually take control 
 of her. The more infected Samus becomes, it will ultimately cause her suit to change colors and 
 her actions to become hyped up or dumbed down in some incidents.
  
  What makes Corruption so much more accessible than the previous titles is the fluid and responsive 
 controls that give the game a perfect blend of combat and navigation. While many games have had 
 various problems allocating proper mechanics for fighting, Corruption maintains a steady balance 
 of both the Wii remote and nunchuck, without relying too heavily on one more so than the other. 
 The remote is used primarily to aim and fire weapons while the nunchuck is designed to move around 
 and grapple. The controls take some getting used to at first, and the calibration options tend 
 to make things feel very loose at first. Although you can adjust the settings to your liking, after 
 a few hours or so of fighting, the controls will become second nature.
  
  Most of the controls help make the game have a more hands-on approach. Scanning objects now forces 
 you to press the  button on the controller and then hold down Z to initiate a scan. Scanning various 
 objects and enemies will give you numerous tips and hints to weaknesses and potential ideas of 
 what to do next. Accessing switches requires you to push forward with the remote, rotate your hand 
 clockwise, and than pull back. Initiating the different controls throughout the game helps give 
 Corruption a more up close and personal experience rather than just randomly pressing buttons to 
 advance.
  
  Combat in Corruption is much more noticeable than the previous games and more time is spent fighting 
 enemies than running around from room to room. There are tons more enemies throughout this game 
 and many of the battles will put you up against dozens of enemies at a single time. A new targeting 
 system makes battling the hordes much easier to manage and ultimately lends the game a faster pace, 
 as well. By pressing the Z button, Samus can target any enemy and then continue to stay locked 
 on as she constantly shoots. After locking onto an enemy you can also use the analog stick to strafe 
 around them and shoot other potential targets within your vicinity as well. By targeting a specific 
 enemy within a group you can fully employ evasive manuevers and use your surroundings to your advantage 
 while you're shooting.
  
  Other than the Beam gun, Samus also has a wide assortment of other weapons to help her take down 
 harder enemies. Rockets and bombs can be used at anytime by pressing the D Pad, and targeting specific 
 enemies can even create heat-seeking missiles. Later on in the game you will earn the grapple lasso, 
 which allows you to swings across gaps, grab onto items, and even un-shield enemies. By aiming 
 with the remote and than swinging the nunchuck upwards you can grab an enemys shield and yank 
 it from their hands, making them vulnerable to your attacks. There are numerous times when various 
 enemies will ambush you at once, and since many enemies are invulnerable to certain attacks, successfully 
 utilizing the different weapons and skills will be necessary in order to be victorious. Of course, 
 Samus can also turn into her morph ball to navigate through narrower spaces and use her bombs to 
 fly up to otherwise unapproachable areas.
  
  After gunning your way through the various levels you will then come across a boss who will tower 
 above you in almost every battle. The first boss in particular is a giant monstrosity with various 
 tentacles and eyes. The boss battles in Corruption are extremely well developed and force you to 
 think and use your surroundings more than just randomly firing. Boss battles almost have a vertical 
 feel to them as you are constantly looking above while you are battling. These hulking enemies 
 are some of the most extraordinary enemies in the game and the battles between them are equally 
 impressive.
  
  Samus wont have to rely on her solidarity for the entire game as certain incidents have her teaming 
 up with other characters. Up to three side characters will join you in certain missions and even 
 help you eliminate enemies if the threat gets too high. Most of the time they will actually shoot 
 at the enemies and stay alive throughout the entire mission, but the occasional sporadic gunfire 
 and idiotic movements can make some tasks an incredible chore to manage. Exploration has always 
 been a key feature in the series but this time it takes a back seat to the combat. There are still 
 many different places to explore on your own, but it is not necessary to go out of your way in 
 order to stay on track with the main storyline. Finding hidden paths and secret locations will 
 net you hidden upgrades and powers, so it is always profitable to explore every little thing.
 
  
  Always an accomplishment in previous titles, the visuals in Corruption have surpassed even the 
 highest of expectations. The locales all have an impressive amount of realism and no two areas 
 look alike. The hulking bosses and enemies all look fresh, and there are rarely moments when you 
 will encounter swarms of clones. The HUD even got a nice formal makeover as everything seems much 
 more streamlined and realistic. Such subtle details are noticeable as well, like names of soldiers 
 written on the walls of ships and trees that sway and move in the surroundings. Corruption is the 
 best looking game on the Wii to date, and outshines all of the previous Metroid Prime games by 
 a large margin.
  
  The sound was also hugely revamped and helps make the game a much more visceral experience. All 
 of the characters in the game can be interacted with and even the minor characters that do nothing 
 more than fill in the backgrounds have their own specific lines of dialogue. Much of the voice 
 acting is well done throughout but there are certain instances of repetitiveness in characters 
 voices as well as enemy sounds and weapon fire. The music has a sort of Halo-type vibe to it as 
 well, and it helps make the atmosphere of the game a much more intense upbeat theme.
  
  Proof that not all sequels are quick attempts to cash in; Corruption takes the already outstanding 
 formula of the previous games and retools it into one of the most solid and rewarding experiences 
 in years. Any fan of Metroid, or shooters in general, will enjoy the superb gameplay Corruption 
 delivers and Retro Studios deserves praise for ending the Metroid Prime series with a mushroom-cloud-laying 
 bang. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lily91106
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  MP3 easily transition onto the Wii with both finesse and awe. From the opening scene the lighting 
 effects and attention to detail bring to life the environment more than ever before on any FPS 
 around. The boom lighting is mocked and the Wii the same, but past its hated creator the System 
 allows for a smooth 64 frame per sec rate that flows beautifully, with a slight delay when you 
 open some doors, no game kill though, the game loses no points for that.
  Yes, this is the only FPS- (ADVENTURE) game to not suck. Period. Retro Studios got it right the 
 first time. the controls feel perfect, and the Free-lock feature helps aid alien expulsion much 
 faster and more killer proficiently. The 20 plus hours of gameplay are packed. MP3 in all its splendor 
 gets a 9.0.
  
  My only negative points.
  Turn-around speed should be faster:-4
  Slightly more linear, mostly because of the controller, and how you obtain Upgrades, thatn previous 
 Prime titles:-6
  A multi player between all the hunters would be cool, I am not asking for co-op at all mind you: 
 no fault, it just still might of been cool,-0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billdauterive
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  they have done it bravo to retro studios for making one of the most responsive console first person 
 shooters ever. this game is amazing in all ways it is better than echos and just as good as the 
 original prime. the only problem is it is not as original as it once was but that is a small problem. 
 this game shines in so many areas it makes up for the slight frustration of a couple of small things. 
 retro studios even had the time to throw in unlock able achievements so if your a completion-ist 
 you will have a lot to look forward to. this game must be owned by all if you don't Reggie fils 
 aime might just come over to your house and kick your #@#%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayos90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 Review -------- 8.5
  
  Presentation -------- 8.9
  Metroid Prime 3 Corruption presents itself in a good way, especially it being one of the first 
 FPS on the Wii. It uses its intuitive motion sensing control to aim very well and it is very accurate. 
 The motions for the quick action sequences in the game and random shooting never gets old because 
 of your free style shooting. The story is now told through actual voiceovers by computer AI and 
 characters that give you orders and missions throughout the course of the game. The fact that voices 
 were even put in a Metroid game is surprising enough and of course adds more to the feeling that 
 the series has come along way from side scroll to and FPS, and now a very slick and controllable 
 FPS. The environments change from planet to planet and overall it all looks and shows great each 
 planet having a definition of its own.
  
  Graphics ----- 9.1
  The graphics seems like it hasnt changed much from the previous 2 Metroid games but it sure has 
 changed for the Wii. The lighting system in the game looks really great as there are lights that 
 shine through and affects your visors. The detail put into each curve and archaic designs on each 
 piece of building. And of course the heroine Samus looks even better with details of her armor 
 still looking sharp as ever. Though sometimes the graphics look a bit jagged because the structures 
 are distanced it makes up for the fact the graphics look realistic enough that youll want to adventure 
 in it. Gameplay ----- 8.9
  The Wiis motion sensing makes this game a true FPS masterpiece on the Wii. Because of its pinpoint 
 accuracy and free style shooting its great. The lock-on system is back but there are multiple 
 control options for the lock on so that the reticule wont move once locked onto a target. However, 
 this mode isnt challenging and doesnt bring out the full fun of the game unless you go into free 
 lock-on which allows you to move and aim a target even though you are locked onto an enemy. This 
 way youll be locked onto an enemy but you still have to use your aiming skills to blast them away. 
 Shooting is an important aspect of the game but scanning and exploring is what makes Metroid such 
 an enjoyable game. The scanning system can be accessed by holding the minus button and moving the 
 reticule to the scan system. The scanning is still fun and its great to read the lore of the game. 
 The ship is now controllable in the game, to a certain extent, so youll be able to assign bombing 
 missions, grappling items you cant lift and such. All the extra features added to this game makes 
 the gameplay of this game even greater. The boss fights are definitely challenging as they have 
 a larger damage pool and damage output. Sometimes it may be frustrating but practice makes perfect. 
 Sound ---- 8.4
  Sound is great but compared to the other metroid games it doesnt sound as eerie or creepy like 
 other games. Instead the game sounded very angelic and holy which is a direct contrast to the game 
 title Corruption. Even though the music sounds a bit inferior to is predecessors it sounds and 
 still plays great.
  
  Minor bad things ----- 0,3
  Some particular bad things in this game dont ruin the experience but makes this game a bit frustrating. 
 The fact that reticule when aiming gets easily lost when in a battle is a bit of nuisance and can 
 be frustrating especially when one is losing. The colors of the world are so vivid that the reticule 
 practically blends in. Though Super Samus is a gift of awesome power it is easy to corrupt yourself 
 and misuse it, especially in boss fights. You might end hurting yourself more by using the Super 
 Samus mode. Compared to the other 2 previous Metroid games, the game lacks a feeling of danger 
 and alone. The fact that youre constantly being hovered by your AI guide gives the player a sense 
 of safety and security which nearly Metroid game lacked. Though the guidance and secure feeling 
 is a good thing it takes somewhat of the Metroid experience or even the essence away from the players.
 
  
  Conclusion
  This game is one of the definite must buys for the Wii. Because of the action and adventure in 
 the game it keeps the player enticed and going for hours without end. The interactive controls 
 also makes the players feel very natural at shooting and very free which no other game has done 
 before. This game has a lot to offer to veterans of FPS and new players alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bwags
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to rave about this game! I wanted this game to be amazing!
  
  However, I was left unfulfilled. The game looks much better on the Wii system then its predecesors, 
 but the gimicky and glitchy controls make it unenjoyable. Lockon shooting as well as free roam 
 shooting is very inaccurate making it frustrating when attempt to destroy large groups of foes. 
 The mechanic of opening doors by thrusting the Wiimote forward, turning it, etc. is also very hit 
 and miss. The worst was making sharp turns everytime I slighty slided the Wiimote. On the plus side, 
 the lasso makes for sparse minutes of enjoyment. In addition the interactivity on samus's ship 
 is also very touch.
  
  I high suggest renting this one first before you spend the $50+ on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nova_Mongoose
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Before Prime 3 came along it was easy to pick on Wii FPS'. It was reasonanle to question the Wii 
 remote as an effective controller for the genre. But Prime 3 proves beyond a reasonable doubt that 
 the Wii is right up there with the PC in terms of FPS accuracy.
  
  The controls of this game are it's most positive aspect. Which is quite an achievment considering 
 the game is chock full of positive aspects. Retro Studios somehow managed to make the controls 
 nearly as responsive as a keyboard and mouse setup. There are three control options to choose from 
 but advanced is the only setting you'll need as it is the most responsive and features free-aiming 
 lock-on. Moving around the alien worlds is more intuitive than either of the other Prime games 
 and the action is paced to complement this fact.
  
  The graphics are the best yet on the Wii and show that it is definitely more powerful than the 
 Gamecube was. The artistic design is incredible and levels are filled with gorgeous detail and 
 brilliant lighting that keeps things interesting even between the action.
  
  The action is intense with hundreds of different enemies which have different strengths and weaknesses 
 keeping your brain in check as well as your trigger finger. The boss battles are exciting and rewarding. 
 Bosses are wonderfully inventive-in the same vein as the Legend of Zelda bosses. Usually defeating 
 them involves figuring out there weak points in the heat of battle.
  
  As in all Metroid games, Samus begins the game with minimum capabilities and discovers upgrades 
 along the way. Upgrades unlock access to previously unreachable areas as well as making it easier 
 to make short work of your foes.
  
  Sound effects are extremely similar to the previous Prime games. Beams, missiles, explosions, music, 
 and folly are all done well. The sound isn't something to write home about, except for the great 
 soundtrack which sounds every bit as awesome as the first two games.
  
  Overall, Prime 3 is a winner; setting the bar for all Wii shooters to come and setting it extremely 
 high. The only way this game could have been improved is perhaps a good online multiplayer mode. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twizteddragon
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  First of all this is the First Metroid game I have played since the nes version. And I must say 
 its the reason I bought the WII. The game play is great, and visually pleasing. The game looks 
 far better than any other WII title to this date and feels on par with the next generation of gaming. 
 The levels are filled with challenging puzzles and bad guys. Yes I said bad guys. But If I do have 
 a complaint its the constant back tracking needed to be done to at sometimes just go through one 
 door. Oh ya there is also a bit of a delay when you try to open some doors. But from what I hear 
 this is what metroid is about, so I will let it go at that. Now to my favorite part of the game 
 the boss battles. Very challenging, through your controller tough at times (thanks for the WII 
 strap) . The battles are in depth with multiple boss pissed off levels. Just when you think your 
 done there is another twist to the battle. In the end this is a great game and is a must for any 
 collection. I truly hope that other developers use this title as a guide for there games. Crisp 
 game play stunning graphics make it the premiere title for the WII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epatino
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Por fin ya era hora de que empezaran a salir juegos decentes para la gran Wii. Metroid Prime 3 
 es un juego fant&aacute; stico, principalmente por su incre&iacute; ble control (ya quisiera halo 
 tener un control igual) . Tambien es remarcable la forma en que retro studios implemento magn&iacute; ficamente 
 los puzzles mediante la interacci&oacute; n con el wii remote y el nunchuk, lo que hace que nos 
 sintamos mas sumergidos en esta fant&aacute; stica aventura. Es lamentable que no hayan incluido 
 un modo multijugador, pero creo que la intensi&oacute; n de la compa&ntilde;&iacute; a era hacer 
 un modo para un jugador solido, el cual ha conseguido con creces. Sin lugar a dudas es el mejor 
 metroid prime de todos, creo que se ve la madurez que ha alcanzado retro studios en la realizaci&oacute; n 
 de esta magnifica saga y gracias al wii mode tenemos un juegazo imperdible. PD creo que ya es hora 
 que gamespot deje de fijarse tanto en la parte grafica y mire mas bien la jugabilidad (y que no 
 le tire tan duro al wii) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hog63
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Okay, i'll start out by saying this. Wii owners haven't had a whole lot to get excited about since 
 launch. Good games that have released have been RE4, Call of Duty 3, Paper Mario, etc. But now, 
 wii fans, we can rejoice, for Metroid Prime 3 Corruption is out. Not ever has a game on the wii 
 had so much majestic beauty and artistic design. The game runs smoothly no matter the conditions. 
 The control scheme for this game is flawless. Metroid 3 gives you wonderful controls that completely 
 sync with the wii remote/nun chuck. After about 10 minutes, there will never be another time where 
 you will have to think about which buttons to push. The Controls become part of you. Level design 
 and character designs are top notch. Each world has its own distinct personality. All worlds are 
 full of color, detail, and are still crisp on a larger television. This game is by far the best 
 in series. The experience of this game on the wii is an unforgettable one. A must buy. 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellfirefanatic
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Alright, lets get down to business. I'm going to review this game in two different sections, the 
 first as a stand-alone Wii title, and the second comparing it to the other Prime games. So let's 
 begin.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 as a stand-alone Wii game -
  
  This game is AMAZING. It fully utilizes the Wii's unique controller and gives you such an awesome 
 experience as you blast your way through tons of different enemies and obstacles. The graphics 
 are beautiful for a Wii game, as is the art direction (but isn't it always for the Prime games?) 
 The sound direction is great and further immerses you into the action. The boss battles were intense 
 and fun (especially the first battle with Ridley) .
  
  I only had a few real issues with the game. The first is that it all seemed too easy even for the 
 normal mode. I only died once my entire game and that was when I wanted to see what would happen 
 if I stayed in corruption mode too long. Well you die... end of story. My second complaint is that 
 the doors sometimes take (what seems like) forever to open. I know it's just to load the beautiful 
 environment on the other side but dang. My last is that the whole Chozo observatory thing where 
 you download the suit upgrade locations to your maps seemed a little cheap... but then again, that's 
 just me ;) . Overall I would rate Metroid Prime 3 for the Wii a 9.0/10.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 in comparison to the other Prime titles -
  
  All during my journey through 
 this game I kept finding myself more and more dissappointed in what Retro was giving us. Only one 
 beam at a time? Ice missles? Only one different suit (excluding the default Varia suit) ? The militaristic 
 feel of the first two areas only added to my dissapointment. Since when was a Prime game NOT about 
 exploration and doing things at your own pace? And is it just me or did it feel like there were 
 less places to explore anyway? I don't know why but the game just seemed... smaller for some reason.
 
  
  It gets better once you get past that point but it still felt strange, especially when you acquire 
 the Plasma beam and it overwrites your trusty Power beam. What the heck? Now I know the Wii-mote 
 has fewer button options than a Gamecube controller but they could have mapped the Hyper-mode to 
 the up directional button and used the - button for visors and + button for beams. We're dedicated 
 fans Retro, we can reach our thumbs up if we need to. Speaking of visors, it feels like we got 
 jipped on those as well. The ship command visor was cool and all but didn't really come in handy 
 to often, only when you needed to land your ship and save, or move something, or blow 1 or 2 things 
 up... How hard is it to put a fourth little section on the visor pull-up screen that we could point 
 to? I really miss that handy thermal visor.
  
  But enough with my ranting. I enjoyed pretty much everthing else the game did offer. The revamped 
 Space Pirates, traveling to different worlds, Ridley's return. That was all really awesome in my 
 book, but overall I can't help but feel a little robbed of the perfect Metroid experience on the 
 Wii. In this section this game nets from me a 7.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I never had the chance to play the first 2 Prime games, but this game is a good buy for anyone 
 wanting something more mature in their Wii library. The Wii is in need for more games that utilize 
 the remote as a shooting device and MP3 delivers. I just think that it is a waste that no software 
 developers are putting more effort on making games that takes advantage of the Wii's capabilities. 
 It seems like Nintendo are the only developers that knows 100% how to work with the Wii. Everything 
 is great in this game except for the replay value. I didn't care too much about completing the 
 game in Hyper Mode because it does not add on any abilities that can't be used in the other 2 difficulties. 
 One other thing is the way MP3 makes you go online to get friend points or whatever its called 
 so that you can unlock the extras. It blows. It feels unnecessary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m1lkshakes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the best Wii game released this year so far, and might be the best that will release 
 this year. The new controls are amazing, and the graphics are the best I've ever seen Nintendo 
 squeeze out of the little white box. It isn't even close to being as good as Metroid Prime 1, but 
 it is better than Prime 2. I love the bosses, the weapons, the levels, and the unlock-ables such 
 as a Mii bobblehead in your ship. I haven't quite beaten the game yet, I stopped playing after 
 I bought Bioshock. I admit I was expecting a better game, but this is definetly worth that $50. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hebri
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Some companies surprise sometimes by how good the games they make, the one that surprises me most 
 is retro studios.
  
  Its really hard to make a perfect FPS game like metroid prime 1 and its even harder to make a sequel 
 to the game that has the same brilliance (maybe even better) . Its even harder to make a third sequel 
 to the game thats probably better, but Retro studios has done all this and probably made the best 
 single-player nintendo game ever (if not zelda oot or TP) .
  
  Everything you ask for in this game is there, stunning graphics, precise controls, exciting boss 
 fights, LOTS of missile expansions and energy tanks to find, challenging puzzles, and many many 
 more. There is also a 'veteran' and 'hypermode' difficulty so its better to start with veteran 
 since the 'nomal' diffuclty is a bit easy.
  If you want to understand what im talking about, get wii and the game and youll see. But, the game, 
 in my opinion, has two flawbacks- first, the boss fights are exciting, yes but they are a bit easy 
 so the excitement will stop quciker than you think.
  Second, unlike the 1st metroid you can only hold one weapon (with the missiles of course) while 
 in MP1 you can hold 4 weapons with their upgrades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00KevinMZ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  I am probably the biggest Metroid fan around, so coming in I had extremely high expectations for 
 Prime 3, and I can say with confidence the game met my expectations with ease. Prime 3 wasted no 
 time putting Samus in action, starting with some gameplay that seemed right out of Halo, which 
 was nice for a little bit, but I for one love Prime games for the exploration based gameplay, and 
 sure enough once I was about 45 minutes in to the story the pacing seemed much more like previous 
 Prime games. Since the new controls make combat a little bit easier than previous primes, Retro 
 made sure to put a lot more enemies into the game to even out the difficulty, which keeps things 
 interesting while searching around. Samus is thrown into an abundance of environments, some new 
 and others similar to previous Prime's. Regardless of their originality, each environment was visually 
 stunning look at, making each area a pleasure to explore (minus this one crashed ship you have 
 to explore, but not because of its visuals, i only didn't like exploring it because it is considerably 
 scarier and harder than any other of the areas in the game, and there are not any savepoints that 
 can conveniently be reached, essentially going to that ship is the equivalent to going into the 
 dark world in echoes) . Like every other Metroid game, Samus essentially starts at zero in terms 
 of weaponry, but sure enough as she advances she finds new advancements that help her reach previously 
 in-explorable areas. The biggest upgrade you get is the Phazon enhancement device, which you get 
 about 15 minutes into the game. Unfortunately this makes her varia suit look a little bit uglier 
 than in previous games, but what it's most useful for is entering hyper mode, which allows you 
 to shoot phazon at enemies, which does considerably more damage than her normal weaponry. However 
 it does drain a little bit of energy to stay in hyper mode for too long, but regardless I usually 
 found myself staying in it for a while anyways just cause it's so much fun to shoot phazon at people. 
 I don't want to spoil all the upgrades, but I will mention unlike the other two Primes, the beam 
 system is stackable, as opposed to being able to use any of the beams with the flick of the c stick. 
 Fortunately you never lose the ability of a previous beam when you get a new one, so the new system 
 was fine by me.
  
  Control-wise, the wii's motion sensing controls as a whole work brilliantly. I started right off 
 in advanced controls, which is definitely the way to go. What that does is you can press z to lock 
 on to an enemy in the screen, and then with the motion sensing you can target specific areas of 
 the enemy, and that system for fighting works great. In games like Halo I was always fumbling with 
 the dual analog stick control, so for me, I really loved the motion sensing controls. Unfortunately 
 they were not perfect though. It kind of takes a while to do a 180 spin, so while you don't need 
 to do one that often, when I did I often ended up taking some damage cause she was a little slow 
 getting around. Also the game has many interactive controls such as grappling and pressing buttons 
 or operating levers. While around 95 percent of the time I could get the motion right no problem, 
 that other 5 Samus wasn't quite making the motions as smoothly as I felt she should have. My final 
 gripe about the controls deals with the morph jump. While in the morph ball mode, you can jump 
 by either dropping a morph bomb and jumping that way, or you can flick the remote up which serves 
 the same purpose. Unfortunately this motion is usually only picked up about 75 percent of the time, 
 so while still faster than dropping a morph ball, it was a little aggravating some time.
  
  Overall, Prime 3 is still easily one of the greatest games I have ever played. I know it seemed 
 like I brought a lot of flaws with the game (I actually have two more, some times the doors take 
 a long time to open which is annoying, and also by no means easy, the game's difficulty definitely 
 dropped in relation to the previous two games, especially echoes) , but all of them are incredibly 
 insignificant in comparison to the great highs of the game, which include beautiful visuals, outstanding 
 controls and gameplay, unbelievable boss-fights, good pacing, and sound that does an excellent 
 job of wrapping you into the environment. So while not perfect, Prime 3 is an outstanding game 
 that will go down as one of the defining games of its genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superlink00
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This being my first review, I'm just gonna jump into the game: If you liked the first two games, 
 you'll like this one.
  
  Graphics: Pretty amazing. The lighting and the Worlds that you travel through are gorgeous. The 
 particle effects and the rag dolls both add a nice touch. The only problem I had was with Samus 
 with her helmet off. She just doesn't fit graphically with everyone else. The graphics might not 
 be a massive step forward from Echoes, but they are better, and it is one of the best looking games 
 on the Wii.
  
  Audio: Also pretty good. The music that plays during the opening menu and pretty much everywhere 
 else perfectly set the mood of the game. This is also the first Metroid game to include voice-acting. 
 While there's not a whole lot of it (I'm guessing to keep the eerie silence in the worlds mostly 
 intact) , it is pretty good, and it helps to convey the storyline. In all, it's as good as you'd 
 expect.
  
  Gameplay: Now here's where it really counts, and here's where Metroid Prime 3 delivers. The new 
 motion controls work really great, but only if you're playing with the standard sensitivity. Basic 
 and advanced don't work too well. The only issue I had with the controls was the Morph ball jumping. 
 While it works fairly well, it never felt quite right to me. Another problem I had with the game 
 was it's a little bit too easy on normal mode. While the enemies take a decent amount of firepower 
 to bring down, their attacks are either easily dodged, or they don't hurt you as much. The Hyper 
 Mode you are given makes you invincible and supercharges your weapons, so it makes most battles 
 seem slightly unfair until you start to become corrupted by it. But once you start playing, these 
 problems won't bother you. The boss fights are spectacular, requiring you to use several different 
 attacks to win. One boss fight in particular has you damaging the boss's tentacles to cause them 
 to retract, then shoot it in the mouth to stun it, and then use the grappling beam to yank out 
 one of its tentacles to damage it. The puzzles in the game aren't real brain-teasers, but they 
 are well thought out and are connected to the environment. Don't worry about any find the key puzzles 
 here.
  
  Replayability: Once you finish the game, you can either choose to play the hyper mode difficulty, 
 or go back and find every last suit expansion to get that 100%. There are also extras to purchase, 
 such as concept art and soundtracks. However, the only way to get most of these extras is to get 
 credits from other players by them sending you friend vouchers through Wiiconnect24. I live out 
 in Hicksville, USA, so online for me is only an unachievable luxury. Thanks a lot, Retro Studios, 
 for denying me that Mii Bobblehead.
  
  Overall, this game is an incredibly well-designed game with great graphics and audio, and a storyline 
 that will keep you interested in the game. Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is a solid ending to the 
 amazing trilogy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MglPrn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption suffers from the same main problem Zeda: Twilight Princess had, it 
 feels exactly like it's last couple prequels.
  
  Like Zelda the controls are innovative and mostly enjoyable, though some switch flipping and crank 
 turning is unresponsive and annoying. The aiming is excellent though, and in all honesty I hope 
 all three consoles next time use a similar system for FPS gaming (though without the lock-on) . 
 Switching visors and gun modes is easy and playing around with switches in the ship is fun, as 
 are the classic morphball sequences now enhanced with easier jumping.
  
  That said, that's pretty much where the innovation stops here, and one could argue a new control 
 scheme isn't gameplay innovation at all, just a new way to move in a completely last-generation 
 game, and Metroid Prime 3 is certainly that. While the graphics are slightly enhances with new 
 shader effects and moderately improved textures the game still looks pretty much exactly like Prime 
 2, though now in widescreen mode. Gameplay in Prime 3 is... well... exactly like Prime 1 Prime 
 2. Puzzles are similar, fights are similar... the way you progress, the way information is given. 
 Other than a brief Half Life-eqsue opening sequence with people around to talk to, Prime 3 plays 
 exactly like its prequelsl, though a lot easier to complete thanks to a dramatically lowered difficulty 
 setting for normal mode.
  
  There's nothing wrong with sticking to a good formula really. I enjoyed my time with the latest 
 Zelda and I enjoyed my time with this Metroid as well, but with other games making ambitous and 
 amazing leaps in storytelling, presentation and gameplay, Nintendo's franchises are starting to 
 get more than a little stale. Come for the excellent gameplay and enjoy your stay, but I can't 
 give this a higher score when it's just not trying to obtain anything better than what the series 
 had 6 years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffinduck01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Yes ladies and gentalmen the first Wii-exclusive totally hardcore game has arived and oh my god 
 does it kick arse! When first booting up Metroid Prime 3 the first thing you will notice is the 
 games incredible audio as the main menu theme is by far some of the highest quality iv herd in 
 a long time. But, you came for the game not the main menu. And YES, the controles work perfectly, 
 all of you who say it will be just like the crap controles of Red Steel you are sadly mistaken 
 only a company like Retro could have made the controles fell this good with only a handful of other 
 games before it atempt the same. This is also the first Wii game that CANNOT and WILL NOT be confused 
 with previsoe hardware generations, the lightning and detail every were is simply awsome, proving 
 that the Wii can do next-gen graphics. This game also foucases a lot more on the action and for 
 good reason. It is a much faster paced game then previose instalments in the series but still worth 
 playing. Preaty much everything else in the game is closely resemblant to previose MP games (morph 
 ball, screw attack , ect) Anyway in short BUY THIS GAME NOW there is no way you will be dissapointed 
 at all unless you hate fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canxp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This must be the first game I'm aiming to end with a 100% completed status.
  
  What rocks:
  -Lot's of upgrades to find, including health and missile boosts.
  -Challenging 
 but entertaining boss fights.
  -Good graphics, for the Wii.
  -Some load times but disguised with animations.
  -Background story, environment and place are 
 all amazing. What sucks:
  
  What sucks:
  -Motion sickness, sometimes, since you can't rotate normally, you need to move the wii control 
 to the edge of the screen to rotate.
  -My impression (and all my family too) was that the things like those move the wii to activate 
 the panel or grab the enemy's shield wii-accelerometer-actions were added just to use the wii capabilities 
 because they are available, not to add extra gameplay value. C'mon, you could grab a monster with 
 the the Grapple Lasso and toss it into the air to shoot him, or work like a Gravity-gun like weapon, 
 so grabbing a wall panel and using it as a shield or weapon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 provides what is proclaimed to be the final chapter of the Prime Series. If that 
 truly is the case then this is about as good a Metroid Prime game can get. + The Wii controls are 
 implemented surprisingly well. Despite the shortage of buttons in comparison to the gamecube Nintendo 
 did a masterful job finding and developing an on-screen interface that works perfectly for switching 
 between visors. Manually being able to shoot allows for more accuracy and precision on the part 
 of the player. The ability to lock-on is still present and works well in allowing you to move/strafe 
 around specific opponents.
  
  + The Graphics are of the highest quality yet seen on the Wii console. I played the game on my 
 32 HD Vizio and was always very impressed with the graphics. The lighting effects will amaze you 
 and the fine attention to detail really shows that this game had been well cared for by its developers. 
 While the graphics do not reach that of Gears of War (few do actually) , you will not be disappointed. 
 Often MP3 relies more on its artistic appeal than on physical graphics and that works well to encompass 
 you into the universe.
  
  + Improvements over the past two games are evident. Voice-acting is now present in the game with 
 various characters interacting with you along the way. While the voice acting isn't emotional enough 
 to really warrant much review (particularly since Samus herself does not talk) , it does do a nice 
 job of integrating you into the game none-the-less.
  
  + The usual 100% completion nets you a bonus ending similar to previous Metroid titles. This time 
 however there is a shop of sorts that allows you to buy additional items (such as artwork, music, 
 and other trinkets) using tokens earned through the game. These tokens are usually obtained through 
 defeating bosses (gold) , scanning Lore entries (blue) , and scanning various enemies and creatures 
 (red) . There's also what is known as a friend voucher (green tokens) that are necessary to buy 
 specific items. These can only be obtained through trading vouchers on Wifi with a friend. The 
 artwork is nice as always and its cool to get a new way of obtaining these extras other than through 
 completion rates of the game like in previous Metroid Prime titles.
  
  - No title is without it's flaws however, and Metroid Prime 3 is no exception. The game is somewhat 
 short at 15-20 hours and unfortunately sets itself up in a way that can be predictable due to a 
 pattern that prevails from one world to the next. Not uncommon to past Metroid titles but none-the-less 
 can distract from what could have been a more compelling plot. Unfortunately you can kind of guess 
 with some reason what will happen next. In this respect one could say MP3 was developed in somewhat 
 of a conservative manner plot-wise.
  
  - The friend vouchers are a bit of a nuisance in reality. You are basically forced to trade with 
 friends who have vouchers in order to purchase certain extras. This means you could have every 
 other token and still not be able to purchase a fairly sizable amount of the extras. This would 
 have worked better had it been used as an option to gain additional credits rather than a requirement.
 
  
  - A full online multi-player mode, similar to that of Metroid Prime Hunters, would have really 
 put this game over the top. Would I personally play a multi-player mode of MP3 online? Probably 
 not, but others would and I believe that such an inclusion would have really blown fans and newcomers 
 away. Further, a coop mode of some sort would be a nice addition. I don't know of any Metroid title 
 that has ever used coop play, nor any main Nintendo title that has utilized much of coop play, 
 and I believe it would nice for Nintendo developers to explore coop play in a more serious manner 
 in its big titles.
  
  That said, MP3 is a great game for Wii players and hopefully only taste of what's to come over 
 the final few months of 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltspwn
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  After first hearing about the release of this game, I wasnt so optimistic. After playing Medal 
 of Honor Vanguard for quite some time, I began to figure that FPS wasnt for the Wii. BOY I WAS 
 WRONG! This game is simply one word: amazing! Retro Studios took full advantage of the Wii Remotes 
 capabilities. The controls are slick and feel extremely fluid. Right after you start the game, 
 youre directly interacting with the environment. The puzzle-solving element of the game remains, 
 but Metroid Prime 3 to me comes across as more of an action/shooter, rather than adventure. Metroid 
 Prime 1 and 2 were great games, but Metroid Prime 3 takes it to a higher level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidprime_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Metroid has been around since the late 80's and built a foundation for it's classic ness. The Prime 
 series took it into 3D, and put 2 astounding games for the Gamecube. Now with Retro rapping up 
 their grand work on the Wii, it sure has made the cut. Amazing graphics, worlds and enemies, if 
 ur a gamer u need to get Metroid Prime 3 Corruption.
  
  This takes place right after Echoes, Samus is asleep in her ship, where she wakes from a little 
 dream with Dark Samus in it. So she awakes and is flying toward a Galactic Federation fleet. At 
 this point is when it hits u and all the elements of an amazing game come. The moment u see all 
 those Galactic Federation ships, the planet behind it glowing, the controls everything just comes 
 together and clicks. Its just looks spectacular on the Wii to see all this game has to offer. Gameplay 
 in this game is the best. After u play this, u will NEVER EVER wanna go back to duel analog ever 
 again. It just feels so clumsy, although with these controls everything is pinpoint and right on 
 mark. The way u switch visors and weapons is just easy and right. Nothing is outta place and is 
 fitting well into the controller. Now Graphics for this game are amazing. Best Wii graphics yet, 
 amazing lighting, atmosphere, textures everything graphically is top notch. This is what Prime 
 1 brought to the series and Corruption adds to it and then some. Astounding how good this looks 
 on the Wii, the art and world designs are just the best. The bosses look superb also as does everything 
 else in this game. It truly shows how art is better then best graphics. Sound too is very good. 
 To hear the pulsing of ur beam as u fire it, or to hear it gather in power ready to blast anything 
 in ur way is cool. The roar of her ship when it lifts off, the voice work (which is good for a 
 Nintendo game) is done very well. The music is great, from the nice calming music of Elysia to 
 the dark moody music of the Space Pirate homeworld bring the game together. Corruption needed to 
 do alot of things. It had to, bring the first true Wii game, finish off the trilogy of Prime and 
 establish how Nintendo can still make good software in this generation of systems. It does all 
 this, it is the best game for the Wii so far. Brought a great climactic end to the series and, 
 shows how Nintendo is still a great gameing company. Corruption has so many elements and things 
 that prime 1 brought that make this truly revolutionary. It never stops in action, boss fights, 
 collecting new weapons or surprising u one bit. Its pushes that this is the game to top and good 
 luck doing it. Anyone with a Wii or anybody at all needs to true this amazing game, its defines 
 greatness and should be tried by all. Like always SEE YOU NEXT MISSION 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-Lafleur
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  The wait for Metroid Prime 3 felt like it took forever, but the game has finally come out, and 
 I can say that it is definetely worth it. The game is basically the same as the last two primes, 
 only you control it with the wiimote instead of a GC controller, and it works very well. You don't 
 only use the Wiimote to aim your arm cannon to shoot, but to also use your grapple hook for multiple 
 uses by thrusting the nunchuck forward and trust me, it is awesome! The bosses were a pleasure 
 to battle and sometimes required a little thought to beat. The gameplay was wonderful in this game, 
 it's like the last two as in you blast through enemies, search for new upgrades and expansions, 
 and travel through all of the unique worlds. Speaking of the worlds, they all looked gorgeous, 
 as well as the characters and enemies and ect. The graphics overall were well done. The music was 
 well done, too, it's what you would expect from a metroid prime game, and the nice addition of 
 voice overs worked out well, and they all sounded quite good. There were acouple of problems with 
 the game, though. One problem was that the game was pretty easy (or the normal mode was at least, 
 I'm yet to try a harder mode) . Another minor problem is that there's no multiplayer. But again, 
 it's no big deal to me, the reason people bought this game was for the single player adventure, 
 and I don't think I'd get my friends to play it with me anyways :P. But overall, Prime 3 was an 
 excellent game that perfecly ended a wonderful series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trenton5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Skip normal mode and play on veteran difficulty and switch controls to advanced and that'll add 
 a nicer level of difficulty.
  
  And with some adjusting of the wii sensor bar, I had close to no trouble with the contextual wii-mote 
 gestures.
  
  Some say it doesn't feel like a Metroid game anymore, but I have too ask whether they mean it doesn't 
 feel like a Metroid or Metroid Prime game.
  
  If it's the voice acting or faster paced gameplay that gives rise to that comment, I disagree. 
 One thing I didn't care for in the previous Metroid Prime games, as wonderful as they are, was 
 the fact that the worlds felt a bit empty - especially in Echoes. There were lots of creatures, 
 but I never really felt that intelligent life existed in the world, though the story tried to communicate 
 that.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 has solved that problem. I appreciate that cut-off from society feeling that's 
 the hallmark of the Metroids, however, it's nice to sometimes feel like Samus isn't the only human 
 being in the entire Universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mechana2412
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  I've been a diehard Metroid Prime fan ever since I got a Gamecube back when it was new, and Metroid 
 Prime was my first game for it. I remember it being the best game in the world to me at the time, 
 and it still is one of them. Then Metroid Prime 2 came along and I loved that even better than 
 the first, using the same, incredible controls and gameplay with better Upgrades, Boss Fights, 
 and a better storyline.
  
  So when I saw that Metroid Prime 3 was going to come out, I was hyped for months.
  I finally 
 got the Pre-order for my birthday and picked it up the day it came out.
  
  (Some spoilers so don't read on if you don't want any)
  
  
  
  
  
  
  The game starts 
 a bit like the other games, except for the fact that you get thrown right into a space battle that 
 reminds me of some of the missions in Lego Starwars. The motion-sensing controls used to pilot 
 the ship are pretty nice, and the ability to use just about any of the controls in the ship whenever 
 you want is a great feature, but a slight doubt was in the back of my brain that this wasn't going 
 to meet the standards of Metroid Prime 2.
  
  And so, after many long cinematic scenes and a leisurely stroll through the Galactic Federation 
 ship, it finally turns a bit more Metroid-like. Space Pirates attack through a wormhole, and start 
 taking the entire ship over. The movement and combat controls are incredible, the best I've seen 
 in my entire life. Then I kill a Space Pirate that was going to slice a Trooper in half, and some 
 token-looking thing appears on my screen that says Federation Trooper Saved . And so I found out 
 about the Reward Tokens system. The system itself is pretty much something that I've seen in most 
 Movie Games, and is usually there to make sure you don't get bored of the game in five seconds. 
 (Even know you usually do)
  
  You simply just do certain things and you get different tokens that you can spend on Concept Art, 
 music from the game, and other random junk. Now in another game such as Ratchet and Clank I would've 
 been fine with that, it would've fit together with the game well and would've been something that 
 would give the game alot of replay value. But in Metroid, the system seems like it was glued onto 
 the game at the last second because a play-tester said he wanted to get Bumper Stickers on his 
 ship. (Which you can get, thanks to the Misc. section)
  
  To tell you the truth, quite a bit of the game's features seem like they were stolen from another 
 game. For the first quarter of the game, the game felt a bit like Ratchet and Clank 3, and by the 
 last quarter of the game I was questioning if the game wasn't a mass-marketed fangame. There are 
 signifigantly less Upgrades in the game than last, and I frequently ran into sections where I would 
 have no clue what to do thanks to the fact that your objectives only come in through sparsely repeated 
 calls from your ship or from Commander Dean, the Galactic Federation leader who has a hat that 
 could fit an entire squadron under it. The plot twists in the game are quite different from the 
 usual Metroid plot twists. (Although most of the games don't have any) And the fact that the three 
 other Bounty Hunters that were sent on the same mission as you by the Federation were actually 
 Space Pirate spies was the worst plot-twist I've ever seen in a game, and felt like something that 
 should be in a James Bond movie instead. If you're saying it was just the Phazon, then no. Scan 
 some of the Space Pirate datalogs near the end of the game.
  
  And since this is getting to be longer than I really wanted it to, I'll end with a short summary.
 
  
  Pros-
  -Good Boss Battles, as GameSpot pointed out.
  -Great Controls
  -The Game has alot of motion-sensing controls that are good, although slightly annoying near the 
 end of the game. (I'm talking to you, annoying Fuel Gel Pump control panel)
  -Good storyline for the most part, although it doesn't seem that much like a Metroid one.
  
 
  Cons-
  -Alot of the systems feel a bit boring and not very much like the ones I've come to known in past 
 Metroid Prime games.
  -Why do I get the feeling that they stole some things from other games?
  -It just doesn't feel 
 like Metroid Prime anymore. -Lack of Multi-player. That was a feature that gave the game alot more 
 fun, and now you haven't even taken use of the Wii's internet functions. Whats up with that, Retro?
 
  
  I've played this game side-by-side with ,e replaying Metroid Prime 2, and I can say that this is 
 a sequel that isn't as good as the original or the first sequel.
  
  And so, the game gets a 6 out of 10 from me, where MP2 gets a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic_rusher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Why does Gamespot do this. I respect their opinion and they are great with reporting news, but 
 they have this weird thing with rating Nintendo games! Anyhoo, this game is awesome. Fantastic 
 environmental puzzles are among the best of the series. Great boss fights require you to use every 
 game mechanic at your disposal. Atmospheric levels are a pleasure to explore. Various gameplay 
 elements mesh nicely into a seamless whole. You should have just left it as that and gave it a 
 9.4 - 9.5 Gamespot is very right. Their bad sides of the game are very incorrect though and most 
 people agree with me. Some of the contextual actions don't control all that well. Streamlined controls 
 make things a little too easy and a little less adventurous. Doesn't do much different than the 
 previous two Metroid Prime games. AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH. Sorry, you'll have to settle for the $20,000.00 
 dollar prize on who Wants to be a Millionaire? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sajo7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  From the tense shoot em ups to the exploration of deserted worlds, this is a Metroid game through 
 and through. The controls have set the standard for future Wii FPSs. There is a bit of a learning 
 curve, but once you get into the serious exploring, they will feel natural. The special lock-on 
 feature of being able to center on an enemy works extremely well, especially when you have to hit 
 a boss's weak points. The bosses do not disapoint, Metroid fans will be pleased, and for those 
 of you new to Metroid, you folks are going to experience what a boss fight is suppose to feel like.
 
  
  The defining moment for me was the exploration, I won't spoil anything, but the artistic quality 
 of the planets and the ambient music come together in a way I haven't seen in over a decade.
  
  Following GameSpot's review system, I will say that the game's controls alone don't do quite 
 enough for me to call this a revolutionary game, but it can't be ignored that this is the first 
 Wii game to have near flawless controls.
  
  If you own a Wii, there is no reason not to get this game, rest assured it will not disappoint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is simply an amazing game. The controls are great, the graphics are 
 great, and this game is actually more story driven, unlike the rest of the series. MP3 includes 
 voice acting which is done very well. The graphics are very well done, and there is plenty of detail, 
 from seeing your character gradually get worse because of the corruption, to the environments that 
 are unique toe each planet. You just feel like its a whole new world and that is great. There is 
 a great story that you are involved in and it just makes the game a lot better then the previous 
 two games that lacked a good story. Overall, Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is one of the best games 
 for the wii, and its a must-have for any adventure, FPS, or action gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaska_Gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Every generation, a console graces us with a game that defines its genre. Mario defined the platform 
 genre, and made it fun for all ages. Zelda created a unique invention of puzzle-solving and role-playing. 
 Metroid combined Mario and Zelda together with its own blend of science fiction.
  All of these games have been praised for their gameplay and have defined the 2-D and 3-D generations. 
 But theres one more opportunity for glory, and Retro Studios pulls it off with Metroid Prime 3: 
 Corruption. The true revolution has commenced!
  
  Gamepaly: We've seen other shooters on the wii come and go, but this one will stay forever. You 
 use the Wiimote (thats what I call it.) make Samus look around. It feels so good, words can't describe 
 it. If playing is believing, then you have to play this. You'll wonder why you played dual analog 
 games all your life. The rest of the buttons are easy to use. A for firing, B for jumping, its 
 as easy as that. Lock on/Free aiming is great and the motion sensing controls add tons of depth 
 to the game. In my opinion, those have troubles with motion sensing moves, they aren't doing it 
 right.
  
  Score: 10
  
  Graphics: The wii is the less powerful system, Sure, you might of heard this before, but Metroid 
 is nothing like that. They push the wii's power beyond itself. Everything is detailed, the ships, 
 the plants, the alien ruins, everything. Also, when you activate the scan visor, you can now faintly 
 see Samus's face. Yes, they also worked on the reflections. These are the type of graphics that 
 can match that of the 360. If you have composite cables, enjoy it on widescreen!
  
  Score: 10
  
  Sound: If you want to do something right in a Metroid game, is get the right music 
 in the right area, and Retro Studios pulls it off. As usual when fighting an onslaught of pirates, 
 the familiar music is there. Bryyo's music has the feel of ancient civilization throughout its 
 ruins. Elysia has the feel of intelligence as sentient machines roam about of Skytown. Everything 
 is there. Those who are familiar with Prime 1 &amp; 2 will enjoy.
  
  Score: 9.8
  
  Replay Value: If you know about speedrunning, your probobly familiar with Metroid being the first 
 of giving rewards for fast play throughs. While no rewards for fast time, this time log book doesn't 
 count. Only items and equipment. 75% extends the ending, while 100% shows an extra clip of someone 
 following Samus. Those who played MP Hunters might be familiar coughcoughsyluxcough.
  
  Score: 9.9
  
  There you have it. Metroid fans will definitly play this, while new players should 
 pick it up. Its not good, not great, just Fantastic. The perfect way to finish a subseries. Retro 
 Studios, congratulations. I can't get enough of this game. See You Next Mission! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonynhater
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  this is my first metroid game i have ever played and i'm happy to say, boy was i missing out. anyways, 
 you dont have to know anything from the previous metriods to play this one. It starts you off in 
 the right direction and anyone can play. my first impression was that the controls really were 
 simple, so simple that a girl can play (they dont have good reputations when it comes to fps) . 
 you just siply point in the direction you want to go and it moves very smoothly. there are other 
 motion based thing you do in the game such as the graple and twisting locks, which also works pretty 
 well. the story is decent, nothing special and it gets repetetive. you simply go from planet to 
 planet killing the phazon seeds. which gets kinda old. simply put its like, man, i have to do that 
 again on another planet! the graphics are actually impressive, the best on the Wii so far. they 
 are nice, clean, and krisp, but not necisarily detailed. it makes me wonder what this game would 
 look like in true hi-def. there are no loading loading screens, but you can tell when its loading. 
 like when you want to go through a door, it doesnt open for awhile until its done loading the next 
 room. which really subtracts the game experience. also, when you go from area to area you have 
 to watch your ship fly across the sky, instead of just loading the next place on a screen. overall, 
 metroid three is a game not to miss (especially if you only own a Wii) it keeps you interested 
 with the goergous backrounds and fantastic gamplay. you'll wonder if the dual-analogs are the best 
 way to play first person shooters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fon1988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Metroid has been around just as long as Mario, and has relatively followed the same formula since 
 it's release. You have always done puzzle solving, item finding, background-story finding, and 
 of course the fun always came wrapped up neatly with the shooting elements. The Metroid Prime series 
 succesfully brought all of those elements togethor to create one of the best first person shooters 
 to date. Five years after the release of the original game, we are now given Metroid Prime 3, the 
 up-most best of the series that doesn't stray from the formula and delivers one of the most satisfying 
 gaming experiences in recent years.
  
  (Spoiler Free for the most part)
  
  The story line is again this time, spread about throughout the whole game and you'll find out tid-bits 
 at a time rather than being bombarded with constant story flow. Anyone whose played a Metroid game 
 will be familiar with this routine. Without giving too much away, the basic story line revolves 
 around Samus traveling from planet to planet, fighting dark Samus, foes, friends and even herself. 
 With the addition of voice overs that seem to either be cheap or compleltly lacking in Nintendo 
 games, the whole story feels more believable and is a welcoming addition. Throughout the levels, 
 rendered cut-scenes take place that give more in-sight on what's going on, as well as do the in-habitants 
 of long past. They have left Samus small clues throughout their planet (on some of them anyway) 
 that give her small amounts of info at a time on what has happened, and why they are not there 
 anymore. It gives the whole game a greater sense of realism and is overall just one more way that 
 the game shines.
  
  Like any game with a great story, great gameplay needs to follow up as well or it will all have 
 been for nothing. Thankfully though, the gameplay in Metroid Prime 3 shines in every possible way. 
 From the puzzles, to the pacing, to the motion controls and combat, everything feels exactly the 
 way it should and once the controls are mastered, you'll never be able to go back to playing any 
 other way. This is the definitive control scheme for fps's, and any and all future fps's released 
 for the Wii should follow this layout. Thats saying alot. Nintendo has revoloutinized this genre 
 again and only once one has mastered this way, will they realize the true potential of the Wii. 
 They aren't easy to master though. The Wii-Mote controls all of the functions of the gun. You aim 
 with the IR, shoot with the A button, fire rockets with the down button on the d-pad, change into 
 hyper mode with the (+) button, change your visor type with the (-) button, scroll through briefings 
 with the (1) button and go to the main menu with the (2) button. The nunchuck controls movement 
 with the control stick, turns Samus into her Ball form with C, locks on with Z, and can be swung 
 to throw the grapple. Sounds confusing and it is at first, but it quickly becomes second nature. 
 When the Wii was showcased, people were stunned at the innovation of the controller and couldn't 
 wait to try it out. Since then, game after game have attempted to give you this feeling but none 
 of them have been as successful as throwing your grapple at an enemy and brutally ripping his shield 
 out of his hands. It's a gameplay expereince unlike anything you've ever experienced. The gameplay 
 consists of random things happening at random times. Sometimes you'll find yourself exploring a 
 giant world, trying to solve a puzzle while fighting a few enemies here and there. Other times 
 you'll find yourself shooting rappidly at hundreds of enemies that can't seem to just go away. 
 Other times you'll come across a random boss that can tear you to shreds, while others will defy 
 all nature and require precision and strategy to defeat. All of these elements happen at random 
 times so be prepared to do any number of these things on every planet, at very unexpected times. 
 Sometimes you'll be doing a mix of all three at the same time. Other times the game may feel like 
 a horror title, especially when Samus encounters the Metroids for the first time. It's truley a 
 sight to behold.
  
  Graphically the game stands above any Wii game to date. Now they aren't as great as the PS3 or 
 Xbox360 games, but they will definitly make people think twice before bashing the Wii's graphical 
 capabilities. Everything from the sky, to the ground, to Samus, to enemies, to carvings in the 
 wall, to splattering body parts look great. Just like Zelda: Twilight Princess, the game seems 
 to get prettier and prettier as you progress through the many random enviorments. Some levels take 
 place in beautiful areas with lush grass and blue skys, while others take place in a fiery hellish 
 inferno. The creators truely went all out coming up with ideas for these places and how exactly 
 they should look. The audio is just as superb as the rest of the game. Every sound effect, musical 
 score, voice over and enemy welp sounds perfectly executed and are all equally as satisfying at 
 the rest of the experience. Playing with a high-tech stereo makes the sound come alive and is the 
 preffered way to go, but for the majority of us without them, the audio sounds equally as satisfying.
 
  
  Now you may have noticed that the score I willingly gave this game was a 9.5, but I haven't made 
 a single complaint. Well, as much as the game sounds perfect, it's not. There are a few draw backs 
 that could have made the overall package an even better experience, but in no way do these criticizms 
 dumb-down the experience. My first complaint invovles the lack of online play. Once the story is 
 over and you've played through it multiple times, the addition of online play would have definitly 
 added to the life-span this title has. Theres no doubt that the game stands perfectly on it's own 
 without multiplayer, but now days it's expected and with a game as good as this, it's a shame no 
 such mode was implemented at all. My second and smallest complaint is of the (1) button. Sometimes 
 through the course of the levels you will recieve a message, usually from Aurora (the super computer) 
 and you have to move your hand down to press the (1) button to continue the message. It feels strangley 
 out of place and can even mess you up sometimes as you''ll naturally move your hand down and will 
 in-turn cause you to lose your place and balance. As you can tell, Metroid Prime 3 is the most 
 own title for the Wii right now and should continue to attract gamers throughout the systems life 
 span as being the first, amazing shooter on the console. If you've never played a Metroid game, 
 don't worry. The game has as much story needed to let you play this game and know whats going on 
 without ever so much as touching a previous title. Overall, the game is revoloutionary and if you 
 are a lucky Wii owner, do yourself a favor and purchase this game immediatly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Penguin93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Lemme start off by saying that the First game of the Big 3 drops, and it is far more then a Success. 
 This game, from my point of view, changed the way i play FPS games now, with what i think is possibly 
 the Greatest control method ever, Metroid Prime 3 really does show the Wii to be an FPS console, 
 i can only hope that Future FPS titles take after everything Retro Studios did to make Metroid 
 Prime 3 such a great game.
  
  After fighting the Metroid Prime, and Defeating Dark Samus, Samus Aran called by the Galactic Federation 
 for yet another mission. Who must she face this time? Once again, Dark Samus, the Dark Phazon version 
 of Samus is ready for another Go. But this time, theres less back tracking. As you arrive at the 
 GSF Olympus, you must head to the Briefing room, as you go along, you interact with several different 
 parts of the Ship, such as putting in Key Codes, Turning Levers, etc. All with the Innovation that 
 is the Wii Remote. After you get to the Briefing Room, you are Informed on you're Mission (i do 
 not want to put in any spoilers, so i'll leave it at that.) But you are Attacked by Space Pirates, 
 you are Once again, Briefed for a New Objective do to the unexpected Attack, once you finish up, 
 You are attacked by Dark Samus, and become Corrupted with Phazon. After Awaking from a 1 month 
 nap in the AU Chamber, Samus is ordered to go find the Other Bounty Hunters.
  
  Well, theres a few good parts to the Story that i do not want to spoil, so i'll stop there.
  
 
  Gameplay: Incredible. As i said before, Retro Studios really nailed the Controls. Aiming feels 
 so Responsive, turning is quick and smooth, Locking on is great being as now you can lock on to 
 an enemy but you can still move you're aiming cursor around freely. The game has more Action then 
 ever before, which makes this game the Perfect ender to a great trilogy. Graphics: Metroid Prime 
 3 is a Great looking game. Lighting Effects are Amazing, Detail is Awesome, and just overall Art 
 Style makes Metroid Prime 3 a great looking game. 480p 16:9 and 60 frames per second makes it all 
 the better.
  
  Sound: The Sound is Great, with good Voice Acting, good Sound Effects, Catchy music, Prime 3 is 
 doing well in all category's.
  
  Replay Value: I'm not one to Replay a Single-Player only game after i have beaten it once. But 
 after beating Metroid Prime 3, i was very tempted to go back and replay on a Harder Difficulty 
 and try to get a better Time and Percentage.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 will Definitely stop the Hardcore Complaints for awhile, If you own a Wii, or are 
 looking to pick up a Wii, I Definitely, Highly recommend that you pick up Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ookami-gamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  the third game in the trilogy, metroid prime 3; corruption, is the best in the series. the graphics 
 are brighter, sharper, and overall better! there is not really a main storyline that you cant pick 
 up on if you havent played the first to for the GC. if you have played a metroid game, expect the 
 usual running in circles trying to figure out where to go and what to do. the bosses have much 
 more strategy involved in them rather than just repeatedly shooting. the sound is MUCH better. 
 aside from the main char you play, Samus, the people TALK in the game. no more reading annoying 
 lines of text. they finnally talk! GJ NINTENDO!
  
  the story is basically that a duplicate version of Samus, dark samus, has currupted many planets 
 with a dangerous chemical, phazon. the story takes flight right away when you start the game. you 
 must save your home planet from a meteor. after teaming up with a couple partners to defend the 
 planet, Dark samus soon partially corrupts you with the substance you try to defend against, phazon. 
 i wont go any further than that for risk of spoilers.
  
  there are many puzzles in the game which will have you running back and forth and most likely back 
 again. though sometimes annoying, the constant stream of monsters keeps your mind occupied. a couple 
 of old weapons and items make a comeback in this game from the MP 1 and 2 for GC. you get the familiar 
 grapple beam, the missiles, morph ball, and spider ball. however, many NEW weapons and items introduce 
 themselves all throughout the game. your most powerful weapon being the dangerous chemical you're 
 trying to defend against, phazon. holding the minus ( - ) button on the wiimote for a couple seconds 
 puts you into hyper mode. which gives you the ultimate weapon of phazon. however, it comes with 
 a side-effect; it uses one complete bar, or energy tank, of health. other new weapons include plasma 
 beam, ice missile, new visors, and many many more. my overall evaluation:
  
  difficulty:
  normal- havent played yet, but see next difficulty setting
  veteran- the hardest difficulty first 
 available may be too easy for metroid fans
  veteran, surprisingly enough to me, took me a total of 15 or so hours to complete. (it told me 
 when i beat it xD)
  
  sound:
  THE CHARACTERS TALK! FINALLY!
  the sound is good. the suspenseful music sets the tone of the game and warns you if enemies are 
 near.
  
  graphics:
  improved from the first GC titles, but not by much. the wii seems like it has about the graphic 
 settings of a ps2, which aren't bad. has colorful rooms and enemies that will keep you on the edge 
 of your seat.
  
  controls:
  the game controls very smoothly. as with most wii games, it takes a bit of messing around with 
 to get the flow of it, but is really easy when you get the hang of it. however, i just wish they 
 had put in a quick turn command like in RE4 for the wii that will turn your character in a complete 
 180 degree turn. replay:
  i would say replay value is 5/10 aside from some hardly noticeable unlock ables, you know where 
 everything is after playing it through once. additional:
  damn you nintendo!
  if you have played at least metroid prime 2; echoes, you would notice throughout the game how after 
 shooting some doors, you have to stand in front of them and wait for them to open after shooting. 
 it can take anywhere from 3-15 seconds for a door to open. i was hoping they fixed this for MP3, 
 but sadly, they havent. it could be something im doing wrong, but i doubt it. when you have enemies 
 on your tail and your trying to get through, they can become troublesome and overall annoying.
 
  
  score: 8.5/10
  love the game, but hate the annoying doors and its hard to turn around quickly. but dont let those 
 two minor insignificant problems stop you from buying this game. even if you havent played the 
 first two in the series, definately buy this. its a great fps (only one for wii atm) and has puzzles 
 to keep you guessing!
  
  good luck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brainboy77777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  It's amzing!! I'm not a Metroid fanboy, I hated Echoes. it sucked ballz. this game blows it out 
 of the water. it has an awesome story, great wii graphics, and great Samus killing pirates. the 
 difficulty is masterfully controlled. the basic is for all the noobs, like grandma and mom, like 
 most wii owners are. for the more mild and extremely hardcore, the difficulty goes crazy. it's 
 just whack. The only con is that the boss battles are a bit easy. I didn't even lose a single energy 
 tank on the bosses. i guess the bosses will be harder later, but right now, they're pretty easy. 
 and now im going lose all of my health to the next boss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHUNKY_1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  slick controls awesome gameplay make this game a worthy end to the metroid trilogy.
  the bosses are coo. the enviroments are beautiful. When writing your review, remember to keep the 
 language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right 
 the first time  you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive 
 feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor 
 or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solonite
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Prime 3 is now one of my all time favorite games
  
  The addition of voice acting and people to interact with is an excellent way to finish the Prime 
 series. In the first two games Samus was almost all alone with the exception of her enemies and 
 an occasional Chozo. In Prime 2 we saw a first glimpse of the Federation troopers and what their 
 ships look like, which was pretty cool. Prime 3 is a great transition because now they talk to 
 you and you learn their purpose and where they come from, plus what their accomplishments are.
 
  
  Samus's new ship is a nice change, and it looks amazing.
  I wish that there was a better explanation of how Samus's ship was upgraded and also how she can 
 land on the Pirate's home world without being detected. The attention to detail in this series 
 has never disappointed me, and in Prime 3 the detail is enhanced.
  
  The music is excellent. I really like how they borrow sounds and themes from previous Metroid games.
 
  
  If you have a Wii go and buy this game now. Even though Prime 3 is the last in the series, I really 
 hope Retro continues to make amazing games for Nintendo, and possibly start a new Metroid series. 
 The standard Retro set is phenomenal and quite difficult to topple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matias1_G
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Ahh, the famed Samus Aran finally makes her appearance on the Wii. This beautiful rendition of 
 the Metroid universe is spectacular. Using the Wii controls makes it easy to target and obliterate 
 your enemies. This is a great addition to the already acclaimed Metroid Prime series. The story 
 is just what youd expect from Nintendo, although it is okay, it lacks that gripping factor. Though 
 the game only consists of six locations it is complex and revisitable enough to be fun to play. 
 The enemies tend to respawn quite often and this makes it sometimes annoying to backtrack if you 
 missed something but this has been accounted for, if you go to gather all the secrets you missed 
 or were unable to get the enemies usually have been replaced with more difficult monsters.
  
  All in all, the game is exciting and the controls are a lot of fun to use (to practice use 
 the juggling cones near the beginning to practice your aiming skills, this will not be re-available 
 later on so make sure to get the highest score and receive all the bonus credits) . Be sure to purchase 
 this amazing game and, if you have the patience, attempt to complete it with 100% of the secrets. 
 The only thing it lacks, which albeit sad, was not expected, would be a multiplayer mode or co-op. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omnislush
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  The Metroid series has always been one that has been given much praise over the years for its innovative 
 and unique mix of action and adventure. This final game of the Prime trilogy is no different. However, 
 aside from the beautiful environments, new controls, and new pickups, the game feels very much 
 like a been there, done that experience. However, this is not a bad thing since Prime 1 and 2 were 
 so great themselves. I'll happliy welcome more of the same goodness.
  
  Though the graphics are much cleaner and nicer, the most notable change for this thrid installment 
 is in the control scheme. The Wii Remote is used to aim, shoot, react to various objects, and to 
 turn Samus. The Nunchuck takes care of Samus' movement and her grapple beam. For the most part, 
 these controls work well, though it did take a while before I really felt comfortable with them. 
 The game does give you ample time to get used to the controls, which helps to deter any frustration 
 you may have because of them.
  
  Whereas the second Prime had an almost unfair level of difficulty, Prime 3's is just right. The 
 total amount of exploration has been tamed down a bit, there are several huge worlds to explore. 
 Each has its own unique themes and share of environmental puzzles to conquer. None of the puzzles 
 are too difficult, though I did find myself having to rely too heavily on the game's help system 
 to figure out exactly what the puzzle was getting at.
  
  All in all, I enjoyed this game for the 15 hours it took me to get through it. But even though 
 it is a great game, after finishing it the first time I felt very little reason to go back and 
 play it again. Why? Well, it felt too much like the previous installments of the series. Though 
 it was great to play with the new controls, I couldn't get out of the mindset that it was all too 
 familiar, and the feelings of amazement that washed over me when I first played Prime 1 just weren't 
 there. Would I advise people to play this game? Most definitely. Does it live up to the exceedingly 
 high expectations? Yes, but only if it is your first Metroid experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is the best game in the Prime Series. The first Prime game was revolutionary 
 and is considered one of the greatest games of all time and one of the highest rated. The sequel 
 was also a great game but could not top the first. Now Prime 3 is here and I can say that this 
 is definitely the best of the 3.
  
  Graphics: At first glance the graphics look like a sharper and clearer version of the Gamecube 
 games, but if you look closer you will see that these graphics are actually much better and could 
 not have been done smoothly on the Gamecube. If you need proof of this you will notice that the 
 environments are much larger than they were in the Gamecube games. There is also more stuff going 
 on around you. I also noticed that the enemies and environments are more detailed. There are also 
 tons of effects like bloom lighting, particle effects, ect. I noticed that Retro Studios used the 
 stuff in the background to tell a story of what is going on in certain parts of the game. I don't 
 want to spoil anything but let me just say they look really cool if you stopped and noticed these 
 things.
  
  The attention to detail in the game is amazing. The art style is very well done. If you stopped 
 and looked around closely at anything in the game you will see how detailed the game gets. Each 
 planet has it's own look and atmosphere. The design of the levels are great and you see that in 
 the puzzles as well. I think it's safe to say that the puzzles are some of the best in the Prime 
 series. It's like retro Studios took what they learned in the other Prime games and improved upon 
 them. Now that you can go to different planets and other places, the Metroid universe has become 
 more real .
  
  Gameplay: The Wii controls are done perfectly. At the maximum sensitivity level the Wii controls 
 feel very responsive and accurate. The only complaint that I have with it was that turning was 
 a little slow but besides that they work great. There are many instances in the game where you 
 have to use the remote, and without spoiling anything, these work great and are interesting additions, 
 they don't feel gimmicky at all. Sometimes the controls won't respond like jumping in morphball 
 mode using the Wii-Remote. Although I found the harder you do it the more responsive it becomes. 
 But these are minor complaints and they never affected my gameplay experience. All in all, the 
 controls are great.
  
  Like I mentioned above, the design of this game is great. While the design in previous prime game 
 were also good, here it seems that because of the stacking of the weapons, the pacing of the game 
 was much smoother because you didn't have to constantly switch weapons to open doors. Also, I never 
 felt like I had no idea where to go or what to do. The only places in the game where I became stumped 
 was trying to solve some tough puzzles here and there but I guess because I have played the previous 
 Prime games I might have gotten used to these gameplay elements and it was easier for me.
  
  The game is definitely more action packed but at the same time Retro Studios has made a perfect 
 balance between the action and the puzzles. There are more cut-scenes and they really are fun to 
 watch. The Boss fights are hands down the most fun parts of the game. There are tons of things 
 you have to do in order to defeat a boss and they don't require to simply shoot them until they 
 die. There are hidden tactics involved that once you learn them, it feels satisfying to kill the 
 boss. The addition of hyper mode, which makes samus more powerful but drains health, did not feel 
 overpowered at all. Every time I used it my health would be lowered a-lot. The cool thing is there 
 are ways of extending your time in Hyper Mode that you will learn as you play the game and can 
 be a cool tactic. You also gain cool Hyper Moder abilities and they are all fun to use. It also 
 ties into the games story, which is ended very well in this game, and a cool surprise ending if 
 you finish it at 100%
  
  Retro Studios went the extra mile and added a sort of Achievement Points system that you use to 
 get extras in the game. I found this as a great fun addition. You could also trade some with your 
 friends to unlock even more cool stuff like bumper stickers for your ship, a Mii bobble head in 
 the cockpit, a screenshot tool, ect. While many people will say the game felt too similar to the 
 previous prime games, I think it a good thing. They kept to the formula that made the Prime games 
 what they are and that is also what makes it fit in to the series. They also made enough changes 
 to the game to give it a fresh feeling.
  
  Sound: The music in this game is great. While they did use some old tunes they also added some 
 cool new ones. I found the music in this game very cool and refreshing and also nostalgic. The 
 addition of voice acting was done great. The movement of the characters to the speech was also 
 great. There are also some nice voice acting touches that they added like if you talk to someone 
 they might tell you what is going on, that they are busy, or where to go, ect. There is a-lot more 
 voice acting in this game than I thought it would be and is really done well.
  
  Overall this is a great game and one of the best games on the Wii. I think Retro Studios has done 
 a great job of making one of the best Metriod games ever. There is still a-lot more to this game 
 than what I have said here. The best way to find out is to play the game. I highly recommend this 
 game to anyone who is looking for an excellent single player experience. If you have a Wii then 
 this game should be in your library, no questions asked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_freak_mb
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  Of all the Metroid Prime games, I will have to say that this one if my favorite. The Good The controls 
 are definitely the best I've ever seen in any FPS and its definitely weird going from this game 
 back to dual analog controls. The controls open up new types of game play that no other game has 
 seen before, from battles to puzzles its all so different but in a good way. There are three different 
 settings for the controls, you can just figure out which one you like best. I can tell the improvements 
 in the graphics from the previous games. One thing that really stands out to me is the lighting. 
 The boss battles aren't hard but they are fun. The way the game ends makes you feel like you're 
 at the end of a series. There is a reward system for scanning things. For example you can get a 
 sticker on your ship, a bobble head Mii in your ship, etc. I like how you interact with you ship 
 throughout the game. From flying to different planets, to picking things up with it, and even blowing 
 things up with it.
  Even though this is a great game, there are still some things I didnt like about it.
  The Bad 
 The loading times from one room to another took forever. It takes you about 10 minutes to actually 
 start any combat in the game. This game is very easy once you get use to the controls. And the 
 new corruption feature makes it even easier. To me this game seemed a lot shorter than the previous 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donadiojr
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  Easily, the best FPS I've ever played (story mode) . controls, visuals, story, interactivity... 
 this game and Zelda: TP are enough reason to go out and buy a Wii if you havent already. Controls 
 are very easy to get used to, and they can be customized pretty decent. The looks of the game are 
 very impressive, even for 480p. The difficulty is just right in standard mode - some bosses are 
 a little bit of a struggle, but not enough to make you wanna kick something, and thats the way 
 games should be, otherwise they're more frustrating than fun. Whats also cool is how you can actually 
 interact with people and things, that makes it more immersive and enjoyable, like im actually doing 
 something and not just going where-ever the game wants me to. This is a must-buy for everyone's 
 Wii collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GabuEx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 3:41 am PT
Review:  Retro Studios had a tremendous weight on their shoulders when they went to develop Metroid Prime 
 3. Not only was it the conclusion to the hugely critically acclaimed Metroid Prime trilogy, it 
 was also arriving in the wake of mediocre first-person shooter games for the Wii. It was considered 
 by many to be a make-or-break title in terms of first-person shooters on the Wii - it was up to 
 Metroid Prime 3 to prove to the world conclusively that first-person shooters could be done on 
 Nintendo's console.
  
  In light of these facts, Metroid Prime 3 can only be considered an extraordinary achievement, one 
 which reminds viewers why they ought never to underestimate Retro Studios' ability to deliver in 
 the face of overwhelming pressure.
  
  To say that this game simply shows that first-person shooters can work on the Wii is a drastic 
 understatement. This game does not show that first-person shooters can work on the Wii. This game 
 entirely redefines the entire console first-person shooter experience and shows the world exactly 
 how it was meant to be. The controls are absolutely flawless and are as natural as mouse-look functionality 
 in PC first-person shooters. I might even not recommend Metroid Prime 3 to someone who then intends 
 to play a first-person shooter on another console. The ease with which Samus can be controlled 
 in Metroid Prime 3 will make you wonder how you ever got by in first-person shooters before the 
 Wii Remote.
  
  Of course, the controls are not the only part of the game - though they are a big part - so the 
 next question is whether or not the rest of the game matches up to the stellar controls. The answer 
 to that question is an unequivocal yes . While the game takes a considerably longer period of time 
 to get going than previous Metroids - something that I felt could have been improved somewhat - 
 once it does get going it plays out beautifully.
  
  The gameplay is somewhat of a hybrid of Metroid Fusion and more traditional Metroids. The vast 
 bulk of the game is the solitary exploration that Metroid veterans have become accustomed to, but 
 there are instances where you will be working with and interacting with other friendly NPCs. The 
 latter fact is one over which many have found contention with the game, but I personally feel that 
 this is simply a matter of a game differing from expectations. If you were expecting a game identical 
 to Metroid Prime, it is certainly true that this isn't such a thing, and if you were wanting such 
 a thing, then perhaps Metroid Prime 3 might be a bit of a disappointment in that regard. I personally 
 view it as Resident Evil 4 was viewed in comparison to its predecessors, however - not worse, but 
 different.
  
  The aesthetic and more minor elements of Metroid Prime 3 are equally well done, as well. While 
 the Wii might not match up to the Xbox 360 and the Playstation 3 in terms of sheer graphical power, 
 Metroid Prime 3 proves that a determined developer absolutely can produce a game for the Wii that 
 is nonetheless very pleasing to look at. And a special mention must be given to Metroid Prime 3's 
 stellar soundtrack. It contains quite literally some of the most understated and best tracks that 
 I have heard to date. Its songs are exactly what they need to be to set the right mood. Derelict 
 fleet ships are eerie and creepy, while boss battles are nothing short of epic.
  
  However, though Metroid Prime 3 racks up success after success, this review would not be complete 
 without noting a few minor problems I had with the game that prevented it from receiving the full-on 
 10 out of 10.
  
  The first is with regards to room changes. The way Retro Studios handled loading within the game 
 was quite simple: when you try to enter a room through a door, the room is first loaded, and then 
 the door opens when it's ready. This is a problem, however, when the room takes a while to load. 
 Since the door stays closed until the room is ready, I found myself often having to wait in front 
 of a door with nothing to do until the room loaded. This was especially annoying when I was trying 
 to make a quick getaway from enemies, since the current room is still completely active and enemies 
 can still attack you while the other room loads. Though this did not happen on a noticeable scale 
 very often, when it did it cut down quite a bit on the immersive nature of the game, and I feel 
 that it could have been improved.
  
  The second is, as I mentioned before, the opening. It takes about ten to fifteen minutes before 
 any combat is actually seen within the game. While this was also true of the other Metroid Primes 
 where you're exploring a derelict space station, the latter's openings were, in my view, much better 
 done, in that they were much more interesting, immersive, and environmental. Metroid Prime 3's 
 opening feels a bit too much like a standard first-person shooter opening, and does not serve to 
 adequately set the stage for the rest of the game, for me.
  
  Still, anything wrong I can find within the game absolutely pales in comparison with the monumental 
 list of what is right within the game. Metroid Prime 3 has forever raised the bar for first-person 
 shooters on console systems, and in ending the Metroid Prime trilogy, it has firmly and solidly 
 cemented Retro Studios' status as a development juggernaut to be reckoned with. If you own a Wii 
 and are at all interested in Metroid or first-person shooters, you have no excuse not to own this 
 game. And if you don't own a Wii, this game is all the reason you need to change that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSungazer
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  Wow... You'll definitely see what the wii is capable of in regards to gameplay, and controlling... 
 The controls are like no system has done before... Which is a very good thing in this case... Unique 
 concept, design, scenery, and such make this game a buy, easily... Go get it, rent it, borrow it, 
 steal it if you must and play this game because it really is as good as everyone is saying it is... 
 Wow. Straight A's all across the board. Boss battles are great, Samus' abilities are great, and 
 the story is pretty sweet. Was never a big fan of the metroid series (never got into it anyway) , 
 but this game does it for me... enough said... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: console-deity
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with I never hated the metroid series I just couldn't stand the controls, I mean they 
 were so bad it killed it for me but metroid prime coruption is the series pheonix for me. The graphics 
 don't really seem different from the last one I played on my GC and the art style is also about 
 the same, which by the way is a very nice style. The game play is fun and engaging, enamies are 
 varied in looks and style, different targets require different methods to deal with, all and all 
 the developer did a super job. The weapons though I haven't finished the game yet so far are all 
 well designed and handle well as well, each has its place and the Hypermode is a really cool feature 
 that when used properly is very effective but not overly powerful as it wont last forever or it 
 will corupt you or you just don't have the energy to use it all the time. The visors are also really 
 cool, each works very well and does its thing in a effective manner. A cool feature of the scanner 
 mode is you can see Samus' eyes reflected on the inside of the visor which helps make it feel like 
 you are her, that and she is pretty cute. The Wii controls work beautifully and there is a feature 
 that helps you track your target but it wont actually auto-target for you, which is nice because 
 you still have to put some effort into it. I only have two minor issues with this game first is 
 more of an issue then the second: sometimes when you fire at the doors the shield drops but it 
 takes a second for them to still open. The second issue is more of a personal preferance: I would 
 prefer it if the B button (aka trigger) were fire and not jump and the A button jump and not fire. 
 Two last things first GS's critic complained some of the motion controls don't work all that well: 
 I personally haven't had any trouble with that and think he's just being a nit-picker and last 
 but most deffenatly not last I would recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  When the legendary Metroid series first made the leap from 2D to 3D with 2002s Metroid Prime, 
 the results were surprisingly successful. Prime managed to capture the distinct sense of atmosphere 
 and exploration that made the classic Metroid games so memorable, along with the unique weapons 
 and abilities so central to the series, and translated them into something that felt fresh and 
 new while still being distinctly Metroid. The one area where perhaps Prime and its sequel, 2004s 
 Metroid Prime 2: Echoes, fell short, was in the controls. Samus Aran no longer felt like quite 
 the same agile character she had been in the 2D games. But now Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is here, 
 and it gives the controls a total overhaul, while also providing some of the most compelling environments, 
 terrific puzzles, and sensational boss battles the series has seen. All these elements add up to 
 make Corruption the best Metroid Prime game yet.
  
  Corruption picks up where Echoes left off, but no firsthand knowledge or experience with the first 
 two games is necessary to enjoy or appreciate this one. You return as bounty hunter and amateur 
 welder Samus Aran, who is tasked with helping the Galactic Federation rid the galaxy of the menace 
 of this nasty blue stuff called Phazon once and for all. Since Samus typically works alone, fans 
 of earlier Metroid games may be a bit taken aback by the fact that, in the early stages of this 
 game, there are other people around for you to interact with, but dont worry; before long Samus 
 leaves everyone behind, and most of the game provides the same sense of isolation that Metroid 
 fans have come to expect. As with previous Prime games, you can essentially take or leave most 
 of the story as you see fit, as the majority of it is told through computer terminals, ancient 
 works of art and other things that you can analyze and read about, or simply ignore. Those who 
 do care about the story, though, will find that Corruption presents a satisfying conclusion to 
 the Metroid Prime story arc while also giving the series a more significant connection to the overall 
 Metroid saga.
  
  The thing that really sets the experience of playing Corruption apart is the new control scheme. 
 You use the Wii remote to aim and to turn, while using the nunchuk to move. Its totally intuitive 
 and it works really well. Accessing all of your various visors and powers is a breeze and many 
 of those powers are simply a lot of fun to use. For instance, your grapple lasso, which lets you 
 do things like rip shields out of the arms of your enemies, is used by making a forward motion 
 with the nunchuk and then yanking it back to mimic Samus actions. The Prime games have always 
 strived to be immersive, and theres no question that the new controls in Corruption greatly improve 
 the games ability to make you feel like youre standing in Samus suit.
  
  As you might expect, the controls speak to the potential the Wii has for first-person shooters, 
 but although youll do a good amount of blasting in Corruption, this is still very much an adventure 
 game, with strong elements of puzzle-solving and exploration. Its a good thing, then, that while 
 improving the controls, the developers at Retro Studios didnt skimp on the quality of the other 
 aspects of the game. In fact, the environments youll explore here include some of the most interesting 
 the series has seen. Some of the areas are rather standard fare in terms of concept, though even 
 these, like a derelict space vessel and a jungle area, are very well done. Others are more original. 
 Perhaps most memorable is an area called Skytown, which floats high above the surface of a planet 
 and resembles a cross between The Empire Strikes Backs Cloud City and a realm of gears and machinery 
 that you might see in one of the Myst games. The puzzles are also very solid, and make frequent 
 and excellent use of your various visors and abilities.
  
  Indeed, this game lives up to the Metroid pedigree in every way. In addition to the environments 
 and puzzles, youll get the very satisfying sense of becoming gradually more powerful as you acquire 
 more energy, weapons and abilities. Youll also find yourself in a number of exciting, multi-stage 
 boss battles. And youll do a fair amount of backtracking as well. Yes, for better or for worse, 
 having to revisit areas youve already been seems to be part and parcel of the Metroid experience, 
 and some players will probably appreciate this while others will probably find it frustrating. 
 It can certainly be rewarding, revisiting a planet with a new ability that lets you access areas 
 you couldnt reach before. At the same time, some players may find that it brings the games momentum 
 to a screeching halt to be told you dont have what you need in order to progress and that youll 
 have to hike back to your ship, fly to another planet and then come back again once youve gotten 
 what you need. The game cuts down on the potential frustration associated with this somewhat by 
 giving you a few spots on each planet where you can land your ship so youll never have too far 
 to go to get back to it, but players should be fully aware going in that, as with most Metroid 
 games, backtracking makes up a rather significant part of the game.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 looks and sounds great. The graphics are very sharp and the environments are intricate 
 and detailed. The game runs smoothly but there are frequent loading times, cleverly disguised by 
 doors. Youll often find yourself waiting about five or ten seconds for a door to open and let 
 you in to the next area. The music is terrific and fits the mood of the various environments very 
 well, and the sound effects are superb as well, from the distinctive noises made by all the different 
 weapons and enemies to atmospheric sounds like storms rumbling far below you on the planets surface 
 when youre in Skytown. The voice acting can be a tad on the hokey side at times, but there isnt 
 enough of it to really affect the overall experience.
  
  Most players will probably find that the game takes them somewhere around 20 hours their first 
 time through, though of course it can be completed in much less time if you know exactly where 
 you need to go and what you need to do. Seasoned players who like their games to be on the challenging 
 side should probably opt for the veteran difficulty from the get-go, as the normal setting is quite 
 easy for the most part.
  
  Retro Studios has done it again, and better than ever. Theyve once again successfully translated 
 all the elements that make Metroid what it is into the 3D realm, while vastly improving the controls 
 to help make this game even more immersive than its predecessors. Ultimately, Metroid Prime 3: 
 Corruption is a memorable and thoroughly satisfying adventure that any gamer with a bit of patience 
 for backtracking will probably find extremely worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Although it doesn't have wi-fi, weak points are at a slim to none occurance during this amazing 
 space pirate hunting adventure. You get new powers to harness which can be your upside or downside 
 in a button mashing second. Boss battles unlike prime hunters, have been put to the test on an 
 effort scale. Each one is absolutely brilliant! For those who are unfamiliar with the franchise, 
 you can very well think of it as a zelda game in the future. Guns and laser whips are envolved 
 at nearly every second of gameplay and is earned at a very short time, allowing for a more elapsed 
 and enjoyable time as you go through the mazes that metroid prime 3 has to offer. A quick booting 
 should have you in your command station, overlooking thousands of starts untill an enemy ship dispatches 
 onto yours and its going to be rough... Metroid Prime is one of the best games that i have ever 
 played on any wii or nintendo system. An incredible experience, it defines all gameplay up to this 
 point as a mere childs toy, that is with exception to pikmin, mario, disgaea, you know, the REALLY 
 good games. Metroid Prime Corruption 3 for the nintendo Wii earns a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrmajora
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Because it is pretty much the best Wii game out there next to the Legend of Zelda and RE4. This 
 game stands in my top 10 favorite video games and it's absolutely amazing. Playing this game is 
 some of the most fun I get out of video games to date. People please, you're doing bad things to 
 your Wii by not playing this game.
  
  Gameplay: Revolutionary, these controls made me feel as powerful and kick ass as Samus Aran. I 
 loved aiming the arm canon and shooting it like a madman. To me the gameplay was much better then 
 any other Metroid game I've played.
  
  Graphics: Breath taking and I know it sounds cheesy, but play the game and you'll know what I mean. 
 Everything you see from odd ball creatures to beautiful landscape is what makes the graphics incredible. 
 Sure it may not be as good as Gears or Bioshock, but it still doesn't mean the graphics won't rock 
 your face off. Sound: Blasting your arm canon like a psycho gives some cool sound effects. Also 
 music and everything else was fantastic. Surprisingly the voice acting was phenomenal and just 
 perfect.
  
  Final Comments: Retro took everything that was special about old Metroid games and put it into 
 an amazing 3-D game. What a great way to make a great sequel. Also the boss battles couldn't of 
 been more fun! I plead with you to get 50 dollars and spend it on Metroid Prime 3. You won't be 
 disappointed and in fact you'll be very satisfied. Gameplay, sound, graphics, and just about everything 
 else is outstanding. It is an awesome game and deserves better then a 8.5. Only flaw was the scanning 
 it sometimes got a little out of hand but it wasn't too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddman009
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption.
  
  Released: Aug/27/07. Difficulty: Just Right.
  Developed by: Retro Studios. Learning curve: 1:00- 1:30.
  Published by: Nintendo. Platforms: 
 Wii.
  
  Pros: +Wonderful art design and graphics; +Amazing and will thought out bosses; +Will thought out 
 level design; + Very intuitive controls that fit will with the Wii.
  
  Cons: -Not the lengthiest game; -May take time to get use to the controls. Less adventures as 
 the past Metroid Primes -Game elements make the game too easy at times. Review.
  
  After the many years of waiting since the first trailer from Nintendo and Retro Studios back in 
 2004; and the delay from being a launch game for the Wii. We finally get to play it. This game 
 is the long awaited sequel Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. As we all know our galactic bounty hunter 
 Samus Aran is back in the final installment of the Prime series. This time Dark Samus has unleashed 
 a dark corruption among the universe and its up to Samus and the Galactic Federation to stop 
 it. Now that we got a small bit of the plot explained lets move on to the actual game itself. Metroidpolis.
 
  
  Will, as we all know the graphics for the prime series have always been some of the best in gaming. 
 With large highly detailed areas, well textured characters, enemies, and items. But does Corruption 
 live up to what its predecessors have done? The answer is yes. The graphic in Corruption are 
 some of the best that gaming at this time can make, with smooth animations and textures making 
 the world really seem realistic and more intractable unlike we have seen in many games. The worlds 
 are crawling with life with vegetation and wild life in all areas along with enemy and alloy CPUs 
 making the world more life like then its past games. With that being said the only real problem 
 that Corruption spits back at us is that its not quite up to what people are expecting in Next-Gen 
 Graphics and seeing that these are only a tiny step up form the Xboxs capabilities; People 
 tend to crap on it like they had there ass locked up for several years. But since Im not one to 
 care for graphics to a point other then they have a nice art style, so I say shag them and not 
 care for once.
  
  Now as we all know the programmers and artist down at Retro are some of the best artist I have 
 seen when it comes to gaming. Which is a hard thing to do with the gaming industry since a large 
 majority of game developers have amazing artists. But retro seem to have a thing when it comes 
 to the Prime series, they bring so much life into the games that its almost to much. Self Control 
 Man! Now that I have explained the graphical beauty of Corruption lets move on to the most important 
 part of a game... the gameplay. I find this part to me the most important mostly because, will 
 its the reason the games are fun though people seem to forget that... moving on. So as we know from 
 the past Prime games the game play was fairly will done with some intractable object and items 
 that helped you on your way through. But when it comes to Corruption it kicks their ass all up 
 and down the street. The gameplay in this game has improved significantly from the past games and 
 introduces us to new things we havent really done in many games. Such as ripping of shields with 
 the Nunchuk or using levers to operate machinery. But the most impressive thing would be the function 
 of the ship and how it plays apart of the game helping you with different assignments. Zapem Will 
 with the gameplay explained; its best we talk about the controls since whats gameplay without 
 it. As well all have figured out the Wiis controls for FPS has been pretty bad with the release 
 of half ass shooters such as Red Steel, Farcry and Call of Duty 3 there hasnt been much 
 to praise for the Wii. But is there finally an end for this disappointment? Has there actually 
 been a good game setup for FPSs? Will Corruption be this game? Will the answer in my review 
 and many others is yes. Yes there, as finally been a game that has controls that show the Wiis 
 true potential for this genre. The aiming with the Wiimote is slick and superb along with many 
 of the other controls such as the grapple beam that works almost perfectly and the controls for 
 turning levers. The only thing I can say is that the grappling and turning could of used a bit 
 more tuning cause it sometimes isnt as smooth as it can be. The lock on ability its still in Corruption 
 like in the past games but this time its been improved. You now have the ability to lock on to 
 one enemy and dodge incoming attacks but this time you can attack other people while doing this. 
 This making it easier to kill multiple enemies but can take a while to get use to due to the Wiimote. 
 Hows she talk in? As we all know there are now voiceovers in this game (not including Samus) 
 giving the game a completely different way of playing. With added in voices for the troopers and 
 other main characters, it allows us to pay attention to the action instead of having to read long 
 messages and missing them. This is also a first for a main Nintendo game to have voiceovers. Since 
 they have always been done with text; so to see this done gives me great relief towards the people 
 that keep complaining about reading like its against the law (personally I never was bothered with 
 reading since it would be hard to picture some of there games with voiceovers.) The Major Decision. 
 Overall Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is an incredible game that was worth the delay to play. Even 
 though there a few minor problems I had with it; it still holds up to a amazing sequel and end 
 to this wonderful trilogy by Retro and Nintendo and I hope we see another attempt towards a 
 3D Metroid game again in the near future. This being said I make this a solid BUY for anyone 
 with a Wii or is looking for something to play due to the lack of games this summer.
  
  Written by: ddman009.
  Date: September 10, 2007.
  
  &reg; freewebs. com/H3ad5h0t and to ddman009. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwArM15
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  so i've been waiting for the wii to come out with one decent game, that was not re-made for the 
 controls or any of that crap... and MP3 was finally that game... the graphics are a step above 
 GC.... not too noticable unless you really think about it, as in look at all the textures and improved 
 lighting and environments... i did run across some laging, but only once when there where more 
 than one enemy's on screen... other than that the frame rate is great... the gameplay is solid, 
 and there is back tracking involved, but hey, it's metroid prime... what do you expect... the game 
 is not short in my opinion... it's not long either, but it's just right... it seems like it's the 
 first actual game for the wii, that's not some mini game... the controls are great... aiming is 
 a breeze and selecting visors is a piece of cake... the sound is great, hearing little pieces of 
 metal *cling* against the floor after you've blasted up something makes you a little bit more satisfied 
 after blowing it up... if you have a wii, and you've been waiting for a good game, pick this up... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of Metroid Prime for the Gamecube and never got around to playing the follow-up. 
 Seeing that the end of the trilogy was going to be released on the Wii I was excited to check this 
 one out and it was well worth the wait.
  
  The first thing different about this third entry is that it now uses a free-aim system with the 
 Wii-remote. You also use the remote to help steer Samus through the environments. This control 
 scheme works almost flawlessly. It is much more natural than analog sticks and is much easier to 
 aim. That's not all though. Developers have incorporated motion controls to make you interact with 
 the environment. Rather than just pressing the 'A' button to activate things all the time, sometimes 
 you'll have to use the remote to pull out a lever, rotate it, then push it back in. This keeps 
 the puzzles fresh and more natural. One other great control feature is the grapple. To use your 
 grapple beam, you now throw the nunchuck towards the screen. If you want to yank an enemy towards 
 you, you simply pull back the nunchuck towards you. This really immerses you into the gameplay 
 and works very well.
  
  The graphics look much better than the previous versions of the game. The lighting is better, the 
 textures are better, and the environments look even better. The sound is just as good as always, 
 which along with the graphics, create a very atmospheric game.
  
  In Corruption, you also get to control your ship and use it at points. This keeps you from back-tracking 
 as much as in previous titles, but still doesn't mean you won't be revisiting areas. This does 
 make traveling from one part of the map to another a lot easier. My only real complaint with Metroid 
 Corruption is that the game is a bit too easy. I played on Normal and overall, it isn't terribly 
 difficult. I wish I had started off on the Hard mode. The boss fights are the only areas that I 
 ever take heavy damage. Other than the slightly too easy difficulty, Metroid Prime 3: Corruption 
 should not be missed by anyone owning a Wii. This is one of those games where if you don't have 
 a Wii but have been considering getting one, now is the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelfly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is first Wii game that shows how a Wii game should be made. The controls handle 
 extremely well. Aiming is precise and easy. Other controls elements are gestures for things like 
 removing energy cells and throwing your grappling hook. The controls are perfect except for the 
 turning. While the turning is better than other Wii FPS games it's still not great even when on 
 advanced sensitivity. The graphics are easily the best of any Wii game out now. I don't expect 
 to see a better looking game until Mario Galaxy hits in November. Retro really put effort into 
 polishing this game. The different planets are beautiful and detailed. The atmosphere as with any 
 Metroid game is great. Another thing that makes this game stand out is the music. The game has 
 an incredible selection tracks and some will have you listening for hours. Overall it's a fantastic 
 game that every Wii owner should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendarzFan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is an amazing game worthy of a 9.5 or 10. It combines some extremely fun platforming, 
 puzzles, and amazingly fun first person shooting action. But possibly one of the most amazing aspects 
 of the game, are the extremely well designed levels, and graphics that will just blow you away. 
 These levels make use of all the items in your inventory, if it's your grappling hook, or your 
 ability to change into morph ball mode, it's just perfect. And the last things I'll comment on 
 are the boss fights and the storyline, they're just amazing both of them. The boss fights combine 
 strategy, skill, and just shooting wildly, while the bosses form all sorts of nasty tricks attempting 
 to dispatch you. And the storyline... It's just amazing as well. The only not-so-great thing I'll 
 comment on is that you may get stuck for a little, or long while at some points. Other than that, 
 Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is an amazing game and a must have for any fan of first person shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pachinko
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Metroid prime 3 is what happens when you get millions of dollars and 6 years to craft 3 games and 
 the first 2 are kind of failed experiments. You learn from all the mistakes made in the past and 
 manage to craft a very good game mixing the best elements of the previous 2 and tossing out the 
 bad. It also helps , in prime 3's case, that the game is on the wii. You can experience the most 
 user friendly controls on any console based FPS, simply point the wiimote and shoot at whatever 
 it is you want to kill , no more dual analog controls for all those that still have trouble with 
 the likes of halo. Also, if you want to there are many options available to tweak the controls 
 around to whatever your personal tastes are. Secondly, it improves on one area of the 3d metroid 
 games I've never been to fond of- the level design, by separating the games world into a few completely 
 separate planets , Retro was able to make much tighter levels that don't feel nearly as daunting 
 to explore like the worlds of Tallon 4 and Aethor in metroid prime 1 and 2. For the first time 
 in series history samus also starts the game off with a few abilities so she isn't completely useless 
 right of the bat. You get right into the thick of things very quickly and the game never really 
 lets up. It's also worth mentioning that this time around, like in super metroid, the beam weapons 
 stack on top of each other. Instead of the annoying system of switching between all your separate 
 beams that prime 1 had , your single gun simply gets stronger as the game goes on with no need 
 to switch. No longer do you have to piss around with 4 different colors of pirate in 1 room who 
 are only vulnerable to 1 specific beam. Now it's much more inventive doing things with the nunchuck 
 like grappling enemies armor and shields off. For what it's worth Prime 3 is also the nicest looking 
 game on gamecube, running at a 99% solid 60 frames per second , even on an HDTV you'll get caught 
 up in the game enough that you may forget it's running on a high powered gamecube. I can't gush 
 much more then I have, do yourself a favor, whether you like metroid prime or not go play this, 
 rent it, buy it, whatever, just play it. It's good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frostyshorts
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is a great game, and a good conclusion to samus' fight against phazon. It is better 
 then the other games in series by a lot. It is visually beautiful, and plays, as the box cover 
 of the game says, exactley how a first-person shooter should play. I managed to get through the 
 game in under 17 hours the first time, with a 99% completion at that. i just couldn't find that 
 last energy cell. anyways, i wish that it could have been longer, but i won't complain too much 
 on it, because there wasn't really a minute during all of those 17 hours of gameplay where i was 
 bored. i was on my feet at all times. One thing though, that bothered me, was the lack of online 
 multiplayer. With games like mario strikers, and the upcoming mario kart being online compatible, 
 and especially after metroid hunters being online for the ds, it is a bit of a let down for it 
 not to be featured in this game. Multiplayer aside, i found this game to be groundbreaking for 
 the wii, and would highly reccomend this game to anyone with a wii, and to anyone who ever enjoyed 
 a metroid game. Great grahics, monster bosses, and a really good story to go along with it makes 
 this game a must own title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salans07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is a grand ending to a grand trilogy. This game has it all, its tons of fun to 
 play the graphics and sound are wonderful and the gameplay is smooth and easy to pick up.
  
  First off the controls. The controls for MP3 are absolutely wonderful and add a whole new dimension 
 of fun and gameplay to the series. Its very easy to pick up the Wii remote and nunchuk and start 
 saving the galaxy within minutes. Everything from moving to switching visors to weapons is very 
 easy to learn and easy to use.
  
  The graphics for MP3 prove that the Wii can make a beautiful looking game. The backgrounds on MP3 
 really immerse the gamer into the world of Metroid, vibrant colors, dark shadows and just plain 
 beautiful environments add so much to this game.
  
  Sound wise this game is on top, the ambient sounds also help immerse the game, the voice overs 
 are done to near perfection and the sound effects rock. If you have surround sound this game is 
 for you.
  
  This brings us to the fun factor. WOW this game is just a complete joy to play, along with its 
 smooth controls, great graphics and sound you have a vast array of enemies to blast into oblivion. 
 The boss fights are very fun and most seem to have the right setting of difficulty and fun.
  
  If you have a Wii dont rent this game BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinobisoma
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption (Nintendo Wii)
  Written By: Shinobisoma
  
  Gameplay: When the wii's controller was revealed at TGS a few years ago, Retro Studios was challenged 
 to make Metroid Prime 3 have good controls and change console FPS games controls forever. Did they 
 do that? I have to say yes. The controls get you into the game like you never have before in any 
 FPS. Its controls work perfectly. You may hear some cooments about this game like OMG this is a 
 point and shoot no challenge at all . Wrong play Veteran Mode before Normal. Its more than a point 
 and shoot. You'll be making gestures to solve puzzles and stuff too. Scanning is just as easy as 
 it was on the gamecube primes. Just hold the - button and aim at the visor you wish to use. If 
 you were worried about the controls then put them to rest. Trust me. The controls work. This game 
 will influence the future of console FPS.
  
  Graphics: The grapics look slightly better than the gamecube primes. There is a huge difference 
 in lighting and textures though. It feels just right. I don't think anything else has to be said 
 about the graphics.
  
  Sound: As always, the Metroid series has an impressive soundtrack. It always sets the right mood. 
 I was pretty disappointed that the wiimote's speaker is not used at all in this game though. Oh 
 and incase you did'nt know. Metroid Prime 3 is the first Metroid game to feature full voice acting. 
 The voice acting is great! Its not annoying at all. Difficulty: There are 3 difficulty modes. Normal, 
 Veteran and Hyper. There have been many complaints that Normal mode was to easy. Guess what. I 
 agree with them but they did it for casual gamers. If you are a hardcore gamer and looking for 
 a challenge then start off with Veteran mode and then move on to Hyper. Closing Comments: This 
 is probably the best Metroid game to date and currently the best wii game. If you need a wii game 
 then get this one. Its a worthy addition to anyone's game library.
  Final Score: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sano90
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Kay, so I rented Metroid Prime 3, and Mario Strikers (the soccer one...) yesterday.... well I tried 
 MP3 first, and so far, a day later, havn't even TOUCHED the other game, lol.
  
  Kay, i'll dive immediately into the good and bad listings....
  
  GOOD:
  Voice Acting: This 
 was my top favorite part... yeah that's right ppl, characters have VOICES NOW!! WOO!! The galactic 
 federation troops actually speak, all of them. Most don't even turn to look at you though, but 
 never-the-less, the acting was done very well.
  Interaction: Right away the game introduces a unique concept in the game... something only possible 
 with the Wii. You have to turn the thrusters on, and call up on a radio and press buttons, the 
 interesting part? To turn open thruster activation, you push a button by moving your hand to it 
 with the wiimote, and then push it towards the screen like you were actually increasing the thrusters! 
 GASP! I'm sorry but I was really excited about all the little interactive bits...
  New Hunters: These guys might have been introduce in MP: Hunters for DS... if so then i just missed 
 a beat here (don't have a DS &gt; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterPat
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is just... well.... fun. Its hard so if you are one of those players who can't get over 
 that its hard.. you will have a hard time beating the game. Samus is a bad@$$ in this game. The story 
 is pretty much the same but with voice acting and more stuff like the controls that are pretty 
 easy. You don't stay at one planet this time thou. This game has great effects that are just like 
 the PS3. The Hyper mode makes the game a little bit easy too. This is the best first-person shooter 
 for the Wii. If you have a Wii this is a must-have for the Wii. GET IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ako389
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  This game truly shows what the Wii can do, not only from a graphic standpoint, but also from a 
 control standpoint. This game has tight controls, good sound, and spectacular graphics. Samus Aran 
 is back as a bounty hunter with some awesome tools. The upgrades you can acquire throughout the 
 game really pump up the puzzle-solving aspect, The puzzles while not on a Zelda level will stay 
 make you think. The combat system is wonderful. Although you spend alot of time solving environmental 
 puzzles, a large part of the game is also spent shooting down the pirates. The enemies are challenging, 
 and make for some close shaves. The boss fight rock. They are pretty challenging without being 
 impossible. You may die a couple of times, but with the right amount of skill you can do it. All 
 Wii players should own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Son_Jazrin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 1:16 am PT
Review:  Buying this game wouldn't be a horrible idea, but in my opinion it's just not worth the money. 
 I just can't see it having any real replay value. The difficulty, even on hyper mode, is still 
 too easy and the bonus content just wasn't worth my time. I was hoping to at the end of the trilogy, 
 they would have some more hidden things like a new boss (Kraid or Mother Brain would've been nice) 
 or a hidden level (And no, the Valhalla doesn't count) . It's like they just rehashed the previous 
 2 games and this was the end result.
  
  I beat this game at 100 percent completion in just under 19 hours and now I ready to sent it back 
 to gamefly, which I will do in the morning. Worth playing? You're damn right it is! Worth buying? 
 Not at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tharx75
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is definitely a good way to end the Prime sub-series, in terms of a 
 story. The story is in direct continuity with the series, specifically following where Echoes trailed 
 off. There are some changes with Corruption that were met with mixed reactions. Notably, as with 
 other Metroid games, the story unfolded either in the manual or from various scans that were abound 
 in the planet you were exploring. Corruption changes that aspect drastically by having the story 
 unfold as it did in Fusion, with monologues from your superiors (Computers and a GF Admiral) . Through 
 this sense, everything in Corruption is objective based and eliminates some aspect of figuring 
 out what you're supposed to do, via exploration. This change is a hamper on the experience because 
 it eliminates some of the mystery and solidarity that are supposed to be present in this series. 
 A change to schematics that was quite welcome, was the fact that this Metroid takes place over 
 4 different planets and 2 large ships, adding a more grand sense of things.
  
  Retro Studios did a nice job on the graphics. They look as they have from previous primes, but 
 because it was on the Wii, they had the power to up the detail on lighting and textures. The controls 
 work very well. Aiming the arm cannon and certain puzzle related actions are done with the wii 
 remote. Moving is done on the nunchuck's control stick. It's a pretty standard fare for what a 
 shooter should be like on the Wii.
  
  The game, though, is surprisingly very easy, even on the initial veteran (hard) mode. Retro should 
 have had all three difficulties unlocked from the start, hyper (hardest) mode is unlocked after 
 successful completion of the game. During the course of the game, after completing certain events, 
 you get a token (like a 360's achievement) and these tokens can be exchanged for bonuses on the 
 title screen, such things like concept art, silly mods to your gunship, etc. There are four different 
 types of tokens that can be obtained: red (scanning creatures) , blue (scanning lore) , gold (beating 
 bosses and certain other enemies) , and green (exchanging friend vouchers over ze interwebs) . Trying 
 to get all the bonuses and playing through the hyper mode is some incentive to play through the 
 game again, so replay value gets a boost there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Where can I begin? This game is a lot of fun. Having played the entire Metroid series I was really 
 looking forward to the next major installment. The second Metroid Prime left a bad taste in my 
 mouth that I hoped the third could rectify with its new locals to explore and the new control scheme.
 
  
  But sadly, that's where most of my problems with the game lie. First of all let me say that, in 
 theory, Metroid Prime 3 has one of the best FPS control schemes I've seen on a console. In practice 
 though, it didn't really live up to its potential. All that being said, I haven't played RE4 on 
 the Wii yet, and I hear it has a wonderful control system too.
  
  First of all let me say that yes, I was playing on the Advanced setting. My problems with the controls 
 are not a huge general problem more like several small localized issues. Mostly the lock-on system. 
 Initially locking onto a target can be pretty tough. Many of the enemies are fast movers, which 
 normally wouldn't be a problem, except that in Metroid Prime 3 you have to be pointing your targeting 
 reticle directly at them in order to lock on. A little bit of extra leeway would have been nice, 
 especially since many enemies in the game are very small. The extra lock-on 'dead zone' would have 
 made combat that much more fun.
  
  Once you've locked on though, don't think you've beaten the system. In nearly every combat situation 
 in the game I've lost my lock on a target several times before killing it. Usually, for no reason, 
 although it seems that you're distance from the target can be an issue. Plus if they manage to 
 get off screen (remember, they're quick) you'll lose your target as well. Then you're back to square 
 one.
  
  Added to that you have the fact that, at least on the first planet, easily half of the local fauna 
 is adept at teleporting Nightcrawler style. So, you have your target, you're locked on and firing, 
 and poof they disappear, and so does your lock.
  
  One reason this bothers me is because it's sometimes hard to tell if you're locked onto an enemy 
 or just in 'strafe' mode. Many times the enemy is still right in front of me, but for some reason, 
 my lock is gone. Suddenly, my ability to dodge is compromised and I usually take damage. You can 
 only dash left or right when locked onto a target. And even then, the dash doesn't feel fast enough 
 or go far enough.
  
  One last thing on the controls. There is pretty extensive use of the motion sensing capabilities 
 of the Wii-mote and nunchuck. Not only for aiming, but for interacting with the environment. I've 
 had very few problems using these features, just the occasional lack of response (which seems to 
 plague every Wii game to some extent) . My only real issue is that Samus finally has the ability 
 to jump while in morph ball mode. Unfortunately this action is not activated with the jump button, 
 but by pulling up on the Wii-mote.
  
  Now, enough with the negative. The game is a blast and it's a worthy addition to the series. Even 
 if the combat leaves something to be desired, the game whole-heartedly taps into the exploration 
 aspect of the series. I quickly found myself looking for holes to roll through, things to scan, 
 and rocks to blow up, all in my need to get just 5 more missiles. 
  
  The all-new VA is handled extremely well. Each character is uniquely voiced and well acted. The 
 best part is that our favorite heroine remains silent which helps to keep quite a bit of her mystique. 
 The musical score is in line with other games in the Prime series. It adds a great mood to the 
 excellent landscapes you'll be fighting and thinking your way through.
  
  Speaking of the landscapes and other locations, they are spot on. If there is one thing about the 
 series that Retro nailed, it's the atmosphere that their amazing landscapes give off. You feel 
 like you've really landed on a far away planet brimming with abundant life and history.
  
  All-in-all the game is very fun. The combat could have used a little more tweaking but it was certainly 
 an excellent first attempt. If nothing else, hopefully other developers will pick up on the ideas 
 here and expand on them even more for some future first-person games on the Wii. If you've enjoyed 
 previous Metroid games, especially the Metroid Prime mini-series, or you just like atmospheric 
 adventure games full of interesting areas and lore, do give this one a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheikrulez
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Awesome Game!
  
  Man, i know its a great game, and I'm gonna get part 2, i beat part 1 and part 3, but I'm gonna 
 go to gamestop Sunday and get prime 2. But it is hard at times when your trying to solve puzzles, 
 but hey, it is puzzles! Halo 3 will be better than Prime 3. Simply cuz, It has online multiplayer, 
 and its graphics are awesome, and one more thing, its not frusterating at times, its always fun, 
 and challenging. Reason why im actually reviewing this game is cuz so it wont have a 8.5 score, 
 i want to get it at least a 9.8, or more to beat prime 1, hey i could understand prime 2 not being 
 as good as prime 1, but prime 3 not being as good as 2 or 1? What the hell!? And i didnt even buy 
 or rent prime 3 yet, lol. or borrow. i didnt even play it yet. saw my bro play the game at gamestop, 
 that just makes me want to play it even more. but my legs were getting tired standing up watching 
 him play it, for bout 1 hour, and he probably got only bout 1% cuz he found a missile expansion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burn1n6t00th
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This is the FPS game people of Wii have been waiting for. Nintendo's Halo it is called for a good 
 reason too. The story is Samus Aran a bounty hunter is called by the Galactic Federation with 3 
 other hunters to put an end to the spread of the harmful phazon. The game is designed so you point 
 and shoot you also have the Free aiming/Lock feature where you can lock onto a target and shoot 
 everything around it. The moving is easy with A to shoot and B to jump you also have the option 
 to switch that around. This game is also equipped with High Res so you can imagine that. The game 
 is also non-linear with a whole bunch of quests and side quest from keeping GF troopers alive to 
 wiping out all enemies in an area. Also every boss has a different way of beating so youll have 
 fun trying to figure out how to kill each one. At the same time nothing is too hard to a frustrating 
 level which will wanna make people quit the game. Dark Samus is back and eviller than ever. And 
 you Samus are being Corrupted by phazon the worst part is ... you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Corruption is easily one of the most engrossing games I have ever played. Just from the presentation, 
 one can notice the small details that speak about the game - from the reflection on Samus' visor 
 to the controls in the gunship, all of it just feels almost... perfect.
  
  The graphics are extraordinary, and better yet, there's still incredible movement. Not once did 
 the game stall because of a frame rate issue - twenty enemies can appear, and the game moves just 
 as fast.
  
  The 'fastness' in the game is a departure from some other shooters - it feels almost frantic as 
 you play, objectives being uploaded to you while you do your best to get through a puzzle in a 
 room, while firing at enemies - all of it is simply marvelous.
  
  The entire game is voice-acted - and it's good quality too. Retro definitely didn't throw this 
 one together just as a cash-in on the franchise - this is one of the best games out there.
  
  But, there's one place, on top of all this, that Corruption shines - the controls. Simply turn 
 your hand a bit to the right, and your gun turns. Move up, and then you look up. Hold your hand 
 to the right, and you simply turn to the right. Move with a cursor in one hand, and aim with the 
 other - it's so simple, that controls are never an issue in the game - they're perfect.
  
  Corruption is, by far, one of the best shooters I have ever played. It's ease of control, its amazing 
 graphics, and even its storyline are all things which add up to an incredible game.
  
  This sets the standard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Hunter
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Never has a game taken advantage of the wii like Metroid Prime 3 it is so far the best experience 
 on the console and a definite must have for all wii owners; it not only surpasses everything Zelda 
 the Twilight Princess did with the control scheme but it actually makes you love the way in which 
 the controls come together to make an enjoyable first person shooter adventure.
  
  Plenty of annoying things were taken out of the game, for instance the controller no longer makes 
 those annoying screeching sounds and your movements don't feel limited like they did on Zelda the 
 Twilight Princess where you could only engage in strict movements. It also refreshes the FPS syndrome 
 the wii had carried while playing red steel and Medal of Honor where everything felt like it was 
 still in development, movements were rusty and stressful and felt like they were missing something.
 
  
  The only thing that metroid does not deliver is multiplayer capabilities, which disappointed many 
 Metroid Prime Hunter fans who were ready to feast on the believed to be greatest online multiplayer 
 created on the wii. Apart from that only a few tweaks such as weird movements involving you to 
 push and pull stuff in the game needed to be fixed.
  
  Concerning difficulty which was off putting to the person who reviewed it at Gamespot well there 
 is only one word VETERAN yup they could have played the game in veteran mode to have a bit of a 
 challenge but who cares since they obviously have an orientation towards x-box 360.
  
  When you sum up everything that Metroid Prime 3 offers you have a positive outcome which is enjoyable 
 and true to the Metroid series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime represented a huge change on the famous Metroid franchise, before the first installment 
 of this series players werent able to control Samus in a new game for nearly 10 years, but fortunately 
 for us Nintendo decided to give it a shot and trusted the development of the new game to a texan 
 company that up to that date was not known by many people and the result was as surprising as it 
 could possibly be.
  
  With Metroid Prime the franchise gained new life, after 3 side-scrolling adventures there werent 
 many fans that were willing to bet that one of the most successful franchises of the 2-D era would 
 end up as a First Person Shooter and Adventure game, but the most astonishing fact about this new 
 series was that, despite the major changes, you could clearly tell that you were playing a Metroid 
 game.
  
  Although the scenario and perspective had changed, the rest of the Metroid feeling remained untouched 
 and as new and old fans got used to the new control scheme, every single magazine and site gave 
 Metroid Prime high scores and the prize for best game of the year.
  
  Nintendo later attempted a sequel, given the success of the first game, Echoes had everything that 
 Prime presented 2 years before, with some minor changes such as a Dark and Light World to be explored, 
 a couple of new items and more backtracking than ever sen before, but still Echoes didnt get such 
 a positive feedback probably because it lacked the huge impact of its predecessor, but it easily 
 makes the list of the best games ever.
  
  As for Corruption, the guys at Retro Studios took everything that was perfect in Prime 1, everything 
 that was improved for Echoes, and got rid of the few flaws in the formula while adding some characteristics 
 that had never been seen in a Metroid game, the result couldnt be other, a perfect game.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 picks up exactly where Echoes left off, six months after defeating the Ing 
 in planet Aether and restoring peace to the phazon corrupted land, Samus is called by the Federation 
 to investigate a strange virus that was quickly spreading through an important network of powerful 
 computers, the Aurora Units.
  
  Later you will discover that the plot is much deeper and Corruption really feels like the ending 
 of a gargantuan compelling adventure.
  
  When Samus arrive at her destination she finds out that this time she will not be alone, as a group 
 of other three Hunters will help her out. This was a major point of complaints by many fans that 
 have always been used to see Samus take on everybody all by herself, but dont worry despite the 
 assistance you will constantly receive you will still get time all by yourself exploring huge lands. 
 There are some other missions that will make you do different things, things that you have never 
 tried in any Metroid game, but I wont spoil that.
  
  This time around instead of being limited to exploring only one planet divided into four or five 
 huge areas you will get even more, there are different areas to be discovered and the variety of 
 scenarios is really impressive, more on that later.
  
  The atmosphere of the game remains the same from the two prior games, there are a few games that 
 can be so immersive as this adventure, the feeling that you are actually the one behind the visor, 
 fighting and struggling to come out on top in a epic journey is still here.
  
  This immersive experience can be attributed to Retros uncanny ability of building the best controls 
 that could ever be created for a FPS ever, it obviously isnt as good as playing in your PC, but 
 when compared to any other console game, Metroid Prime 3 is by far the best game when it comes 
 to gameplay, it makes the dual analog stick scheme look stupid.
  
  Before starting the game you can choose between the three different set-ups, but the first two 
 dont matter at all as you have to pick the advanced option, with this kind of controls you can 
 turn around quickly enough to blast any enemies that are behind you. When using the advanced set-up 
 you can also get rid of the lock system, the game will still point your gun to the closest enemy 
 but you will have to aim carefully so you dont miss too many shots. Differently from the previous 
 games, this time you control Samus movements with the analog stick, while aiming with the Wiimote 
 this brings a drastic change because in the other games it was hard to check for enemies hiding 
 after corners, but this time you will have no problems. You will also notice that winning battles 
 is not a matter of mashing the button as fast as possible, this time you will need to have precision 
 when aiming and move carefully. This makes the battles much more exciting than they already were. 
 And lets not forget the amazing epic boss battles, that present a different challenge and make 
 use of all your acquired abilities.
  
  The graphics are simply outstanding, there isnt a single game for the Wii right now that can be 
 compared to this one. The art work is perfect, you will be amazed of how many details Retro was 
 able to create, the different alien civilizations you will meet during your adventure will have 
 different types of architecture, culture and it can all be noticed by just looking around the different 
 scenarios which by the way come in a huge variety as Fire, Ice, Temples, Forests, everything half 
 biologic, half technological.
  
  The characters models are flawless, Samus looks really coll either in the suit or out of it, the 
 human Federation characters look real, and the cutscenes look like that kind of thing you would 
 only see in a Star Wars movie.
  
  The sound effects have been done perfectly, the songs fit the environments and get you even more 
 focused on whats happening on the screen. Another inedit characteristic is voice acting which 
 is also done very well as all voices match the characters and their mouth movements. Differently 
 from the previous games in Corruption there arent so many remixed tracks from past Metroid games, 
 this time new songs were created while some classic ones have been remixed, but the amount of the 
 latter has decreased a lot.
  
  The replay factor skyrockets due to some new additions. You will still have all those pick-ups 
 to get, there are a total of 100 in the game, and according to the quantity of items you find you 
 will get a special ending. There are also enemies and Lore to be scanned that are really necessary 
 to understand the whole story of the series, so if you miss some of them you will always feel compelled 
 to go back and explore some more.
  
  The regular mission is easier than the one of the previous games, but thats why the harder modes 
 exist and you can try two of them once you are done with the game. During your adventure you will 
 also gain some awards by doing some sidemissions, those awards will allow you, later, to buy 
 some nice extras such as art galleries, that are really cool, songs, and many other things that 
 can be sent to your friends via Wi-Fi.
  
  To sum it up, Metroid Prime 3 delivers everything you would expect in the last mission of such 
 an awesome series. The game brings all that feeling that this huge mission is finally coming to 
 an end, but that Samus will still be coming back because as we know those pirates keep planning 
 new schemes.
  
  Corruption improves every good aspect that has ever appeared on any Metrid game and it presents 
 the necessary changes that franchises need to continue alive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FLEEBS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime is back and is better than ever on Wii. When I first laid my hands on Prime 3, the 
 first thing I noticed was the excellent controls. Retro Studios has done and excellent job with 
 the motion sensitive technology for this game. The controls are so fluid and smooth. No other developer 
 to date has done a better job with FPS controls on Wii. This will be the standard for FPS control 
 on Wii for years to come.
  
  Graphically Corruption looks great. I was very impressed with the atmosphere that has been built 
 among all the sections of this game. Everything looks sharper and more defined and the art style 
 is top notch. Definitely an improvement over Metroid Prime 2: Echoes. The design of the levels 
 really takes the cake in this game. Out of all the Prime games I had the most fun exploring and 
 looking for expansions in Corruption. It blows my mind how they put all of this together and linked 
 the worlds together to make it happen. There is much less backtracking in this game and that is 
 very welcome. What a joy is was to get another suit upgrade and be able to explore the farther 
 reaches of worlds you did not previously have access to. Boss battles are top notch also. I thoroughly 
 enjoyed defeating each one and sometimes had to put down the controller to think how to defeat 
 a particular boss. No Prime has made me enjoy the boss fights more. The climax of the game is well 
 done with epic boss fights. The story is implemented well and has a very serious feel to it. I 
 actually liked this story better than the previous two games, which I have no complaints about. 
 The voice acting adds to the game and draws you into the story more even though sometimes it isn't 
 AAA acting. It fits and doesn't detract from the game. I wish more games would implement voice 
 acting if done well. All that aside, I have a few small complaints. First, the door loading in 
 this game really annoyed me. The previous two games had issue with this but in Prime 3 I waited 
 at a door longer than the other two. It is just annoying to me that in a game this day and age 
 we still have to put up with this stuff. Second, the music in this game is good, but sometimes 
 there would be a really good song and then one that is just so-so. It just didn't seem as consistently 
 cool as the music in the other games. Some of it I think borderlines on cheese. But some if it 
 is excellent, too. Lastly, my hands ached while playing this game, my right hand more than my left. 
 I love the immersion and the control that the Wii has to offer, but it kind of stinks that I have 
 this issue. I had to stop playing Metroid Prime Hunters because my left thumb ached so bad, but 
 thankfully I did not have to do that with Prime 3. I'm not that old either and I can't be the only 
 one with this issue. Regardless, the controls are smooth.
  
  This game is awesome and the best in the series. I think it is the best game on Wii and I look 
 forward to playing it multiple times.
  
  P. S. I had this review all spaced correctly, but it won't post right which really annoys me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedimasterss
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  the controls are easy to get use to and gives you the experience of being in the game. for what 
 Metroid did for a story line was a good one it makes it a unquie for one of the series. The game 
 play maybe liner base and easy to go through. You can't get lost in this one as i have found, like 
 you could in the last two Metroids. The lighting and shading are top notch as well the voice acting 
 which was makes you want to be the other hunters. I give thumbs up to nintendo and retro studios 
 for this game. Best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcalkenobi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime was and still is one of the best games ever made. It was at the time the most atmospheric 
 game ever made and to this day is still one of the most atmospheric games ever. At the time it 
 was fresh, innovative and immersive. 2 games and 1 console later we are on Metroid Prime 3 Corruption 
 on the Wii. To start out the game feels much different than the previous 2 right off the bat. When 
 you start, you start on a very linear, Haloish area. I was a little worried at first, were many 
 others, that the whole game would be like this. I can assure you, this isn't the case. The first 
 2 levels are very linear because Retro thought it would be a great way for noobs and veterans to 
 adjust to the controls. It works effectively, you quickly adjust to the controls because you are 
 in the heat of battle, which forces you to adjust. I found that it didn't take long to adjust at 
 all. After the first 20-30 min, I felt comfortable. The controls are just about as good as it gets, 
 it is by far better than duel analog can even dream of being. Then it also rival the mouse and 
 keyboard (which would actually be better if it weren't for slow turning times) . It beats the DS 
 hands down, so as far as I can see, it it one of the best if not the best way to control a FPS/FPA 
 ever. The controls are very precise, move very, very fluently, and really feel natural. Once you 
 get past the first part of the game, everything feels great and it seriously is the best way to 
 play a first person game.
  
  Next in line comes the graphics. This game is the best looking game on Wii. This game is beyond 
 the gamecube. Thats the best way to put it, it may not even be possible on the original Xbox, I 
 don't think it is. There are tons of new effects that are on the Wii that weren't possible last 
 gen. Bloom lighting and superior textures. The game has some really cool lighting effects, and 
 Retro really took advantage of these new effects and use them to the best. There is a great amount 
 to of detail in this game. There is an incredible level of detail actually. The game has such detail 
 in the later levels, everything from unique drawings on the walls , to very details enemies. you 
 can see detail all over this game. In certain levels, there is just a point where you walk into 
 a room and just look at all the things in it. This is one of the most polished games I've ever 
 played. The art style is another thing. The environments are absolutely beautiful and breathtaking. 
 There are just tons of artistic designs for enemies, backgrounds, and environments. There is such 
 a wide variety of art in this game its unbelievable. This game had some bad press as far as early 
 videos and most screenshots. I can assure you that these are very inaccurate of how the final product 
 looks. It really is. Lastly is the story. The story is much more interesting, or at least cinematic. 
 Its got a main story that is shown through cutscenes. On the other hand you have all of the scanning 
 returning and that tells you all the background and details through lore. IT really is interesting. 
 Most of the characters are pretty well developed, but believe me, you will be alone for the majority 
 of the time, but in the time where you aren't the characters feel real. The story ends on a bit 
 of a weird fashion, but other than that its pretty good story. The voice acting really adds to 
 the game. Its not the best voice acting ever, but it is pretty descent. Lastly, I have to say that 
 one of the highlights of the game was the boss battles. There are a ton of them, each one with 
 its own unique feel. You have a very wide variety of bosses in the game. None of them are really 
 easy either. Most of them were fairly difficult and i actually died multiple times on a couple, 
 so believe me they aren't easily beaten. For most of the game each one is better designed than 
 the last. Seriously, some of the bosses in this game are truly some of the best bosses I've ever 
 played against.
  
  This game is probably the best Wii game and if not it definitely uses the wii best and show the 
 potential of the wii with controls and graphics. This is by far on the best experiences I've had 
 with my wii yet, and any hardcore game no matter what platform they have should get a Wii and play 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00Joseph00
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  If Metroid Prime came out in 2002 with this much polish, it would have been nearly a perfect game 
 at the time.
  
  But our expectations only grow over the years; Metroid Prime executed all the arenas of awesome 
 playability that could possibly fit into a adventure-styled first-person shooter. Even though Metroid 
 Prime 3 does not do a whole ton of improvement on the classic style, it happens to be the best 
 one in the series, with a special thanks to the Wii's motion-sensing capabilities.
  
  MP3: Corruption brings the old action-adventure style back with the same amount of exciting exploration 
 and puzzle-solving. If I didn't know any better, I would say that Metroid Prime is the long lost 
 brother [who returned from a huge space trip] to The Legend of Zelda series.
  
  I say that because both have a very fun and pleasingly challenging fighting scheme; not having 
 to wrestle around with actually focusing on your enemy when it should be realistically possible, 
 but you center in on your enemy and have easy access to see all the action, depending upon action 
 and reaction instead of button mashing and trying to just aim onto the enemy.
  
  Of course, the rather fluid Wii controls make it somewhat possible to not have to lock on to enemies, 
 but sometimes it is still necessary, and very fun to execute.
  
  You'll be involved for plenty long if you're new to the series, but if you have played through 
 the past two, you should most definitely play through it on Veteran, since Normal would be on par 
 with the last games' difficulty, not challenging the old vets. Plus, after beating Veteran, you 
 have an even harder difficulty to look forward to.
  
  So playing Metroid Prime 3 on veteran if you really are one actually equates very accurately to 
 playing Metroid Prime 1 for the first time. If you enjoyed the challenge, don't overestimate the 
 Veteran mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vader2k3
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I tried Metroid first on Gameboy Advanced and didn't mind it then tried Metroid Prime on Gamecube 
 and was impressed. I thought, what a great game. I tried Metroid Prime 3: Corruption at a store 
 and was fascinated I then recently bought a Wii and Metroid and I am loving every minute of it. 
 Everything from the strategy, to the gadgets and weapons. The people who made Metroid took their 
 time and did an excellent job with this. I hope who ever else buys a Wii will own Metroid Prime 
 3, you will not be dissapointed. Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is an excellent game that should be 
 owned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joespimpin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Great Art Direction, Enjoyable Control Scheme, Voice Acting, Many Places to Explore, 
 Enjoyable Boss Fights, Different Difficulty Levels
  
  THE BAD: Not Much Graphical Leap Above Gamecube Predecessors, Some Detection Loss With Wiimote, 
 Turning Can Be a Problem, Too Much Scanning, Not Enough Voice Acting
  
  FOR PARENTS: This game is rated T and has mild violence. There is no blood but most of the game 
 is about shooting aliens and other lifeforms. Suitable for 10 and up.
  
  Nintendo has been telling us since the Wii was announced in 2006 that it isn't about the graphics 
 anymore, its about interaction and how a game feels that makes it stand out. Wii games have come 
 and gone since then with mixed feelings amongst the growing Wii audience. Though many games are 
 fun with the Wiimote and Nunchuk, no game had proven that it actually feels better to use this 
 bizarre new control scheme. That was until Metroid Prime 3 Corruption hit store shelfs late August 
 2007.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  If you have ever played a Metroid Prime game before you know what to expect. You will explore large 
 alien environments that are inspired and believable, find upgrades and hidden passages. Foil the 
 plots of space pirates and take on Metroids. None of that has changed in the 3rd and final chapter 
 of the Prime series. Lots of gamers were worried that with Nintendo trying to reach a broader market 
 the game would be dumbed down or made much easier. Rest assured this is a Metroid game, you will 
 get what you got from the previous two games.
  
  Nintendo has made some changes to the title. The most notable feature to those familiar with the 
 series, for the first time ever you don't lose your abilities, you add to them, no more relearning 
 for this game. Your beams stack on each other as well, no need to swap. This makes the game start 
 at a faster pace and keeps the action more intense. One could argue that this is an accessibility 
 decision, but it was a refreshing change, and all but the most hard core Metroid fans will appreciate 
 it.
  
  Aside from what was mentioned above the game features a more linear progression than before. Not 
 as much back tracking is needed to complete the game. So new comers won't be overwhelmed. The good 
 news is veterans of the series will have all the back tracking they want from 5 areas in the game 
 and Nintendo rewards the completionist with 3 different endings which depend on how many pick ups 
 you get during the course of the game. Though you may want to hold off that 100% til the second 
 play through as completing the game one time will allow you access to hyper mode, which is way 
 tougher than the other two modes and more fun.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 features a good mix of environmental puzzles, action sequences as well as a detailed 
 map to ensure you are never lost. The pacing is good for most of the game and although some reviewers 
 have argued of a huge fetch quest towards the end, if you explore and discover out of curiosity, 
 most likely you will have picked up what you need already. Some of the more creative battles are 
 boss fights and there are more of them in this title. You have mini bosses and bosses during the 
 adventure and although you can tell when you will run into them they are all unique creatures in 
 the game that have no smaller counterparts in the game. They have different ways to be beaten and 
 your equipment won't go to waste.
  
  CONTROLS:
  
  That sounds good and all but how does the game control. After games like RedSteel, Medal of Honor 
 and Farcry Having horrible controls schemes for an FPS game, it is easy to be turned off to the 
 Wiimote and Nunchuk. Metroid may have taken almost a year longer in the oven but it was worth it. 
 The controls are spot on with no big annoyances. I recommend advanced mode for any player new or 
 old to the series. It is easy to learn and makes the most sense. You actually aim at your enemies 
 with the Wiimote, even if you lock on besides missiles you still have to aim. This new freedom 
 given to the player makes the game more intense and also makes you feel like you are playing the 
 roll. The nunchuk handles strafing and forward and backwards movement with ease. You no longer 
 need to have the cursor move to the left and right edges of the screen to turn. Simple side to 
 side motions will start your turns. You still can't move as fast as a mouse and keyboard when turning 
 but it is fast enough for most alert players to adapt and anticipate the movement speed when determining 
 how to act. I would tell you more about the setup but I don't want to spoil what the game has to 
 offer. Trust me its worth it.
  
  Enemies also know you are aiming at them now as they like to dodge and teleport in this game. More 
 alert enemies adds to the fun and intensity and gives you satisfaction when they go down. The game 
 also includes some gestured based controls like punching in a code into a terminal or needing to 
 open a door by turning a knob. I have mixed feelings about this as the detection isn't always spot 
 on with it. However it isn't often enough to spoil the experience if its not to your liking.
  
  PRESENTATION:
  
  Metroid Prime 3 is a crowning achievement for a Nintendo title to date. 
 The art direction is steller as no two rooms will look the same making you want to explore more. 
 Although the graphics are only slightly improved over the Gamecube versions of the other two games, 
 there is still lots to see here. Yes its not a HD visual masterpiece, but its not a sloppy presentation 
 either. Few games ever made have this high level of detail and care that went into every corner 
 and wall of this game. Retro Studios really gave it all they have. Prime 3 is also the first game 
 to include voice acting and other characters in the story. Samas can't win this fight on her own 
 this time and the aid you get is just enough without ever really having it get in the way. It is 
 ashame that lore and other scanned items have no voice acting behind them as well as it comes off 
 rather unbalanced. The voice acting isn't great in Metroid 3 but its not annoying either. More 
 voice acting would have been a nice added bonus.
  
  Metroid Prime 1 and 2 were both known for their almost transparent load times. Very few times in 
 those games did you ever have to wait for the game to load a room or area and that was with one 
 large world. That isn't the case with this game. There are many times where you are waiting upwards 
 of 10 seconds for a section of the game to load. You will notice this when you try to open a door 
 and nothing happens for 10 seconds. This hurts the game as it will happen even when going back 
 to a room you just left. If you need to strategically retreat to stay alive don't count on going 
 into a different room as your way out. It won't always give the protection you need. It is an annoyance 
 but it doesn't break the experience. It does happen often enough to be noticed though.
  
  The map in Metroid 3 hasn't changed from the first two games. This is a bad thing. If you look 
 at a complex map section it is easy to mistake different floors of the map as part of where you 
 are. You can zoom in and out as well as rotate almost 360 degrees at your will like a globe but 
 its annoying. Since there are lots of secrets to find and places you have to come back to because 
 you don't have the right item a note feature would have been a nice addition to this game as well.
 
  
  VALUE:
  
  If you are a Metroid fan after reading this review go out and buy it, you won't be disappointed. 
 If you are a new gamer brought in by the Wii Metroid 3 is a great game but has complex themes and 
 controls to deal with. With 3 difficulty levels and 3 control schemes that hold your hand if need 
 be its accessible as it can be without damaging the core of the game. Metroids Controls work well 
 and the game is fun. This is something most gamers are going to happily add to their currently 
 thin Wii collection.
  
  REVIEW:
  
  Metroid Prime 3 plays it safe and risky at the same time. Although the core gameplay is not really 
 changed. The new control scheme is a departure and works surprisingly well. The graphics might 
 not be the best possible on Wii but they are good along with the art direction. The few annoyances 
 the game has shouldn't discourage anyone from picking this title up. The extra time Nintendo took 
 with this title was worth it and the adventure is one most gamers won't soon forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendogene
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic game to end the long trilogy of the Metroid Prime series. Graphics were always great 
 in the Prime games. Storyline is both action-packed and mysterious. The aiming with the Wii-Remote 
 is a great addition and really brings in the feeling of a First-Person-Adventure. The music really 
 matches the mood and environment. I think they could of changed the music for when you aquired 
 something new and the space pirate fight music, but other than that, it was great. The motion uses 
 are great like twisting your Wii-Remote to activate an obect or room. The grapple lasso really 
 works well with motion. Bravo Retro, and continue making more Metroid games for many years to come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiimaster009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Metroid prime three is similar to the two previous games in the series, but with a couple differences 
 that make the game more enjoyable. First, you no longer have to backtrack long ways, because you 
 can now fly your ship to different locations on various worlds. You will still have to go back 
 to where you landed your ship but usually that isn't far. The voice acting in the game adds a lot 
 as well as the amazing detailed clear crisp graphics. Boss battles are as fun as ever but also 
 can be very difficult. The controls superb, along with the great story, sometimes making you feel 
 as if you were watching a movie while you play. It also runs at 60 frames per second, keeping the 
 gameplay really smooth during your 20-40 hour long adventure. The only minor glitch in the game 
 is that some doors can take upwards to 10 seconds to open which can be annoying when you are running 
 away from enemies. Other than that this game is perfect. This game is definitely one of the best 
 on the wii so far, and its a game you need to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonutTrooper
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  To be perfectly honest, I wasn't too hyped for the release. But when I saw a live demo, I couldn't 
 wait. This game is overall the best Prime in the trilogy, and I had an immense amount of fun playing 
 it.
  
  I normally play many games just for plot, but in this game, I had so much fun shooting I barely 
 noticed it. One thing that was odd to start with is that A is the firing button, normally a jump 
 button. While B is jump, reverse of A. But in retrospect, I think that saved me weeks of carpal 
 tunnel.
  
  Shooting is a dream. The accuracy is much more smooth than any other FPS on the wii. Best part 
 is that if the crosshair ever moves off screen, instead of dragging (like in Red Steel, COD 3) , 
 or stopping the whole game (Zelda) , it conviently stops moving, puts up a yellow sign indicating 
 there is no crosshair, and continues the game, allowing you to re-aim the crosshair without stalling 
 the game or being dragged into a point where recovery is target practice for enemies. To be honest, 
 I think the crosshair only moved offscreen 5 times, throughout the entie game. It's that smooth. 
 As opposed to Red Steel, where my crosshair moved offscreen if my arm moved an inch.
  
  The graphics are amazing. I know the graphics are Last Gen hardware, but this game really pushes 
 it. Samus' ship is as beautifully rendered as she is. And her weapons couldn't be shinier.
  
  Unfortunately, the morph ball still feels a little slippery on the control. I know inertia 
 makes sense, but even on the side-scrolling morph ball stuff I had to redo careful moves a few 
 times. But that didn't take away from the core game. I was disappointed with the lack of multiplayer, 
 and would honestly pay a full price for a game that was just Metroid 3 multiplayer, as long as 
 it contained online.
  
  Boss fights are a blast. Loved how creative the boss designs were, as well as the fights that followed. 
 Every weapon was creatively used, and I enjoyed fighting them.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 is a great game, and if you have a Wii, you need to get it. If you don't have a 
 Wii, steal it from that guy you know who got a Wii on release and lords it over everyone else you 
 know. Yeah, take it from him, and enjoy Metroid Prime 3 for as long as you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3geogo
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Metroid prime 3 has great graphics as well as a pretty good physics engine. The enemies throughout 
 the worlds look great even when you shoot them in the face, and the worlds look like pictures from 
 space. I especially like the parts where if you fire your gun enough, it begins to radiate heat 
 waves from the end and the way you see Samus' eyes when you are in scan mode. This is not the best 
 game I have played, yet if I could, I would give this game a 12 out of 10. The only draw back in 
 this game is the lack of multiplier option, but the single player makes up for it completely. I 
 would definitely recommend this game to anyone even if they hate the wii. It's a game experience 
 no one should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdepaul
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves a 10 in every sense. I've played every Metroid out and I'm always amazed how 
 the developers can keep it fresh. This game makes you want to search every corner for power-ups 
 to build up Samus to the max. Each world is packed with great fights and puzzles. The boss fights 
 are purely awesome. The graphics are amazing and the sound effects are incredible. Personally, 
 I turn the music off so that I listen for the power-up. So, I couldn't even tell you how the music 
 is.... it doesn't even need music anyway. Interaction with the wii remote is too cool. Especially 
 when you're hitting an enemy with the grapling hook to pull it's tentacles off... great battles. 
 For the Metroid fan who hasn't bought this game yet, take a few days off. Lock yourself in a room 
 somewhere and take your phone off the hook. It's games like this that keep me gaming. Great experience. 
 Well done Retro. Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -SephirothX-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  Having played all of the games from the Metroid Prime series, I have to say that MP3 was the most 
 entertaining of bunch. The game play was action-packed, the exploring was fulfilling, and the environment 
 was immersive. There were a few things that should be noted (minor) , that did take away from the 
 gaming experience. The first, and in my opinion the worst, was the DOORS (Im not talking about 
 graphically) . This may seem like an odd comment, but when I decide I want to open one of the doors, 
 it should NOT take up to a minute for the door to open. This problem was generally intermittent, 
 sometimes the doors shoot open immediately, and other times it may take a few seconds. In the worse 
 case scenario, Im taking on a group of enemies and decide to make a quick escape out of the room 
 and BAM! The door is stuck (waiting... waiting... okay! Go!) A little frustrating to say the least. 
 I could be wrong, but I am fairly certain this had nothing to do with hardware. I noticed it in 
 the previous two Prime games, though not nearly as dramatic.
  
  My second comment is in regards to the choice of worlds. Don't get me wrong they were well constructed 
 and fun to explore, but I wish they had a tad more on the environmental side of things. For example, 
 MP3 didn't have any underwater levels this time. This was one thing I really enjoyed in the Metroid 
 series (as far back as Super Metroid) . Anyways, don't let these minor things deter you from playing. 
 This game was amazing, and definitely worth owning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -MlKE-
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is the conclusion to the Prime series that started on the GameCube 
 and is the debut of the Metroid series on the Wii. The story of the game is not the greatest in 
 videogame history but it is still passable, but the games main focus is the beautiful environments 
 youll travel to and explore throughout this fun and adventurous sci-fi first-person shooter.
 
  
  The big new addition to the game is the new PED enhanced suit youll sport which will make your 
 gun very powerful but at the same time drain your health if you use it for too long. This is a 
 nice addition to spice up the combat and does a lot of damage to opponents to make this a meaningful 
 and necessary addition especially for use against the tough boss battles that take place in the 
 game.
  
  Anytime someone first plays a Wii game the first thing they notice is the control scheme. The controls 
 are the make or break factor for most Wii games and Metroid Prime 3 is really the first Wii game 
 that doesnt make you wish you were playing it on a regular Xbox or PlayStation controller. The 
 controls are very tight and precise. Moving around and looking everywhere is very easy, aiming 
 at opponents and hitting specific body parts works very well and it all feels so smooth and natural 
 and will take you no time learning the controls. The grappling hook returns in this game with you 
 pushing the nunchuk forward to hook onto something and quickly pulling it back to pull the hook 
 back. Even something as simple as opening a door is made fun by occasionally having to push the 
 controller towards the screen and moving it either clockwise or counter-clockwise in a very natural 
 way that makes you feel like you are in the game doing it yourself.
  
  The boss battles are an absolute blast as the bosses are very different from one another and there 
 is always something different you need to do to defeat them. These fights are difficult to win 
 and will leave you feeling satisfied when you beat them. Unfortunately these bosses are the only 
 real challenge in the game. The regular enemies are sometimes tough when they face you all together 
 but they dont put up a huge challenge. When in the interior locations the enemies all look the 
 same and they mostly look some big blob shooting at you. In a game with a sci-fi high tech feel 
 like this game gives you, youd expect some better enemies than the ones in this game.
  
  Most die hard Metroid fans consider the series a first-person adventure series (as opposed to first-person 
 shooter) and this game might disappoint those fans a bit. The game still features a lot of exploring 
 and scanning different objects to solve puzzles but there is a lot more combat in the game similar 
 to Metroid Prime: Hunters on the DS. Some of the puzzles in the game are pretty fun to do and dont 
 drag the game down but there are the occasional puzzles that will leave your aggravated and looking 
 online or at a strategy guide to solve them.
  
  Seeing as how the DS Metroid Prime game from a year and a half ago featured it, its upsetting 
 to know that the Wii version of Metroid Prime doesnt feature any online play. While some would 
 argue that Metroid Prime is a single player focused game that wasnt meant to be played online, 
 everyone would agree what a fun game Metroid Prime: Hunters was online and wonder how awesome it 
 would have been to play Metroid Prime 3 online with the awesome Wii controls. Despite these minor 
 shortcomings, one cant deny what a terrific game Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is. The graphics 
 are the first on the Wii to not feel like a game stuck in the past and the controls work incredibly 
 well and easily put to shame any sad attempt at first-person shooter controls from games previously 
 released on the system. The game has rock solid action mixed in with fun puzzles and awesome boss 
 battles to make for a great gaming experience that shouldnt be missed by anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Judah6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  When I first started to play this game I notice the lightning effects was difinitely better then 
 the one's on gamecube the action in the game is top notch There also talking through the game were 
 in other primes 1-2 didn't have. Plus I love the controls in the game retro studios have did a 
 good job with it ,this time you can use the grapple bream to knock out blocked areas in the game 
 there's so many things you can do in the game one of the things that this game does what the other 
 two dosen't is it more active instead of always shooting doors to open them up there a part when 
 you use the remote and you have to push forward and turn to activate the door that's the one feature 
 I loved other then that this game is a must by I repeat a must by and game this score need to go 
 up a bit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayfi33
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  If you own a Wii and dont own this game then you have issues. Not only is it the best game available 
 for the system. It is probably one of the best games so far this year. the controls are exceptional 
 once the adjustment to the Wii mote/nunchuck combo is mastered. During the 18-22 hour single player 
 story the framerate doesnt drop once and the visuals are excellent. you dont need to have played 
 a single Metroid game to enjoy prime 3 and IMO the experience is enhanced if you haven't played 
 any of the prime prequels. The upgrades for cannon/grapple/suit/visor are spaced out appropriately 
 throughout the game and you never feel underwhelmed in battle. Hypermode can definitely reduce 
 the difficulty level and is best reserved for boss fights where it is most useful. Sacrificing 
 an energy tank to enter hypermode can make you think twice but if you have explored the worlds 
 and have 8-10 tanks in reserve then you wont think at all before hitting the plus button to send 
 Phazon rocketing through Samus's veins. There is really nothing to lose by playing this game. you 
 are never really frustrated to the point of turning the game off though there are a few difficult 
 parts to the game. I think gamespot got this one wrong. As a whole, the game is easily a 9.0. put 
 up a gainst a game like the darkness, which also received an 8.5, it trumps it easily. Use your 
 mother brain and pick up this title if you have a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cap_z
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  yes this is the 2nd metriod game i've played the first was fusion and that was the best game boy 
 advance game i ever played. so i thought to cheack out metriod prime 3 and yes this is the first 
 person shooter game that i like i personalily hate first person games i like to see what's behind 
 me and see the character. but this one was okay i only rented so i didn't get far enough. it kinda 
 copyed off zelda a little bit the controls was good and the wii interaction makes it better. plus 
 the hypermode is pretty sharp. what got me was the graphics and the battle with riley LIKE LORD 
 OF THE RINGS TWO TOWERS WITH GANDALF AND THAT MONSTER FALLING SWEET!!!!!.
  EHMM.. anyway it had a good story the aliens on the game was very creative. so yes it was good 
 for a game that idid get far in. I give it a desent score i mean i was okay not super good but 
 okay the first 2 got a better score so yeah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricothehat
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps I went into the game expecting too much, or maybe it really isn't as good a game as it 
 could be. One way or the other, the finale to the Metroid Prime series simply doesn't seem to live 
 up to its legacy.
  
  We'll start with the good and just work our way down; the graphics have a nice gloss, and the art 
 direction is exactly what we've come to expect from Retro. Less backtracking removes some of the 
 tedium found at certain points in earlier games, without making it feel rushed. The story is a 
 decent enough conclusion to the series and the novelty of interaction with other characters makes 
 sense on paper. That said, in practice, these other characters don't truly feel necessary, and 
 while this isn't to the point of feeling tacked on, I also don't feel any particular connection 
 to them. From here, things go a bit downhill. The controls also make sense theoretically; point 
 Wiimote, press buttons, flick your wrist when the game tells you to. Unfortunately, turning and 
 aiming using the Wiimote feels thick, as though Samus were submerged in a large jar of peanut butter. 
 The lock-on feature, previously helpful in earlier iterations of the game doesn't really lock-on 
 as much as it does highlight an enemy, while arm cannon shots still fly in the direction of the 
 reticle. This proves to be a hindrance when surrounded by enemies, and it is often easier to simply 
 free aim. A further frustration involves the length of time some doors take to open after being 
 shot. While some gamers may have no problem waiting five or six seconds for a door to slide apart, 
 it may pull others out of the experience, and is agonizing when everything else is running smoothly.
 
  
  That said, the difficulty in the game lies almost solely in fighting the aiming system, as enemies 
 feel pitifully under-powered. Getting hit with a blast from opponents (when they do actually manage 
 to land a blow) is easily shrugged of, and is detrimental only if you had a shot lined up on an 
 enemy.
  
  Although the graphics are indeed a sight to see, especially running on the Wii, in-game cutscenes 
 just don't look up to par. One in particular, from very early in the game resembled something out 
 of a 50's sci-fi film, with a man off screen holding a fishing pole to support the model flying 
 saucer.
  
  Despite all of this, Metroid still manages to be a fun game, and retains the feel that we've come 
 to expect, which is to its credit. The problem is that it just isn't as fun as it might have been. 
 And again, while this may be due to swollen expectations, when the other two games in the series 
 did the job as well as they did, we can hardly be blamed for expecting something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkman83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  If compared to a game like Bioshock, you will find that Prime 3 is not quite as complete an experience. 
 However, that said: This is what we have been waiting for on the Wii: A full fledged adventure, 
 that fully uses the motion sensing, is fluid, and a lot of fun. The graphics look great, (though 
 I still think the Wii can do more) and the environments are interesting and fun to explore. The 
 story is nothing to write home about, but all in all, this game feels and looks great. To re-iterate, 
 it may not be as complete as Bioshock, (though it is better than the overrated Gears of War which 
 was a cool, and great but not revolutionary game that got off on graphics and gore.) This game 
 has something that nothing else has, not even Bioshock: the next evolution in control and the quality 
 to back it up. It is worth it. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 for the Nintendo Wii
  
  Good- Awesome gameplay, amazing graphics, nice wii controls, nice level set up, balanced boss fights
 
  
  Bad- story lacks depth, area's don't have the same touch passed games did, games a bit to easy
 
  
  Gameplay 10/10- Metrioid Prime 3 works very well with the wii mote and makes it alot more fun and 
 easier then the last metroid games. The game offers lots of gadgets from the grapple beam, to the 
 ice missles, to many others. All the tools work well with the game and offer lots of secrets to 
 unlock. Alot of stuff can be scanned and recorded with logs and adds to the story. Each stage works 
 well with the new stuff you earn and makes the game a solid game for the wii.
  
  Graphics 10/10- Completly solid! The games graphics are as good as they ever been. Its games like 
 this that show the wii is able to show stunning graphics as well.
  
  Sound 9/10- The sound is nothing special but it suits the games purpose well from fights, to exploring. 
 The sound effects are top notch as well. The only downside would of been some more catchy music 
 that could make you want to buy the soundtrack.
  
  Storyline 5/10- The game is solid for a shooter, but with Dark Sumas returning you would expect 
 for info, fights with her, just some dam I don't know PLOT. The games plot is catchy to begin with 
 but dies in with the gameplay being its solid aspect. If you don't care for story then just ignore 
 this, but this is the games only weak point to speak off.
  
  Extra's and Replay Value 9/10- from all the treasures to collect and bonus stuff to unlock it will 
 add up to your gameplay by a few more hours. Actually replaying the game over I can't see many 
 people wanting to but fans.
  
  Overall 87/100 rounded to 9/10 The game is awesome in almost ever aspect except the story, so as 
 long as story is not a huge deal then this is a must get for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AkiWolf
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  The Metroid Prime series is probably one of the best Nintendo series created in the last years, 
 and Corruption is definitely the best close for the Prime saga.
  All the Metroid fans surely will love it. It has probably the best graphics seen so far in a Wii 
 game. The controls feel so natural that in less than half an hour you'll be playing as an expert 
 bounty hunter. There's a huge number of Bosses and some new planets to explore. Great puzzles and 
 even actor spoken dialogues.
  I can find just one lack in this game, and that lack is the difficulty. Compared to the original 
 Prime and Echoes, this game is pretty easy, and that's probably thanks to the great control created 
 for this great game.
  If you wanna try a real Wii gaming experience, Corruption is, definitely, the best Option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirk_anam
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  As soon as you start the game, while you sit in the cockpit of Samus's ship, you get goosebumps. 
 the atmosphere of the game is so incredible. The graphics have obviously improved from the prequels, 
 and has the best graphics so far in the Wii library. The creatures are cool and beautiful, and 
 with a great set of abilities and tricks. your weapons stack now: it add the new ability to the 
 last one, which is better than switching back and forth. your ship is cool, because of all the 
 little things you push, pull, and turn. Speaking of that, the interactions work perfectly. the 
 grapple beam is a blast to use; because when you pull back, her clenched fist does it too, and 
 at the same rate. the only problem I had with the motion sensing was flicking the controller up 
 to have Samus jump in ball mode. the voice acting is great, and Samus looks as beautiful as ever. 
 the boss battles are intense and fun., especially the one with Meta Ridley, when you both are freefalling 
 down a tunnel and shooting at the same time. even though there is no multi-player, its an AWESOME 
 GAMING EXPERIENCE!!! (i wanted to give it a 9.9, but a 10 does perfectly fine.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MATRIXMAN3780
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Story: 10/10 (Minimal Spoilers)
  Samus Aran is back, and she is as badass as ever. Sporting her classic Varia suit, this time, you 
 find yourself landing on a large space colony called the G. F. S Olympus. You find yourself being 
 asked to meet the captain of the Olympus, who assigns you a task of turning on a few generators 
 and activating the cannon on a planet below, with the help of your fellow hunters. Anyway as you 
 grow nearer to the last generator, You encounter a little friend of yours who is as pissed off 
 as ever. Thats right, sir Meta Ridley. After an AMAZING boss fight with this fellow, you and your 
 fellow hunters near closer to the gun panel to activate it. The gun needs to be turned on to destroy 
 something rather dangerous, that you will find out when/if you play. Anyway you and the hunters 
 enter the gun room, to find the the glass in front of you being smashed and an unusually mad Dark 
 Samus blazing through. All of the hunters and yourself engage Dark samus. And lets just say she 
 nukes all of the hunters including samus with some tasty phazon. They all become unconcious and 
 Dark Samus flys away, superman style of course. You have just enough time to pull the lever to 
 activate the weapon, before you fall to the ground unconcious like the others. You awaken with 
 a rather nice PED suit on, and you are being explained what it can do. Basically the phazon attack 
 from Dark Samus made is so now you have phazon runnin' through your veins... Anyway, the PED suit 
 regulates this phazon output, and allows you to enter hyper mode, aka god mode with phazon cannon. 
 The only catch to this is, if you dont use the phazon fast enough, it starts building up rapidly 
 and you must expel it all before you become corrupted (you die) . Gameplay: 10/10
  Excellent gameplay, by far the best controls in any metroid game. I picked up the wiimote and adapted 
 to the controls immedietly, no problem. The actual combat is actually more challenging (which adds 
 replay value) . You start off with the classic scan visor, and eventually gain a ship visor, which 
 can basically allow samus's ship to land in certain spots, or drop bombs over a specified target. 
 The Beams, and missles that you receive are all very amazing, the effects are very awesome from 
 each of them.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The Graphics are probably a little better than MP2, however the effects, lighting and detail is 
 present as ever. You will never look at something and say, wow the developers didnt even bother 
 to shade that in.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  The Music is as awesome as ever, just as original as the other metroid primes, very good intro 
 music. There IS voice acting in this game, and its excellent! (samus still remains without a voice, 
 for the most part =] )
  
  Overall: 9.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow4eva13
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I knew when I fisrt popped this bad boy in that is was gonna be on hell of a ride. Metroid Prime 
 3 took what Prime 2 had and made it better in every way. I can tell you as a diehard fan of the 
 series that this is THE Metroid to own (besides Super Metroid, and the original Prime that is ) . 
 It delivered what it promised and then some. Exploration, may not be as strong, but that was a 
 criticism of the first two. I personally like the more action-oriented gameplay. Not having to 
 switch beams is a god-send and a throwback to Super Metroid. I only can say, What could they possibly 
 do next? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpython99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  As the last of the games in the Prime series Corruption is a great game. For those that have played 
 the others this will be more of the same. Although if you have played the others you are no doubt 
 a fan of the franchise and the familliarity won't be an issue. The game play is fluid with a linear 
 story line that allows you to roam along the way. Being able to see areas that you will need to 
 visit once you have obtained the necessary upgrade provides a kind of motivation to bury yourself 
 deeper into the game. This game works well with the Wii-mote. Nintendo obviously took its time 
 to hone the different motions and uses of the Wii-mote, and this truly adds to the game play. There 
 are some bugs related to this though as the game has a difficult time recognizing the in/out motion 
 of the controller and the casting action on the nunchuck. While these are crucial at all times 
 they become bothersome. And that casting motion is needed portions of the where time is of the 
 essence.
  
  The soundtrack of Corruption is fantastic. Obviously the music changes as situations change within 
 the game. But when little is going on the classically inspired tracks provide a great ambiance 
 to the game. The graphics for the game provide some sharp visuals, and well defined worlds. While 
 not a graphics powerhouse the Wii does an excellent job with this game.
  
  Overall a great game, despite being surprisingly similar to the previous prime games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeahdogg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is NOT as easy as GameSpot keeps saying it is. It's one thing to know 
 what to do. It's another to be able to pull it off. (and often times it takes a while just to figure 
 out how to injure a boss) MP3: C is well worth experiencing for its intuitive 'advanced' control 
 scheme while the environments seem like they could fit in Myst III: Exile . The puzzles are creative 
 and realistic. The exploration aspect is somewhat streamlined due to the fact that the scan visor 
 eliminates almost all time-wasting-roaming. Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is an absolutely joy 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sidious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  It is odd to me that the last part of a trilogy would turn out to be the best place to jump in 
 for newcomers. But Metroid Prime 3 Corruption manages to do both: Satisfy longtime fans with a 
 fitting end to what has been a mostly amazing trilogy, yet be the perfect place for Metroid newcomers 
 to jump in and test the phazon charged waters.
  
  I like to keep my reviews more or less short and to the point. There are better writers out there 
 who have loads more interest in being wordy (in a good way... usually) and giving you lots of details. 
 I just like to give you my take and feel for the game, and let the cards fall where they may.
 
  
  That being said, I could go on and on about the virtues of this game, and the Metroid series in 
 general. If you are a newcomer to the series and feel intimidated by the fact so many Metroid games 
 have come and gone, I recommend visiting www. gametrailers. com and watching their five part Metroid 
 Retrospective. It is interesting and informative without blowing too much info in your ear. But 
 it will give you a feel for what you may have missed. If you are a fan of Metroid, well, prepare 
 yourself for what may be the best game in the series since the beloved Super Metroid on the Super 
 NES.
  
  What is so special about Metroid Prime 3 that would lead me to make such a bold statement? After 
 all, Super Metroid is not only a favorite of the series, but has appeared on countless Greatest 
 Games of All Time lists. Well, there are many factors that lead me to this conclusion, but the 
 biggest element that joins Super Metroid and Metroid Prime 3 together in greatness would be the 
 overall gameplay. When Super Metroid came along, few games before it (one being the original Metroid) 
 offered the kind of melting together of an action game, a platformer, and an adventure/rpg game. 
 Super Metroid offered some of the hottest action you could find in its time, coupled with some 
 of the most clever and challenging platforming (the type of thing Nintendo had built a reputation 
 for in it's flagship Super Mario series) , along with the constantly upgrading abilities of your 
 character, making previously inaccessible areas now open to explore. It was almost like Nintendo 
 created the perfect storm of gameplay types by taking a sci fi setting and themes, but mixing in 
 strong doses of it's Super Mario and The Legend of Zelda series, creating what would be one of 
 the most popular and influential game franchises in the industry. Enter the year 2006, and Nintendo 
 has changed the way we play games in many ways with the introduction of the Nintendo Wii. WIth 
 its unique controller set up and motion sensative gameplay, we saw The Legend of Zelda Twlight 
 Princess come along and show us that they plan to take their beloved franchises and make them fresh 
 all over again by pulling you into the game more than ever thru by using this new control scheme, 
 coupled with excellent game design. Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, along with Super Mario Galaxy, 
 would also be redesigned with the Wii controls in mind, but they would not see light of day until 
 2007.
  
  And here we are. Metroid finally hits stores, and just like they did with The Legend of Zelda, 
 Nintendo has taken a series we already knew and loved and made it even more exciting by pulling 
 us into the game via the controls. You could argue that little is different in this installment 
 in the Metroid Prime trilogy other than the controls. But I say that is making a mole hill out 
 of a mountain. Many games have come and gone on the Wii that have tried to apply the unique controls 
 to the First Person Shooter genre but without or with limited success. Red Steel was an ok game 
 and the controls worked, but the polish just wasn't there. (You could argue this is due to the 
 fact Ubisoft was rushed to get the game out for the launch of the Wii. I personally hope this is 
 true, and that they will take their time with Red Steel 2, as the game had serious potential.) 
 Other games were mere ports of games from other consoles, such as Far Cry, Call of Duty 3 and Medal 
 of Honor, and each managed to get some things right, but failed to put together a complete, compelling 
 FPS on Wii. Enter Metroid Prime Corruption.
  
  It has been said about the Metroid Prime series as it was on the Gamecube, that it was more a First 
 Person Adventure game than a First Person Shooter. This description was in part due to the lack 
 of proper dual analog control in the games. (The first two Metroid Prime games used a lock on system 
 where you held a button to lock on to an enemy, thereby enabling you to strafe them and ensuring 
 most shots hit their mark) . That along with the fact that the combat segment were often spread 
 out between lots of exploration. Those elements worked well for the Gamecube hardware and controller, 
 but kept some of the Halo loving FPS crowd away from the series.
  
  Nintendo, and developer Retro Studios, and gone a long way to change that dynamic in Prime 3 by 
 adding a free aim default control setting. You still have a lock on button, allowing you to circle 
 strafe your enemy (a task that has proven difficult on other Wii FPS due to the lack of a second 
 analog stick) ... but that lock on no longer guarantees you will hit your target. For the first 
 time in the Metroid Prime series, you are now required (if you use the defualt control scheme) 
 to aim. That, coupled with the added frequency of enemy encounters, and you have a Metroid game 
 that feels more like a FPS than ever before! And the controls are a smooth as silk. A marked line 
 on either side of the screen gives you a solid understanding of where the turn point is, (the part 
 of the screen you point to with the Wii Remote to actually turn your character) leaving you free 
 to aim away with mouse like percision at your targets without accidentally turning the screen away. 
 In fact, many have said that this is the closest thing to a mouse and keyboard level of accuracy 
 that a console has ever seen. And it leads to some amazing action.
  
  The enemies are smarter than ever. They will roll, dodge, hide behind cover and even try to flank 
 you while you are dealing with one of their partners. This is especially true of your primary enemy, 
 the Space Pirates. If you like action, but feel the first two Metroid games were to light on that 
 end, you really owe it to yourself to give Prime 3 a try.
  
  And the boss battles, another thing the series has in common with The Legend of Zelda series, are 
 some of the best I've ever seen. Each boss will require you to use your brain as well as your entire 
 arsenal to take them down. That is not to say there is no exploration. There is plenty to be had. 
 But another improvement in this game would be that the system in place leaves you feeling a greater 
 sense of knowing where you need to go next. A problem many have had with the Metroid Prime games 
 (and the reason for many a purchased strategy guide I'm sure) was that you often knew you needed 
 an upgrade or more missles, only you didn't have any clue where to go next to find them. But thanks 
 to an incredible 3-D map display and incoming hints from various characters in the game, you are 
 most often pointed in the right direction this time around.
  
  Lastly, but no least, are the other ways the Wii controls come into play in the game. This isn't 
 just a piont and shoot game. You will be pulling and pushing and twisting and shaking your remote 
 plenty during this adventure. And for the most part, it works just as it should. Environmental 
 interactions are a plenty, be it keypads to punch in a code, or a handle to pump, twist or pull, 
 to a grapple point you swing from- there are loads of things to play around with in this game world, 
 and the design team went a long way to making these interactions feel proper and the experience 
 only helps to emerse you into the game world.
  
  The game isn't the longest game in the world. If you move at a steady pace, you could finish it 
 in around 20 hours. But if you are the type who wants that special ending (there are three endings 
 total) , more time will be spent looking for that last visor scan or the final missle expansion. 
 There is no multiplayer, but really, that is not what this series in known for. Though I must admit, 
 with the controls as sharp as they are, I wouldn't mind seeing a Wii multiplayer Metroid Prime 
 game ala Metroid Prime Hunters on the DS.
  
  There is more to say about this game, but I've already rambled on longer than I like. Just do yourself 
 a favor, and pick up the best game on the Wii since The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess. (Don't 
 make me pick which was the best... I love them both!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kijuki_magazaki
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  A little bit less than five years ago, the intergalactic female bounty hunter, Samus Aran, took 
 her adventures into fully environmental 3D with Metroid Prime, and it was one heck of a good start. 
 It was what would be one of the best adventure games with the FPS element ever. And two years later, 
 the sequel, Metroid Prime: Echoes, made just as much of a hit as the first game. And now almost 
 three years after the second installment, Metroid Prime: Corruption, although with a decrease of 
 difficulty, puts an outstanding finish to the trilogy that has to be one of the greatest series 
 ever. But was it as exciting and wonderful as the last two installments? We each have our own thoughts, 
 and here are mine:
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  This is undoubtedly the strongest asset and addition to the Metroid Prime series. The controls, 
 although take a bit of time to get used to, is an awesome part of the game, and is essential on 
 a few objectives too. The wii remote acts for the most part as Samus' buster and hands, and the 
 nunchuck for the main movement and grapple beam, which is also a cool addition to the control scheme. 
 And every other button on the wii-mote and nunchuck is used (save directional pad) and its functions 
 are placed just right, and feels right. Through out the gameplay you'll find yourself sometimes 
 hitting the A button like mad, trying to shoot enemies at your disposal, and with the easy movement 
 that the wii-mote grants it's easy to get into it.
  
  Another cool addition to the gameplay is the over-powerfull Hypermode. This will make the game 
 a whole lot easier... when you use it, because you are limited. Depending on how much energy (hp 
 ) you have, is how long you will use hypermode. This works alternatively, for every time you use 
 it, you have to put an energy tank (99 hp) into use. Once in hypermode, you can get out using the 
 same button (+) at any time... EXCEPT, when you are getting corrupted. Corruption usually happens 
 on an overload of energy or phazon from an enemy, or severe damage. Once in corruption, a full 
 red bar will appear where your energy is displayed, and you must get rid of it, by releasing the 
 excess phazon by shooting it out of your buster. This will be another instance where you will press 
 the A Button like mad. If you are unsuccessful of disposing of your excess energy, you will indeed 
 be totally corrupted and die. Hypermode brings a lot of ease to the game if used correctly; while 
 some enemies will take countless normal shots to be terminated, it will take about 3 shots in hypermode 
 to do the job. This also works the same in bosses, so you might expect some easiness to come out 
 of it. Gladly however, after your first play, you're able to increase the difficult of the game.
 
  
  In MP3, you now instead of going through different parts of a planet, you get to travel a few planets... 
 and still go through different parts of them! Even though the exploration concept is practically 
 the same, it's definitely cool to get inside your ship and start your ships engine to move onto 
 another area. And each world, has its own environments, although, theres not as much variation 
 as the last two, you'll still find it to be very interesting. These are after all, alien planets... 
 and ships.
  
  A lot of other stuff has not been changed greatly, but rather made easier. Scanning for research 
 is now less stressing, due to the fact that is now only for the gamer's learning experience, and 
 collecting items is now more linear than before, and has become the percentage factor of the game. 
 Armor pick-ups and expansions seem to be adjusted this time however. Some of the pick-ups will 
 override the previous pick-up and be a better version of it, so it will be more of a revamp of 
 the previous item. No new suits; instead as you beat bosses, your internal corruption increases, 
 and your suit changes with it, although there's no change of gameplay because of it, just graphical 
 adjustment.
  
  Visors are not a great deal of change either. To begin with you start with two of them, out of 
 three; the scan visor, and the ship command visor. Needless to say, the scan visor scans stuff, 
 but the ship command visor allows you to set land points across the worlds in MP3. Of course these 
 points are already pre-designed, but it easies a lot going back and forward through rooms. It also 
 allows you to command to shoot missiles! When you get some certain upgrades.
  
  Overall, gameplay is very good and exceptional, despite of how easy the game can get at times. 
 And the control scheme is an awesome achievement in this genre, for other games out there for the 
 wii that are FPS, tend to be gimmicky and weird. But MP3 shines through control preciseness.
  
  Graphics - 9
  We all know (or should know) by now that the Wii isn't graphically wondrous. 
 But there's still shine in this game when it comes to graphics. Although it looks just like the 
 two last games at first glance, you can see some improvements through some models, and also large 
 amount of background imagery that are in 3D. The frame rate is wonderful, and there's no graphical 
 lag at all, nor glitches that were encountered. Load times are short and sweet. Yes sweet. When 
 you want to go to another planet, your load time will be displayed as your ship going thru hyperspace. 
 Unless you want to skip it, you will not see little letters indicating loading time.
  
  A new thing that you will quickly notice and that's a very cool thing they added, is that, when 
 you go to the scanning visor, you can see Samus' face, and see how her eyes move as you browse 
 around with your wii-mote. Even though it's a small element, I myself went to the scan visor just 
 to see her eyes move. Is that awesome, they implemented it without hurting frame rate.
  
  The graphical execution is strong because no matter what you want to get out of life-like graphics, 
 MP3's environments are just amazing. And that's where this element shines.
  
  Sound - 9
  
  What we didn't get in the last two games and on the last Zelda installment, we got in MP3; 
 voice acting. No Samus won't talk, and as bad as some of us want, it wasn't really necessary in 
 MP3. However, other characters will indeed engage conversation with you, but where you'll mostly 
 hear it will be in cut-scenes and transmissions sent to you while playing. The voice acting is 
 superb, plain and simple. For the characters that have personality, it truly shows through the 
 voices and grunts they make, same goes for some taunts.
  
  Music is more epic. Specially during boss battles. And while you're exploring, not only will you 
 see situations change, but you'll hear the situation change as well. The main theme and credits 
 theme is the most epic as well... and a certain boss battle brings back an already heard tuned 
 but epically remixed. And for a price of in-game earnings, you can purchase some of the songs used 
 for your hearing pleasure.
  
  Every sound effect is precise. Shooting, dyeing, getting hit, discovering something, etc. Everything 
 will have a sound. And it's not mediocre. Who knew sounds had designs. And none of them are annoying. 
 Maybe except when you hear a pick-up near by and you can't find it, but other than that sound is 
 right on.
  
  As to how it all hears together for your brain to process, it absolutely leaves you no regret, 
 and makes no bad distractions.
  
  Value - 8
  
  Metroid Prime 3 exploration concept is the strongest element in the whole series. In MP3, however, 
 this is hurt some because of the new difficulty of the game. Though it will still take you a while 
 to complete an objective, you will do it much easier. A lot of this is due to the ridiculously 
 over-powered hypermode. Though Hypermode is a new and neat idea and concept, it takes a lot of 
 the heartbeat from the original gameplay found in previous Metroid Prime games, specially during 
 boss battles. Luckly, every boss requires you to use abilities earned in the game to be able to 
 inflict damage, and the damage you DO inflict, can be huge if you use Hypermode. Believe me you 
 will use Hypermode. In some boss battles you have no choice. But gladly after the first run-through, 
 you'll be able to set the difficulty to the highest, so if you thought the game was a tad easy, 
 then that's for you. A regular walk-through will take you about 15-20 hours, as for a complete 
 100% maybe 18-23 hours. Yeah, almost a day of Samus greatness fun.
  
  Finding upgrades and item pick-ups has also gotten easier. Some upgrades you won't even fight for, 
 which is good... and easier to continue the game. The item pick-ups are practically given; no really. 
 In the game if you look hard enough (well not that hard, you just have to have a sense of exploration) 
 you can find something to assist you with the item pick-ups, and even upgrades. Scanning; only 
 for reading and learning purposes, and for some bonuses. MP3 changed a lot of things that make 
 sense toward the first Metroid games, like, now your ending will depend on how many total items 
 you've collected, and how some of your weapons will override other weapons, becoming an upgrade 
 instead of an alternative. So, you won't have a hard time getting the secret ending like the last 
 two Primes.
  
  Another first for Prime, is the bonuses with credits. Meaning, each time you scan something of 
 importance or do something to trigger an event, or simply beat a boss, you earn some kind of credit 
 that go toward you extras. The extras are interesting enough to keep you scanning and shooting, 
 and sometimes doing some fun stuff. So with enough credits, you'll be able to purchase some extras 
 like Art, Soundtrack, and trophies... of course all of these are in-game, and are mainly for one's 
 pleasure. For some extras you will need to trade Friend Vouchers that are earned through special 
 events in the games, like, killing 100 enemies and other neat stuff like that. Once you have them, 
 you need to be able to connect to the internet and trade those with other people, or friends . 
 Once someone gives you a voucher you can turn that into a green credit which is used to buy neater 
 stuff like the Screenshot tool and a Mii Bobblehead. None of the rewards, or extras however, effect 
 gameplay in anyway. Except for the harder difficulty of course.
  
  No multi-player. AT ALL. But don't worry, you won't miss it. The major Primes saga always felt 
 single player anyway. So if you didn't know, well there you go. MP3 of course follows the storyline 
 since the end of the first Prime, which is, the pursuit and destruction of the now resurrected 
 Dark Samus. Though like MP2, it has it's own integral storyline that relates to the ongoing storyline. 
 And it's very interesting, with the characters introduced and all, and even more info on the Galactic 
 Federation and Space Pirates. So, you get corrupted, you must stop the corruption in planets, and 
 destroy the corruption's core. that's the storylines summed up in a sentence; short sweet and to 
 the point. How a good storyline should be.
  
  Overall, the value of the game is damaged by the creeping feeling of overwhelmed easiness, but 
 you should still be able to kick butt and shoot those baddies down with your trusty buster and 
 missiles, and still be able to explore the wonderful scenery in MP3. With a high variety of enemies 
 and smart-strategy bosses, you shouldn't let the easiness get you by much, and it should not completely 
 disappoint you.
  
  Overall - 9/10
  
  Fun fun fun. It's what MP3 really is. Controls give the game a true shine and all the beautiful 
 exploration just fulfills your dream of being an intergalactic astronaut... err, bounty hunter. 
 Honestly, it's a good ending to what has been one of the best trilogy sagas ever, and at the same 
 time it's almost sad to see it go, but you just know that this had to be the last game. No doubt, 
 this game is an spectacular title for the wii, and is a must have for any adventure and/or FPS 
 gamers out there, who enjoy sci-fi and cute cuddly translucent alienoids that suck up your energy 
 and kill you. No disappointment there.
  
  Play it, enjoy it, and give it time for the Corruption to grow on... or in you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbit93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  well this is metroid... the girl counter to master chief... i rented my friends wii and rented 
 the game to play it for the 3 day weekend and was amazed at how everything combined together to 
 form the ultimate experience on the WII... now compared i bioshock imo these are two different 
 genres... metroid seemed to be more arcade like with awsome boss battles rather then the immersive 
 expereience that was Bioshock
  everything is perfect except the occasional annoying mini-games in which i rather disliked..
 
  the boss battles were AMAZING and very well thought out... the art styles were very similar to 
 the previous metroids and i really didnt see that much of a change from the other entrees... but 
 this is the Wii after all.... the corruption powers worked well with the game and gameplay and 
 the controls were awsome
  the first solid title for the WIi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahahaG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while since i think i could say that, but i'm so glad that this game is as good as 
 it is. Not only are the controls freakin sweet, but the graphics are good! Shocking right? As a 
 wii owner, i have people make fun of how the graphics aren't as good as their 360 and some such, 
 and they aren't but now we have a game thats actually decent in graphics, a plus in my mind. The 
 story line is pretty solid in this new Metroid as well as the boss fights. I love the boss fights 
 so far, even tho i've only had 1, and they are awesome. If you are a fan of having fun, metroid, 
 nintendo, or just looking for a good game for your wii, GET THIS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IsaiahAllen
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Wow This Game Truly Amazed Me. It Is By Far Awesome. I Love This Game. I Never Wanted It To End... 
 The Whole Metroid Prime Series ws good but this is the best.
  
  Graphics-The Graphics Are Flat Out Amazing! The Really Took A Lot Of Time into this. You Can See 
 Stuff In The background it is Just Awesome! Sound-Awesome Sound! It Is Really great! Amazing. Might 
 not be the Thing you Want To Here all day but It is terrific!
  
  Value- I Say This IS The Best Game for The Wii and It Will Stay The best game for the Wii. I Like 
 this Game The Most and It Gets The Honor To Stay In My Wii Console and not In The Case.
  
  Gameplay- Awesome Gameplay! This Is No Game It Is A Mission It is a must have! Awesome Gameplay 
 And AWESOME controlls! Always Aiming at the screen be on the look out. It really makes you think! 
 If You Don't Like Aiming at the Screen alot You Will In this game! It is just Awesome!
  You Go Behind the visor as You actually Get to be Samus.
  They Also Have a large Section of bonnus 
 Feateures in the Game Such as Taking Screen shots. Having a bobble Head (Of Your Mii) on your Ship. 
 and other great Features
  
  Tilt- Overall This Game Is Great. Retro Studios and Nintendo Ended It Well.
  I Wanted To Cry 
 when I finished The Game. Bye Bye Samus! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nets535
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Metroid is a long running series of games starring 7 of them in the timeline so far, with 9 showcased 
 total (pinball, zero mission) . Metroid is not your every day shooter, or even one. This subject 
 is even debated upon today, and still with differing opinions. With Super Metroid being the landmark 
 title of the growing series, fans and gamers alike were unsure about a 3D Metroid
  
  Developed by Retro Studios, and published by Nintendo, you already can tell this is going to be 
 one of the best games made on a Nintendo platform. With that being said, Metroid Prime 3 is best 
 enjoyed by the hardcore gamer, and least enjoyed by your granny.
  
  You dont need to play the other 2 classic games to fully enjoy, or understand the storyline. Rather, 
 just look up the information on the internet, everything else is explained clearly throughout. 
 Apparently a virus has affected the Federations supercomputers/Aurora Unit. With backed up proof, 
 the Federation knows the Pirates are the ones who are up to something. With Valhalla already attacked, 
 and Norion, the military base of the Federation also attacked, you and your fellow hunters have 
 a lot of investigating to do on the other planets. The storyline becomes deeper if you scan, which 
 shows you behind the scenes of the Federation and Pirates, creating great atmosphere.
  
  Bryyo- The home of golems, Elysia- the futuristic heavenly skytown, the abandoned Valhalla, and 
 other planets all have unbeatable atmosphere. You feel as if yourre Samus, and that you can feel 
 around your surroundings, as well. Prime 3s level design is better executed than it predecessors. 
 Every room is full of detail, and has challenging puzzles that will require you to think outside 
 the Metroid box. Most rooms have so much depth its hard to just leave any room without investigating 
 everything.
  
  Retro decided to take advantage of the Wiimote controls with more combat, without ditching the 
 puzzles. The grapple beam plays a big role in the game, with grappling off pirate shields to jerking 
 off plates and flipping switches and bars. Youll also be required to turn around some gears, hack 
 bases, push, pull, turn levers, and whatnot. Youll also be interacting with many of your fancy 
 gadgets in your ship. It all does not sound fun and maybe a bit gimmicky, but once you experience 
 it, youll start to wonder why you never did something so often in past Primes.
  
  Prime 3 has well thought out bosses, and obviously very fun to fight. They all have the right difficulty 
 thanks to the 3 difficulty options. Great music, diversity, and simply how to defeat them, brings 
 a yet another Metroid game with a living, breathing, world.
  
  On top of that, charged beams all almost useless. The uncharged shot are obviously rapid fire, 
 and are not that far behind the power of your charged shot, so just stick with rapid fire.
  
  As always, you are asked to do the dreaded fetch hunt! Who didnt see it coming??? Its a shame, 
 because youre just about to finish the game, then bam, fetch hunt. Its easier though, because 
 most of them are required to proceed onto the next area. But still, its a pain and will stack 
 a couple hours of boredom. In my opinion, calling Prime a FPS is simply not true; there are too 
 many immersive puzzles and powerups that I would label it a FPA. From the distinctiveness of the 
 morph ball to the immersive grapple, this is easily the best game for Wii so far. If you never 
 liked the Prime formula, chances are this game wont change your mind. Its safe to say Prime 3 
 has evolutionized upon its predecessors, not revolutionized. There are many new aspects in the 
 game, but the goes the same for returning aspects. Im not tired of the Prime formula, and I cant 
 imagine how anyone could.
  
  Prime 3 will take you around 15-20+ hours to finish the game on your first play through, a pretty 
 lengthy game. There are 3 difficulties: Normal/Easy, Veteran/Medium, and Hyper/Hard. Some people 
 say this is an easier Prime game; well youre all playing on Normal! Due to fans saying Prime 2 
 was too hard, Retro has acted, as well as keeping your preference difficulty, including hard mode. 
 Prime 3 also has achievements that you can cash in for extras, like 100 kills for instance. All 
 of the extras are really nice, and unlike most games, youll actually be tempted to keep playing 
 just to unlock these things. You know you want a Mii bobble head and bumper stickers on your ship!
 
  
  Prime 3 is the first game to really take advantage of the Wiis engine/hardware, with silky smooth 
 frame rate, gorgeous lighting, and special effects; you cant see the brilliance in just pictures, 
 but playing, or even watching the game in action. Although theyre not perfect, Wii can handle 
 more than this, but superb nonetheless. Each and every piece of music is nothing short of a melody 
 on the ears. The music fits compfortably in each area, boss battle, and cut scene. All voice acting 
 in the game sounds nothing close to awkward, which is surprising considering it has never been 
 done this heavily. This is only one of the many reasons why Prime 3 has such great atmosphere. 
 The only minor downside is you will hear some top notch Prime 1 and 2 music. Why is that bad? Well, 
 its not, but I just rather prefer the soundtrack to be completely new.
  
  You will hear criticism of MP3 because it does not have a deep online experience. In short, Metroid 
 did not get itself where its at today because of multiplayer, but because of its quality single 
 player adventure. Multiplayer is nice, but if Zelda can get away with it, why not Metroid?
  
  The good: Atmosphere, bosses, music, graphics, level design, voice acting, interaction, achievements, 
 cutscenes.
  
  The Bad: Charged shots almost useless, not a completely new soundtrack, fetch hunt.
  
  Do not 
 ignore this game like Metroid Prime 2 or even Metroid Prime 1, your Wii is most likely starving 
 for some real gameplay.
  
  The Verdict:
  
  Presentation: 10/10
  
  Game play: 9/10
  
  Value: 9.5/10
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  
  Overall 
 Score: 9.4/10
  
  Editors note: I'm starting to get sick of Gamespot's review system... I gave this game a 9.4, NOT 
 a 9.0, there's a difference, Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwistyO
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Being that I've never been a Metroid fan, and thought the last Metroid games for the Gamecube were 
 almost unplayable (more on that in a sec) , this review is pretty unbiased.
  
  I may get flak for saying the GC Metroids were unplayable, but I think some would agree, as far 
 as a FPS they were very constrictive, I never felt in control of the character and I felt it hard 
 to distinguish the enemies from the surroundings.
  
  Lets get straight to the meat of what makes this game great. The Wiimote! Any other developer making 
 a FPS for the Wii needs to take a good long look at what has been accomplished here. It is tight, 
 tight like a tiger.
  The aiming, shooting and looking works so well with the Wiimote, you actually forget your using 
 it. No longer do I feel constricted in the environments, I feel completely in control of Samus. 
 Even the little things are done well like turning handles, pumping the valves etc.
  Even the nunchuck action works perfectly. It's the first game for the Wii that I can honestly say, 
 it works like its supposed to.
  
  As far as the rest goes, some great boards so far. Nice puzzles, slick enemies, good story, and 
 the Boss fights are top notch.
  
  If you've been waiting for the Wii to show it's true potential, here it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerver1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  The first Metroid Prime for Gamecube was more of Nintendo proving something to its audience that 
 Metroid can be done beautifully in 3D. It actually created its own genre, the first-person adventure, 
 with half shooting and half exploration. Metroid Prime 2: Echoes was a worthy sequel from the first 
 game, but did not have the same greatness and perfection Metroid Prime had taking on a Zelda: Link 
 to the Past type of direction. The Wii now has the conclusion to its trilogy named Corruption and 
 it delivers the goods as another worthy Metroid game with its controls and presentation. This is 
 why hardcore Nintendo fans bought a Wii and it is actually the best Wii game out to buy for this 
 year.
  
  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption starts after Echoes as Dark Samus is up to no good again spreading 
 Phazon into more planets as it is up to female bounty hunter Samus Aran to end the Phazon threat 
 once and for all. The story is more than just Dark Samus and Phazon as Space Pirates are also up 
 to no good again trying to take over system after system being at war with the Galatic Federation. 
 Metroid Prime 3 throws many twists at you right away with starting at a Federation ship, not losing 
 any of your weapons and abilities, and having teammates on your side for once. Other bounty hunters 
 are also siding with the Federation to eliminate the Space Pirate threat at four different planets: 
 Norion, Bryyo, Elysia, and the Pirate Homeworld. The whole theme of this Metroid game is the title 
 itself, Corruption, as Samus and fellow bounty hunters are corrupted by Phazon and PED Suits are 
 the only way for survival with this element. For Samus, it is a different story being corrupted 
 with Phazon as she loses health entering hyper mode firing Phazon blasts at enemies. This whole 
 game is all about Samus saving the galaxy again and actually herself from this whole Phazon corruption.
 
  
  As mentioned earlier, the game starts at a Galatic Federation ship and Samus starts with her Varia 
 Suit and certain weapons that do not get lost for once. As the game processes, the early access 
 to new weapons and abilities is a great change from the previous Prime games as Samus gets familiar 
 and new weaponry. The familiar weaponry in this game are the basic Metroid staples such as Ice 
 Missiles, Screw Attack, X-Ray Visor, Boost Ball, Spider Ball, and so on. The new weaponry is not 
 that much as the PED Suit with its Hyper mode is the most significant addition. Entering hyper 
 mode is a risk and reward type of a deal as it deals more damage than normal beam blasts for a 
 certain time at a price of an Energy Tank. Hyper mode is a necessity against tougher enemies and 
 bosses. In addition, if too much Phazon is occupied, then you have to fire it all to waste it because 
 of Samus being corrupted. The normal beams in this game do stack instead of being three different 
 beams that can be selectable as seen in previous Prime games, which is also another good change 
 for this Wii game.
  
  Since this is a Wii game, the Wii controls are a matter of a make or break for any game. For Metroid 
 Prime 3, the Wiimote and Nunchuk deliver in a great way despite some flaws. It is highly recommended 
 to use the advanced controls as you lock-on to an enemy, you can still free-aim which can be beneficial 
 at times. The nunchuk is used as movement, Morph Ball, and locking on to enemies. Speaking of the 
 Morph Ball, it does feel underused as compared to Metroid Prime 2 for combat, but still used significantly 
 for exploration purposes. The Wiimote is your aiming and shooting as you aim at the screen shooting 
 enemies, but make sure you feel comfortable playing this game pending on sensor settings. The shooting 
 in this game does make it more like a first-person shooter and requires more skill compared to 
 previous Prime games as you just lock on and shoot then. The flaws in the controls are the visor 
 selections and missiles as missiles are down on the d-pad and the visor is the minus button plus 
 aiming the Wiimote at the visor of your choice. Once you get used to those controls, they might 
 not feel flawed. Samus's ship is a more special role this time as you travel to different planets 
 and using it to get rid of certain obstacles, or move heavy obstacles to different places. Overall, 
 the Wii controls might be daunting at first as you play the first hour of the game, but players 
 will eventually get used to it and maybe prefer it to the dual stick controls in PS3 and 360 games.
 
  
  The different planets in Metroid Prime 3 offer a refreshing change for once as in the one planet 
 in previous Prime games. Each of them offer its own theme, but the size of the levels in all these 
 planets is not the same as an one planet setting. The levels at times feel shorter than your average 
 Metroid Prime game, but the backtracking does make the levels feel longer. Speaking of backtracking, 
 there is lots of it in this game, but it does feel more of a necessity when gathering pick-ups 
 or accessing new areas as the Metroid series is known for. The level design is also solid remaining 
 true to the series with different puzzles, scanning for your log book, and actually using all of 
 ablities for once in this game. None of the weapons in this game feel useless as they serve some 
 sort of purpose.
  
  The presentation got a huge overhaul in Corruption as it feels more like a modern game than your 
 average Nintendo game. There are actually voice-overs for the first time in a Metroid game as everyone 
 except Samus have some sort of dialogue. Samus's voices are basically grunts when she gets hit 
 or step into hazardous conditions. Basically Samus lets her weapons do the talking and it is not 
 big that deal that Samus herself does not have dialogue. The cut-scenes are also improved with 
 all this voice acting with your standard Metroid Prime cut-scenes when bosses appear to a meeting 
 with the Federation Admiral. Overall, the presentation is one of Nintendo's best ever in their 
 3D game history with the game menus and polish.
  
  The graphics of Metroid Prime 3 are the best the Wii offers right now. Sure, it does not look as 
 good as current PS3 and 360 shooters, but it is the art and detail which makes Corruption a graphical 
 showpiece for the Wii. Everything that worked in previous Prime games in terms of graphics work 
 exceptionally well in this game with diverse settings, Samus's visor getting affected by certain 
 conditions, and more. The graphical detail in this game is why Metroid Prime 3 is on a league of 
 its own in terms of Wii graphics. The sound is also executed well in Metroid Prime 3. The music 
 is what to expect of all the Metroid games delivering moody themes depending on the planet. Of 
 course, the old Metroid tunes are there in some sort of way, but in remixed form. Almost all the 
 sound effects are recycled from previous Prime games, but it is a good thing since it still sounds 
 good. The voice acting at times does feel generic and cheesy with some dialogue having no emotion 
 at all, but this is what to expect from a Nintendo game and at least they tried for once compared 
 to Zelda Twilight Princess.
  
  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is another must have for the Wii. Every big franchise game by Nintendo 
 delivers in a big way for the fans. The Wii controls do indeed make the experience seem a little 
 more fresh compared to Metroid Prime 2 Echoes, as it felt too familiar control wise. Despite claims 
 of Corruption becoming more of a first person shooter, it still feels like a first person adventure 
 game at its core, which is good considering what happened to Metroid Prime Hunters becoming more 
 of a FPS than a FPA. Players can beat this game in at least fifteen to twenty hours if you want 
 100% completion, but veterans of the series can probably beat it even less than ten hours. At times, 
 Corruption felt like the shortest of the Metroid Prime games, but the average length makes the 
 game a little better. If any Wii fan is tired of all those casual games, mini-game collections, 
 or waiting for the next big Wii game, you can't go wrong with Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poost
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption continues the Prime storyline and takes place shortly after its predecessor. 
 Samus Aran is summoned to the G. F. S. Olympus, as well as three other bounty hunters, to aid the 
 Federation by investigating the activities of the Space Pirates. The various marines and officers 
 you will interact with are now voice-acted, which adds a whole new layer of immersion to the franchise. 
 You orders via radar and in person are also all spoken. Also, early in the game, you will fight 
 alongside both marines and other bounty hunters for the first time in the series. The majority 
 of the game, however, you are still exploring alone, and working to solve puzzles so you can continue 
 your mission. The environmental puzzles are as involved as ever, and often you must fight enemies 
 while scanning equipment and trying to solve the puzzle, and the waves of enemies will not cease 
 until the puzzle is solved. It is situations like these where the controls on the Wii really shine. 
 The basic control scheme is moving and strafing with the nunchuk analog stick, while turning and 
 aiming is controlled by the remote. I used the advanced control scheme, which I highly recommend. 
 Turning is done by pointing the remote towards the sides of the screen, and you hold Z to lock 
 your view into position. While in advanced mode, you can still aim anywhere on the screen while 
 locked in a particular view or onto a particular enemy. This will allow you to lock onto one enemy, 
 but shoot another one that may have run into your view, without having to let go of the view lock.
 
  
  Changing visors is done by holding the () button and then choosing your visor in a radial-style 
 menu. This method of changing visors is much more fluid than in Corruptions predecessors, and 
 allows you to change visors and scan objects without having to stop moving. This is particularly 
 useful when revisiting areas and looking for things you missed.
  
  The exploration aspect is very similar to the other Prime games. As you gain more power-ups, you 
 have to return to areas you have already seen in order to get certain items. Samus ship plays 
 a much bigger role in this game, as it is needed in order to travel back and forth between planets 
 and between areas on each planet. As you explore, you will find more landing pads for your ship. 
 You will also find certain upgrades for your ship that allow you to use it in new ways.
  The boss fights are just plain awesome. You will have to use many of your skills for each fight, 
 and learning how to damage each boss is really fun.
  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is a very fun game and its new features make it feel like a fresh experience 
 while having the same atmosphere and style as the other Prime games. I highly recommend this game 
 to anyone who enjoys shooters, action/adventure, or is looking for a great game that finally perfects 
 the controls on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawnnoob
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  Out of all the series , Metroid prime 3 corruption is far the best. The game goes all out with 
 the controls , making you behind the visor a reality.
  
  Great graphics where in the game its so much detail, rewards worth getting when completing the 
 game like art, music, and in game accessories. A long lasting adventure with epic boss battles 
 , puzzles and also great movies and voice acting . Its a game for all Metroid fans will want. As 
 a long time fan to the Metroid series I recommend it to anyone who owns the Wii. Its that good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zyphn
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game would be good, but not THIS good. WOW. I have now played it for 4 hours, and 
 I am taking a break JUST to write this review. I don't even know where to start.
  
  The first thing I noticed was the people/characters talking... very much like Zelda... Samus says 
 nothing and lets everyone else do the talking... this has really made a big difference so far in 
 comparison to prior Metroids.
  
  Second, the graphics. The environments... the attention to detail... you can tell immediately that 
 a LOT of time was put into this game. I found myself many times just looking off into the distance... thinking 
 to myself, Am I really playing this on the Wii? 
  
  Third, the controls. All of us hardcore gamers have always dreamed of playing FPS games like they 
 SHOULD be played... like we play them in the  with every shot/explosion... and 
 MP3 does this with perfection! (Takes a couple minutes to get used to, but quickly becomes Duck 
 Hunt simple baby!)
  
  And last is the music. Metroid games have always been known for excellent music, and MP3 is bar-none 
 the best I have seen from any Metroid game.
  
  Nintendo spent a LOT of time on this game, and it shows. If you don't have this game yet... GO GET 
 IT! And if you don't have a Wii yet... this game gives you NO reason to NOT have one... so GO GET 
 A WII!!!
  
  Great job Nintendo. Very well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davesade
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  It's been a time from last Metroid game I've played on Nintendo DS and still - Prime series is 
 great and with new Corruption it's probably best series in arcade FPS ever. One of the best things 
 is that real Metroid feel, which we're feeling since first adventure with Samus Aran on NES. Great 
 boss battles, beautyfull levels, inovative gameplay (in series of course) - plus really supreme 
 graphic, fast gameplay with no framerate drops, amazing music and finally - puzzles are so cool 
 - it's crystalic fun. Only few bad things - sometimes I was stuck in, because of my journal, which 
 is very poor for explanation what to do next - it was little confusing few times. For example how 
 long can I travel witch screw attack - it takes me while to figure out in Skycity. Difficulty of 
 the game is in fact easy, but some boss battles are well designed al dente - I lost almost all 
 of my energy when I finished them (especialy some unexpected battles, like in Norion) . At the end 
 - almost flawless victory in Metroid series and - one of the best games for Wii - just what we 
 and Wii need. Thank you so much for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supafly43218
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I have never played the original metroid prime games from the Gamecube, so this review isn't coming 
 from a fanboy, but instead, a blank slate - tabula rasa if you will. After picking this up, the 
 first thing i notice is the epic feeling of it all. Even when doing small missions, the world around 
 you opens up. As cut scenes emerge, the very industrial and mechanical world flexes and changes. 
 Graphics for this are top notch, and dare i say, rival even the xbox 360 and ps3 (oh no he didn't, 
 oh yes i did.) The wiimote works for the most part as well. Sometimes if you get too excited with 
 the wiimote, you may accidentally pull the cursor away from the TV and either put yourself into 
 a tail spin, or freeze up and not be able to move around. The wiimote works quickly and accurately, 
 but it has it quirks - no biggy. The gameplay is exciting, and i said before, incredibly epic. 
 You feel like your playing for a purpose, and not playing just to complete the level, or beat the 
 game. All-in-all, i absolutely love this game, and the only disappointing part for me is the fact 
 that it doesn't have multiplayer or online options. I would love to be able to play my friends, 
 but you can't have everything! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: citrus_oranges
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  +This game is great, but its too bad the prime trilogy is over now. The graphics are the best for 
 the Wii console, though you may not notice the difference. The sound is similar to the older series, 
 seems like it's not the the main point of the game anyways. A good adventure that is lengthy and 
 difficult at times. One of the best things that amazes me is the new control schemes for FPS action. 
 It's really good and I was impressed by it. This game is one way to settle the Prime trilogy. -Theres 
 really not anything bad in this game though a few issues should be spoken. The AI is not so great 
 as you can notice. The space pirates you fight take blows from your cannon till death. The modes 
 are easy, you might as well take the veteran mode at the start. If you wish to complete the whole 
 entire game to 100%, serious back tracking and scanning will required (may not be a big deal to 
 some) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I am totally new to the Metroid series, so I feel like I can give this game an unbiased review. 
 That being said, this game is the reason I bought a Wii. I didn't know it at the time, but it's 
 true. This game offers an experience unlike anything else on the Wii. The outstanding visual design 
 and amazing controls make this one of the best FPS experiences to be had anywhere. It scratches 
 the itch that BioShock left me with. BioShock had a slow and deliberate pacing and fulfilled my 
 desire for a deep and cerebral shooter. This game is more along the lines of shoot anything that 
 moves with some insane lighting effects. This is definitely one of the best shoot 'em up games 
 I've ever played.
  
  Good: Amazing controls; Retro NAILED it. I felt like they really used the Wii to it's full potential. 
 Fantastic visual design- This game has a unique style and flair that is quite appealing. Awesome 
 sound effects. Presentation is very slick.
  
  Bad: Voice acting is so-so. Lock-on system isn't spectacular. Story is okay.
  
  Verdict: Buy. 
 Wii owners have been hurting for a great game. Here you go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdog117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Right from the start, I expected this game to be good. I mean, it's Metroid Prime, how could it 
 not be good?
  
  But, by golly, this game is amazing! Anyone with a Wii needs to buy it!
  
  First off, the level design. As always, the graphics look great and provide an excelent atmosphere 
 of evey place you visit. Puzzles seem to blend naturally into the environment, never feel forced 
 or tedious, and are never too terribly frustrating.
  
  The Wii Controller works flawlessly with the game, and aiming soon becomes second nature with a 
 little practice. The new locking system provides more freedom in aiming while still being able 
 to simultaneously keep an eye on that huge alien trying to kill you. Speaking of huge aliens, the 
 boss battles are, of course, a blast to do. Nothing's better than single-handedly blowing the hell 
 out of some huge radioactively enhanced monstrocity, especially when the battle music is as good 
 as it is.
  
  All in all, en excelent game for any player. I feel sorry for anyone who doesn't own a Wii, becasue 
 this is what they're missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hairforce36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  To date, I would saw the greatest metroid game ever is a toss up between Super Metroid (SNES) and 
 Metroid: Zero Mission (GBA) . Look out boys, there's a new kid in town. I think Metroid Prime 3: 
 Corruption has officially taken the cake. By far the biggest jump in Wii controller application 
 and innovation in the entire series.
  
  I'm not sure where to start when it comes to good things in this game. Retro Studios, from the 
 start of the prime series, always had an excellent way of adding those subtle graphic details (i. e. 
 her eyes in the reflection of the visor after fully charged shot is released) . Those kind of details 
 immerse you in the game, almost on a subconscious level. Numerous things engrossed me on the graphic 
 level, but the thing that stuck out the most was when you get about 50% corrupted and use the scan 
 visor. in the reflection you can see Samus's eyes glaze over a little and the purple blood running 
 down face.
  
  The musical score is an excellent balance between new age symphony and classic mono.
  
  The 
 controls. Though a little glitchy and semi-responsive at times, they put you in the power suit 
 of Samus herself. The interaction between the lever operated switches and the grappler beam lasso 
 technique, seemingly never got old.
  
  Overall, I loved the addition of using your starship, the freedom of moving from world to world, 
 a storyline that keeps you on the edge of your seat, and the interaction with the world around 
 you.
  
  So, why would I give this game a 9.5 over a 10. I didn't understand why there were buttons in the 
 cockpit of your ship with no purpose, more specifically the weapons ready button and windshield 
 cover button, if you never used them. When I first stumbled onto these buttons I was anticipating 
 some sort of space battle that never happened.
  
  Though no game is truly perfect, it's all just for fun anyway, right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkam_Asylum
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I newer owned a Gamecube and I never really got the hype from friends that owned the console and 
 loved this game. Now I get it.
  
  Metroid Prime Corruption skillfully mixes and adventure game with a shooter with amazing level 
 design and fantastic controls.
  
  The Good:
  - clever puzzles that use your arsenal of weapons and suit enhancements
  - amazing art direction 
 on the higher levels
  - really pushes the limit on what the Wii can do
  - great soundtrack and pretty good voice acting
  - fun and immersive controls
  
  The not-so-good:
 
  - some of the cinematics and cut scenes look less polished
  - the maps can be confusing
  - human faces are... cheesy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B14z3n_F3fnir
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game, there was only one thing that kept coming back to me, graphics. 
 This game is detailed to the littlest of objects to enormous structures. Everything was well put 
 together.
  
  Knowing that this is the end of the Metroid Prime Saga, I'm glad that this game is excellent. The 
 Wii really showed its abilities this time. Using the advantages of the Wii's control, you can control 
 Samus exactly where you want here to go. You get to aim where you want to, when you want. Of course, 
 there is a lock on feature like in every Metroid Prime game.
  
  There is way too much to say about this game, so I'll say this. This game earned a perfect 10/10. 
 It is by far, one of the best Wii games out there. It is definitely a must-get game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nelzoma
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  1 2 3 Ok if you've played this game you already know how great it is because of ... well... everything 
 the crontrols id give it a rating of 10/10 the graphics again 10/10 the map and design 10/10 the 
 gameplay 10/10 the well you get the idea. If you werent sucked in from the start then you just 
 aren't a first person shooter kinda guy i mean I wouldn't call it a first person shooter even though 
 it is first person and it is a shooter it is more of a first person adventure
  so think about this review when you get you next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frostyale84
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Everything about this game blew me away. I have to say that this game is the best in the prime 
 trilogy. The only complaint I have is that this game will make it hard to go back to the original 
 control scheme of other console fps games. The graphics are solid and the art direction is amazing. 
 There are many surprises throughout the game and it feels very rewarding when you discover secrets. 
 The boss battles are memorable and they sort of remind me of the way the boss battles are handled 
 in The Legend of Zelda series. I can't wait to see what direction Nintendo will take the series 
 for the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shooter94
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 for Wii is an awesome game for all Wii owners. The controlis the best I've played 
 on a FPS game. The controls felt very tight and fun to use with all of motions. Aiming seems easier 
 than the GC counterparts and it's always fun to blast the baddies. The graphics are great enough 
 to have on an HD TV and the guys at Retro did a great job on the scenery and the story. You don't 
 really need to play the last two but it helps to have. All I can say negative about this game is 
 you need a friend with a MP3 game save to trade vouchers which can get you some bonus material, 
 but you can get most without them. People say there should be multiplayer, but Metroid's always 
 been about great story and singleplayer. If you have a Wii, pick this game up at your local video 
 game store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veeblefester
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  I was a bit sceptical about getting Metroid Prime 3 because I tried the original and couldn't get 
 past the first level. This game however, eresed all my doubts. The first person controls work great 
 and allow you to seamlessly navigate the areas. Combat is smooth and engaging and easy to pick 
 up and play. Also, wherever you go you can't help but feel as if you're being watched constantly 
 by someone. Great feeling. The graphics look great for the Wii and the constant suit upgrades and 
 thrilling storyline always leave you itching for more. My one minor complaint; your ship. When 
 inside it, you look around by moving the remote and zooming in on certain controls of the ship 
 to use them. When you do this the remote becomes Samus's arm. You then press the A button to make 
 her finger move on the ship controls. The thing is you can keep moving her arm as she's trying 
 to press a button, causing much frustration. Also, it would have been nice to have seen some sort 
 of space-shooter mini-game, but all in all, this game is a must for all Wii owners that I'd dare 
 to say might be better than Twilight Princess. All I have left to say is, Halo 3, you've got some 
 stiff competition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retrofraction12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  well this game at first really was quite slow at first, but it was for better plot dev than any 
 of the other ones
  
  In metroid prime you really didn't have to read about how the world came to be dead and dieing 
 wich should have had flashbacks to the past but didn't.
  
  im not even going to mention the second metroid prime cause that one was pushed too fast to come 
 out and the plot was a little to perdictible and was over all the worst one i have palyed.
  
  gameplay is about the same exsept that the puzzeles are less anoying.
  
  graphically it 
 looks like almost as good as half life 2 exsept they used some of the grapics from the other games.
 
  
  controls are pritty good though i would have changed the fire button to B instead of A.
  
  overall its a good game but there was alot they could have improved on in that 1 year delay 
 that they didn't. like the fire button, gettting rid of gc sprites.
  improving loading door times. but besides that the blur effects are sweet. the wii has good anti 
 lasing wich they show off.
  
  im not counting off for lack of mutiplayer, but after Hunters its just exspected to have online 
 gameplay. ( I hope they come out with another disk and call it multiplayer exspantion or somthing) 
 ^o^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EcksBocks360
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime, which came out on the gamecube in 2002, was one of the most revolutionary and unique 
 first person shooters to ever come out on a current gen system. Metroid Prime 2 was a great game 
 as well, but it's story and gameplay was not that much different than the original and did not 
 do so well.
  
  To make up for the shortcomings of MP2: E, Nintendo and Retro Studios finally have released Metroid 
 Prime 3: Corruption on the Wii, And to sum it up, it pretty much OWNS MP1 with a passion. Metroid 
 Prime 3's story is about a famous bounty hunter named Samus Aran, who was called to investigate 
 a mysterious virus that was injected into The galactic federation's Aurora Unit: A half life-form, 
 half computer entity. Samus is joined by other Bounty Hunters Ghor, Rundus, and Gandraya. A massive 
 army of space pirates later attack the ship in which the Aurora Unit rests, And Samus is forced 
 to fight back.
  
  A major difference between this game and other Metroid Games is the use of full voice acting. There 
 will be entire cutscenes with Linues upon lines of dialog, which no other metroid game has done, 
 if not minimally.
  
  The Wii remote and nunchuk make the game a thousand times more fun to play, and by that i DON'T 
 MEAN IT IS EASY . It is more FUN, not easy, FUN. So dont go out and buy this game if you're a casual 
 gamer looking for a breeze-easy game because you will be gravely dissapointed (Im sorry, I just 
 dont think nintendo's whole casual thing is a good Idea) . So in short, This game is for HARDCORE 
 GAMERS only. Ok I'm done. Aiming your weapon is handled with the Wiimote and movement is handled 
 with the analog stick on the nunchuk. Shooting is done with the A button and Jumping is with the 
 B button. The Scan visor, as well as other visors, are ativated by holding down the wiimote's Minus 
 button and pointing to a certain part of the screen.
  The graphics in Prime 3 are probably the best ever seen on the wii yet, both artistically and technically. 
 The game has Hi-res textures, bloom lighting, cool liquid effects and so on That make it rival 
 games seen on the Xbox360 or the PS3. Yeah, they're that good. Great gameplay, Superb graphics, 
 and Overall innovation make this game a must buy for Wii owners. Hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnshy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 2:44 am PT
Review:  I was truly excited for this game as by far the funnest games I had played on gamecube were the 
 first two installments to this serious, so I had high hopes and was in no disappointed. I love 
 the atmosphere of these games and the way they make you use your head as much as your thumbs to 
 get through the game. If you have any doubts about getting this title put them aside and get it 
 immediately, you won't be disappointed. The graphics are excellent, the first time voice in this 
 series adds to it and is a very nice touch, and the gameplay with the wii controls is as good as 
 it can possibly get. If you own the wii you owe to yourself to play this title. enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsucougar307
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say between this and Resident Evil 4, you should be out buying a Wii. This is my 
 first Metroid that I have owned and it is Excellent. The worlds that you explore provide depth 
 and the graphics are rich for the Wii. This game can get a little easy sometimes. I haven't died 
 yet, after 10 hours of play but I guareentee I will soon. The bosses are unique and awesome. I 
 would recommend this game. The only downside is no multiplayer. There is also a broad range of 
 weapons and their is depth their. It definitely doesn't have the tactical feel of like a Rainbow 
 6, it is a first person action, not shooter if that makes any sense. This is a must own on the 
 Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mii56
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  It's completely good. The beginning wasn't to appealing but it definitely jumped back into the 
 good zone once I got the PED suit (A. K. A. Phazon Suit) . You will love this game just as much as 
 the originals. The morph ball controls can be a little unresponsive, but it definitely makes up 
 in straight-up Samus controls. Nothing too special about the story, but it definitely makes up 
 for it in the visually stunning graphics for a Wii game. The lock-on system doesn't work all too 
 well. Most of the time I would try to lock-on and it wouldn't lock-on, it would go screen still. 
 But other than the lock-on failure, it's a good game with good graphics and controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coolinbny1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is a revolutionary way to play a video game, and all of the other systems are going to 
 have to watch out, for this game WILL be the game that all other systems in the future are going 
 to have to be compared (ex. Bioshock 2 is not as good as Metroid Prime 3 because it was not as 
 revolutionary and realistic) . Of course I know there is know Bioshock 2, but there may be in the 
 future and for furture systems that utilize the same, if not better, motion technology that Nintendo 
 is using. It has a solid story, but kinda goes back to the first and second Primes because it has 
 only a few objectives in which you must do that same basic thing to accomplish each mission (ex. 
 destroying the leviathans is like gathering the dark keys to defeat bosses in Metroid Prime 2: 
 Echoes) . The graphics are visibly much better than the first and second Primes, but that takes 
 a place second to gameplay. When I was playing Metroid Prime 2: Echoes right before Corruption 
 came out I noticed the graphics of Samus when she morphs out of the Morph Ball, and they are still 
 terrible and don't match the rest of the game. The only thing that gets me mad about it is that 
 now I have to see those terrible graphics everytime I get out of the ball, which is a lot! Anyways, 
 the gameplay is astounding, as with any other Metroid game, except for the latest handheld ones 
 - which really don't bring me back to the great experience I had when I played Super Metroid... The 
 new way to shoot is a revolution within itself and will be used in all other next-next-gen systems. 
 It's normal difficulty is WAY too easy because I only died twice, once when I didn't know what 
 acid rain does to Samus and the other when a Space Pirate overloaded my PED suit for the first 
 time and I didn't know what happened.... The game in overall is an easy ten, but is boring after 
 you beat it once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddaddy8
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  This is the best metroid game to date. I mean I thought zelda was good for the Wii but this game 
 makes zelda look like a _ _ _ _ _. You put in what you want to there but there is nothing out there 
 that can compare to this game. I will go on and say that this is a near perfect game but I just 
 can not give it a perfect 10 out of 10 because there is no multiplayer action I mean with all of 
 the hunters in this game and after prime hunters I would have thought that they would have put 
 in some kind of multiplayer action. I mean don't get me wrong but this could have been nintendo's 
 Halo. Over all I say buy this game and I give it a 9.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Retro Studios has done it again. Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is an excellent end to the trilogy, 
 as it contains everything awesome about the first two games and adds in voice acting (and good 
 voice acting, even) and some awesome controls with the Wiimote and nunchuk.
  
  The graphics are awesome as usual, with great attention to detail on the environments, Samus, enemies, 
 and everything. Special effects are everywhere, from explosions to beams, and it all looks superb. 
 Really nothing to complain about here, although I think Samus should keep her helmet on.
  
  Great sound makes the environments come alive, from squishy sounds from bugs or plantlife to intense 
 weaponsfire and roars from monstrous bosses. The thing I like about the sound in the Metroid Prime 
 series is how it subtly varies as you get closer or farther away from its source. It really makes 
 the game feel that much more immersive.
  
  And the control scheme is by far the most amazing thing about this game. To me, this really is 
 the best FPS control scheme ever developed. Turning and aiming with the Wiimote, while perhaps 
 challenging for the first few minutes, quickly become as natural as using dual analog sticks or 
 a mouse, and is much more fun, I might add. For example, it's really cool to open doors by having 
 to grab a handle, pull it out, twist it, and push it back in to activate the lock. Gameplay is 
 the exact same as the first two: awesome. It's kind of refreshing to get to talk to federation 
 troopers or fellow bounty hunters, and hear words spoken (that's right, Samus hears words in this 
 one) . Voice acting is pretty decent as well, and not just some cheap tacked on attempt to add it 
 to the game. Overall, an excellent game. Maybe a couple frustrating puzzles here and there to annoy 
 you, but hey, that's what these games are known for. Easy puzzles are just lame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HMDJoe125890
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 for Wii is an awesome game for all Wii owners. The controlis the best I've played 
 on a FPS game. The controls felt very tight and fun to use with all of motions. Aiming seems easier 
 than the GC counterparts and it's always fun to blast the baddies. The graphics are great enough 
 to have on an HD TV and the guys at Retro did a great job on the scenery and the story. You don't 
 really need to play the last two but it helps to have. All I can say negative about this game is 
 you need a friend with a MP3 game save to trade vouchers which can get you some bonus material, 
 but you can get most without them. People say there should be multiplayer, but Metroid's always 
 been about great story and singleplayer. If you have a Wii, pick this game up at your local video 
 game store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warcrafted
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  MP3 is the final game in the series and all i can say is wow. The first thing you ma notice is 
 the controls are greatly improved... you now aim and fire with the wii remote and move with the 
 nunchuk... the controls were a little odd at first if you are use to the old MP games but it quickly 
 become second nature to use. The graphics are a huge step up ( which i thought they were always 
 good before) . The music is very well done and gets you into the game. The game strats off fast 
 paced and never really lets up in the action... The bosses are huge and take some thinking to beat. 
 There are 6 main lvls to explore and each one will have you running around tryin to find the one 
 item you need to progess. I won; t say everything about the game that takes all the fun out of it 
 for you and trust me there is a LOT i did not say about it. The only regret i have is that it was 
 the last of the series. But who knows maybe there shall be a return of samus... only time shall 
 tell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mogz608
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, the best Metroid of the Prime series. The Wii remote gave the player 
 full control of Samus's movement and added for some extremely fun game play. This game deserved 
 that ten.
  
  ---Note: There may be spoilers in this review. ---
  
  Story: 10/10
  The story around Metroid Prime 3 is that phazon has corrupted near by planets with battleships 
 know as Leviation , Samus is given the mission to get on the Leviations and destroy the seed that 
 is corrupting the planet with Phazon. You get to explore four planets, Norion, Bryyo, Elysia, and 
 the Pirate home planet; you also get to explore may spaceships. So the story boils down eventually 
 and you have to travel to Phaze, via one of the Leviations for the final showdown with Dark Samus, 
 and to end the corruption of Phazon throughout the universe.
  
  Music: 11/10
  The music in Prime 3 was incredible, right from the get go, I loved the intro music that played 
 when I booted up Metroid Prime 3. The boss battles against the hunters and seeds were incredible, 
 they brought back the Ridley music, which was well done. All the music in this game was excellent; 
 and to top it all off, Retro gave you the music gallery so you could unlock your favorite songs 
 as you played through the game. The introduction of voice-overs for characters that you talk to 
 in game was good, and well done.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Now, this was the only spot I was sorta disappointed in but see in coming. The fact that Wii is 
 not that great in the graphics department usually doesn't bother me, but I was expecting more from 
 Retro this time around. The graphics ARE like the Gamecube versions of Metroid, which isn't a bad 
 thing, it still looks really good. Everything from the bosses to the environments looked really 
 well done. We will see if Retro kicks it up a bit in the next Metroid game.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  The gameplay in Metroid Prime 3 was great. The PeD suit was a nice addition 
 to the game, and Retro brought back weapons that I havn't seen in a while (Ice Missile) . The Wii 
 remote made for better aiming (at times) and, in my opinion, better movement controls. The use 
 of your ship also increased the gameplay value, as that is something that has yet to be done in 
 Metroid; most of the time your ship gets shot down, or hit by lightning, or crashes... or lands 
 safely but you can't use it cause your underground; the only thing that made me get excited but 
 then let down, was when I was in the cockpit and opened up my ship's weapons, I got to thinking 
 we would get a space battle... but nope, maybe next time.
  
  Overall: 10/10
  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is by far one of the best FPS I have played since Perfect Dark and 
 007 for the N64. This game is a MUST for anyone that is in the FPS scene or likes Metroid, you 
 will not be disappointed. The introduction of three diffrent difficulties makes for re-play value. 
 Prime 3 was by far the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skiwalker21
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  game is awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome vawesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome v awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesomeawesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesomeawesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B1NO
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Never liked Maetroid 1 &amp; 2 on GameCube but this now has changed !!! Storyline is a bit of a 
 letdown, since you always have to scan every object in order to receive the full experience of 
 the Metroid universe. Graphics are top notch for a 1,5st-Gen Wii title, great environments, multiple 
 routes, good variety in enemies !!
  
  ... too bad GAMESPOT is poised by reviewing Nintendo games, so is IGN,.. take the middle and always 
 check out READER REVIEWS !!..
  
  So don&acute; t want to keep you from playing that game, though I have to write a 100 letters :-D 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  There's no getting around the fact that Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is different from its predeccessors, 
 but what you may find surprising as you play further into the game ... is that the series surprisingly 
 remains very much the same as it did in the previous incarnations, while adding voice acting, cut 
 scenes, the best controls on any console first person shooter ever, new gameplay elements, stunning 
 graphics, and clarity to your objectives that the previous games simply didn't deliver on.
  
  The previous two games really separated themselves from other first person shooters because 
 they were more about really figuring out what you needed to do for yourself. You still have this 
 element in Corruption, but it seems more streamlined than it was in previous games. You need to 
 solve the puzzles and figure out how to get to different places just as you did in the previous 
 Prime games, but the game never leaves you hanging and lost like the previous titles did. Some 
 fans will cry foul at this, but in all truth all this does is make Corruption a kind of fine balance 
 between the extreme hardcore elements that make Metroid Prime games what they are, and the appeal 
 of objectives that will attract the core and mainstream gamers to the series. All in all, its a 
 fine balance and improvement over its previous incarnations.
  
  if you've played the first hour of Corruption that exists before acquiring the PED suit, you really 
 haven't played the game. This beginning hour is basically a very linear, story-propelled sliver 
 of the game that almost feels entirely different from the rest of the game in its vast entirity 
 -- the first hour seems like it was almost specifically made for E3 demos ... and, as far as game 
 cohesion is concerned, feels a bit like a different style of game all together ... but its fun 
 nonetheless. The point I'm getting to is ... this first hour isn't where the games at. Corruption 
 kicks into the familiar, overdrive version of its predecessors once you acquire your PED suit and 
 are sent on your merry way ... and this is where fans of the previous games will be hoping to get 
 to. That's not to say the first hour is bad, nor that its not filled with its cinematic moments 
 or nostalgic parts ... but it simply isn't like the rest of the game.
  
  Graphically, Corruption is definitely an improvement over its brethren, but its not perfect. The 
 game retains a Gamecube-like feel due to the first 9 months of development being produced souly 
 on Gamecube kits. The graphics are refined, the details sharp, the bloom lighting spectactular, 
 the particle effects stunning, the massive environments breath-taking, and the 60-frames-per-second 
 speed silky smooth .. but its not the best we've seen the Wii capable of doing -- Super Mario Galaxy 
 outperforms Corruption here in almost every respect, which is what keeps the game from a coveted 
 Perfect score.
  
  The different sensitivities of aiming ... from Basic, which is the equivalent of Red Steel, to 
 Advanced ... which is much like Call of Duty 3 ... and Standard, which is a fine balance between 
 the two .... really gives every player an option of control they'll be comfortable with. To me 
 ... Standard is where the money is at ... because you can aim all over the screen and still move 
 quickly while turning. Some say Advanced is the best, but to me ... if I try to aim at something 
 in my preferal vision, my whole camera view will start to move ... not just my cursor ... and this 
 is something I don't want. Standard is by far the most flexible.
  
  By far, Corruption is the best Metroid Prime 3 game to date, and the best Wii game at that. And 
 possibily, the best game I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1001001
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 Corruption is the ending to the Metroid Prime trilogy. This game took use of the 
 Wii remote and Nunchuck to move around and shoot while also doing some lever pulling by actually 
 moving the Wii remote in that direction. The story continues 6 months after Metroid Prime 2 Echoes. 
 Dark Samus reformed herself with a slightly new look and new powers that are stronger than ever. 
 It then goes over to Samus where she is on another mission to destroy the pirates and find out 
 what they're planning. After the hunters stop a meteor known as a Leviathan from crashing into 
 Norion, Dark Samus crashes through the window and infects them with Phazon and knocking them unconcious 
 for a month, giving Dark Samus enouth time to plant 3 Leviathans on 3 different planets. You control 
 Samus and try to destroy the 3 Leviathans before actually going to the source and destroy Dark 
 Samus for good.
  
  The way you control Samus is by moving her with the Nunchuck and and shooting with the Wii remote. 
 There is an option in this game in which you can choose to shoot with either Lock On/Free Aim or 
 just locking on just like in the first 2 games. Unlike Prime 1 and 2, you don't lose any of your 
 power-ups. Instead, you start out with all of them and find more on your quest. When you get a 
 beam, it's like in Super Metroid in which they're all stacked. They all provide the same effects 
 as each seperate beam but into one. You also get to use a P. E. D. suit which allows you to use your 
 Phazon to shoot and use other Phazon abilites you eventually get.
  
  There are in total 6 places you explore in this game. In each area, you will encounter bosses often 
 which is good considering they all provide a challenge. You will often have to uncover their weakspot 
 with something like a Grapple Lasso. The bosses are actually pretty easy sometimes since you have 
 the P. E. D. suit. The Phazon inflicts more damage to enemies and bosses, though sometimes the only 
 way to kill them is by using the P. E. D. suit. Unlike previous games on the Wii, this game actually 
 makes use of all of it's technology and makes the planets, effects and people look more real. The 
 details look great and smoke from missiles and explosions look very realistic. Also the way you 
 control Samus with the shooting and running is done perfectly in this game. For some reason, other 
 games that have tried to make shooters with the same controls were either very bad or just plain 
 sucked. But Retro Studios manages to do it right.
  
  Also new to this game are 2 other things. One of them is the difficulties in this game. You could 
 choose from Normal, Veteran, and if you beat a file, Hyper Mode. This feature kinda makes you want 
 to play this game again. The second new feature is the shop. For every new creature or lore scanned, 
 you will get a token. You also get a token for defeating bosses and from trading friend vouchers 
 with other friends. You can use your tokens to buy artwork, music, and bonuses that add to your 
 game.
  
  This game brought greatness to the Metroid Prime trilogy and though it's now over, Retro Studios 
 might just surprise us one day with a new 3-D Metroid game. For now, enjoy this game which will 
 give around 15 hours of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OGNeo69
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  I've only got 2 hours into the game but I am having a blast! I rate this game 9/10 because there 
 are a few minor problems. One primarily is the door stick/glitch. I can not tell you how many times 
 I have blasted a door while running towards, only to bump right into it. I have to back away from 
 it a few steps and then re-engage for the door to open. Graphically, it isn't too bad given the 
 engine and very much the same as the other primes. The inclusion of more and more interactivity 
 with npc's and full voiced dialogue is a VERY nice touch. All in all I would have rated higher 
 if you COULD control your ship in mid flight instead of just directing where it goes. The controls 
 are a bit of a learning curve as you will find yourself having to reposition yourself VERY often. 
 Some areas take a few more sweeps before you can get your bearings on where to hop to next. Most 
 of these are minor inconveniences and nothing to distract you to getting your full money's worth 
 from this. If your not a metroid fan or rather not a PRIME fan then you may not enjoy this as it 
 doesn't do too much different from the prime series as the gamespot reviewer said. The main thing 
 it DOES do different is make it MUCH more interactive. I can not tell you how much fun it is to 
 grapple pull, grapple swing, and turn opening locks here and there. Feel much more involved in 
 the universe than ever before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k0ntr0l
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  Corruption is the last title of the Prime triology and prolly the best one. At first sight you 
 might not notice the difference of the graphics with one of the previous title on the Gamecube, 
 but if you pay closer attention, the graphics are more polished now. The music is as good as all 
 other metroid, as usual it keeps you in the game for a very long time. The controls are the best 
 first person shooter controls ever made on a console. In term of gameplay, Metroid Prime 3 stay 
 the sames. The only difference is that now with the new controls the game offer a more FPS challenge 
 than the two other games. Its still a puzzle-kind game. Also the creator of the games corrected 
 some of the flaws of the two previous Metroid. Now you don't have to walk the whole map from a 
 point to another. There is now a system that let you fast travel when you have unlocked some key 
 point on the maps. But don't be too escited, you will still need to walk as usual, else it wouldn't 
 be Metroid.
  
  The only flaws of the games is the lack of multiplayer and that it might be a litle too easy. But 
 personally if they ever make another Metroid on the Wii, I wan't a multiplayer. I can't imagine 
 the gameplay with Metroid Prime 3 controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyrant002
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  A game to give Super Metroid a run for its money.
  
  Ok heres whats good about the game. Beautiful simply beautiful there is no other Nintendo game 
 that looks like this. Clean, crisp, and polished. Second easy navigation, Third voice-acting, Fourth 
 awesome soundtrack and extras. Fourth a worthy ending to a extraordinary trilogy and finally best 
 shooter controls with Wii-mote.
  
  The bad... well.... no co-op, better weapons would be nice, and a more epic and challenging final 
 battle would make this game a 10. I just finished this game today with a final score of 77% I think 
 i will go back and get everything else for 100% yup its that good. A worthy Halo rival. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xDarkSamusx72
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I can not express my feelings towards this game, without shedding a tear of pure awsomeness. This 
 game is probably the best game out for this summer, and there is no reason why it should not be 
 a niminee for Game of year, scratch that, be the Game of the year. The Good: Controls, new features, 
 voice acting, phazon beams, grabble lasso, dark samus, ridley, amazing story developement, ship 
 control, other planet travel. The bad: ..... ummm, no online Mulitplayer / multiplayer....... yup.... thats 
 the bad.... The Omuhgawd: Was that Kraid's head on that platform?!
  
  This game is an instant classic, if you own a Wii, you must stop by your local GameStop and buy 
 this game NOW. You can not put this game down once you have started it, you can NOT resist the 
 temptation to not aim at peeps special no-no places and shoot em there.
  This story will have you begging for more.
  
  This is the last of the Prime series..... but 
 is it the last of the Metroid series, will there be another game to pick up where Fusion left off? 
 -The following is a real log in the game-
  
  .........*Space pirate Log Entry No.13526: Metroid Project Dread is nearing completion.*
  
 
  METROID PRIME 3: CORRUPTION
  
  LoL Movie trailers..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_ObSeSsIoN
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is the best First-Person Shooter of its time because of the innovative 
 point-and-aim controls. It definitely takes the Wii Remote to the highest level entertainment few 
 games have done before (Ex: Warioware: Smooth Moves.) It has all the best features you can expect from 
 Metroid Prime. It has amazing puzzles that will actually get you to think and amazing enemies that 
 take more than the ability to push a button to kill, along with a great story-line. It is extremely 
 fun and is even fun to watch. I spent the last of my birthday money on this game and dont regret 
 it at all, it is definitely worth your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordRevan1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay=9
  Awesome gameply thanx to the Wii's unique controller, but there is one annoying little flaw. Sometimes 
 the lock-on messes up with enemies that move too much (sometimes it messes up with enemies that 
 are stationary) . Also, holding Z to lock on for extended periods of time can cause stress on your 
 hand. Retro Studios should have made it so that you only have to hit Z once to lock on, press it 
 and hold it and use the control stick to scroll through enemies, and tap it to end the lock on. 
 It would have made things a litle easier for the players.
  
  Graphics=9 Beatiful game, with great enviroments. I was playing on an old 27 TV and it looked great, 
 I cant imagine how it looks on a HD set. However, I just didnt think it deserved a perfect 10 on 
 the category
  
  Sound=9 Great background music that really sets the mood, and the sound effects are right on. Also, 
 the opening theme and the tune that plays when you get out of your ship never gets old
  
  Value=9 Its only around 20 hours long, but it feels much more than that because of how the game 
 manages to immerse you. However, its way too easy. I didnt play the first two, I chose the Veteran 
 setting, and I only died 3 times in the entire game. And those 3 time where in special events (protect 
 something from harm, get out in a limited amount of time, etc.) , not in actual fighting.
  
  Tilt=9 This category would have gotten a perfect thing even after the little flaws but one major 
 flaw got in the way. I call it At the door loading . Its exactly whgat it says. When Samus gets 
 to certain doors and tries to open them, there is a delay, which means the game is loading. At 
 the start of the game this was a very minor problem, only happening rarely on some doors. But as 
 I progressed through the game it got worse and worse, until it got to the point where most doors 
 had At the door loading . It really annoying, especially when you're excited to get somewhere, 
 or you are trying to escape from annoying attackers (Metroids are as annoying as ever) . One a side 
 note that has no influnce on the score of the tilt, I think there is no Learning Curve. I say this 
 beacuse throughout the ENTIRE game, I kept fumbling with the controls for some reason. I kept going 
 into Hypermode when I intended to switch visors, and I kept going to the visor switch screen when 
 I wanted to go to the map. It takes like a half hour to learn the controls, but you're going to 
 keep messing up with them forever (or it may have just been me) .
  
  So thats it. Even though it has around 3 minor flaws and one big flaw, this is still a must-have 
 for any Metroid fan and Wii owner. Too bad this is the last one, if Retro Studios managed to fix 
 the flaws with a brand new adventure, they would've had an even bigger hit on their hands 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOMIE_G64
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  The Metroid Prime series has been credited for successfully turning the Metroid series into a 3D 
 game. If you don't know what Metroid is, chances are you are new to gaming. Starting out on the 
 NES, Metroid created a non-linear platformer that shook the world with missiles, morph ball, and 
 others. Eventually hitting the Game Boy with Metroid II and the SNES with Super Metroid, the series 
 rocked the Nintendo systems and lead the attack against competitors along with Mario series and 
 Zelda series. If you expect me to explain the Mario and Zelda series, you would be better off looking 
 in wikipedia. org. For now, lets get on with Metroid Prime 3.
  
  Metroid Prime has been applauded for great visuals and sounds for the GameCube and 3D transition 
 of the Metroid series. However, Metroid Prime had several bad-points including back-tracking and 
 bad FPS controls (no dual-analog aiming) . Prime 3 attends to the controls by using the Wii-Mote 
 to aim. Lock-on is still available, but will be pretty much useless in later levels. Backtracking, 
 which has always been a hindrance in Metroid games, still exists... in about twice the amount as 
 Prime 2. While the Metroids series has been noted for the mainly soitary atmosphere, Prime 3 is 
 almost the exact opposite, with different Hunters and Federation troops working with you in the 
 beginning. While these differences are major, most of them are non-detrimental to the Metroid gameplay.
 
  
  Any Prime 2 and Hunters player will note the lack of multiplayer right away. While Nintendo and 
 Retro Studios did say they were considering Multiplayer, it seems that the plan fell through. It 
 is a pity seeing that the Wii controls probably would have been better than the Lock-on scheme 
 of Prime 2 and easier to get use to than Prime Hunter's.
  
  Single-player wise, aside from the differences afore mentioned, the gameplay is pretty much the 
 same. Objectives and attacking with ships are new additions, but you probably won't hit the 1 button 
 to check out the objectives frequently and the parts where you have to use your ship is spread 
 out sporadically. You do get to use new upgrades and weapons, however almost every Metroid game 
 has weapons unique to it. Notable unique weapons are the PED Suit that allows you to go into Hyper 
 mode for the cost of one energy tank and the Grapple lasso that allows you to use the grapple beam 
 offensively. Hardcore Prime 1 lovers will also find out that it is more about shooting than platforming 
 like Prime 2.
  
  Graphically, Prime 3 isn't much of a difference than Prime 1 or 2. You will notice more HUD effects 
 but that is pretty much it. Thank god Nintendo became smart enough to realize that speaker on the 
 'mote sucks. Sounds are pretty much the same as it's predecessors, but some noteworthy changes 
 are the voice acting (although Samus doesn't speak) .
  
  Althogether, Prime 3 is a great game. It does suffer from pitfalls like back-tracking, but it is 
 mostly a great game. If you don't have the money to buy it, at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barloc1337
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Samus makes her return to the consoles in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. This is of course the third 
 installment in the series, and if you liked the previous two, you will most likely like this game 
 as well. With enough new things to make it original, and enough old things from the previous games, 
 this is a great ending to the trilogy of the Metroid Prime games.
  
  First off the one thing everyone was wondering about for this game, were the controls. And to answer 
 these questions, the controls are awesome in many ways. If anyone had played Red Steel and thought 
 the controls were way to sensitive, then you'll be happy to know that the game's aiming is so much 
 better. It's perfect for a FPS on the Wii, and is the way it should be done for all other FPS' 
 on this system. Like in the old Metroid Prime games, you can lock on to enemies and strafe around 
 them and shoot at the enemies, only this time, the Wiimote adds some new flare to this system. 
 While locked on to enemies you can still free-aim with the Wiimote so you can shoot anything in 
 the screen while strafing around a targeted enemy. This is something a little more different then 
 the previous games since you weren't able to free-aim with the gamecube controller. This also adds 
 another way to play the game, which is more like a Halo feel. You don't have to lock on to an enemy 
 and you can just kill everyone using the free-aim. The game does a great job of moving the camera 
 once your aiming reticule gets to the edge. Overall you can play the game two different ways, making 
 the combat of the game much much better.
  
  While adding this stuff, the game still retains the same great elements that the previous games 
 in the series had, which are its back story, and puzzle elements. You'll find that the game's scanning 
 is still here, and you can learn more about the great things in the environment. Although it takes 
 a little bit of a backseat this time to the combat, since not everything has a detailed explanation. 
 As before it would give you a complete log of whatever you were scanning, now if you want to see 
 it, you will need to go through some menu's. The puzzle elements are still great and are difficult 
 and fun to complete. Although most of these puzzles couldn't be completed without Samus' special 
 abilities. This game has always had the great powers that Samus can have such as Missiles, Screw 
 attack, and the famous morph ball. All of these things will come into play during puzzle parts, 
 and make the game very rewarding to complete.
  
  Along with Samus' upgrades and special abilities, this time her ship gets a little love too. The 
 ship is a key component to completing some of the game's major puzzles. You will earn upgrades 
 such as missiles to destroy things with, and a crane to pick up things with. This is just another 
 addition to the puzzle solving elements of the game and is done well. The game's story is straight 
 forward for this kinda game. Your main objective is to go to these two planets that have been attacked 
 and have these things called Leviathan seeds. These seeds are corrupting the planets with a material 
 called Phazon. You must destroy the seeds on the planets to save them, although the game will take 
 you many places on the planet, and away from the planets. Samus herself early in the game is corrupted 
 by this material as well, which gives her this special power. This power allows her to be more 
 powerful, and makes you invulnerable for a time, although it has its downs. As you use it you lose 
 health for it. If you use it too much you then become corrupted by it, and overload, which if your 
 not too careful, will cause Samus to bite the dust. So although you may become all-mighty, you 
 could end up killing yourself. Along with all of this trouble, you have the amazing boss battles. 
 These parts will make you use everything at your disposal to defeat them. These instances cause 
 some truly epic battles that are just so rewarding to beat. The games graphics are as good as ever, 
 and for the first time, you are able to play them in 480p. Although not technically HD it makes 
 the game look truly great to look at. All the worlds and places that you visit have a unique look 
 to them that makes each one special in its own right. The games sound is great especially with 
 the addition of voice acting. The voice acting is pretty solid, and you mainly will hear it from 
 the people giving you your objective. It's definitely something new for the Prime games, but is 
 done reasonably well.
  
  This game will have you back tracking and going forward constantly. This game may take you a while 
 to complete, but this makes every single part rewarding. This is due in part to another small bit 
 with the emblem system. For every enemy you scan, important piece you scan, or every big objective 
 you complete, you are rewarded with a nice emblem to show what kind of work you have been doing. 
 There are also some cool extras in the game you can get by sending your friends vouchers. This 
 is probably the closest thing to an achievement system on the Wii.
  
  Overall this is a great addition to the Metroid Prime games. It certainly does it justice with 
 the new controls, and the same old elements that made the original so great. If you own a Wii, 
 you owe it to yourself to pick-up the best FPS available on the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaakti123
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  First Person Shooter, Action, Adventure, Puzzle, and Mystery all into one. That is what you get 
 when you play Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. This game proves itself to be the best installment in 
 the series mainly because of the wonderful control system. The innovative Wii controls make this 
 game super fun and easy to play. The storyline is also great! If you are a fan of the Metroid games, 
 this is DEFINATELY a game you want to pick up. Plus, I was SO excited because this is one of the 
 first wii games I own with good voice  It's so 
 cool! definately buy this game for sure uh huh yep buy it buy a wii if need be best game ever made 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Overkillhazard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is the first title made on the Wii that focuses on the more hardcore gamers. It 
 takes advantage of the Wii's controls for use as a first-person shooting method. However, it also 
 makes use of the Wii's extra graphical capabilities, making Prime 3 the best looking game in the 
 series. For those who hate Metroid-style games such as those in the Prime series, the first-person 
 controls are not going to make them think otherwise. The game is still both puzzle-oriented and 
 action-oriented. While some think the good Wii controls make the game too easy, playing Veteran 
 mode (not Normal mode) will give players a different message, as Veteran mode is for people who 
 have played video games (specifically Prime) before, while normal mode is merely for beginners. 
 Players who have played Prime, or any other video game requiring similar coordination, should probably 
 choose Veteran mode, while people who haven't played many video games (or at least not more difficult 
 ones) should start with Normal mode. As I said before, the graphics are great, as there is much 
 more lighting than in the previous games. The controls are also great, and add a new layer of depth 
 to the experience. There are small problems with the game such as door load times and context-sensitive 
 Wii controls, but those should be easy to ignore. All and all, I would have to say that this game 
 is the perfect choice for gamers with a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gonjulas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Although I was hoping that the 3rd Metroid would have multiplayer or online play the campaign still 
 makes the game entirely worth the money. There is quite a number of cutscenes but they all offer 
 great visuals. Also, almost all of the movements that Samus makes, you have to do some sort of 
 movement or button press to make her movement happen, which makes gameplay feel much more realistic 
 then many other games. If you're thinking about getting the game Metroid Prime 3 Corruption, just 
 ask yourself one simple question... Do you like fun? If yes, then go ahead and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mavrick588
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  So far most (if not all) games for Wii while being good have felt either half done or like some 
 big exparament. And while Metroid Prime 3 Corruption is just that, an exparrement , it doesn't 
 feel like it. i have been a fan of metroid for a very long time but i think i still keep an open 
 mind. the only reason my review differs from that of Game Spot is that 1: i played it on veteran, 
 they played on easy, so for me it was the hardest of the 3, for them it was easiest. 2 I don't 
 think its fair to say it got a lower score because its a sequal which is what game spot did. thats 
 basicly it so...... stop reading and go buy this game NOW!!!!
  if this review made you buy the game then send me some friend vouchers!
  if you don't have (or 
 want) a Wii then this game may not be for you as it does rely very hevily on Wii's unique abilities.
 
  All in all just a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  This is my first metroid game so I was wondering what I was missing and then I saw a video for 
 metroid prime 3 and the controls looked realy cool and they are! The controls are so fluid and it 
 realy feels like you are aiming at te enemy!
  So yeah this is my first metroid and I gave it a shot and I loved it. I am currently on september 
 1st on the second area and there are so many twist and turns and the scanning meter is prety cool 
 because it is a new way to solve puzzles. So far Im the this confederate ship or something and it 
 gets atacked by space pirates so the power goes out and you have to find your way out of the ship 
 blasting enemys. Then I encountered my first boss which which was a blast to fight! Anyway here 
 is how I rated it!
  
  graphics:10 out of 10: The graphics are the best I have seen yet on the wii console! Although I cant 
 decide if they are better than zelda.
  
  gameplay: The gameplay is awsome with tons of shooting and plot twist. (so far)
  
  controls:9.5 
 of 10: If it wasnt for the kinda sticky interactive controls I would have given it a 10. Its a very 
 minor flaw though and other than that the controls are perfect!
  
  overall:9.5 out of 10!
  
  This is a awsome wii game. I highley recomend it to anyone who has 
 a wii ,remote, and nunchuck ready to go! Even if you are new to metroid like me run out and get this 
 game as soon as possible! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vyse757
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Corruption is by far the best game in the Prime trilogy. It uses the Wii's controller to its full 
 potential. From opening doors to grappling shields off of enemies, and not to mention being able 
 to interact with the environment like never before. As always, the music an landscape create a 
 beautiful environment that will make you want to explore. Boasting both new and old tracks. Many 
 of the downsides from Prime2 have been removed to leave what can be best described as a masterpiece. This 
 game will leave you feeling like you are Samus, and is a must have for everyone who owns a Wii, 
 or plans on buying a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dethsesh
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This is the game every wii owner should purchase. Finally a game which uses the wii controls perfectly. 
 Alot of the fun in this game comes from solving the puzzles and challenges, and finding all the 
 pickups. I would not recommend using a strategy guide on your first play through because you will 
 lose out on alot of what the game is about which is figuring out what to do. The strategy guide 
 will take away this entire aspect. It uses a cool medal system where you earn medals for scanning 
 things, saving troopers, or defeating bosses and completing certain challenges. You can use these 
 medals in the extras shop to buy things and you can also acquire friend vouchers, which are like 
 medals but you must trade them to a friend in order for them to be worth anything in the store. 
 This doesnt make up for lack of multiplayer, but it is still cool.
  
  I recommend that anyone experienced with mp games or fps in general play their first time on veteran. 
 Normal is way too easy and veteran atleast offers a respectable challenge. Also setting the aim 
 sensitivity to advanced is a must. And please dont use the strategy guide, the game is alot more 
 fun without it.
  
  If your finally looking for a good game to play on your wii that doesnt involve senseless minigames 
 or mario, this is the game that will stop your wii from colleting dust! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViVi110
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  After about a month of the Wii, I was over the whole motion sensitive junk and just wanted a great 
 game that wasn't a bunch of Minigames. So far there has been 3 games that slipped away from the 
 rest of the crowd : Zelda, Super paper mario, and RE4: Wii edit. You can now make that a 4 thanks 
 to MP3. Corruption.
  
  1st of all, the game is a little bit different form the last 2. The game is much more commercial 
 than than previous installments thanks to voice acting and other characters besides Samus. For 
 a while it feels a bit like Halo then you notice the lack of blood and gore and it hits you that 
 this game is all Nintendo.
  
  This game has such amazing controls it's awe-inspiring. I could officially say that this game has 
 the best controls ever and that wouldn't be over-reacting. The only flaw is the always having to 
 point at the screen can be annoying so you better get a comfy chair in front of the TV. Trust me, 
 you'll want it after an hour of standing up.
  
  Another big difference is the difficulty in this Metroid. I've sadly never beaten a Metroid game. 
 I always make it all the way to the end without ever using a FAQ and then get crushed by the final 
 boss over and over again until I throw the controller on frustration. In this game on the default 
 difficulty the game is fun but not very challenging, which is good and bad.
  
  So overall...
  
  The good: Great controls, amazing visuals, and great gameplay.
  
  The 
 bad: the difficulty, the cheesy story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zandri
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely the best in the series, but the end of it was not the best way to end the 
 series. The storyline was a good one, and Nintendo did very well in making the character's mouths 
 match the words they were saying. Although, I was expecting Mother Brain to return or something.... and 
 I am utterly disappointed in the last bosses, because they were all too easy. Also, there weren't 
 very many new weapons to get either. Other than that, the gameplay was amazing, and most mid-game 
 boss fights were fun and challenging. I would definitely recommend this game to Wii owners everywhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeeDeeDee-er
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Now this is the way to end a trilogy. No video game series, or for that matter anything else that's 
 a trilogy has had an ending this strong. Hell, I never played Metroid Prime, and I never finished 
 Metroid Prime 2, but I know what's going on. Yes, I know what Dark Samus really is, and I know 
 the whole story. This game has the best graphics on the Wii, and the best I've seen on any Nintendo 
 game for that matter. The story is so perfectly made, that they could make a movie of this, and 
 it would be not at all less exciting. The boss fights are exceptionally good. In fact, I've not 
 played a game with as fun and challenging boss fights ever. I love the weapons, especially the 
 Ice Missles and the Plasma Beam (the welding power is so cool) . I love playing the corrupted bounty 
 hunters who Samus used to work with. I have 4 days of freedom (Summer break) left and I'll be doing 
 three things: 1. Guitar 2. Volleyball, and 3. Playing this awesome hell of a 
 
  
  That's the good, now here; s the bad... wait... there is no bad. I guess that's the end of my review. 
 Now go buy this game. Now!!!!! Why aren't you going?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  As if I really need to introduce this game. Part one of Nintendo's 2007 holy trinity is finally 
 available, and if you're still on the shelf about picking up a Wii, allow Metroid Prime 3: Corruption 
 to decide for you. Let's establish something though. If you came here looking for a perfect score, 
 you're in the wrong place, as you could obviously see the final numerical verdict before even reading 
 this. Nevertheless, we here at COE have a job to do, and since I'm the one responsible for critiquing 
 Retro Studios' latest masterpiece, allow me to enlighten and [hopefully] entertain you.
  
  This is Samus Aran's final mission. Well, not final final, but Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is the 
 conclusion to the Prime trilogy. Nintendo fans first encountered Miss Aran in her first 3D adventure 
 as she descended to the toxic lands of Tallon IV, where her ancestors, the Chozo, no longer existed, 
 Space Pirates ran rampant, and Metroids were being experimented on. Echoes followed the infamous 
 bounty hunter to planet Aether, where she investigated a distress call from a Galactic Federation 
 squad. She would discover a new race, the Luminoth, and an enemy from the dark side, the Ing. Why 
 is this important? Simple, because it was on Aether that you met Dark Samus, a likeness of Samus 
 made entirely out of phazon, a poisonous blue substance. Now gaming's most kick ass heroine has 
 a closer relationship with the Federation than ever before, as she not only aids them in eradicating 
 a spreading evil, but discovers the main source of what's plagued the whole series. Might this 
 prove to be too much for Samus, or is this just another day at the office?
  
  Thousands of us had been concerned due to the game's screenshots, because they made out MP3 to 
 not look so hot. Thankfully that media didn't represent the game justly, as direct feed videos 
 showed us Corruption's true form. As we were hoping from our second preview, the game has visually 
 outclassed Twilight Princess and Resident Evil 4. You don't need a fancy pants HD TV to appreciate 
 Corruption, as it looks astonishing on any kind of set. If 480p and 16:9 widescreen is your thing 
 though, chances are you won't be disappointed. Metroid Prime 3 in no way looks &gt; just like its 
 predecessors. The bloom lighting alone is awesome, enhancing a good deal of the game with a cool 
 neon glow, which adds to the environmental effects, especially fire. The texture mapping is more 
 advanced, which makes everything appear crisper. Samus' weaponry demonstrates Corruption's particle 
 effects well, with excellent explosions and battle detail. There are some little things that impressed 
 me too. Samus' eyes and part of her face reflect in her helmet at times, and you can also see her 
 facial phazon corruption, which really adds to the tone. Heck, Retro even went as far as displaying 
 a set of four bars at the top of the HUD that denotes your remote's battery life, creative indeed. 
 Moving on, the character and enemy models aren't as complex as you might see on other consoles, 
 but for Wii's architecture, Retro developed a very distinguishing set of GF solders, creatures 
 and Space Pirates. The art style also complements Metroidas a whole, with incredibly polished planets, 
 ancient and modernly designed technologies. I could go on and on here, just accept that Corruption 
 looks awesome.
  
  What also sets Metroid Prime 3 apart from its GameCube relatives is the audio production. Unlike 
 what Twilight Princess didn't do, Corruption has a bevy of voice support, as you'll hear the Galactic 
 Federation, the new hunters you meet, as well as a few other roles. Samus never says a word, which 
 is fine, but the convincing voice work helps to make the entire experience more lively and interactive. 
 It just sucks to be thirsty for more, because some stretches don't have much. The music is right 
 there too, as the scores composed for Corruption bring a very moody and dark feel to the action. 
 Some is remixed from Metroid titles past, while the rest is brand new. Let me tell you, hearing 
 a rendition of Norfair's theme really brings back memories. The sound effects are just as wonderful; 
 delivering the game's battle and technologically-driven audio, bringing the whole package together.
 
  
  Now with talk about all the pretty out of the way, let's blast right into the gameplay engine. 
 Many Wii owners felt stiffed by Red Steel, the console's first FPS representative. A handful of 
 other games have tried to rival the mouse and keyboard setup, but to no avail. Well, we can thank 
 Retro Studios for finally hitting the mark with the nunchuk and remote when it comes to shooter 
 standards. As long as you change the aiming sensitivity to Advanced, Metroid Prime 3 feels and 
 plays like no other FPS youve ever touched. I'll admit that I defended Red Steel, encouraging 
 people to take the time to learn how it plays, but Corruption has rather opened my eyes. I didn't 
 have to take a second to feel comfortable playing, and that speaks volumes. If you grew up with 
 shooters, there's no reason not to like Corruption. Now granted doing a 180&deg; turn isn't as 
 particularly quick as with a mouse, but it never proves an issue in battle, so it's pointless to 
 gripe about. If you've been afraid to lay down the $49.99 because of this, trust in me when I say, 
 Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is just the beginning of top-notch Wii first-person games.
  
  Control-wise, Retro made sure to map all of Samus' abilities for seamless execution. You fire her 
 arm cannon with A, jump with B, lock on to something with Z, enter/leave morph ball form via the 
 C button, and finally, let loose missiles by pressing down on the remote's D-Pad. Corruption also 
 has its share of motion sensitive scenarios, and thank goodness none of it involves waggle. In 
 fact, it all not only makes sense, but feels perfectly natural. For instance, Samus' grapple beam 
 is unleashed by targeting something it can attach to, and flicking the nunchuk forward slightly. 
 It can also be used to strip an enemy of its shield, and clearing objects [such as debris] from 
 the game's various environments, lots of fun. The Wii remote even brings back a toy from Super 
 Metroid, the spring ball, as all you need to do is flick up with while in morph ball form. In addition, 
 there are some situations that require you to manipulate levers and handles for various purposes. 
 If using simple gestures to do that sounds appealing to you, then you'll have some good times. 
 Finally, there are three visors in Corruption, and switching takes nothing more than simply holding 
 the minus (-) button and pointing to any of three quadrants within Samus' visor. Nevertheless, 
 having Wii's best shooter setup can only take Corruption so far. Does it translate into a fun adventure 
 too? Hell yes! The concluding plot by itself may not necessarily enthrall you, but it does the 
 job that Retro intended, and progressing through it feels much better than the previous Primes. 
 Instead of one insanely vast planet, Corruption features more than four unique [and condensed] 
 locations, making exploration less cumbersome. In fact, the game's excellent use of exploration, 
 shooting and platforming elements are all a joy to witness first-hand. There's just so much to 
 do. Samus' duty in all this is to dispatch any who stand in her way via her arm cannon, and as 
 you upgrade it, the effects stack, a formula borrowed from Super Metroid. Corruption also introduces 
 quite a few new cool gadgets for Miss Aran, and it's so satisfying when you find them. Along with 
 all this, as Samus becomes corrupted by phazon [as the game's subtitle describes] , she is able 
 to enter Hyper Mode. Holding down the plus (+) button gives Samus a huge boost of firepower. The 
 only downside is that you can die if it's left on for too long. Finally, there is a handful of 
 tasty boss battles to bite into. They may not be exceptionally challenging, but they are memorable. 
 The final battle is definitely not as tough as the ones in the previous Prime games, but it does 
 help answer a couple questions.
  
  My only frustration was not knowing what to do for a good three hours. It's just sad that it was 
 something simple that I kept overlooking. If that didn't happen, my experience would've been as 
 smooth as silk. That's the real beauty of Corruption. The backtracking is very meaningful, as you 
 navigate Samus' gunship from area to area in sweet looking cinematic fashion. It would've been 
 extremely cool to actually fly it and engage in some space fights, but at least the vessel can 
 be called upon via the Command Visor for bomb runs on the planets. There's plenty to do as you 
 investigate new plot developments, obtain new equipment, or snag some helpful expansions. Ok, many 
 have wondered how long it would take to complete the campaign. Retro thankfully toned down tedious 
 foot travel, so the journey from start to finish is far more cohesive than before. There is a side 
 mission that requires you to search for and obtain a set of energy cells, which is a callback to 
 the key quests of the other Primes, but chances are you'll run into most of them when not even 
 specifically looking. Anyway, a first play through should run in the neighborhood of 14 to 20 hours. 
 On top of that, Prime 3 has a rather interesting awards system. You receive medals for various 
 accomplishments, such as scanning new logbook items or reaching a certain milestone of enemy kills. 
 These can be used to purchase the game's extras, like soundtrack music, art, and a few in-game 
 collectibles. The only issue here is the need to have Wi-Fi access for your Wii, in addition to 
 friends playing the MP3 too. There are Friend Vouchers that can be traded using WiiConnect24, and 
 those green medals help to redeem special unlockables like a screenshot tool, or even a bobble 
 head for Samus' gunship. It seems to be a forceful way to have a barely passable online Metroid 
 community, so chances are not too many will like what they having to do that.
  
  You may remember before that Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is merely one-third of Nintendo's holy 
 trinity for 2007. If Corruption is any indication of the trio's quality, then it along with Mario 
 Galaxy and Brawl are going to make Wii the definitive console of the year. Many Nintendo fans have 
 been crying out for more worthwhile games for the smallest gaming system ever made, and methinks 
 that MP3 is just the start for a handful of goodness until 2007 comes to a close. Retro Studios 
 has an incredible track record, and it isn't stopping any time soon. I believe they are one of 
 the most talented developers in our beloved industry, and it shows as they truly nailed the FPS 
 control setup that millions of Wii owners have desired since the remote and nunchuk were unveiled. 
 Kudos to you Retro, and thanks for one of the most fulfilling gaming experiences I've had in quite 
 a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TENTHROW2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the primary reasons i bought a wii and boy was it worth the wait. Not only 
 is it the best in the series, but it takes advantage of the wii remote/chuck better than any other 
 game so far.
  
  The combat is spot on, the wii remote is responsive, aiming is tight, the moving, jumping, it all 
 just works so well. The boss fights are AMAZING, some of the best to date on any platform.
  
  Some say it's great, but the been there done that feeling from the previous metroid games is 
 what hurts it, and i say bleh. the game is great, and the wii brings it to life like only the wii 
 can.
  
  regardless of who owns the metroid license, this game could not work on any other platform other 
 than the wii. it's amazing and so involving with the wii remote.
  
  the only complaint i have about the game is that after some extended playing my wrist cramped up 
 preventing me from playing longer =) . Do yourself a favor and get this game, it's a must have for 
 any Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ash83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge metroid fan and I think this is definitely the best of the series (although the first 
 one was almost without equal) but I have one major problem with it - the mandatory update has problems. 
 I have never modded my wii, and yet the system seems to get confused and won't read the disc about 
 every other time I play it. That was all fine and good, but then when I beat the final boss of 
 bryyo and moved on to the next planet, my system said it couldn't read the disc and I had to fight 
 the boss over again. I was just wondering if anyone else had this problem. Great game, bad update. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiifan127
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I own the whole Prime trilogy, and MP3 is by far the best one. Better controls, more of a story, 
 better environments, better combat, everything you want in a Prime game. The game starts out with 
 Samus going to a federation ship to receive her new mission: To stop phazon corruption throughout 
 the galaxy. In a first for the Prime series, you don't lose any powers in the beginning. I liked 
 this a lot. You start out with double jump, morph ball, and charge beam, and about 10 minutes into 
 the game, you get the grapple lasso, which you can use to yank debris and stuff out of your way 
 by locking on to stuff with Z, flicking the Nunchuk, and pulling back (very satisfying) . And you 
 get the missile launcher really soon as well. And you will get more power ups as the game goes 
 on. THE HUGE SETBACK: LOADING TIMES! The thing that annoys me the most is shooting any door and 
 having to wait 10 seconds for it to open. This happens with almost every door. Some doors open 
 quickly, but very few do. That is the thing I don't like about this game. That's actually the only 
 thing I don't like about this game. The environments are great (what's better is there's no dark 
 world in this game) . There is a lava place, ice place, technological place, space stations, etc. 
 Another big thing: There is voice acting in this game! Yay! Every character in the game talks... except 
 Samus. But I like it that way. And they don't conceal her face until the end of the game like the 
 other two games did. She'll take off her mask fairly early in the game. The controls are the best 
 part of MP3: C. You aim with the Wii remote to shoot. And there is a lock-on feature that, you 
 lock on, but you can still move around, and you still have to line up the shot. Do not use any 
 control scheme besides the Advanced scheme. Basic and Standard are like Red Steel controls. Advanced 
 is like a mouse-and-keyboard setup. It will take some getting used to, but in about 15 minutes 
 of practice, you'll get it down. And WiiConnect24 is used to send screen shots you can take while 
 you play to your friends... but, you have to unlock the ability to do that first. So, that pretty 
 much sums up my review. Do not hesitate to buy! This is a more combat-oriented game, too. Still 
 a lot of exploration, but a lot better combat! Get this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihateelvis
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Since the announcement of this game's development more than two years ago, I had been eager to 
 play this game. Unfortunately, the game's long development meant that I had to wait what felt like 
 an extremely long time to play it, but now that it's here, I don't regret the wait at all. Metroid 
 Prime 3: Corruption, stands out as the most immersive, enjoyable and smoothly-controlled games 
 on the Wii to date, and the effort that Retro obviously put into making this game makes it shine 
 almost as brightly as the original Metroid Prime did. You start off yet again as the infamous Bounty 
 Hunter Samus Aran, this time sent out on a mission with three other bounty hunters to travel to 
 various planets to deliver a vaccine to their respective infected Aurora Units (biological supercomputers 
 that look suspiciously like Mother Brain) . However, things don't go as smoothly as planned, and 
 you'll be once again caught up in another world-saving plot (or in this case, universe-saving) 
 that will have you adventuring through multiple breathtaking environments and fighting off large, 
 vicious enemies.
  
  The first thing that stands out about the game are its visuals. Right from the start, you'll notice 
 how detailed everything is. You're able to see Samus' eyes very subtly from the reflection on her 
 visor. Your view fogs up slightly as you walk past a vent of steam. It's these small, seemingly 
 unimportant aspects of the game that really make it shine. This isn't to say that the rest of the 
 game looks terrible. In fact, everything, no matter how small or large, has an immense amount of 
 detail, and it makes you wonder how Retro was capable of making such a wonderfully-looking game 
 despite the Wii's somewhat limited hardware.
  
  Even with stunning graphics, a game needs more than just visuals if it is to have a heavily atmospheric 
 feel. Fortunately, the sound in Corruption is top-notch as well. While a few of the sounds are 
 recycled, from opening doors to the grunt when Samus falls a little too far for her liking, they're 
 still appropriate, two games later. However, each area has its own, appropriate soundtrack. Sometimes 
 you'll hear music that heavily accentuates the battle that you're fighting, and other times you'll 
 hear almost nothing at all, as you aren't doing much in the game except exploring or getting to 
 the place you have to go next. All in all, the game's musical score and array of sound effects 
 are almost as top-notch as the game's visuals.
  
  While I've been praising the sound and visual effects that Metroid Prime 3: Corruption has to offer, 
 these aren't even the game's strong points. To back up the already fantastic atmosphere, the game 
 has some of the best gameplay and controls that a console shooter has ever had. While you may be 
 skeptical about how well the game works on the Wii instead of the Gamecube, there's definitely 
 no need to fear; Corruption moves smoothly, and you're never fumbling with the controls (unless, 
 of course, you're playing on any control scheme other than Advanced) . The analog stick moves your 
 body in any direction, while pointing the Wiimote at various different directions on the screen 
 changes the direction in which you're looking at. It's extremely simple to get used to, which is 
 a plus considering just how many abilities and functions you'll have by the time you've reached 
 the end of the game.
  On top of fluid controls, the newest Metroid Prime title features yet another huge, intricate world 
 (or worlds) in which there are many secrets and places to be discovered that aren't typically uncovered 
 in just the main storyline. Just like before, you'll find yourself scouring to the farthest reaches 
 of every area in hopes of finding that one extra powerup that you were looking for. You'll be doing 
 the same backtracking as in previous Metroid titles, only to discover even more hidden areas and 
 places that you never knew existed. This is what made the original Metroid Prime game a classic, 
 and it still works two games later. What's more, Corruption features much more replay value than 
 any game before it. With the addition of 'tokens' that you earn by doing various different things 
 throughout the games, you can buy extra content from the bonus menu. As usual, you'll also get 
 the typical Hard Mode (this time under the name Hyper Mode Difficulty) once you've beaten the game.
 
  
  Unfortunately, just like nearly any game, it's not without its flaws. The first problem is that 
 the game starts out slightly too linear. While the initial 'tutorial level' is meant to be this 
 way, it extends much into the first area as well. Fortunately, soon enough you'll find yourself 
 venturing out, putting your main objectives on hold to discover things on your own.
  
  Another, slightly larger problem, is the game's difficulty. It's quite a bit easier than the other 
 Primes, which is quite unfortunate due to the fact that the Wii is in desperate need of more titles 
 suitable for the hardcore gamer. In fact, the final boss was so underwhelming that it left me wondering 
 is that it? This isn't to say that the game isn't enjoyable, it's just that it would have been 
 nicer if Retro had been more punishing with the difficulty.
  
  Yet another problem, probably the most annoying in my opinion, is the rather lame idea of Hyper 
 Mode and being corrupted. In order to activate Hyper Mode, you must inject an energy tank into 
 your PED system, allowing you to convert your beam into a temporary Phazon blaster. While this 
 does more damage, most of the time you'll probably have been better off not to use it, as you would 
 have saved more energy if you'd have fought them normally. While you can cancel Hyper Mode at any 
 time, and the life you regain is directly proportional to how much Phazon you had left, it still 
 seems like it was a waste of life energy. What's more, slightly later on when you become corrupted 
 if you stay in Hyper Mode for too long, you have to completely deplete your Phazon if you are to 
 survive (also resulting in you not being able to quit Hyper Mode at will, and forcing you to use 
 up an energy tank) . While this sounds like a bit of a nuisance, it is actually very, very helpful. 
 Strangely enough, once you become corrupted, your Phazon amount continues to rise. If your Phazon 
 gauge becomes full, you die. However, this means that you have an ever-increasing amount of Phazon, 
 for the price of one energy tank. If you can keep your bar from getting completely full or depleting 
 completely, you can essentially stay in Hyper Mode forever, thus making you overly powerful in 
 an already toned-down game, as far as difficulty goes. Finally, Phazon energy is sometimes required 
 to defeat enemies (as with most bosses) . While the game may be easy, using up an energy tank to 
 be able to blast your enemies with Phazon energy is not something you want to do when you have 
 little energy left. Yet, it must be done if you wish to beat some bosses. If you're down to low 
 health, and you want to beat a boss, you can't pull out a ton of skill and beat him, and it is 
 literally impossible to beat him unless you find some way to get energy powerups (which is generally 
 possible, but very time-consuming) .
  
  The last flaw, while not a big deal, does still provide a problem. Save Stations are very, very 
 scarce, and lots of the time you have to rely on your gunship to replenish your health and save 
 your game. While there are a decent amount of landing points throughout the game, some of them 
 aren't accessible right away and having to switch to your command visor, call your ship, wait for 
 the animation to finish, and walk in your ship takes far longer than simply walking into a save 
 station. Despite what seems like a large amount of flaws, compared to Metroid Prime 3: Corruption's 
 strengths, you'll hardly notice them at all. You'll be enjoying yourself far too much behind the 
 visor of Samus Aran, exploring foreign worlds and blasting large enemies to excessively notice 
 these relatively minor flaws. Anybody who owns a Wii should definitely try this game, as it is 
 one of the most epic and hugely atmospheric games of this generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViewtifulLos
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  ULTIMATE CONTROL. SIMPLE, YET MIND TWISTING PUZZLES. BEAUTIFUL GRAPHICS AND ANIMATION. AND 6 AMAZING 
 BOSS BATTLES.
  
  ALL THAN AND IM ONLY 7 HOURS INTO THE GAME.
  
  TRY IT AND IF U DONT FEEL THE SAME AS ME AFTER 1 HOUR, GO PLAY TAMAGOTCHI OR SOMETHIN...
  
 
  HONESTLY THOUGH, I DIDNT KNOW HOW I WOULD REACT TO HAVING MY HANDS WORK INDIVIDUALLY FROM ONE 
 ANOTHER, YET AT THE SAME TIME, RELY ON ONE ANOTHER'S MOVEMENTS SO MUCH WHILE PLAYING THE WII. RED 
 STEEL TRIED TO DO SOME COOL THINGS AND IT ENDED UP NOT DOING MUCH AT ALL. CORRUPTION HAS DELIVERED 
 ON EVERY LITTLE DETAIL WE HAVE BEEN READING ABOUT FOR THE PAST COUPLE OF YEARS AND, BELIEVE IT 
 OR NOT, HAS SURPASSED THEM. IF YOU DONT OWN A WII BECAUSE YOU THOUGHT ZELDA WASNT WORTH IT, OR 
 YOU'RE NOT INTO THE PARTY GAMES AND YOU ALSO HATE RESIDENT EVIL 4 FOR SOME REASON, YOUR OMEN HAS 
 ARRIVED. AND SHE WEARS A VARIA SUIT... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shivercraft
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I could go into a long winded discussion about the story of MP3, but other than fanboys, no one 
 would care. I could go into great depth about the amount of beauty in this games presentation or 
 the neat little wii-specific control scheme games that are used for pulling levers and open doors, 
 but that would be asinine and do little to tell people about what makes this game TRULY amazing. 
 The most amazing thing about this game is the fact that it is an exceptionally well done FPS in 
 almost every way on the Wii.
  
  If you were wondering what a first-person shooter should be like on the Wii and tried Farcry or 
 any of the WWII specific games (I am sorry if you did) , then you did not have high hopes for the 
 system for the shooter front, however Retro studios is here to shove your Nike in your cake-hole. 
 Metroid Prime 3 is perhaps the most immersive first-person shooter I have ever played, and I have 
 played way too many FPS on consoles and PCs alike.......
  
  Classic gameplay elements - such as finding powerups ( why doesn't Samus just keep the old ones???????) 
 and rolling into a tight little ball that feels me with a sense of weird perversion, are here. 
 Love 'em or hate 'em, they ain't leaving.
  
  New features - an amazing control scheme, a plot with a lot more straightforward shooting and fighting 
 with less hunting of random items is here (FUG YEAH!!!!!)
  
  I cannot recommend this game highly enough to those fans of the FPS genre, I would say fans of 
 metroid, but you would buy this game even if it gave you cancer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  STORY: The story-line once again picks up from Prime 2. It's been a long while since the Aether 
 adventure when you are called to an Airship. Upon meeting the captain Space Pirates attack and 
 you fight back to your ship and must now fly to Adrion where the story picks up. You and three 
 other hunters are corrupted with Phazon. When you awake it is a few months later the other hunters 
 have disappeared on corrupted planets and you must destroy the Levitions on each planet and destroy 
 Dark Samus.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is amazingly simple and addictive. Point the Wii-Mote to aim and simply 
 rapid fire by button mashing A. A also interacts with objects usually hand screens or levers. Levers 
 and Pumps is a minor downfall to gameplay due to some movements that won't work a few times. B 
 of course is the jump button and also later in the game used for the screw attack allowing you 
 to jump large gaps and bounce between walls. A few new things are added. Z and Shaking cause the 
 grapple lasso allowing you to pull armor off or swing this sometimes fails to work on the first 
 try and usually results in a fall. C allows you the famed morph ball ability. Shake up in morph 
 ball allows a jump in ball mode unseen in previous metroids. A uses your morph ball bombs which 
 can be used in right timing to jump to high areas. B charges boost ball later on which you can 
 use to destroy opponents by running them. Boss battles are very dramatic and tends to usually be 
 you and a five to twenty times bigger then normal creature. The hypermode activated with + allows 
 devastating blows but ultimately can kill you if used too long.
  
  GRAPHICS: Here's where it becomes on par with Halo. Graphics. Anything in the environment if you 
 get close enough more detail can be seen. Metallic walls show scratches, lighting, little etches 
 you'd see in metal. Creatures usually have good effects and show some neat features up close. Then 
 environments are huge and a lot of fun to fit in. The spiky, fuel gel, fungus, covered world of 
 Bryyo. The skytown of floating chozo towers (similar to the Sky Town in Zelda: Twilight Princess) . 
 Your blaster is nice. When you get new grapples you can see the difference of the armor on Samus's 
 left hand. Regretfully more detail = more load time which = some doors that take forever to open. 
 (In case you don't know the doors in Metroid Prime games that always seem to never open is to cover 
 up loading time.)
  
  OVERALL: The game is a definate great addition to any Wii owners collection. There is a lack of 
 multiplayer however multiplayer in Prime 2 didn't really seem that great so I doubt they could 
 have done great with MP3. However using the three other hunters Ghor, Gandraya, and Rundas could 
 have been a possibility. I don't mind however. I give Metroid Prime 3 a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McPwned
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Alliteration is dumb. You know what else is dumb? GameSpot, for giving Metroid Prime 3: Corruption 
 an 8.5 score. And I'm not the only one who thinks that there is something amiss with their article.
 
  
  Okay, moving on. Corruption is one awesome game. It remains in the spirit of the series, while 
 doing enough different to give it a resounding freshness. There is much more shooting in this installment, 
 and while the game feels less like you as the lone soldier carving a path through untamed territories, 
 it retains the feel enough to be wholly satisfying. These new features include, but are not limited 
 to, hypermode, advanced gunship interaction, and an innovative and near-perfect aiming system.
 
  
  The hypermode is a process whereby Samus uses Phazon inside her body to augment and super-charge 
 her weapons systems. You have to be careful, though: going into hypermode reduces your energy supply 
 and can have unwanted... repercussions.
  
  The new gunship features are a welcome addition. You can enter your ship and fly to the different 
 planets in the game, and each planet has several landing zones. You can also check out your stats 
 in your gunship, and push a bunch of different buttons for fun. In the first game, you had your 
 gunship just sitting in a field, doing nothing. Now, using the Command Visor, you can send your 
 ship to different landing zones so it can pick you up, or you can call down missile strikes in 
 certain areas to take down large structures or barriers.
  
  The aiming system is quite intuitive as well. Instead of using the two-joystick system, you use 
 the nunchuk's joystick to turn and strafe, and aim the Wiimote for free-looking and turning. The 
 sensitivity is perfect (unlike Red Steel) , and you can lock-on to enemies, like the first two games. 
 However, you now have the option of having free-aim while locking on. This means that you can centre 
 your screen on an enemy, and still be able to aim anywhere on the screen. Your targeting reticule 
 turns red when you aim at an enemy, so you know where to fire - assuming they're not moving fast, 
 of course.
  
  These are just three good reasons to buy Corruption. If you haven't played any of the other games, 
 the Phazon side of the story might be a little confusing, but don't let it deter you. If you own 
 a Wii, you have to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samasora
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is definitely the best in the series, the bosses are awesome and the game includes 
 fun objectives and takes a while to finish i still haven't finished it! Anyway its worth buying 
 it and i still don't see how Gamespot can give it a 8.5 when its rank 1 on the wii and rank 2 out 
 of all the games they have which is about 41,000! Anyway the game is great and you should buy it 
 cause you won't be disappointed. The only bad thing about the game is that the controls aren't 
 perfect but its still fun plus motion detected technology in consoles are new so its great for 
 what we have now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver022
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  As someone who doesn't like FPS games because it was too difficult to accurately wobble the joystick 
 around to get a headshot, I gotta say, these new Wii controls have changed my outlook on FPS games. 
 The controls are very slick, easy to use, and intuitive to say the least. The graphics are mind-blowing.. 
 Especially for a non-HD system. Could have fooled me! And I didn't even like the first two MP games. 
 Wow, Nintendo.. You've really stepped it up a notch. Let's hope third parties learn from you guys 
 and create more kick-@$$ games like this! Everyone MUST own this game in their collection! Don't 
 even think about renting it.. Just walk to Best Buy, hand over the $60, and enjoy. It's worth every 
 penny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ponmop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  From the very start, Metroid Prime 3 grabs you and never lets go. You've probably already heard 
 about how great the controls are, how the game sports the best graphics seen on the Wii to date, 
 and how the gameplay is perfectly balanced between action, adventure, puzzles, and so on. These 
 are all absolutely true and contribute to making Corruption the best gaming experience currently 
 available on the Wii. I cannot recommend this game enough. Every aspect of the game has been refined 
 and polished to a breathtaking degree. You'll find yourself just sitting and starring at your surroundings 
 from time to time because Retro Studios has done such a beautiful job with the game's art assets. 
 And the controls really are razor sharp. I can see why people have said that they'll never look 
 at dual-analog the same way after playing this game. To sum it all up, Corruption is fantastic. 
 If you're looking for a deep, immersive, challenging single player experience, look no further. 
 Metroid Prime 3 has it all, and has very quickly made it's way into my list of all time favorite 
 games. You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartansrock
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  From playing this game for only 10 minutes i was already hooked for 3 hours coming. The smooth 
 game play and the stunning graphics make this game very desirable. There are some things that could 
 be tweaked but no game is perfect. The interface is extremely interactive but not so much to the 
 point where its annoying. This game clearly stands out among the many Wii games in circulation 
 currently if not only in graphics but controls. Some of the old enemies are back with different 
 names. Your power suit gets an over haul thanks to Dark Samus and unlike other games where you 
 loose your powers right off the bat, you keep the ones you start with. If your looking for a Good 
 game to become addicted to for the next week. Corruption is your game of choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Intro- Metroid has always been one of the best series ever, and we were lucky to see Retro Studios 
 bring it back to the GC with MP. While MP was ground-breaking, MP2 was quite boring at times while 
 still a solid game. MP3 tries to remake the excitement of the first Prime by changing the way the 
 series is played in more ways than just controls. To say the least, they succeeded. Gameplay- The 
 game starts out with little adventure, and instead focuses on heavy shooting. You start off fighting 
 a couple of major battles against Space Pirates, and its a great new twist to the series. It takes 
 a little while to get used to the fast controls, but once you do, you will quickly notice how effective 
 they are. Not only are they far improved from past Wii FPS, but because you dont have to point 
 to the edge of the screen to turn, it is quite simply the best controlling FPS (or FPA is you prefer) 
 on any console. Ever. Being able to jump over enemies and shoot them in the head or lock on to 
 one and blast others as well is simply riveting and I could go on all day about how terrific the 
 controls are. After the first 1 &frac12; hours, you finally get to have some adventure, and you 
 wont be disappointed. The world is cut into sections, which makes adventuring easy (maybe too 
 easy) , and actually takes away from it some. However, you fight huge battles almost EVERY step 
 of the way and unlike in the previous Primes, you are never bored. Being able to go into your ship 
 and have it bomb things is awesome, and a nice addition to the game. The weapons are much better 
 as well, and Hypermode is nothing short of kick-ass. There is greater variety of enemies, most 
 of which are Space Pirates or other gun-wielding foes. The way you fight enemies other than shooting 
 them is completely innovative. Using your nunchuck to grab enemies with the grapple beam and then 
 rip their shield off (or, for some enemies, you simply kill them with it) so you can shoot then 
 never gets old. Other enemies are perfect for fighting with the Wiimote. One of the other biggest 
 highlights of this game is the boss fights. MP3 contains what are easily the best (and biggest) 
 bosses to do battle with in the series, and many take full advantage of the Wiimote + nunchuck 
 controls. They are not over-challenging like most of the game, but you better watch what youre 
 doing, because the later bosses wont exactly lie down and let you kill them. The A. I. is another 
 strong point in MP3, and enemies are much smarter than in the previous Primes. Their strategy consists 
 of more than just moving to a different location to get a better shot. This time around, they take 
 cover behind most anything that is available, never glitch up, and will even try to flank you at 
 times, which can be great fun in large areas. The amount of action on screen is much more than 
 in MP2, and you even fight alongside Galactic Federation troops at times. Any way you look at it, 
 this is one of the most innovative titles out there, and this is the way Wii games should be made.
 
  
  Graphics- Retro has out-done themselves again. MP3 is without-a-doubt the best looking game on 
 the Wii, and looks better than any game last-gen imo. One of the most obvious improvements is the 
 lighting. Your gun lights up with your charge beam, and huge explosions are gorgeous. After that, 
 many people think it looks the same as MP2. Not true. Everything is cleaned up and you see many 
 less jagged edges than before. Textures look much better as you can see in the wall and on Samus. 
 The Galactic Federation troops look much improved and you can see the lines in their armor. There 
 is nothing in the entire game that doesnt look better than it does on MP2. Everything is bigger, 
 and the backgrounds arent just a colored-in looking mess. There have been sources that have said 
 MP3 belongs on PS3 or 360 because of its graphics. Looking at the textures, as improves as they 
 are, you wouldnt think so. But after seeing the amazing environments, youll be shocked. Retro 
 once again showed their brilliance in this area, putting out some of the most creative looking 
 areas I have ever seen (and thats saying a lot) . The fire area looks brilliant, the space ships 
 are just awesome, and the acidly-looking terrains of some alien planets will restore some of the 
 feeling of greatness we all got from Prime 1. After seeing this game in motion, youll wonder why 
 games have looked so bad on the Wii so far. Sound- Metroid has always been known for its great 
 music. MP3 is quite lacking in this area at times, but its soundtrack is still enjoyable. Im actually 
 a bit disappointed with this, but other changes were for the better. Voice-acting has finally been 
 implemented, and it goes through-out the game like it should. It can be lame at times, but its 
 a good thing overall and adds to the game over the other Primes. It helps the story out (which 
 really needs it) , and you dont have to dig for the story unlike in the other Primes. The story 
 isnt exactly good, while not bad, anyway.
  
  Overall- The innovation and terrific controls of MP3 added in to the intense combat, fun puzzles, 
 and great adventure in beautiful worlds makes this one of the best games to date. While not as 
 groundbreaking as games like Zelda: OoT or Half-Life, the innovation and fun makes MP3 an absolute 
 must-buy. Dont listen to the mindless review of GS to base your opinion, MP3 is as different from 
 it predecessors as a sequel can be. It is different in MANY ways, as Ive already stated. This 
 is a truly amazing title and the best game out for the Wii. There is no better way to end such 
 a great trilogy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLobotomist
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Like I said, the rating of a 8.5 is too low. I want Gamespot to tell me why they gave a score like 
 that. The game is great. this is absolutely one of the best first person shooting games out there. 
 This franchise is the reason besides smash bro. that I pick Nintendo over Microsoft. (they're all 
 great) .
  The hands on action is great, always with a good story, plus the graphic is one of the best on 
 Wii. It deserves better rating than this. The only thing thats bad is sometimes the door takes 
 a little too long to open, i thought i was stuck. Beside that everything is pure Metroid style.
 
  Way to end it guys, Good Job Retro Studio. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozaba
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  CONTROL
  
  What can I say? The wii controls are perfectly tuned for maximum control. This is how FPS' should 
 be. I played using the 'advanced' sensitivity setting (where when your pointer deviates at all 
 from the center the screen starts to scroll) yet there are other settings to satisfy other's play 
 types. Not once did the cursor jump from one side to the other which I found to be a common problem 
 with other wii games so far. Can't get much better in this department.
  
  AUDIO
  
  The audio is quite amasing and well suited to each of the respective areas. If I remember correctly 
 there was only one time in the game where the music was not original, that is it was from an older 
 metroid, which is always a treat. VISUAL
  
  OF course since this is the wii the graphics won't be as good as the competitor's. Yet the worlds 
 are amazing. There are many more areas in the game that are quite immense, cliffsides and whatnot. 
 The pirate base was especially exceptional.
  
  STORY
  
  Finally a metroid with some other characters! I won't say too much about what happens but I will 
 say this: You have three fellow bounty hunters helping out each other in the initial mission. Something 
 happens and you all get, you guessed it, corrupted and that is never good, unless your samus of 
 course.
  
  OTHER
  
  One thing to note is the boss battles. These battles were amasing and satisfying. Yet I must say 
 the weak points were blatantly obvious. Especially for the first seed boss. But still very satisfying. 
 Another thing was near the end. Usually the norm for a game is to go into an end boss battle normal 
 and come to a point where you win the fight of form 1, then story happens where the boss becomes 
 super powerful, then, predictably, much to everyone's surprise you become super charged as well 
 and you win. The way the ending on this goes is something else and I liked it. One last thing... 
 this may spoil something as I am not sure if it is linked to the 100% ending or not but... it sets 
 up for a sequel. Who is the pilot of this mysterious green ship? It reminded me of the Xbox symbol. 
 9.0/10.0 - Almost perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dna_remix_guy
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10
  
  MP3 defines the Wii console.
  
  The controls are the best controls so far on Wii. The context sensitive controls work really well, 
 at least for me. Its really satisfying to be able to fully control Samus for the first time! Beware... 
 these controls can be very hard for non Wii gamers! (Try switching the controls to basic!)
  
  The boss battles are amazing! They are engaging and fun, and take some thought and skill to 
 take down.
  
  Awesome balance with Morph Ball and normal gameplay.
  
  Lots of different enemies and upgrades!
  
  Hypermode adds another gameplay element, but is 
 slightly overpowered.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Retro studios really pulled it off... Superb graphics!
  
  Sound: 10
  This soundtrack is perfect!!! 
 The whole game has music and sound effects that perfectly compliment the gorgeous graphics!
  
  Value: 9
  Totally worth the cash, and getting 100% in the game takes a lot of time, and also 
 has a lot of story hidden away in the scan feature. Only negative is I wanted multiplayer.
  
  Tilt: 10
  Best wii game out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyler060590
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes 
 yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes 
 yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes 
 yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES 
 yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes 
 YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes YES yes yes yes yes !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicX18
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The game play is awesome, i love it when you shoot the aliens but the part i don't hate but in 
 times makes me die is when i point the wii remote and i move it all the way to the left and the 
 wiimote loses signal and you are going in circles in in a boss fight i was very close to dying 
 and then i went in circles and then the boss hit me and i died, i am not saying mean thing i am 
 trying to type something, so don't get mad at me, i am not disrespecting Metroid i love Metroid 
 and this game i think is the best of the series and with the wii remote it make it better, and 
 when i play it this game reminds me of Halo 2 for some reason... i think it is the shooting aliens 
 :P
  i say this game is hard because in boss fights i like the feeling you get like in the second boss 
 (i think) and you fall like 5000 feet or something and you have to kill it, i killed the boss at 
 like 700 feet and i loved that boss cause when it bit you and it blured out and just everything 
 was cool! :D
  Graphics:
  THE GRAPHIC ARE AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!! when i first put the game in and played it the graphics blew 
 me miles away :P :lol: when you are in levels the details are hugely awesome, it made me look like 
 this... :shock:
  When i play this game it feels like 360 graphics :P i am not kidding it feels good and i like it 
 Sound:
  The sound is great, in some parts it is close to Halo music, like the group aaaaaaaaaaaa or whatever 
 :P it is close to Halo but it is cool, and the music during boss fights is like dramatic music, 
 it made me jumping in my seat :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadianGamer1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  Before the launch of this game I was not sure if i would be purchasing this game. The lack of oline 
 support and the fact that I did not enjoy the first in the series I had some doubts. But after 
 picking up my wii mote and playing this game fore around 4 hours I must say it is one of the better 
 games I have played this year. The control is very tight. Nintendo markets this s the best fps 
 control ever, and I must say I have to agree with them. It sure puts dual anolog to shame. I don; t 
 know if it is easier to use then a mouse and keyboard, but it is more immersive. The visuals in 
 this game are definatly the best on the wii. They do not compare to high quality 360 games, but 
 the still are quite nice and not enough to take away from the game. The story is played out fairly 
 well. At this point I have not seen the whole game through but at this point I am completely into 
 the story samus is caught up in this time around. The reason I prefer this version of metroid over 
 the last two in the series is because it is a bit more action based and the back tracking is not 
 as difficult. Anyone with a wii and a liking for first person shooters/adventures should pick up 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmflood1
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I've been a huge Metroid fan since super Nintendo and the green screened game boy days. But this 
 did feel, not very challenging, and alot of the same old, same old. Same as the other two Metroid 
 Corruption. Maybe its because, I am extremely used to shooter games or maybe because I am a die 
 hard gamer, but this doesn''t feel revolutionary. Meroid Prime 3: Corruption, like most Wii-games, 
 does not live up to its' enormous hype. I really wish there was new features! Feels like any other 
 wii shooter. But, it does feel good to dust off my Wii console, which has been laying around awhile. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimsonevo86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Easily the best in the series, MP3 makes up for its second verse, same as the first game play choices 
 (as a sequel, it sticks to the formula) by incorporating brand-new control schemes. These new mechanics 
 make the old formula feel new and exciting all over again, while adding a much more cinematic and 
 polished feel to the style of the game. Relatively good voice acting (albeit with a few repetitive 
 phrases from the lackey crew) accompanies a few interesting plot twists which, ultimately, leave 
 players wanting more every time life beckons them away from their Wii. Though some graphical areas 
 could have been improve (a lack of anti-aliasing a noticeable problem in some areas) , the game 
 makes up for a lack of next-gen horsepower with slick lighting and visuals which show not only 
 what the Wii is capable of, but what sort of graphical improvements we should see in the next few 
 years. The bosses are the real highlight, a treat when compared with the massive, but simplistic 
 bosses of Zelda: Twilight Princess (no rinse and repeat here) . Difficulty is above par for the 
 series, with some tricky new enemies to test our your precision and some puzzling, but not impossible, 
 environmental puzzles. Neat quirks such as the grapple lasso and interactive switches are easily 
 some of the most satisfying parts of the game, as well as the functionality of using Samus's ship. 
 Gestures with the Wii Remote work fantastically, though, as many have mentioned, the morph ball 
 suffers occasional hiccups with gestures. Is this the best game ever? No, but its comes really, 
 really close. Excellent work Retro, I expect nothing less than this game for your next Metroid 
 endeavor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgamer64
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  If you are one of those gamers who thinks that sequals are pretty much exact clones of their predecessors, 
 that may be true for a lot of FPS games that lack a lot of depth such as Halo, but you will be 
 suprised to find that much of Metroid Prime has changed since Echoes. The first big thing you will 
 notice is the graphics, which may not be chalk full of trillions of textures like Unreal Tournament 
 3 or Bioshock, however Corruption's art style is nice enough to provide a fantastic visual experience 
 that is pleasing enough to the eyes. Everything may not be eye popping in terms of visuals, however 
 in the early segment of the game, Nintendo fans and past Gamecube owners will notice that the beginning 
 of Corruption is reminiscent of Star Wars Rogue Squadron with the opening scenario in space. One 
 thing that Metroid does exceptionally well that other FPS's and developers choose not to do is 
 in-game cinematics, which in past iterations were excellent, the same holds true to Corruption 
 which now has nicer graphics as well.
  
  The next big adjustment obviously is the controls, which take a fair bit of time getting used to, 
 however once you have familiarized yourself with the controls, you will realise that the Wiimote 
 provides a fluid control scheme that is innovative to console based FPS games, basically you will 
 never look at dual analog controls the same way again. It takes patience to master the controls, 
 but by the time you meet the first boss at the end of the first level, you should not have too 
 much trouble adjusting.
  
  Another new addition is voice acting, as well as character interaction which have been pretty much 
 either non existant or extremely lack luster in the previous two Metroid Prime games. It is nice 
 because now you do not feel so alone in the world, however you will still spend a lot of time fighting 
 on your own.
  
  No matter what anyone says, the difficulty of this game even on normal is somewhat tough when you 
 are adjusting to the controls. The unique boss battles are fairly epic but not as good as in the 
 previous two games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  frist thing i liked when i started the game talking people. to bad that Samus dont talk as well 
 . to me this would give Samus heart more life like for the main character, and hey i would love 
 to here her voice, in my view Samus just might be right up there at number 1 for a game fighter 
 and hero she is very cool indeed. 2nd the wii controlls work very well i love it. 3rd a lot of 
 neat stuff going on like space battles you can see out the window of the main ship. and when the 
 space pirates attack the ship very cool its like you are there. my view this is the frist real 
 wii game for this system and it dont feel like a port over from the cube. Zelda did in my view. 
 now days with games talking and great voice acting is a must, with zelda in my view very poor done 
 with that. Metroid frist playing has a hard learning cruve. i am not much of a RPG guy more pick 
 up and play. i am a old school player so some of this new stuff with Metroid i dont like as well 
 as the old days back then it was stright foward game easy to get in too. Super Metroid for the 
 super nintendo was a amazing game i will never forget that game and the last boss. Metroid 3 looks 
 great and fun it looks hard and a game that you will have to give sometime and thought in the game. 
 and the doors that you have to shoot at to open there is a wait time before the door opens i found 
 myself shooting at it 3-4 times then it opens. why is this little pain there WHO KNOWS. do i think 
 Gamespot score of 8.5 fair. a toss up in my view. i think with the voice acting and the cool boss 
 fights and other things going on and cool Samus herself and the wii frist game for the system i 
 think it should of scored higher. buy the game give it sometime with the learning cruve and enjoy. 
 i cant wait to fight the last boss i hope i can get there. thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unbiasgamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  There have been a lot of changes to the Metroid Prime series in the third (technically 4th) and 
 final installment of the franchise.
  
  Most notably is that, this IS a FISRT PERSON SHOOTER. The game excellarates at break neck speed 
 with tons of action, weapon upgrades and bosses. Theres even in-game voice-acting with other hunters 
 and GF Marines. If you were to comparing this to MP1, you'd notice instantly this is a much more 
 modern game. Every thing seems refined like retro said, it's 2007, we need MP3 to play like its 
 2007, not like its a 2002 game 
  
  The graphics are just, wow, amazing. They can hold theyre own to any 360/PS3 title. Overall, its 
 a beautifully crafted master piece that deserves GOTY. Sure, I gave it a 8.5 like GS, but i dont 
 think Halo 3, GoW or any other game is any better than the master piece that is Metroid Prime 3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jvargaso
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  First off, let's answer one question all gamers are asking: Do the Controls Work?
  Absolutely although I would recommend you immediately play them in advanced with free lock on. 
 Otherwise you kind of play a game that is a cross between Red Steel and Call of Duty 3. Once you 
 play in advanced mode, you still may be disoriented for the first few minutes, but it becomes second 
 nature quickly. You will soon play it much like you did with standard dual joystick setups and 
 it will finally justify your purchase of a Wii.
  
  The graphics are excellent for an underpowered system. The use of bloom lighting and artwork really 
 mask what the system cannot due in terms of shaders and HDR Lighting. That said, the frame rate 
 is blistering at 60 fps, and the environments are gorgeous. I only wish there was some bump mapping, 
 since a lot of the textures are very flat.
  
  Sound wise the game is what you would expect. The musical score is very similar if not identical 
 to Echoes with maybe a few more orchestrated songs. What is new to the series is voice acting. 
 While you won't hear any KOTOR like dialect, it is fairly decent and a welcome addition.
  
  There are some additional things Prime offers gamers such as an achievement point system very much 
 like Xbox Live. The game also offers gamers to read through logs containing information about back 
 stories to planets very much like the first two.
  
  Overall, I'd have to say this is one of the best experiences in gaming period. The graphics are 
 slightly better than Twilight Princess (using a very similar bloom lighting trick) , and definitely 
 better than any last generation game. The artistic direction is better than any game period, you 
 will be in awe at the graphics despite the fact that it is running on a very underpowered console. 
 The controls will leave you wondering how other game developers made such bad controlling First 
 Person Shooters and the score will be playing in your head well after you finish the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickMach9
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I was amazed at how great the controls for Metroid 3 turned out to be. This game was well worth 
 the wait and well worth pre-ordering through GameStop (ugh) . Before Metroid, my FPS exposure was 
 limited to Red Steel, Call of Duty and FarCry. They all sucked, Call of Duty sucked the least but 
 despite my love of the COD series, it still fit solidly into the category of sucking .
  
  The graphics and physics in Metroid are gorgeous, Retro really made the best use of the Wii's hardware. 
 Don't expect anything in the Xbox 360 or PS3 range but it is great regardless. The boss battles 
 are intense and really utilize all of the controls and immerse you into the gameplay. The story 
 is the first in the Metroid series that I've actually cared about. Who is this Dark Samus ... the 
 other games, I just played through and enjoyed the scenery, Corruption really adds something new 
 to the trilogy while keeping the look and feel that made Metroid Prime a fan favorite. If you have 
 the game already, mad props to you my friend. If not.. you are an idiot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongemario
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  --SPOILER WARNING --
  In this review, there will be reviews of plot details for about the first hour of the game, plus 
 very subtle references to major turning points in the game. The ONLY spoilers will be from the 
 first few parts of the game. You have been warned.
  
  This war has been going on for a very long time. Both sides are taking casualties. New substances 
 yield brilliant results against the enemy. The spreading corruption causes fear and pain. It's 
 as if no one can be trusted...
  
  The game opens up as Samus docks on the starship GFS Olympus for a new assignment. Three other 
 bounty hunters are asked for assistance to help the Galactic Federation troops defend a planet 
 from an incoming Phazon-filled meteor. What is Phazon? It's a creepy blue newly-discovered substance 
 that enhances firepower and abilities, but at a terrible price: it can cause fear, anger, pain. 
 Not to mention a meteor that size could wipe out life on that planet. It's your job to work with 
 the other bounty hunters to activate the planet's main defense cannon and blow up the meteor. Along 
 the way, an old friend drops a visit to Samus: Meta Ridley himself. After you and the other hunters 
 turn the cannon on, you're greeted by Dark Samus, the Phazon-enhanced doppleganger we met back 
 in Prime 2. One massive Phazon-blast later, and all four hunters are corrupted with Phazon. Samus 
 barely manages to fire the cannon at the meteor before slipping into unconsciousness.
  A month passes, and Samus finally wakes from her coma. She's given a new suit, called the PED Suit, 
 which stands for the Phazon Enhancement Device. It allows the player to use an Energy Tank to go 
 into a Phazon Hypermode, which increases your firepower immensely. We also learn that when Dark 
 Samus corrupted Samus's body, it caused hers and the other hunter's bodies to generate their own 
 Phazon.
  Other nearby planets were hit with the Phazon-meteors, known as Leviathans. The other hunters were 
 sent to fix the problem, but contact was lost. It's your new job to travel to these planets, fix 
 the problems of the Leviathans, and figure out what happened to the other bounty hunters.
  
  When you hear the game's main menu music, you might think of it as a finely crafted piece of 
 music. As you play through the game, you come to realize just how mature of a tone that menu music 
 sets for a game like this. Darker tones and scenarios are plentiful in the game. Every battle has 
 their price... every battle has their sacrifices...
  
  I may not know much about the technicalities of graphical power, but I know a pretty-looking game 
 when I see one. I'm glad to see that Retro Studios took the bold step forward and actually tried 
 to beef up the graphics as much as they could. If you look hard enough, you really can see the 
 graphical upgrades the series has gone through since the first Metroid Prime. Samus's arm cannon, 
 her ship, her enemies, her allies, her surroundings, absolutely everything is finely detailed and 
 amazing. It's very nice to just look at, and even more of a blast to play through it.
  
  Back on the subject of beautiful music... most, if not all of the music really helps set the mature 
 tone of the conclusion of this trilogy. Some pieces help find a bit of familiarity in longtime 
 fans; for example, the boss fight against Meta Ridley features a remix of the escape music from 
 Metroid Fusion and Metroid Zero Mission. It's neat little perks like this that truly help the game 
 stick to its Metroid roots. As for voice acting... this was a pleasant surprise. I'd hate to sound 
 like a broken record, but the voice acting helps a ton in this game. It makes the experience more 
 lively, and helps the game give off a real science-fiction feel to it. Hearing Rundus's (one of 
 the other bounty hunters) voice is a thrill, for example. And the voice of the Aurora Units make 
 them truly seem like an advanced supercomputer. Best of all, the voice acting did not seem like 
 it was rushed. Everything sounds carefully planned and executed pleasantly. This review could probably 
 use some complaints, so I'll throw one in: Space Pirates this time around sound... quieter. Their 
 grunts and growls are a bit more subtle. You would think they would shriek or something when you 
 knock them into a pool of acid or something. Their new look makes up for it, I guess.
  
  And now the subject you've all just been dying to read about: controls.
  I'll be another boring 
 person and say the controls really enhance the experience blah blah blah yak yak yak. If you need 
 a reminder, you use the Wii Remote to aim at the screen at your enemies, and use it to shoot them. 
 You also use the Wii Remote to switch visors via pointing, entering Hypermode, and fiddling around 
 with viewing your  The Nunchuk is used for locking-on, movement, 
 Grapple-related actions, and going into Morph Ball mode.
  There's three control options to play: Basic, Standard, and Advanced. I have no clue how well Basic 
 plays, but after trying out Standard and Advanced, I have to say I prefer using Standard. These 
 three settings simply mean how fast and well you turn in the game, I think. You can also turn on 
 and off the Lock-On/Free Aiming, which lets you lock on to an enemy (so he's centered in your vision) , 
 but you can still aim at different areas. It's very handy against enemies and bosses with weak 
 points not immediately able to be shot at. VERY handy. Of course, sometimes you may end up not 
 locking on to enemies at all; the free-aim feels much better than the days of locking on only.
 
  I do have a few gripes about the controls. Since the Wii Remote and Nunchuk are radically different 
 from the GameCube controller, it does take quite a bit of time before you're comfortable with the 
 new controls. For example, the Morph Ball button is mapped to the Nunchuk's C button. I keep forgetting 
 this, and I usually fumble around with the controls before hitting it. Also, when locked onto an 
 enemy, pointing at them with the Wii Remote, and then jamming the A button as fast as you can, 
 it's easy to forget the B button is right underneath your finger for jumping around and strafing 
 fast. Very, very, very easy to forget.
  I am eternally grateful that Retro Studios made it so you can do a quick jump in Morph Ball with 
 a flick of the Wii Remote up. It's SO MUCH BETTER than bomb-jumping, and SO MUCH FASTER, and feels 
 SO MUCH BETTER.
  Once you do get used to the new controls, you're in for quite a fun experience in this game.
 
  
  In a direct ripoff of the Xbox Achievements, we get special tokens for completing in-game tasks! 
 There's a few different tokens: you get red ones from scanning new enemies; blue ones from scanning 
 lore; gold ones for accomplishing very special tasks such as defeating bosses; and green ones. 
 To get a green token, you have to exchange friend vouchers with other people who have Metroid Prime 
 3. You get friend vouchers from doing some of the more bizarre tasks, such as killing 100 (or 200 
 or 300 or etc.) enemies, finding a shortcut, or causing a certain enemy to kill itself. This can 
 let users freely experiment in the game... I think you'll be quite surprised what you can do.
  Using these tokens, you can purchase a smorgasbord of goodies from the game, such as concept art, 
 music tracks, and things unnecessary. For example, you can get Nintendo-related bumper stickers 
 for your ship, or a Mii bobblehead for display in your ship. It's goodies like these that add a 
 ton of replay value to the game -- you'll probably find yourself replaying the game a few times 
 just to see everything you can unlock.
  
  If you've been waiting all this time for a good enough reason to get a Wii, stop waiting. Metroid 
 Prime 3: Corruption, known by us geeks as the first of the big 3, is definitely enough of a reason 
 to get yourself a Wii. Even if you've never played the first, the second, or both of the earlier 
 Metroid Prime games, this one is the easiest to get in to. At least find a way to TRY it... this 
 is a game not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jliebel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  This game is a great FPS adventure. It has all your lovely Metroid loving like Ripley which I was 
 happy to see. As a first time to the prime series I was happily surprised that the game brought 
 a lot from the 2d game to the 3d realm.
  
  The story is basically you are a bounty hunter Samus Aran, sent out to find out what happened to 
 your friends after a terrible accident in the tutorial. And one thing leads to another and a lot 
 of fun ensues. A great thing I loved is you start with all your gooey stuff like morph ball and 
 space jump which makes it lovely and you get missiles very fast.
  
  The graphics are smooth and look really well done, you can't tell that this is a Wii game for the 
 most part, the textures are of high quality, and the game looks very smooth.
  
  The sound is great though in some places it gets kind of tiring like the same song and cut scene 
 every time you leave your ship gets kind of annoying.
  
  The game isn't with out its flaws, the loading times from room to room can get a little out of 
 hand ranging from 5 seconds to 15 seconds which wouldn't be bad if you weren't going through rooms 
 every minute or so. Although the bosses are very fun and refreshing they also lack any real difficulty 
 which is a bummer all in all the game as a whole is a little to easy which takes a lot away.
  
  All in all the game is worth playing and I would suggest it to anyone who was looking for a 
 good FPS on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: writer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is quite possibly the greatest game on the Wii so far. With it's amazing 
 controls and slick visuals, it really is a stunner in the Wii library. Compared to anything else 
 on the market in impossible. This game is a category all it's own. With controls that perfectly 
 match the keyboard and mouse setup, you will be blazing away with this shooter. (that's right, 
 i called it a shooter) Besides the controls is the amazing presentation. Running at a smooth 60FPS, 
 it is easily the best looking title on the Wii. If you had your doubts about this game, then you 
 will definitely be paid in full. The only reason why I can't give this a perfect score, is because 
 it is in fact a sequel. Doesn't make that much of an impact as the first Metroid Prime, but it 
 sure as hell revitalized not only the series, but the shooter genre. A definite must have for any 
 FPS fan or Wii owner. Either way, both sides win 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaphack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: It was very smooth and ran by quite good, the frame rate was excellent and fights were 
 done very well. That cursor hardly moves off the screen at all, and it has the best FPS controls 
 ever designed. You almost feel like your actually in the game.
  
  Sound: Extremely well done voice acting, they even said everything that appeared in the subtitles, 
 a very rare aspect in many games. When you shot something the impact sound was right on time, not 
 to early or late, and the creative sounds make the gameplay a lot more enjoyable.
  
  Graphics: Flawless, the graphics in this game trace back to the first Metroid Prime game in 3D, 
 the environment reacts very well, and you visor can get fogged up, staticy, and much more. But 
 something new is added, when you switch through certain visors, you can actually see Samus' face, 
 and her eyes actually follow the cursor where ever it goes.
  
  Those are the three most important aspects of a game and they were all done to perfection, GameSpot 
 seriously needs to rethink their review, this is the end of an amazing trilogy, and should NOT 
 be underrated, but ignore the GS score, and get this game. You won't be disappointed, you'll be 
 playing for at least 2 hours from moment you start it.
  
  But there is one thing that I didn't particularly like, in order to unlock certain things, like 
 the soundtrack or galleries, you must spend these credit thingies, that aren't hard to obtain, 
 but it can be real nuisance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drock2k1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  The first thing you notice about MP3 is how un spectacular the graphics are. I am sorry but it 
 's the truth. The good news is that 2 minutes late it does not matter. This game controls exactly 
 how you want it to, which is pretty impressive. It makes me sad to play a FPS with standard controlls 
 now. The graphics get a lot better further along you go. The gameplay is awesome, boss battles 
 are great and unlike Hunters, there is quite a bit of exploration. This game took me by surprise. 
 I fully expected to be disapointed. My question for Gamespot is why and 8.5? For all of the games 
 that get bad reviews on count pf bad controlls this game has absolutely stellar controlls and gets 
 an 8.5. I am not saying that controlls alone should merit a higher score, but putting everything 
 that this game has together should equal more than 8.5. Oh well, they gave Twilight an 8.8 and 
 Bioshock a 9.0. They must hate good games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poubelo2000
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:08 am PT
Review:  This is the game the gives me full faith in the wii remote. The controls worked even better than 
 I expected and make the action more real and intense. The controls did a good job drawing me into 
 the world and have kept the action fresh and interesting. Also interactions with the environment 
 (such as pulling a lever or ripping a metal plate of the wall) add a nice touch.
  
  The graphics are outdated no doubt (only a little better than metriod prime 1) , but the style and 
 detail put into the world give it one of the most pleasing visuals I've seen in a long time. Each 
 room tells a story. Because of the artist nature of the world, I'd prefer its visuals over any 
 ps3 or xbox 360 game out now (aside from oblivion) .
  
  Story line is what you make of it, which is a good direct from a game like Metriod Prime. I found 
 myself imaging back stories for each environment and civilization. The details in the visuals inspired 
 by mind to add detail to the storyline, and because the game can do, I've been very pleased with 
 it.
  
  The sound track is very nice and adds to the mood of the game. It is a surprisingly nice treat.
 
  
  Overall what Metriod Prime 3 captures well is mood. The game is very convincing and because of 
 that keeps me wanting to go back and explore the world. I've really like my time spent in Metriod 
 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dieworm
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  Gamers and critics were awed when Metroid was brought back from the dead into 3D when Prime hit 
 back in 2002. The game had universal praise and got AAA reviews almost every where. Five years 
 later, the latest in the Prime series awes yet again. People are saying the Wii is just a GameCube? 
 Those people are full of themselves and this game proves it. The graphics are stunning and run 
 at 60 fps times and never drop. [i] Easily {/i] compares to most of the best titles on the 360. The 
 high resolution textures are absolutely amazing. No photos here folks, Retro took the hard way 
 out and it shows; every texture in the game is an amazing, high res piece of art.
  
  Models you'll see are very cool. The character and enemy models are top-notch and are animated 
 beautifully. Samus' model will impress you just as much as they did in the first Prime. The PED 
 suit looks gorgeous and has some advance effects and an even better lust than previously. Bosses 
 are some of the best I've laid my eyes on. Ever.
  
  Better lighting, bloom and better particle effects added are a welcome edition. The bloom isn't 
 over done like in a lot of games out there. It's implemented perfectly and wont hurt your eyes.
 
  
  Controls are the best on a console and even rival the keyboard/mouse setup. They are as accurate 
 and quick as a mouse, but the maximum turning speed isn't as fast. Aiming blows console FPS's away 
 easily. They go as far as making dual analog seem dog-slow, archaic, and obsolete. When you pick 
 the Wii Remote up for this game you will never want to go back to the thumbstick. It's possible 
 to do, but you will never want to. Picking up a standard controller and FPS gaming on it, you'll 
 wonder why the hell is this so bad? Who thought of this? This doesn't make any sense. Just let 
 me point and shoot dammit! The whole time. You can get over it sooner or later, but this is how 
 I felt for a long while. Corruption includes a variety of motion-based moments that work flawlessly, 
 unlike the lies one certain reviewer tried to feed you full of. Using the nunchuk, you will cast 
 your grapple lasso for switches, enemy shield removing, boss fights, etc. Using the Wii Remote, 
 you'll twist, pump, and pull back switches. You will likely be happy when you stumble upon these, 
 for the 15 seconds of pure fun each one brings.
  
  Prime 3 is one of the most immersive games ever, and not just in controls. Areas are organic and 
 teeming with life and a lava-like substance that looks great and ripples very nicely when you shoot 
 it. There are your typical space ship areas but are nicely done. The game actually has tons of 
 color and isn't brown! Amazing. That fact alone makes it stand out from today's cookie-cutter shooters.
 
  
  The sound and especially music are mind-blowing. From the instant you turn it on you'll hear the 
 most epic music ever. The boss battle music, Space Pirate music, escape music, everything, is candy 
 for your ears and will immerse you like no other. And did I mention the main theme is freaking 
 epic?
  
  Halo this aint. The adventure is riddled with plenty puzzles and will make you think, from the 
 grapple lasso-flipping switches to the Command visor air support. Metroid veterans like myself 
 will likely turn off the hint system so they can explore the areas like in the past and wont be 
 told where to go.
  
  The game isn't easy if you choose veteran. A certain reviewer out there chose the noob difficulty 
 obviously, as I am an Echoes fan and even I find this game challenging. The controls aren't so 
 good it's listed as a con' either. That doesn't even make sense at all. There is plenty of innovation 
 in this game. Like the gunship parts, new upgrades, cinematics, Hyper mode, the story is told to 
 you, rather than you finding it in lores and logs, voice acting, etc. And oh yeah, the freaking 
 AIMING.
  
  Previous anti-Prime zealots will now have to think of new reasons to keep on hating. The new controls 
 make free looking now possible. Like in the past, scanning things is 99% optional* (Prime haters 
 will still make this an excuse to hate) The Space Pirates are on the planets from the start, so 
 the action is picked up instantly instead of a while later like previously. Newly added short cuts 
 eliminate the excuse of too much backtracking. Optionally, you can be told where to go, so the 
 excuse of aimless wandering shouldn't be tolerated. *You can also grapple onto certain objects 
 without scanning it first, but scanning it will put an icon telling you can grapple it.
  
  Replay value has been upped, you now can earn 4 different types of tokens for doing tasks and receiving 
 them from your friends online. With these tokens you can buy stuff like a screen shot tool, a Mii 
 Bobblehead for your gunship, art gallery and much more. With the screenshot tool you can take screens 
 at anytime and send them to the Wii message board where you can doodle on them in the photo channel 
 and/or send them to friends or an SD card. Getting 100% in the game will likely take a long time. 
 Like previous Primes, you can unlock a harder mode to play through.
  
  This game is not only the best FPS campaign wise ever, it's probably one of the best games period. 
 And it's a meaty, lengthy 20+ hour one. No inclusion of multiplayer is not disappointing at all, 
 from past experiences multiplayer in Metroid is not a good idea. Because of that, they were able 
 to focus on the amazing adventure. And it shows.
  
  Even if you didn't like the previous Primes, give this a chance, the action has been upped and 
 the controls are amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lastroxas
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Having missed out on the first few metroid games I was a little apprehensive about how the third 
 one would play. To correct this I have recently played through Prime, completed with a ninety-one 
 percent, and rented Echoes; have it setting on my TV as I type. However last night as I was walking 
 thru the local Wal Mart I happened to see the sales clerk stocking up on Corruption. I calmly walked 
 over and asked for a copy, moved on to the register and fifty-two dollars and seventy-six cents 
 later was the proud owner of what is probably one of the best games I have played in the last few 
 years. While there are a few faults in the game the over all package is just near perfect.
  
  After having played for an hour I found my self on the first planet battling my way to start 
 up a generator. So far a few complaints have come up. Some of them with the game and some of them 
 with the other reviews I have read. First lets talk about the game.
  
  The major complaint I have so far is just a nit picky one. Call me crazy but unless in the future 
 there is an over abundance of clones, or pentahepseptuplets are the only one who can serve in space, 
 the ships crew all looked the same. I suppose to counter this they decided to make the voice acting 
 different, which is a nice touch, but is not enough. My other concern is the ease in which to spot 
 scanable items. It might be different in echo but in prime the only way to spot scanable was to 
 set the orange or red symbol. Here all you have to do is throw on the scan visor and blam, as if 
 dipped in paint the whole item glows. Some of the fun in the first game was to hunt down those 
 items. In corruption there still will be hunting, only know we will be going after elephants instead 
 of lions.
  
  Now for some outside game grips firstly, the controls. Everywhere I have read I see the same complaints 
 that its awkward to hit buttons. I want to put this one to rest real fast. This is with out any 
 doubt the silkiest controls I have ever felt in any game, hands down. Whether I was switching between 
 visors, morphing in to a ball, or ripping away shields, I was in total control. I will be fair 
 and say I have been getting a lot of game time out of the Wii, so maybe I am just used to how the 
 waggle stick feels in my hand. After ten minutes scanning and blowing up boxes I was in control. 
 Before I even left the ship I had over 400 kills, thanks mostly to the energy room and the little 
 crawling things. And as far as turning around, two seconds is not a problem. After all that is 
 why strafing is made available. And lastly the lack of HD is not even an issue, after all who needs 
 HD cartoons?
  
  Other then these few problems the game has kept me absolutely wrapped up in the struggles of bounty 
 hunting. If not for work I would be home now blasting pirates and scanning odds and ends. The controls 
 respond to my slightest whims, the music is enthralling, the sounds enticing, and the combat unmatched. 
 With little doubt I can say Nintendo has delivered a hardcore gamers game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 973849
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  I mean wow. I have always enjoyed fps on consoles but i usually like to stick to the mouse and 
 keyboard for that because up untill corruption it was the best way to go. Fps have not had much 
 luck critically so far for the wii although i must say i enjoyed COD 3 and i thought red steel 
 was pretty good too. But other than those two, the critics have been right. But now that SOMEONE 
 has finally found the perfect controls for a wii fsp, we can all move on and stop expecting all 
 fps for the wii to be horrible. Now to the game. I love this game to death. For whatever reason 
 i didnt start playing the metroid games up untill 2 years ago. I fell in love immediatly. The puzzles 
 the graphics everything seemed so amazing. But i never liked how you couldnt look up while moving. 
 Well corruption completely changed that and gave me my perfect game. Corruption has a little bit 
 for everyone. if you want adventure you got it. Want shoot-em-up you got that too. In my opinion 
 Corruption easily beats out the first two Metroid games but I only give it a lower rating due to 
 the impact it has made. When Metroid Prime came out it set so many bars for future gaming that 
 it was unbelievable. Corruption is basically Metroid prime with a new story and controls. The graphics 
 for Corruption, while exceeding its predesesors, are not as groundbreaking as they were when Prime 
 came out. Metroid Prime 3 Corruption Is with out a doubt better than Prime and squashes echos out 
 of existence. An amazing game with great puzzles graphics, and oh did I mention the boss battles? 
 Looking for a good game on wii, well here it is. GIVE US BACK THE OLD RATING SCALE!!! 9.2 rounds 
 to 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barnthepirate
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Metroid prime 3 is a great game to be sure but I have too agree with gamespot this time around. They 
 made it more of a shooter with a metroid atmosphere than a true metroid game. Sure theres stuff 
 to explore but it just doesnt feel quiet right. All in all though the game is a great a must have 
 for any hard core gamer that has a wii.
  
  The graphics are fantastic altough not a huge step up from 2, you can still see a difference, once 
 again they have made a wonderful looking game. The sounds go hand in hand with the graphics to 
 increase the gameplay.
  
  The controlls are what are really great here though. It takes some time to get used to it but once 
 you do it makes other FPS feel a little slugish. The controlls by itself make the game a blast 
 to play, and really increase the gameplay. Metroid prime has some replay value too, with 2 DC settings, 
 and all of stuff to increase your powers you'll have something to keep you busy for the next month 
 at least! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coreygames
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  August 29, 2007 - Wednesday Metroid Prime 3: Corruption (F Yeah the Wii) Current mood: jubilant 
 Category: Games You take two steps from your ship. You can hear the beat of your heart over the 
 deep breaths coming from your helmet. You clinch your fist tightly, in anger, in rage, in fury. 
 You don't know why you feel like this. Then your eyes open wide... corruption...
  
  Finally, I have played and beaten the final chapter in the Metroid Prime franchise. And in all 
 fun, I got it on Monday and beat it on Wednesday, count those days people (3 for those who are 
 slow, 3 days) . Now, for all you pansies out there who will probably play the game on easy mode, 
 let me tell you this: I played, and beat the game, all the way through on Veteran mode (the hardest 
 mode from the beginning) and turned the hint system off during the whole game. Praise me. Anyway, 
 let's kick this review off shall we?
  
  First glance, the game is beautiful. You can't look at this game and not wonder how Retro Studios 
 possibly made this game on the Wii. Amazerating. In all of the next-gen. of it all, it has bloom 
 lighting, WOOT! The models look fabulous for everything from characters to plant life. Every room 
 is unique and it is very easy to distinguish between them. You will actually find it very hard 
 to get lost in this game with that and the combination of your map.
  
  Another great thing is the Voice acting. Yes, voice acting. Samus? No, she gets to keep her aura 
 of mystery, but almost, if not, every other character in the game has a speaking part in it. The 
 mouths sync up with the voice great, and every word is sub-titled for your pleasure *wink*. Although, 
 there are times when you will run into a bunch of people who say the same thing like, Hey, Samus! 
 , Pleasure to meet you Samus, and, WASSSSSUP... Samus, over and over again. But, that is basically 
 only at the beginning.
  
  Let's get into the story now. Dark Samus is back, how you ask? Well, the space pirates went back 
 to planet Aether (the planet during Metroid Prime 2) to get one last load of phazon (the hazardous 
 material the Prime games are based off of) before packing up for good. what they didn't know is 
 that they got the last remnants of Dark Samus. While in the cargo hold, she gathered energy from 
 the rest of the phazon and came back to life. Flash forward to Samus. She has been ordered to help 
 protect a Federation planet, Norion. She finds out that the pirates have put a virus into the system 
 of computers the federation uses. This means they are without protection. Just then, they are attacked 
 and you are forced to fend for your life and for the federation.
  
  If you didn't understand a lot of that, play the other game for Pete's sake. You really don't even 
 have to play the second one, just pick up Prime 1. Do it for your own health.
  
  So I don't have to spoil anything, let's just say you magically end up infused with phazon. Your 
 body self-produces it and you are able to use it as a weapon. When you use it, you go into hyper 
 mode. You use one of your energy (health) tanks as a weapon and any reaming phazon after you exit 
 hyper mode goes back into your energy tank. The problem is, if you stay in hyper mode too long, 
 you become corrupted. Your body begins to mass produce it and you have to use it all in order to 
 keep yourself alive. It gets FrEaKy.
  
  Aside from hyper mode, there are other cool new things from the start. Like using your grapple 
 beam as a weapon, which makes for some interesting fights. Trust me when I say you will get a lot 
 of weapons nothing short of amazing. Aside from yourself, you hip gets to participate too in this 
 game. Whenever you are out and about the planet, you can call your ship in to do a carpet bombing 
 if it can. This just kicks butt (for lack of a better phrase) . Just like in any other Metroid game, 
 as more and more weapons stack up, the more of a powerhouse you become and so do the enemies. It 
 seems as if the more you play, the more the enemies become corrupt as well.
  
  That brings me to my next point, enemies. There are a ton of new enemies this time around. There 
 aren't many clones like you might have seen in Prime 1 to 2, which adds to the experience. It seems 
 that almost every enemy that has the slightest bit of phazon in them can enter hyper mode. If you 
 thought you were amazing in hyper mode, you should see these guys. A normal space pirate could 
 only take a single missile or a charge blast before they died. When they go hyper, it takes upwards 
 of about 5 or 6 missiles before they croak, and that is if you even hit them before they went hyper! 
 It makes for some pretty crazy fights, because you are constantly avoiding hyper enemies and killing 
 those who aren't and then having to combat what's left. Crizazy.
  
  The puzzles are still here, and most of them aren't too hard to figure out. If you haven't played 
 any of the primes, the puzzles might be hard, but for a veteran they weren't too bad. A few of 
 them can get you killed though if you don't figure it out quick enough! Some of the puzzles though 
 feel completely impossible. At one point you have an endless stream of bad guys coming at you. 
 while they attack you, you are suppose to stop two radar jammers and call in your ship. Oh, and 
 did I mention that this is a big room with the jammers on either side, and, oh, did I mention that 
 the jammers reset after 7 seconds? You have to also use your grapple to unjam them. So you go to 
 one, unjam it, roll into a ball (to go faster than walking) get to the other one, unjam it, and 
 then call in your ship in under 7 seconds. Needless to say, it took a few tries.
  
  Speaking of the ship, did I mention that this game has you go from planet to planet? Each planet 
 is a quite a fair size. there are 4 main planets that you go to and not to mention side places 
 to visit either. There is a lot to explore. Plus, each planet has its own distinct feel to it. 
 One is a jungle turned tech by the Federation, another is a volcanic wasteland, one is a pollution 
 ridden citadel, and another is a mechanized heaven. Each one was artistically well taken care of. 
 The creatures, lore, and items found in these regions just make sense, and it is plain to see that 
 their placement was taken into much consideration. It is just too easy to love.
  
  Another new addition is game points. If you have ever played an Xbox 360 game, you would know about 
 the achievement points. These points are not needed to get through the game in most cases, but 
 are awesome when you get them. When out of the game, you can use these points to unlock gallery 
 pictures, music, and other ins-and-outs. You get points from scanning things, killing certain enemies, 
 completing objectives, or finding special triggers. One example of a special would be this: I was 
 on a bridge with a bunch of robots coming at me. I waited for them to get close and I rushed for 
 the other side. when I got there, I turned around and destroyed the bridge. This activated a cut-scene 
 where it showed Samus walking away from the bridge as the bots fell into the void. Then words appeared, 
 Stylish Kill. It rocked my world. You can only get one certain type of point though from friends. 
 If you have a friend on your Wii who also has the game, you can send them vouchers for friend points. 
 If you have no friends, you have no friend points. This sucks. So, if you have this game and want 
 some points, E-MAIL ME NOW! I want some points.
  
  I know what is on a lot of your minds, the controls. They are great! You are slightly limited in 
 what you can set the options as. I would have like to turn my sensitivity up a little more, but 
 I was already maxed out on Advanced mode. the movement of the arm cannon if perfect. It is very 
 easy to pick your headshots off with or without the lock on. Even if you lock on though, it doesn't 
 guarantee a hit! You are still free-aiming, lock on just keeps the enemy in the middle of the screen 
 for you. The motion sensing is tight, even better than in Wario Ware. Every time you move a hatch, 
 pull a lever, or whatever, it is fluent and not a hassle. You will frequently find yourself pushing 
 buttons, twisting knobs, and welding which would seem tedious, but are very fun to do. In the end, 
 the controls are tight and really show what the Wii can do.
  
  Now, I know that you have to think I'm bias (because if you know me, you know I love Metroid) , 
 but I do have some problems with this game. The first is the obvious problem with the Wii hardware. 
 I guess it is not so much the game, but the Wii. Load times. If you already know about how Metroid 
 Prime loads rooms and areas, you can skip the rest of this paragraph. Anyway, Metroid Primes have 
 kept the loading at a minimum. It is mostly done when you are going from level to level. Riding 
 an elevator, riding in your ship, etc. is all places where they hide the loading screen. when you 
 enter a room, the game preloads the rooms around it but not the ones that are two or three rooms 
 away. This way, the game can run smoothly without spending days at a loading screen. The problem 
 arises, though, when you are able to get from one end of a room to another before the game is done 
 loading it. It tends to sit there and let the door stay shut while you are left standing on the 
 other side. When it is done, then the door opens and everything is fine.
  
  The problem with Prime 3's loading is that there is so much to load you frequently find yourself 
 standing in front of shut doors for precious seconds and especially long times when you are about 
 to enter a big room full of anything. It becomes a real hassle when you are trying to be stealthy 
 and are stuck out in the open in front of a semi-locked door. It can be very frustrating. Many 
 enemies require you to go into hyper mode to kill, and if you don't have the energy, you might 
 just run away. Problems happen when the door doesn't open and you are forced to dance in front 
 of it, avoiding projectiles and enemies, while waiting. Arrg.
  
  *SPOILER*
  
  I was also disappointed that there wasn't one of those Metroid Run the F*** away moments in the 
 entire game. There's the fight with Ridley at the very beginning with a time counter on it, but 
 I really expected one at the end. Then again, maybe you have to unlock it...
  
  *SPOILER OVER*
  
  Also, as you get more corrupted, there seems to be no effect. It just says, 
 Hey, you are corrupted, and you just have to assume so. You armor changes and looks cooler, but 
 that's about it. The game also shows her face a lot. I'm not sure how I feel about that, because 
 seeing her face was a reward in every other game, but this one starts you out staring at it. Eh, 
 I guess it's a fanboy thing.
  
  Luckily, you don't lose your powers at the start of this game. Earlier Primes did this to you are 
 the beginning, but not this one. I was kind of surprised, but relieved. No hunting for lost abilities 
 and suits.
  
  Was it good? No, unbelievable! Was it better than the 1st? Yes, very yes. I'm already started on 
 the next level of difficulty to see if I can get even more things unlocked/scanned/destroyed. If 
 you have a Wii and don't have this game, then Retro should have the right to slap you across you 
 pie-hole. Get this game now without delay. Call it an early Christmas present or birthday gift, 
 whatever. Just get it.
  
  9.9999999999999999999999999/10 ( I don't want to say it was perfect, because there were definite 
 let downs, but I think it doesn't deserve a 9/10 either. So... compromise.)
  
  See you next mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I'm just a few hours in, but I've got a good impression of the game so far, so I'll share them, 
 for the few who'll read this review.
  
  First off, the Wii controls. They're very slick. No longer are you just locking on and pressing 
 A to defeat enemies. While there is still a lock-on function, it serves as a way to focus on an 
 enemy, and strafe around them. You must still aim with your remote. This gives the game a more 
 action feel to it. Also, no longer do you have to press a button to be allowed to look freely around; 
 because you aim with the remote, you can look in any direction at any time. There are also context-sensitive 
 actions. These are usually there to immerse you in the game. Included in these are grabbing onto 
 door handles, pulling and turning them, entering keycodes, etc. There is a new item called the 
 grapple lasso which you get within 20 minutes of a new game, which you can use, with the nunchuk, 
 to lasso shields and armor and rip them from their source, or to pull various objects. It's simplistic, 
 but it's still fun.
  
  The new controls do take some time getting used to though. the Wii remote's buttons are kind of 
 weirdly placed, and so it sometimes requires some contorting of fingers to press them, but no big 
 deal.
  
  Otherwise, the game feels just like the other Metroid Prime games, albeit a little more cinematic. 
 There are more bounty hunters which you interact with, and most characters have full voice acting, 
 a nice change, and the first time that has happened in one of Nintendo's old franchises (still 
 none in Zelda, and very little in Mario) .
  
  The graphics are a letdown, but that's not important. It isn't the game necessarily, it's the system. 
 However, it does push the Wii to the limit, and for that it deserves some respect. It looks very 
 good. Clean, crisp and artistically stunning. Unfortunately, it still doesn't look much better 
 than a great Gamecube game.
  
  Sound-wise, it's pretty typical. It uses most sounds from the previous Metroid Prime games, which 
 work just fine. The voice acting is well done, but not amazing. The music is as good as ever though; 
 it sets the mood perfectly.
  
  My biggest complaint so far is the difficulty. It's not hard at the moment. The puzzles are as 
 good as ever, but enemies feel underpowered. I hope this changes.
  
  Overall, I'm impressed. I don't have that jaw-dropping feeling I had playing the original Metroid 
 Prime, but at least I'm not frustrated and annoyed like I was in Metroid Prime 2. I highly recommend 
 it so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  Story-9
  
  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption opens with a meeting between Samus, three other bounty hunters, and 
 the Admiral of the Galactic Federation fleet. The bounty hunters, including Samus, receive orders 
 to clear a computer virus from Aurora Units spread throughout the galaxy, but the meeting abruptly 
 ends when Space Pirates attack several Federation ships. Samus and the other bounty hunters are 
 deployed to the planet Norion, where the Space Pirates are concentrating an attack on a Federation 
 naval base. While suppressing the attack, Samus learns that a Phazon asteroid, called a Leviathan 
 Seed, will collide into Norion soon. Samus and the other bounty hunters attempt to activate the 
 base's defense systems, when they are suddenly attacked by Dark Samus. With the other bounty hunters 
 unconscious, a severely wounded Samus manages to activate the system just in time to destroy the 
 Leviathan Seed before she herself is incapacitated.
  
  A month later, Samus awakes aboard a Galactic Federation star ship, where she learns that Dark 
 Samus' Phazon-based attacks have corrupted her. The Federation equips her with a "Phazon Enhancement 
 Device", enabling her to harness the Phazon energy within herself. She is informed that her fellow 
 bounty hunters, who had been sent to investigate several planets embedded with Leviathan seeds, 
 have vanished. Samus is sent to the planets Bryyo and Elysia to determine what happened to her 
 missing comrades. She soon discovers that both planets and their inhabitants are slowly being corrupted 
 by the Leviathan seeds, and it is up to her to destroy the seeds.
  
  Samus encounters heavy resistance from Space Pirates, different Phazon-corrupted monstrosities, 
 and even fellow bounty hunters who have been corrupted by Dark Samus. Throughout her mission, which 
 ultimately takes her to the Space Pirate Homeworld, Samus slowly becomes further corrupted. She 
 manages to stop the Space Pirate assault with the assistance of the Galactic Federation Navy. The 
 fleet then travels to the planet Phaaze, the source of all Phazon in the galaxy. Samus travels 
 to its core, where she finally defeats Dark Samus. As a result, Phaaze is destroyed, and all Phazon 
 in the galaxy is rendered inert. At the end of the game Samus is seen flying into hyperspace with 
 a mysterious spaceship following her.
  
  Gameplay-9
  
  Nothing is radically different; you explore rooms within temples, caves and spaceships, solving 
 environmental puzzles and using your abilities to uncover new routes. The basic design is as beautiful 
 an integration of player and environment as ever; each distinctive room will burn itself into your 
 memory and new suit and weapon upgrades will send you scurrying back to try out your new powers.
 
  
  Graphics-8.5
  
  This game looks amazing. The art style used in the game really takes advantage of the Wii's capabilities. 
 I am a little dissapointed at how it turned out after seeing Super Mario Galaxy. All in all, Metroid 
 Prime 3 looks great, but it could've been better.
  
  Control-10
  
  As in many games for the Wii, the control system is where it takes the cake. It is symple, but 
 revolutuionary at the same time. Point at what you want to shoot at, and push A or B to shoot. (Whichever 
 you prefer) The control stick on the nunchuck allows you to move, and when you need to use the 
 grappling hook you thrust the nunchuck forward, then pull it back. Perfect controls.
  
  Sound-9
  
  Footsteps sound real, shooting sounds real, and whereas monst Nintendo games have 
 amazing soundtracks, this game has great voice-acting.
  
  Overall-9.1 (9)
  
  Metroid Prime 3 is a beautiful and amazing first-person shooter that a hardcore Wii owner would 
 enjoy!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbellows1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I grabbed a copy and absolutely fell in love with it. the controls are perfect, it goes back to 
 the metroid basics and it just feels RIGHT.
  
  easily best game of the year. fun to play and not too difficult, but difficult enough to keep you 
 engaged. the concept is well executed and maintained throughout the game, and you want to just 
 pick it up and play whenever you can.
  
  overall i give it 10 for its superb graphics, wonderful control scheme, and a perfect level of 
 difficulty. Its for hard-core gamers, and new gamers, and it should be a smash hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiteX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  It's got everything a Metroid fan dreams about. More story than any Metroid game before it. More 
 interactivity than any game out today, and its just a blast to play. You get to choose between 
 3 planets to travel to. All of the planets have different and memorable environments and wonderful 
 sound tracks. The game has all the old and great power ups you remember from the past Metroid games 
 plus a few new ones that are truly a blast to use. The controls are perfect for this type of game. 
 The Wiimote makes it a breeze to aim and interact with the world. I have never played a video game 
 yet today that made the environment around you seem to alive. From pushing buttons to pulling back 
 levers and grapple pulling debris away its all there and in full glory. To add on to its greatness 
 this game has a bit of control customization which surprised me. Don't want the A button to shoot? 
 Well you can switch it to the B trigger and let the A button jump. You can also lower the sensitivity 
 of the Wiimote and turn on or off the lock on feature that the previous Prime games had. With all 
 these new features and interaction, it makes this Prime game the best. Slightly better than MP1 
 because of the tons of little things. And tons better than MP2 because it's much more fresh and 
 friendlier feeling. Did I mention it's the best graphically looking Wii game? The only reason I 
 didn't give this game a 10 is because of the no multiplayer. Yes even though many hated it in MP2 
 I actually had a good time with friends playing it. I would have loved to see it in this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julianstrato
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  the best first person shooter i ever played.
  the game play is great, and easily to catch, great images, the wii is going further in the graphics 
 and in the game speed.
  This game is a master piece, just like The Legend Of Zelda - Twilight Princess.
  
  I'm a Nintendo 
 Fan.
  About Metroid Prime 3 :Corruption, its a game taht you will love at firs sight, the controls are 
 exciting and catchy, it takes the best from his previous two games.
  About the wiimote, is a lot much better than a classic control, he pointer is the best for the 
 first person shooter games, the pressicion at the time of shoot is amazing.
  
  Nintendo knows how to do great games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natebayne
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Its finally here, metroid prime 3! And let me tell you it is an awesome experience. Finally a game 
 that uses the Wii controls PERFECTLY, is beautiful (can easily hold its own against any other current 
 shooter) and has a great storyline. I could go on for hours on how great this game is but i will 
 keep it relativly short. Everything is in tact in the 3rd installment, space pirates, puzzles, 
 meta ridley, strong level design. Forget Bioshock, halo, and so on... this is a true TRUE shooter. 
 Also one last thing, ive seen in some reviews that say the controls for the switches and puzzles 
 dont do so well. That couldnt be further from the truth, if you can breathe then you can easily 
 do the puzzles without any hiccups or problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is a wonderful game. As everyone says, it has stellar art direction for any game 
 and great graphics for a wii game. I am a bit confused as to why people are complaining that the 
 game-play remains the same as the first two in the trilogy for two reasons. First, it is a trilogy, 
 so I would think and hope it would be expected to remain somewhat the same as the first two. Secondly, 
 I feel that the changes implemented via the wii remote are excellent, and make up for any repetitious 
 feelings left over from the two previous prime games. I was very impressed with the game-play in 
 this game, and even more so when I first used the lock on ability. People have commented that this 
 was implemented poorly because it is very hard to stay locked on to an enemy, making the enemy 
 harder to kill. Yet, I have also heard complaints that the game is too easy. To me, the balance 
 of difficulty and accessibility in the combat system was executed very well.
  
  It also seems odd to me that gamespot complains of Twilight Princess and Prime 3 rehashing too 
 much game-play and too many ideas too be good. Yet gives RE4, a remake of a remake, a higher review 
 than both. I know that this has been more of a critique of other reviews than a review of the game, 
 and I am sorry for that. This is the second best game out for the wii and the best game out for 
 it exclusively. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TacoJelly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  If you're a Metroid fan, you probably bought this game yesterday. So I'll try to make this to everybody 
 else.
  
  To start off, this game is not as good as Prime 1. But to say that it can even be a worthy sequel 
 to the best game of the last generation says a lot.
  
  Unlike Prime 2, which took the same formula and added a few things, this game makes significant 
 changes to the base game. The most notable change is the control, and with it a new emphasis on 
 shooting. Enemy design and placement now more strongly favors the traditional FPS design. This 
 also facilitated a much faster pace for the gameplay, something that may initially turn hardcore 
 Metroid fans off (think hunters with a bigger Metroid influence) .
  
  Also, the ship comes into play for the first time in the console Metroid series. Not only does 
 it reduce backtracking, but it makes much more sense from a story perspective (how many times will 
 Samus' ship break down on an alien planet?)
  
  Another first for the Metroid series is the introduction of true gameplay variety. Before their 
 was the morphball puzzles and the adventure, now in addition to those are several motion based 
 tasks to do and boss fights done in a minigame style. For example, instead of fighting MetaRidley 
 on foot you fly down a pipe of some kind; something that limits movement and turns the focus to 
 aiming.
  
  The graphics and sound design have also gone through an upgrade. The use of lighting , color, and 
 architecture makes this game look more like a scifi adventure than almost any game to date. And 
 the addition of voice acting just gives another layer of reality.
  
  All in all a great game, by far the best on the Wii so far. I'd give it more like a 9.4 or 9.3 
 but this is how the rating system goes. A fantastic effort, but I know the Wii can do more... I 
 really hope this isn't the last Prime game (spin-off maybe?... Hunters 2 on Wii?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msiak
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, was nothing short of spectacular. The boss battles were intricate 
 and beautiful, the controls prove once and for all that the Wii allows for the best FPS ability 
 out of all game systems (excluding perhaps PC) , the graphics and art direction are by far the best 
 for the Wii currently. However, a word of caution, this game is addicting! I started playing it 
 at one oclock PM on August 27th and didnt stop till five AM August 28th with only a meager 46 
 percent completed. It really is everything that IGN, Nintendo power, 1up, and Gametrailers. com 
 say it is, and more -- the game is amazing! I also own an Xbox 360 and believe that the load times 
 for Halo 1 and 2 are much more substantial than that of MP3. The load times in MP3 are cleverly 
 placed so that it becomes, for the most part, unnoticeable! I highly recommend this game and praise 
 it as being the best title for the Wii thus far! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acarrillo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  La verdad contiene una base muy igual a las anteriores con la trama pero eso rompe el esquema con 
 el uso de Wii mil respetos, algo que me impacto es su muestra de movimientos y los entornos, una 
 buena banda sonora que cambia todo.
  
  aunque no maneja muchas cosas del anterior juegos los movimientos hace que tu manos sean parte 
 o una extension te envuelve. el sistema de Lock al disparo mejora y no estresa pero lo bueno es 
 que no te encapsula pues esa herrameinta no esta siempre, aun asi continuo diciendo es buenisimos 
 aunque no me guste Nintendo continuo con PS2 PS3 ECT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danfiru
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Excellent Close to the series. New controls are absolutely seemless. Way better than 'dual analog' 
 control systems.
  
  Boss battles are extremely fun and challenging. The wi-mote/nunchuck combo delivers an absolutely 
 dream-like console-shooting experience. This game is the benchmark for console shooting controls. 
 Dual-analog is a clunky mess compared to metroid's implementation of z+wimote targeting. Graphics 
 are stunning, environments are massive and engrossing. Puzzle and morph ball interaction is much 
 improved with the addition of wii-mote sensitive interactions with game environments. This is a 
 must own for any metroid fan or any owner of a wii.
  
  An absolutely excellent close on the Metroid Prime saga! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Binarynova
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Where can I begin? This game is a lot of fun. Having played the entire Metroid series I was really 
 looking forward to the next major installment. The second Metroid Prime left a bad taste in my 
 mouth that I hoped the third could rectify with its new locals to explore and the new control scheme.
 
  
  But sadly, that's where most of my problems with the game lie. First of all let me say that, in 
 theory, Metroid Prime 3 has one of the best FPS control schemes I've seen on a console. In practice 
 though, it didn't really live up to its potential. All that being said, I haven't played RE4 on 
 the Wii yet, and I hear it has a wonderful control system too.
  
  First of all let me say that yes, I was playing on the Advanced setting. My problems with the controls 
 are not a huge general problem more like several small localized issues. Mostly the lock-on system. 
 Initially locking onto a target can be pretty tough. Many of the enemies are fast movers, which 
 normally wouldn't be a problem, except that in Metroid Prime 3 you have to be pointing your targeting 
 reticle directly at them in order to lock on. A little bit of extra leeway would have been nice, 
 especially since many enemies in the game are very small. The extra lock-on 'dead zone' would have 
 made combat that much more fun.
  
  Once you've locked on though, don't think you've beaten the system. In nearly every combat situation 
 in the game I've lost my lock on a target several times before killing it. Usually, for no reason, 
 although it seems that you're distance from the target can be an issue. Plus if they manage to 
 get off screen (remember, they're quick) you'll lose your target as well. Then you're back to square 
 one.
  
  Added to that you have the fact that, at least on the first planet, easily half of the local fauna 
 is adept at teleporting Nightcrawler style. So, you have your target, you're locked on and firing, 
 and poof they disappear, and so does your lock.
  
  One reason this bothers me is because it's sometimes hard to tell if you're locked onto an enemy 
 or just in 'strafe' mode. Many times the enemy is still right in front of me, but for some reason, 
 my lock is gone. Suddenly, my ability to dodge is compromised and I usually take damage. You can 
 only dash left or right when locked onto a target. And even then, the dash doesn't feel fast enough 
 or go far enough.
  
  One last thing on the controls. There is pretty extensive use of the motion sensing capabilities 
 of the Wii-mote and nunchuck. Not only for aiming, but for interacting with the environment. I've 
 had very few problems using these features, just the occasional lack of response (which seems to 
 plague every Wii game to some extent) . My only real issue is that Samus finally has the ability 
 to jump while in morph ball mode. Unfortunately this action is not activated with the jump button, 
 but by pulling up on the Wii-mote.
  
  Now, enough with the negative. The game is a blast and it's a worthy addition to the series. Even 
 if the combat leaves something to be desired, the game whole-heartedly taps into the exploration 
 aspect of the series. I quickly found myself looking for holes to roll through, things to scan, 
 and rocks to blow up, all in my need to get just 5 more missiles. 
  
  The all-new VA is handled extremely well. Each character is uniquely voiced and well acted. The 
 best part is that our favorite heroine remains silent which helps to keep quite a bit of her mystique. 
 The musical score is in line with other games in the Prime series. It adds a great mood to the 
 excellent landscapes you'll be fighting and thinking your way through.
  
  Speaking of the landscapes and other locations, they are spot on. If there is one thing about the 
 series that Retro nailed, it's the atmosphere that their amazing landscapes give off. You feel 
 like you've really landed on a far away planet brimming with abundant life and history.
  
  All-in-all the game is very fun. The combat could have used a little more tweaking but it was certainly 
 an excellent first attempt. If nothing else, hopefully other developers will pick up on the ideas 
 here and expand on them even more for some future first-person games on the Wii. If you've enjoyed 
 previous Metroid games, especially the Metroid Prime mini-series, or you just like atmospheric 
 adventure games full of interesting areas and lore, do give this one a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aransom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  I love this game. Similar to the previous Metroid Prime games, but better. The controls take a 
 little getting used to, but they work well. The running and aiming work perfectly. Some of the 
 other Wii controls aren't perfect. Sometimes when you use the remote's motion sensing abiltiy to 
 have Samus move switches it's a little clunky. It's not a big deal, but it keeps me from giving 
 the game a 10. If you liked MP1&amp;2, then you will like MP3. This is the first Metroid game to 
 have voice acting in it. It's pretty good. All the spoken dialogue has text to go with it. If you 
 can read the text faster than it gets said, or you don't care about it, you can skip the dialogue. 
 This game seems a bit easier than the other Metroid Primes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pro_gamer12345
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  I cannot emphasize enough. This game is the best out of all the Metroid Prime games out there. 
 It is also the best game i have ever played on the WII. Gameplay: The gameplay is perfect. All 
 the motion sensing is done right. Everything works at your first movement. Metroid Prime has shown 
 what an FPS can be like on the WII. So basically your Wii remote is Samus's gun and your nunchuck 
 her left hand. Say you need to use the grapple beam to move some rubble out of they way.. you just 
 fling your nunchuck forward and then cast it back real quickly. They also have this new thing called 
 Hyper Mode which she gets quickly throughout the game. She injects Phazon into her body which makes 
 her a complete robo-cop kinda thing. She is very strong basically. Thats not all.... she doesn't 
 lose her weapons anymore. She starts off with her space jump boots, morph ball mode, and her charge 
 shot. So 10 minutes into the game you're getting all these crazy upgrades. Theres too much stuff 
 to write. And i didn't even tell you half the upgrades she gets throughout the game. Lets see settings... 
 the game is really detailed. The amazing thing is that Retro Studios made every scene detailed 
 like you see sparks coming out of broken electrical wires and etc. So l you will always want to 
 go through that door just to see some detailed environments. Story: I'm not done with the game 
 but I' m pretty far enough to just to know the story. A strange virus corrupts some computers then 
 soon enough your on this mission to get rid of that virus. But guess whos involved? Yup you're 
 right Dark Samus is back and looks like your re going at it once more.
  
  Value: Well.. Yes this game is worth the money you pay for. Not one cent of your money will go to 
 a waste on this game. Replay Value: Well... sure you can buy stuff on the shop channel with the 
 points you earned but once you beaten the game... i don't really see a point to coming to back to 
 it... so I don't really know. But look on the bright you could always try to beat your elapsed 
 time record by starting the game all over again. Metroid fan or not I highly recommend it. If you 
 have a WII this is a must have for the Summer of 07. Trust me on this one this game will not disappoint 
 you. The first FPS's for the WII may have gotten you annoyed but this one will not. What are you 
 doing reading this review? Get the game yourself and write a review yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shua007
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  I'll make this short and sweet...
  
  Graphics are the best the wii has to offer so far. 9.5
  
  Gameplay is revolutionary. It feels 
 better than playing halo on pc. 10
  
  Sound is good at parts, reminiscent of the older prime games... but the edge is the voice acting. 
 It's great and adds alot to the gameplay and all around immersion. 9.5
  
  Value is the best I've played on the wii so far. I'll go back to this just to annihilate pirates 
 as a corrupted Samus... Which is quite fun (she's tough) . 10
  
  Tilt is perfect. Playing corrupted Samus is great, boss fights are really fun, alot of shooting 
 and puzzles... you get quite immersed into the worlds. I'll go back quite a few times I'm sure. 
 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jloaded55
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  Ok so I might have gone off a little on my last review blaming a few ppl and criticizing others. 
 Which is why it got pulled and I lost a point on my account &gt;: ( While I apologize for violation 
 your policies, gamespot, I still stand by all my previous statements as well as my feelings I shared 
 on the boards discussing the games gs score. SO. I am now focusing all my power into you the gamer 
 and urging you to buy this game. Even if you don't have a wii! There has been so much time and 
 effort poured into this game and it shows. Top notch graphics and art. Amazing gameplay, bosses 
 and controls. Overall an amazing experience that no one should go without trying.
  
  graphics 20
  Amazing, although pushing the wii to it's limits, therefore, some of those doors 
 are gonna stay closed longer than you'd like
  
  Gameplay 20
  I didn't think they could improve this series after the first, but They proved me wrong come the 
 third time around. Oh and killer controls 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skingus
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  All I can say is please listen to other review sites besides Gamespot. They are just looking for 
 high end graphics these days..... Not that Prime 3 isn't beautiful. It is a gorgeous game to look 
 at and the level design and pacing is something to behold. The controls are simply innovative, 
 yes innovative, no matter how you slice it. People really aren't playing up the controls enough. 
 The aiming is like butter, and the grapple laso puts you inside the game. I actually find myself 
 standing up while i'm playing and ripping away shields from enemies then making them pay with my 
 highly precise arm cannon while loving every minute of it. Please go out and buy this game. You 
 won't regret it........... Truely immersive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonobubbles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  If you expected Metroid Prime 3: Corruption to be a high-quality continuation of the series, you'd 
 be right. And yes, the Wii controls are terrific and intuitive, so if you hoped that controlling 
 bounty hunter Samus Aran would be a dream, that wish has been granted, too. All told, even though 
 Corruption's easier battles and conservative design sometimes seems like less of a sprawling Metroid 
 adventure and more of a straightforward first-person shooter, it's still a great action game that 
 does exactly what you expect it to do, no more and no less. Of course, the five years that have 
 elapsed between the original Metroid Prime and the trilogy's final hurrah is an eternity in gaming, 
 so even with its smooth, Wii-specific controls, there is a strong sense of familiarity here. While 
 Metroid Prime spectacularly ushered Metroid gameplay into a 3D vision, Corruption is content to 
 be a solid successor. Yet you shouldn't let some spurts of predictability dissuade you from checking 
 it out, particularly if you are a Metroid enthusiast. Corruption offers its own formula tweaks 
 while staying true to its roots, and like the previous games in the Prime series, it sends you 
 on an atmospheric journey of discovery and enjoyable boss fights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilight_King85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  this game was definately worth the wait. its so fun and its hard!!!! the graphics are amazing for 
 the wii. it starts out in ur ship and u are about to meet up with the other hunterrs for a mission 
 thats the only thing iam gona say!!! the controls are alot better on the wii then they were on 
 the cubes!!! because how u aim ur wii remote as ur gun and use the grappling beam with your nunchuk. anyway 
 u should definately buy this game! if your a fan or not...... oh and by the way mega ridley is awsome!!!!!!! 
 and the other hunters are awsome!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a Metroid game in my life (and i have owned quite a few Nintendo consoles back 
 in the day) . From the intro to the menu to the music and finally to the gameplay... pure perfection. 
 As soon as you get to control Samus you know that you are in for an epic action adventure fps. 
 I had also read that you should set the sensativity to Advanced but i found it to be TOO sensative, 
 so i would suggest Normal (I believe it was called Basic , basically the one that is in the middle) . 
 I have only played 30 minutes of the game. And enjoyed 35 minutes of it (the extra 5mins were for 
 the anticipation of opening the wrapper and having the game update the actual Wii, which my guess 
 is to update the graphics driver) . The only negative thing about the game is that it does not include 
 any sort of multiplayer campaign (Nintendo could've easily included one, be it online or split 
 screen) . I mean think about it the Nintendo DS is capable of playing online deathmatches and the 
 Wii can't?
  
  This is a MUST get game for every Wii owner. Go buy it, don't even think about it, just go get 
 it. SaeidA. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokahn_94
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Samus Returns, and ending the Metroid Prime series with a bang. The graphics are great, and there 
 are a lot of parts in the game that make you think a little bit. The control scheme is excellent, 
 and if you've played an FPS before, you would probably want to set them to advance. The morph ball 
 is used in so many different ways, to starting machines to being the key in boss battles. The bosses 
 are not the hardest, but are enjoyable to beat. Story is very well written, with Samus Aran and 
 her fellow bounty hunters all infected with a virus, and given PED suits to control the Phazon 
 inside of them. With the PED suit, you can enter Hyper Mode basically what hyper mode does is give 
 a ton of extra fire power to blast the toughest of enemies away. Hyper mode also is used when solving 
 puzzles at times. All voices in the game ARE voice acted, so you don't really have to read much. 
 The scan visor is used a lot of the time, so be sure to scan you're surroundings if you get stuck. 
 You can also command you're ship, either to land in a specific spot, or bomb things you're weapons 
 cannot regularly destroy. This is an excellent end the the Prime trilogy, and I look forward to 
 Nintendo's next Metroid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goku234
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Awesome shooter retro studios make tha game that didnt even receive hype and is still amazing ..... 
 Nintendo did a great shooter but NOT A HALO KILLER wow this guys went to much ...
  i really wanted more ..... more shooting more power its going to be the final metroid right ? soo 
 i wanted more ..
  really good bosses the spider ball is really fun and the grapple gun to fun but my hands almost 
 fall off.
  
  This is a good game for GOTY of the Wii ...
  many websites will compare this game with Bioshock but ... whatever.
  
  Great Game desevres 
 a Rent REALLY GO NOW !!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This game will tide you over until Halo 3 comes out. Although it lacks a multi player and online 
 play, the single player is very deep. Metroid Prime 3 is how FPS should play on Wii and for that 
 matter any other game system. The controls truely change the face of how easy, fun, and deep a 
 FPS can be. Metroid Prime 3 takes place a little while after Metroid Prime 2. It's still part of 
 the Prime mythos and not part of the prior or later games that have been set up as canon. Metroid 
 Prime 3 cuts out a lot of the running back and forth of the prior game and makes it more of a mission 
 based game. Although there are some previous Metroid elements and it still feels like it belongs 
 in the Metroid mythos. Samus and several other bounty hunters need to stop the Space Pirates from 
 taking over the territories that the humans have taken a liking too. The way the game's story unwinds 
 is not only through scans but also through cinematic scenes with full voice overs (a new for a 
 Nintendo flagship franchise) . It's almost like the developers took a page out of the Halo book. 
 The graphics are the best you will probably see on Wii. They are better then the best of the X 
 Box and the PS2 graphiced titles. Although they don't compare to games like Gears of War or Bioshock. 
 I think the game would look good that way, but with the way Nintendo has set up the Wii, they really 
 don't need it. The best part of the game is the controls. The Wiimote and nunchuck are perfectly 
 suited for the game. It makes Metroid Prime 3 a bit easier then the prior two games. That's good 
 for the easy going gamer, but it might push away some of the hard core gamers. Still the boss battles 
 are awesome and the enemies skirmishes are great. Plus you get to use Samus' ship. The visors are 
 still selectable but the beams are stackable like in Super Metroid. Still all of the usual Metroid 
 abilities are there and usable. Plus there are interactive context sensative Wiimote motions for 
 buttons, levers and keys. The music and sound are typical Metroid. There are re-mixes of the prevoius 
 Prime games as well as the 2-d games. The sounds have a retro feel to them, but aren't out of place 
 or out dated.
  
  Prime 3 is the FPS you have been waiting for on the Wii, and hopefully other companies that are 
 thinking. This is the best game since Twilight Princess and RE4 the Wii Edition. This is a game 
 hardcore Metroid gamers and the causal gamer. So enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefcake5000
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  If you like amazing controls, epic boss battles, challenging puzzles or you just love games do 
 yourself a favour and pick Metroid Prime 3 right away. O and by the way this game didn't deserve 
 the 8.5 it got it is a AAA title so for everyone worrying about the quality don't cause this is 
 a masterpiece and in my opinion a work of art. Easily one of my top three games of all time. Sorry 
 gamespot your usually right on target but with this new rating system u guys really dropped the 
 ball, guess its up to the readers to right honest reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fr_tag_2745
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  this game is definitely y favorite wii game yet it rocks it has awesome controls one of the best 
 controls of all and for wii the graphics are good so i recommend this game for any metroid prime 
 fan and any wii owner i still havent finished the game but when i do i will update this review 
 and tell more about it but from what i have been playing it rocks and i think it even beats out 
 zelda for wii best game well now time to continue my game ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! ! ! ! ! ! !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunTzuJJ
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  If you own a wii.. chances are you bought it for some specific titles. THIS IS ONE OF THEM. Don't 
 think about it.. Don't mull it over... Don't wait till you can get it used.. GO GET IT NOW. I am 
 only into the 2'nd area so I don't have a full game review for you yet.. but i wanted to give you 
 guys something to chew on. So far.. the graphics are great. Just what we all wanted to see for the 
 Wii Prime. Nice  the way we expect it. Sound: Nothing really 
 new here.. blaster still sounds like the blaster.. music just as good as prime 1 and 2.. so again 
 great. Gameplay. At first I was worried.. but after spending a few hours with it, it came pretty 
 second nature. I was doing things i never thought samus could do. and really.. the whole grapple 
 beam is sooooo much more enjoyable than it ever was.. RIIIIP.. GIMME YOUR SHIELD PIRATE!. .Everything 
 is smooth and fluid... no stuttering or framerate issues. Descent voice overs and good story so 
 far. Its a 10. Don't kid yourself guys thinking there is something better in this class of game 
 out there. 10 period.
  SunTzuJJ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioMellow
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  The control, the control, the control. Never have I felt so bad ass playing a game. This is something 
 no other system can currently offer. I was pumped for this game and my immediate reaction was udder 
 joy. This is the gamers dream. It offers an experience like no other game can. Visually its very 
 impressive, especially for the Wii. If I ever play another game as good as this one feels, I just 
 might faint. I admit at first judging by the other 2 I was somewhat non-shalant about this game 
 but as it got closer and I watched more videos, I gained hope and I was not disappointed. This 
 is the gamers dream and if you for some strange reason don't like this game, you might need to 
 look up what real gaming mastery is, because few games do it this well. Samus truly is, the Halo 
 killer. Atleast in my book. End of story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  This game is amazingly well made! There are some very great aspects of this game but really shines 
 the most are the controls. I am glad to see a console is getting closer to the fluidity offered 
 by PC gaming when it come to FPS. On the advanced settings the controls are smooth and take no 
 time getting use to if you have been playing PC FPS the last 20 or so years. I personally have 
 only used the lock on feature a handful of times when engaging a foe in battle. In other reviews 
 I read about a few problems with some of the other motion controls. I experianced no problems. 
 All of the context sensative controls worked smooth and have encountered no problems when jumping 
 in the morphball form. Perhaps my wii is set up just right for my tv and room. (I do suggest to 
 all wii owners going into the settings and adjusting distance from wii settings to fine tune your 
 wii-mote, those that visit my home always mention how much more precise my wii seems and I show 
 them how to adjsut the sensativity in the wii menu and they all have had better playing experiances 
 with their own wiis.)
  Enough about the contorls. The game is atmospheriaclly stunning, the art direction really shines. 
 Once again Retro has created a wolrd that seems to really be living and breathing. Animations are 
 of the best quality and really make all the beings belieavable.
  The game clips along at a very smooth 60 frames, I noticed a dip twice through out the game.
 
  The story is not amazing but it serves its purpose and wraps things up nicely! It is hard to delve 
 into this further without ruining what you will find on your own.
  Should you buy this game? I got it yesterday afternoon. Got home and played it straight till this 
 morning. That is how much I enjoyed it! I have sent countless screen shots to my freinds wii's 
 saying, YOU should be playing this! 
  I am a huge metriod fan and have loved the Prime series. I am sd to see it come to a close but 
 it certaintly ended on a high note! If you are a FPA/FPS fan and love the metriod world i highly 
 suggest picking up this game. If you have never played a Metriod game before I beleave this is 
 the perfect game to start with. You won't know the back story but after playing this game you will 
 catch the metriod fevor! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tri-Enforcer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Control:
  
  The control scheme is literally pick up and play. The expert sensitivity level is fluid and accurate 
 for aiming and navigating. Heck, even the default setting is better than any FPS on the Wii. In 
 terms of console FPS... MP3 has the best controls for the genre as a whole. Keep in mind... I'm not 
 big on FP games, I always felt shooting and aiming with an analog controller clumsy and flimsy. 
 You will not be disappointed by the control scheme.
  
  Graphics/Design:
  
  I don't expect a Wii game to look anything like a 360 or PS3 game. Thus I do not deducts points 
 from a Wii game for not looking like a 360 or PS3 title. That never made sense to me why reviewers 
 constantly do this.
  
  For a Wii game -- MP3 looks absolutely amazing. Yes, 360 and PS3 games are HD with nicer textures, 
 but MP3 (and even TP) have better design than most games on HD systems. Why, because the artist 
 can leverage more time on design than time on making a game looking HD and high textures -- it takes 
 up alot of time. When you have awesome design in characters and environment it takes away from 
 the graphical shortcomings of the Wii. In other words -- with beautiful designs you will simply say -- 'these 
 are some pretty good graphics'. I hope more games try to push the Wii hardware as well as this 
 game does. If so maybe more people will appreciate what the Wii has to offer.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  MP3 allows you to control Samus like never before. This different from any other 
 Metroid before-and it feels so much better. There are still the usual power-ups and puzzles to 
 get to and through -- and it's always rewarding to progress through challenges. This Prime game is 
 a little more action-packed and cinematic than the ones before it. This is actually a good thing 
 as there is a nice balance of exploration and action in the game. In a way ---the action that comes 
 after solving a puzzle or getting a power-up is actually an award in itself. This is because the 
 aiming and navigating is so fun to use that I wouldn't mind spending over an hour simply picking 
 off space pirates.
  
  Lasting Appeal
  
  With the rewards and exchange system, you may find yourself replaying this game to get ahold of 
 things and scan stuff just to see what you'll get and also what the ending will be like based off 
 of what you've done. Heck I'd replay this game just for the sake of the action!
  
  Overall:
  
  I give MP3 a solid 9.5. Why after saying nothing negative? Well that's because 
 I would like for a longer adventure. To me...20 hrs isn't even a minimal for most Metroid games. 
 I'm just a hardcore action/adventure person... with RPG influences. Although the controls are great... I 
 still think MP3 suffers from the same camera issues as any other FPS. With all that aside. I highly 
 recommend this game for anyone whether harcore or casual cause that's how fun and easy it is to 
 catch on. Enjoy! Back to the mission for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhemberger
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  I isn't too often that Gamespot gets a game score wrong, but this time they really screwed up. 
 This game is every bit a perfect 10! I have never played a game that I can say that about. It all 
 lies in the controls and the perfect and intuitive feel they have. The precision is excellent too. 
 If you own a Wii BUY THIS GAME if you don't own a Wii BUY A Wii FOR THIS GAME! 
  Perfection!
  The storyline and flow are great. You are transformed into another world instantly. 
 This game will be looked at in the future as the game that changed the FPS forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aashkii
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  The final conclusion to the Prime series goes with a bang on the Wii. Ever since E3 2006 Samus 
 Aran looked better than ever. We were all waiting for the game to arrive at Wii launch, but it 
 got delayed. We waited till the Spring, and it got delayed, yet again. Metroid fanboys had to wait 
 till late summer to get their hands on Prime 3, and after months of anticipation, it finally arrived. 
 Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is one of the greatest Wii titles to date, and probably one of best 
 Metroid games I've ever played.
  
  Retro mostly focused more on combat this time around due to the Wii controls. The battles against 
 the Space Pirates or other enemies feel like other fps are: very engaging and nonstop. The new 
 lock-on feature prior to previous Prime games has been vastly-improved since now when you lock 
 on an enemy, you have to aim at the enemy while locking on. Later in the game you will earn Hyper 
 mode which adds a kick to killing your foes easily, but be careful. Using too much of Hyper mode 
 will corrupt you and eventually your game will end, so you have to balance it during heated up 
 battles. This also implies with boss fights. I was never a fan of Prime's 1 and 2's boss fights 
 since you had to lock on to them and clear the area. But in Prime 3, the boss battles are very 
 challenging and less frustrating than its predecessors. I'll use the Ridley battle as an example. 
 I won't say much, but, the battle was nonstop and I enjoyed it all the way.
  
  Metroid Prime 3 is definately the greatest Wii game since Twilight Princess at the Wii's launch, 
 and I'm glad this game is finally in my hands after months of waiting. The game is solid, the graphics 
 are incredible, and the combat has vastly improved. As Prime 3 is the conclusion to the Prime series, 
 I must tell you, it didn't dissapoint at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankeyser
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  This game is amazingly well made! There are some very great aspects of this game but really shines 
 the most are the controls. I am glad to see a console is getting closer to the fluidity offered 
 by PC gaming when it come to FPS. On the advanced settings the controls are smooth and take no 
 time getting use to if you have been playing PC FPS the last 20 or so years. I personally have 
 only used the lock on feature a handful of times when engaging a foe in battle. In other reviews 
 I read about a few problems with some of the other motion controls. I experianced no problems. 
 All of the context sensative controls worked smooth and have encountered no problems when jumping 
 in the morphball form. Perhaps my wii is set up just right for my tv and room. (I do suggest to 
 all wii owners going into the settings and adjusting distance from wii settings to fine tune your 
 wii-mote, those that visit my home always mention how much more precise my wii seems and I show 
 them how to adjsut the sensativity in the wii menu and they all have had better playing experiances 
 with their own wiis.)
  Enough about the contorls. The game is atmospheriaclly stunning, the art direction really shines. 
 Once again Retro has created a wolrd that seems to really be living and breathing. Animations are 
 of the best quality and really make all the beings belieavable.
  The game clips along at a very smooth 60 frames, I noticed a dip twice through out the game.
 
  The story is not amazing but it serves its purpose and wraps things up nicely! It is hard to delve 
 into this further without ruining what you will find on your own.
  Should you buy this game? I got it yesterday afternoon. Got home and played it straight till this 
 morning. That is how much I enjoyed it! I have sent countless screen shots to my freinds wii's 
 saying, YOU should be playing this! 
  I am a huge metriod fan and have loved the Prime series. I am sd to see it come to a close but 
 it certaintly ended on a high note! If you are a FPA/FPS fan and love the metriod world i highly 
 suggest picking up this game. If you have never played a Metriod game before I beleave this is 
 the perfect game to start with. You won't know the back story but after playing this game you will 
 catch the metriod fevor!
  The only reason I don't rate this game higher is because it is a sequal and feels very familur. 
 I cant wait for retros next outing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OLLY13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  The moment I picked up the first Metroid Prime, i couldn't put it down. The game was absolutely 
 incredible. Personally, the second Prime for me was disappointing compared to it's predecessor, 
 the original metroid prime, with the annoying beam ammo and whatnot. But this latest and final 
 installment in the trilogy seals the series as one of the best in gaming history, blending the 
 best parts of the two previous Primes and even some old school Metroid to boot. I don't think an 
 8.5 quite does it justice due to the games finely crafted controls, artwork, and design. Many people 
 believe that pure raw graphics often make a game. And yes, corruption certainly delivers in that 
 department, but it's the artwork a detail that make it great. Just look at the lush vivid environments. 
 Simply put, virtual strolls have never been more enjoyable. The controls? Some of the best I've 
 ever seen, on the Wii and other consoles. They handle smoothly, they're interactive, they're, well, 
 awesome! That being said, the game could have be made more difficult, considering how easy and 
 smooth it now is to control. The control no longer takes some getting used to like the GCN predecessors. 
 This is obviously a good thing for most, and allows it to be played by more than just the hardcore 
 gamers in the house. But the gamer indeed may find the controls almost TOO well done, if there's 
 such a thing, simply for the ease factor. Also, it's very similar to the previous games. You pick 
 it up, and right from the start you recognize the Prime feel. Personally, that's a good thing for 
 me for the most part, cause although i want change (the wii is an example of that in itself) , why 
 mess with perfection as they say. Some may find this an issue though, so i figured i should mention 
 it.
  
  It's the rare games like these that keep setting the bars higher and higher for other game developers, 
 and that challenge nintendo to try and best themselves on future projects. Future projects like, 
 ooo, let's say ... the next 3D Metroid game?!
  
  It's these incredible games that create the Nintendo Fanboy, and the reason why they're so loyal 
 and oblivious to other companies, despite the scrutiny they often undergo. It's a game that any 
 wii owner should own, play, and love. And if you don't own a Wii yet and were waiting for a game 
 worthy of buying one, this is that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellowzelda
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  This is the best game in the trylogy, the weapons and the enviroment are incredible, samus has 
 new abilities and new weapons.
  The graphics are amazing. The fans will love this game, the best thing of the game are the new 
 incredible controls. the only thing that I didnt like was that this game isnt is different from 
 prime 1 and prime 2.
  The bosses and the enemies are amazing, I now all the people wiil love this exelent game. Samus 
 is Back!!!!!
  The enviroments have exelent graphics and the powers that samus adquire are awesome. Another good 
 thing is the hyper mode, that mode makes Samus stronger and faster, also the morp ball is nice.
 
  Exellent game, my score: 10!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nears_puzzle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Meroid Prime 3: Corruption has, like most Wii-games, not lived up to its' enormous hype. Now, I 
 have played mre of this game, I am starting to like it more and more. Music is immersive and gameplay 
 starts to grow on you. I have not purchased this game and I am stil thinking about it, but played 
 it for 21 hours now with my friend, and I really enjoy it. Story, I may point out, is pretty decent 
 and I will not spoil it for you. Graphics have definitely not improved over the last 2 years, with 
 boring level designs and bad reaction times, as well as the unchanged gameplay, Corruption feels 
 like it should end the series, but it will do so without a bang. Controls feel fine on the Wii, 
 but it still doesn't offer anything that amazing. Smae with Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition, shooting 
 with the A-Button feels like I am not playing an FPS. With no new great amazing additions to the 
 Metroid Prime series, Corruption only brings us back to cool boss battles, an intense storyline, 
 amazing music, spectacular level design, and some fun puzzles, with little effort or amazement 
 in new features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy1978
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of the Metroid series since its inception in NES. I am quite at awe to see how far 
 Samus has evolved from 2D to 3D. Sure there have been nay-say-ers and such, but anyone who has 
 ever played the Metroid Prime games knows that it is indeed a strong title filled with terrific 
 gameplay and hours of fun.
  
  FPS doesn't begin to describe Metroid Prime 3. Its real immersive of the Wii controls and at times 
 I feel its TOO easy to masterfully maneuver. I don't think people will find the controls too challenging 
 so in a way this is 'noob' friendly.
  
  I won't get into the story, but it is your run of the mill Metroid game. The graphics are amazing 
 but its very little different from GC. Can this be done in the GC, probably.... but the Wii makes 
 the game a bit more enjoyable.
  
  Boss battles are quite spectacular. At times you will need to use the grapple hook to go from spot 
 to spot avoiding enemies. Even then you will use the grapple to hook to enemy shields as well.
 
  
  The only gripe if any I would have of the game is that its TOO similar to its predecessors. Thats 
 good and bad depending on which side of the gaming glass you view it on. I happen to believe that 
 game could have pushed the envelope a bit further. SURE it uses the Wii remote and WIRELESS is 
 fun, but I am even more sure that I could see this coming on the GC much like a certain Zelda game...
 
  
  I highly reccomend Metroid Prime 3 for newcommers. Its simplistic control schemes will easily welcome 
 anyone and for veterans of the Metroid Prime saga, they have yet another classic on their hands. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zogarza21
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Metroid has pleased many gamers since it made its debut on the Famicom Disk System, and since then 
 the Metroid series has seen its ups and downs. This third game in the Prime trilogy, which is set 
 between the events of Metroid and Metroid 2: The Return of Samus, is a great game and -- even better -- is 
 one of the few sequels that actually does things, if not similar then better, than its original.
 
  
  There is not a lot I can say about the game that the Gamespot review doesn't say, because for about 
 95% of the review, they get it spot on. I briefly want to talk about what mostly everyone says 
 about Gamespot's review of Wii games.
  
  Now, I've been a loyal Gamespot user since 2003, back in High School. I believed, and still believe, 
 that if you want a review done right, you absolutely have to turn to Gamespot. But, recently, I've 
 seen some games done a bit of injustice, plainly and simply because its the same thing we've always 
 seen. 
  
  Twilight Princess, which was a triumph according to other sites, was given points off for doing 
 what it does best -- deliver a solid Zelda experience. But because it didn't bring much new to the 
 franchise. Why should that ever matter? Will Gamespot give Gears of War 2 an 8 because it uses 
 the same mechanics, or concepts. No, I doubt it.
  
  Look, I'm only going to say this about the review.
  
  No game should be rated lower for doing 
 the things it does best. That's why I'm moving my score from 8.5 to 9.0
  
  Because a five point drop shouldn't happen because of that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  For those of us who played Metroid Prime and yelled at the top of our lungs when we beat the game 
 Retro Studios?! How did you bring the Metroid series back to life?! They then continued the trilogy 
 with the somewhat lackluster Metroid Prime 2: Echoes. Now, after a hasty 3 year wait, we finally 
 get to play one of the best Metroid games ever to be created.
  
  The game takes place sometime after MP2. The Aurora Unit, a computer, has been frozen with a virus. 
 And the Galactic Federation believes the Space Pirates are behind this. So they call world-famous 
 bounty hunter Samus Aran and a couple of other bounty hunters to repair the Aurora Unit and repel 
 the oncoming siege of Space Pirates. Now the gameplay doesn't change much from the other two Metroid 
 Primes. But the controls in this game feel... right. That sounds weird, but the controls are excellent, 
 and Retro Studios couldn't have improved on that spot any better. You'll never play first-person 
 shooters the same way again if you play this game. Also, this game features upgrades from its predecessors 
 ( like the X-Ray visor and Screw Attack) as well as new upgrades. One of them is called the Command 
 Visor . You can control Samus's gunship and cut down anyone stupid enough to stand in your way. 
 You also have this new PED (Phazon Enhancement Device) thing, which allows you to control the Phazon 
 corruption (hence the title) . You yourself will be corrupted by this game when you play it.
  
  All in all, Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is everything you'd want from a brand new Metroid game, 
 and everything you'd want to bring the very successful Prime trilogy to a close. Also, I disagree 
 with Gamespot. An 8.5?! Are you kidding me?! This game deserves more than an 8.5?! But, you know, 
 they have their opinions, and I have my own. If you couldn't find a good game for your Wii, then 
 this game is the remedy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnnoyingKid
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime 3 is the game all Wii owners have been waiting for. And it was worth the wait. With 
 spot on controls, and the best graphics on the Wii, it's a must buy.
  
  The good: The controls are excellent, the graphics are beatiful, solid gameplay, massive boss fights, 
 new powers, new worlds, and a great story make this game perfect. And, to top it off, great voice 
 acting.
  
  The bad: The only bad thing is it takes to long to fly to planets, watching the cutscene everytime, 
 and choosing the planet. Other than that, it's a solid game.
  
  So overall, while I haven't finished it, I've gotten far enough to say this game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  -- Transmission Received -- When Metroid Prime debuted back in 2001 for the Gamecube no one could 
 have foreseen the unmistakable impact that the game had on all other shooters since its release. 
 Many developers have tried, but none have succeeded where Retro Studios has in making a compelling 
 game world as rich as Metroid's. Playing as the female bounty hunter Samus Aran, alone in the universe 
 to uncover secrets of ancient alien species and mysteries. Starting in the first game with the 
 Tallon IV incident and continued on a compelling sequel to unearth more answers with even more 
 questions on a world split in two, Samus is called upon for the riskiest mission she's ever undertaken. 
 A mission that could mean the end to the pirate threat  or danger to the entire universe. Only 
 you can take the journey this fall, on the Nintendo Wii.
  
  The game opens in the same reasonably tame manner you've come to expect from a Metroid game, giving 
 the same air of vacancy in the universe when suddenly you're overtaking a huge fleet of warships 
 identified as the Galactic Federation. For the first time in a Metroid game you'll actually get 
 to see and hear the characters behind your contracts. While the voice acting seems relatively poor 
 for more of the actors given some of the games with some great voicing in them, (The Darkness and 
 Gears of War) , it's passable but not by much. Most of the voice cast seems to have little acting 
 experience and carries the feel of the dialog poorly, which is a shame because the opening cinematic 
 would be memorable otherwise. However, the voice of the Aurora Unit and Sargent were noticeably 
 well done. In terms of other audio design, Corruption is simply flawless to the untrained ear. 
 All typical sounds you expect to hear in a Metroid game are back, well updated and others added 
 and glossed over to feel very Metroid at heart. I was pleased that all missing music from Echoes 
 was masterfully re-implemented (such as the overworld theme and the space pirate attack song) .
 
  
  Once you get your orders everything goes to hell and the G. F. S. Valhalla is attacked and the game 
 begins! Corruption embraces the same opening structure as the original Metroid Prime planting you 
 on a sinking ship and then thrusting you into a world with no directions. Once you make planetfall 
 however everything changes, you're then given instructions throughout the rest of the game via 
 a comm system with actual spoken dialog instead of just a computer readout (don't worry, the readouts 
 are still there) . Which is depressing since the lure of Metroid (at least from my perspective) 
 is the amazing sense of being completely alone in the world which is usually conveyed with a sense 
 of destruction and abandonment  something that is hard to do if you are interacting with other 
 characters, but it certainly does lend to the realism. Samus would certainly receive mission-critical 
 updates from the authority that hires her.
  
  Yet another first in the series, in the beginning of the game after you escape from the sinking 
 ship the Valhalla you land on the nearby planet where a Galactic Federation outpost has been constructed 
 you'll do battle with space-pirates alongside 3 other bounty hunters that will mysteriously disappear 
 once some stuff happens (and you'll get through the PED suit craziness) and makes for interesting 
 encounters throughout the course of the entire game. A new feature for any Metroid game previously 
 released is an AI that aids you. Rather than a Halo-esque single AI unit like Cortana, Corruption 
 features multiple linked AI entities that act as a single intelligence. These beings are unlike 
 most (if not all) game intelligences seen before in gaming, they are organic beings. Called Aurora 
 Units these semi-synthetic beings act as self-aware super-computers able to process and analyze 
 data as you gather it during your adventure. This also allows a more realistic approach to how 
 Samus discovers information about weapons caches and Chozo technology. Speaking of the Chozo, while 
 they are not the focal point or a side investigation via hieroglyphics, there are many amazing 
 Chozo locations spread across many areas that Samus will investigate throughout the course of the 
 entire game. This far exceeds the previous games in terms of scope. Spanning a spaceship, a planet 
 and a town floating in the sky (with a couple more surprises) this is by far the most expansive 
 Metroid game ever. Not only expansive but each area has a singular and distinct feel. By the time 
 the game is over, you'll feel as if you have covered quite a bit of ground. Mainly since for the 
 first time ever, you'll be able to move your ship from place to place on command as well as use 
 it for air-strikes amongst other things which expand the feeling of depth on a planetary scale.
 
  
  With all the space to explore, many were concerned with the graphics from previews shown the on 
 the internet and at E3, it was said that it looked no better on the Wii than on the Gamecube. Unfortunately, 
 the true beauty of Metroid can only be seen in person on a widescreen 480p TV screen. Unlike previous 
 installments, the graphics are crisp, clean, and looked anti-aliased to an extend we haven't seen 
 on Wii games yet. Most noticeably, without looking at the textures and environments  particles 
 and effects will jump out at you and make you pay attention to them. These effects are much more 
 advanced than anything possible on the Gamecube. A benefit that the Wii has, that the 360 and PS3 
 certainly do not, is the ability to run a first-person shooter at an easy 60 frames a second with 
 dozens of characters on-screen with rapid aiming movement and no image-tearing by the GPU. Someone 
 playing Metroid Prime 3: Corruption may not notice, but going from that to The Darkness or a Tom 
 Clancy game is a noticeable difference, even Gears of War looks slow by comparison. Like any exploration 
 she's had in the past, Samus will face enemies like she's never seen before. As you would imagine, 
 controls would be an issue for any game developers, any but Retro Studios that is. Seemingly painstaking 
 options for controls were given for any playing style. Newcomers can have a watered down system 
 for a lock-on fire mode simply by holding the Z Button, while people familiar or able to quickly 
 adapt to the Wiimote controls can have 2 other (aim speeds vary on these) control options. These 
 last two options allow for independent aiming while having a target lock which allows for the most 
 precise aiming and movement.
  
  Since the Wii is the only machine that you can make a game where the shooting is the most fun and 
 the most involving, they made the enemies much more difficult because as a result, were more fun 
 to fight. When you see a space pirate or two coming at you instead of blowing them off with a couple 
 rockets, they'll roll to the side, flank and try to pin you down in a very fun and a very overwhelming 
 oh sh*t moment. Unfortunately, the studio decided to forgo a multiplayer mode of any type in 
 the third installment of the series, deciding to focus the efforts on a geat single-player adventure. 
 While the studio successed without question, it is regrettable and dissapointing that when Nintendo 
 finally decided to include an online structure in their system  one of the biggest titles this 
 year would ignore it. All is not lost, Corruption is not only of the largest games in the franchise, 
 it is also one of the longest. Initial play-throughs of the game yeilded nothing under 23 hours 
 of game time  although I'm more than sure some people out there will finish it in around 20 hours, 
 I can easily see a more casual approach taking 25-30 hours to complete.
  
  With all things said and done, Metroid Prime 3 successfully trumps the original Metroid Prime as 
 the most impressive and expansive action-shooter of all time. Even the (still) iffy principal of 
 having other bounty hunters to deal with, the story was delivered with as many twists and turns 
 as you could expect from any Metroid game you've ever played before. This review can't even begin 
 to cover half of the new and amazing title from Retro Studios.
  
  ** Some of the content in this review has been specifically glanced over or detail has been omitted 
 to prevent the public from spoilers or story elements ** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SC_Yoshimitsu
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  The first MP game set the standards for console fps'. This game redifines that standards to accomodate 
 for the most kickass Wii game yet. The controls are seemlessly integrated into the game and it 
 makes you feel like you've already played this game. The controls add a new flare to an already 
 amazing franchise. They breathe new life in the tired and true method of fps fare. My favorite 
 addition to the controls is definately the grappling hook, in which you flick the nunchuck back 
 and forth to rip shields off and such. The graphics are even up to par with 360 games, which is 
 saying alot. The graphics art style is also flawless, as it is fun to explore the vast intricisies 
 of the environment. This is the must own game of the summer. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
