-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MLB Power Pros 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/mlbpowerpros2008/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Controls are easy to grasp.
 Substantial statistical depth.
 Team management and creation tools are robust.
 Unique modes blend role-playing and baseball action.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not much has changed since last year's version.
 Occasionally dodgy fielder selection.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 22, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.0, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 202 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Konami
Genre: Baseball
Date: Jul 29, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
MLB Power Pros is back for 2008 season with updated rosters, a new RPG mode, and its signature deep, 
 yet accessible gameplay. 

  One look at MLB Power Pros 2008 may be enough to deter any serious baseball fan, as the anime bobblehead 
 characters stand in stark contrast to the realistic player models offered by many other baseball 
 games. It would be a shame, though, to overlook Power Pros, because beneath the cutesy presentation 
 lies a game with broad appeal. Simple hitting, pitching, and fielding controls make it easy for 
 anyone to pick up, while the extensive gameplay modes and astounding statistical depth (backed 
 by the MLB license) offer plenty of meat for fantasy baseballers to sink their teeth into. It's 
 not significantly different from last year's MLB Power Pros, but MLB Power Pros 2008 is still a 
 great game with lots to do.  

           The game captures Manny's mannerisms surprisingly well. Trading him to the Dodgers is 
 up to you.      

  The foundation of Power Pros 2008's accessibility is its control scheme. The Remote and Nunchuk 
 combo is the best of the supported controller options, and you'll be able to play every position 
 easily with the control stick and a few buttons. Pitching is a simple matter of selecting your 
 pitch and aiming your throw by moving a small ball icon. To hit, line up the silhouette of your 
 bat with the ball icon (which disappears briefly to allow the pitcher to stealthily change the 
 trajectory) and swing by pressing the A button. These basic controls give rise to complexity, as 
 different pitches and swings combine to deepen the strategic possibilities. In the field, you move 
 your fielder and throw with the control stick and the D pad, respectively. Oddly, you can't manually 
 select your fielder, so you'll sometimes miss plays due to the imperfect automatic selection. On 
 the whole, the uncluttered controls allow you to perform every on-field action with ease; how well 
 you perform these actions depends on your own skill, as well as your team's abilities.  

  Every major league team is in the game, with rosters that were current as of the beginning of the 
 season (you'll find CC Sabathia pitching for the Indians, and Manny still swings for the Sox) . 
 This update is one of the only reasons people who bought last year's Power Pros should take interest 
 in this game, as little else has changed. In addition to all of the AL and NL teams, you can create 
 up to 32 other teams made up of players from around the league. You can design your dream roster, 
 then customize a wide variety of team characteristics, from uniform colors to individual player 
 strengths. You can show off your custom team in exhibition matches, or take it to the majors and 
 play a full season against MLB teams.  

  In season mode, you are the GM of your team (real or created) and you govern its progress throughout 
 the year. You can set practice schedules, manage finances, or tweak your roster by trading players 
 and signing free agents (including players you've created in other game modes) . You have the option 
 to play through full games yourself, watch a fast simulation, or skip weeks at a time and just 
 look at box scores. These options enable players who might only want to dabble in management to 
 run through a season with ease, while leaving room for budding Tony La Russas to micromanage every 
 last facet of their team. This is one of the main strengths of Power Pros 2008: it provides a satisfying 
 gameplay experience at any level, engaging dilettantes and connoisseurs alike.  

  For those who are interested in a more personal take on baseball, Power Pros 2008 features two 
 modes that let you live the life of one individual player. In Success mode, you create a new character 
 and start off in the AA league. Your goal is to practice hard, do well in games, and make it to 
 AAA, then the majors. Along the way you can work part-time jobs, date women you meet, and engage 
 in a variety of other odd personal endeavors, like helping a teammate build a pitching machine 
 that just turns out to be a box that he stuffs your friend into and says, "Now, pitch!" In MLB 
 Life, you choose an actual MLB player, create a new player, or import your character from Success 
 mode and play through a full major league career. Your activities are more straight-laced than 
 those found in Success mode (no ninja training) , but the basic structure is the same. In both modes 
 you balance practicing to increase your attributes, resting to increase your vitality, and relaxing 
 with a variety of leisure activities. As a fielder, you'll only bat during games, and as a pitcher, 
 you'll only pitch every few games. It's a fun blend of baseball action and role-playing, and it's 
 something you won't find anywhere else.  

           Don't let the whimsical aesthetic fool you -- it's hard out there for a AA shortstop. 

  Playing Power Pros 2008 with friends is also good fun, be it in a single exhibition game or a league 
 of up to six teams. Leagues can be as short or as long as you like, and you can skip games to advance 
 the schedule. You and your friends can pit your custom teams against each other, or you can set 
 yourself up against a number of CPU teams and run a shortened, simpler version of a season. There's 
 a home run derby mode that, while not very challenging, can be fun when you're testing your skills 
 against a buddy. Only in home run derby or exhibition games can you use the Wii Remote's motion 
 controls. Unfortunately, they don't work quite as well here as they do in Wii Sports baseball. 

  If the cylindrical cartoon characters are the main reason you're avoiding the Power Pros 2008, 
 you should really give the game a shot. Despite their shape, you'll find that players have the 
 facial hair, batting stances, and unique mannerisms to match their real-life counterparts, and 
 this goes a long way toward tempering the goofy aesthetic. It's a shame there's no online play 
 or roster updates, but the 32 slots for created teams and 200 slots for created players leave more 
 than enough room for assiduous players to maintain their own updated teams. If that sounds like 
 you, though, you could just as easily pay half price for a used copy of last year's MLB Power Pros 
 and bring it up to speed. The only mode you'd be missing out on is MLB Life.  

  It's simple, yet deep; goofy, yet realistic. By straddling these contradictions, MLB Power Pros 
 2008 manages to appeal to casual and hardcore players alike. It doesn't step far from its predecessor's 
 shadow, but that doesn't prevent it from shining.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jalmirall
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  My best friend gave me MLB Power Pros 2008 for my birthday. He has the original one that came out 
 last year and has talked about the game ever since he got it. At first glance, I thought the game 
 was good. I enjoyed the graphics, the sound and the overall visual look. I'm not into baseball 
 sims that try to imitate every detail in the stadium. 
  
  My problem with this game is simple. I get frustrated by the fielding experience. The one thing 
 I enjoy the most about any baseball game is the ability to execute outs. In MLB Power Pros, I feel 
 that "dodgy fielding", as described by Gamespot review, is more pervasive than you would think. 
 I constantly drop flyballs that should be caught because the fielder is underneath the ball but 
 apparently "not in the exact" place where the cursor becomes purple. It also happens a lot that 
 I miss routine ground balls. Sometimes they go right past my fielder and what was a routine out 
 becomes a double for the cpu.
  
  On the offense side of things, batting is truly great. Timing and location are of essence. However, 
 doubles or triples are almost impossible in allstar mode. I've hit the ball really hard to the 
 point the fielder has to go the warning track to get it, and I've been out at 2nd with someone 
 link BJ Upton or Hanley Ramirez. (I found this to be true in the All Star setting. In normal, I 
 had no problems reaching 2nd or even 3rd.)
  
  During the 1st week, I played it in Normal in which I won all games by 15 or more runs. (Nontheless, 
 I couldn't hold the opposing team to a few runs based on the dodgy fielding problem...) Ever since 
 I played it in All-Star, my frustration has compounded, and I started the season 1-9. The opposing 
 team gets more than 15 hits and almost 8-12 runs per game. Pitchers make "mistakes" and I seem 
 to pay for them every single time. 
  
  In addition to everything I've mentioned, I find the baserunning controls to be unintuitive and 
 difficult to react to when you are in the moment. 
  
  Anyways, I would advice anyone considering this game, to rent it first and get a feel for the controls. 
 Hope this helps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LJ1717
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  MLB Power Pros is a game that reminds of what baseball games should be like and not what the makers 
 of other games think it should be. It is not all about the graphics but about what people like 
 to do in a game. Its easy, fun, and the silly graphics make it a better game than any baseball 
 game I have ever played. With the horrible baseball games out today, this game gave me hope that 
 a good baseball game can still be made. The reason it is so great is because instead of focusing 
 on how realistic and how this player looks and all that, it focuses on the aspects that somebody 
 actually wants in a game. Success mode and MLB life are exactly what I have been waiting in any 
 sports game. Creating your own player and raising his stats is what I find the best about any game. 
 Every hit you get with your custom player just makes you want to play more and more. Being able 
 to basically combine an RPG game with a sports game is genius, and it is what i have been waiting 
 for since I started playing video games. Usually with sports games the game play starts to get 
 boring, but with this game it is exactly as fun now as when it came out of the case and into my 
 system. Other baseball games try to make it realistic as possible, but then the game just ends 
 up all choppy and buggy and the game play never feels smooth like you have complete control. Just 
 make the game simple and fun like how the old Ken Griffey games used to be on Nintendo 64. This 
 game has the same things as other baseball games, but it is ten times more fun, and it is very 
 underrated on this site. It might not deserve a perfect 10, but with this site's inaccurate rating, (because 
 they probably didn't play the game long enough to get past the silly graphics) I am giving it a 
 better rating because it deserves one. It is very under-appreciated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turokkilla
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Well i have not reviewed a game in some time  .  here it goes! Well guess what as a gift or one 
 of the many, for my 13th b-day :3, My dad promised to pick me up a baseball game now at first MLB 
 powerpros 2008 doesnt look like a very good game i didn't think so, but this game has a touch like 
 no other.
  
  
  
  PROS:
  
  Variety: This game has 12 modes ( (still i have only played 4 and have had this game for not even 
 a week) ) My favorite being MLB life mode, Mlb life mode lets you be ethier your favorite player 
 and have a wife, kids, house car etc. but i like how you can transfer your char from success mode 
 my other prized mode. Season and league are really fun as well. 10
  
  Depth:... Depth.... 8.5
  
  Cons: 
  
  Am i playing a baseball game or am i playing a wacked 
 out anime game: I dont like the feeling of everything Anime as i mean Chibi characters... even though 
 lil manny rameriez is cute :3
  
  Narrator: He can be incredibley annoying, and has a weird feeling when your playing sometimes i 
 just turn my tv down.
  
  
  Overall: BUY THE GAME and if not buy a wii, then the game :) 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaRidley95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This game looks stupid by the cover, but if you play it, you know it's not. I thought it would 
 be terrible but I played it and it was fun. Though, it would be nice to be able to play up to four 
 people in multiplayer, it's still fun with two people. The single player modes are great like MLB 
 Life. You get to create a player and pick a team to be on. You can also do season and play as the 
 whole team. On MLB Life, you only get to bat and not field. But, you get to do all of that in season. 
 The batting on this gets really annoying though. You seem to hit the ball right on bight it's a 
 dud and it goes flying up in the air and is a out. This game will make you really mad if you're 
 into it. It will also get annoying when you hit a big hit and the fielder starts running and catches 
 the ball behind his head without even turning around. Some good things are like in MLB Life you 
 play a season, try to get as many RBI as you can, and try to stay in the 300's batting average. 
 After a good season, you will get a contract. It could be high or low depending on your stats. 
 You can also make friends, go out to dinner with your lady or jam to music. This is the game for 
 you if your looking for a good baseball game for Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ah-Cow
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  First of all, I have to say I play the RPG format more than the regular season/league format. If 
 that's all you play, then yes, 2008 is just a roster update so don't bother paying $40. However, 
 if you like the RPG side of the game, 2008 is definitely a must get even if you have 2007. The 
 new MLB Life game mode is almost worth a game in itself. If you enjoy Success Mode, you will love 
 MLB Life because it lets you continue building your player and performance various actions.
  
  Here's a list of things you can do:
  - Play in the game (Fielder - just have your at-bats 
 and if you wish, control base stealing/running, Pitcher - pitch the innings you are in the game)
 
  - Practice (Spring training)
  - Regular practice (on your free time)
  - Social stuff (calling up others)
  - Family stuff (you can get marry, have kids, etc
  - Buying 
 stuff (tons of items, plus car, house and donations)
  
  There is just so much to do in the MLB Life mode that it's worth the price of the game in itself. 
 The to buy or not to buy decision comes down to whether you like RPG side of the game or not. I 
 have played the Season mode for both version and they are virtually the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stabsman
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I had never played the first MLBPP but i was still hesitant to get this one. once you get past 
 the cute, Mii looking guys it is one f the greatest baseball games out there. There is a game mode 
 for everyone here but the best ne in my opinion is the MLB Life mode which, even though its just 
 hitting, it is incredibly addicting. I have found myself playing this till midnight. It follows 
 your life as a Major Leaguer and your journey to be the best player and get in the Hall of Fame 
 in 20 seasons or less... it is just pretty cool to see how your team does and wondering who you 
 may get traded too if you do good enough.. one complaint i do have is the WAAAAY unrealistic trades 
 (Saito for Beltre?? no way!!) but they keep it entertaining.
  
  theres more here but i dont use the other modes that often... MLB life is why you should get this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidRswii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  The answer is no unfortuantely I don't have much to say it is pretty much the same game as last 
 year which is sad let me tell you what's new. Well the new mode that everyone has heard about is 
 the new MLB life mode in this mode you can play as your faviorate major leaguer or your character 
 from sucess mode but this mode doesn't really do anything amwazing you just choose what your player 
 does on his free time and follow him until he retires and the player you upgrade here can be moved 
 to the actual game you just play your at bats if your a fielder and you pitch if your a pitcher, 
 the pitcher one is more difficult then the fielder so don't expect it to be a breeze. The sucess 
 mode is back with a new story the story is about a AA player who goes from AA to AAA to eventually 
 the Majors and there is only two years so it will be very diffivult to upgrade your player to good 
 skills so that is the down side. Another dissapointment is that this game does not include online 
 play or online roster updates which is unfortuante because of all the big trades that happened 
 Manny Ramirez, C. C. Sabathit, Casey Blake, Ken Griffey Jr., Greg Maddux, and other trades. So not really 
 much has changed from last year and I find the MLB life mode a little useless it would have been 
 better if they included online. So this is pretty much the same as last year but it still plays 
 very well and is worth playing if you didn't play the first one and if you played the first one 
 you will be very familiar with the controls. Also this is great game to play with your friends 
 this game is for the sports fan and the baseball lover.
  
  
  The Good: Great gameplay, charming game, long game, updated rosters from last years game, a biullpen 
 feature,40 man roster, and great value.
  
  The bad: No online, PS2 port, unchanged graphics, a useless new mode, same game as last year, and non 
 intresting story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lio83197
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  MLB Power Pros 2008 is a pretty good baseball game. There is so much you can do with it that the 
 game will never get boring. The best part about it is the fact that even though it is very realistic, 
 the characters all look like Miis and they are funny. For example sometimes when the batter swings 
 and misses, he will spin around and fall to the floor. You can also create your own character and 
 bring him from the AA, to AAA to the major leagues and put him on your favorite team, or create 
 your own team. Thats right you can create your own team, give it a logo and a unique name then 
 put any player you want on there.
  
  Whats also nice is you can get the Miis that are on your Wii remote and use them as a team. Also 
 there is a mode where you can use the remote as a bat/ball instead of just sitting down and pushing 
 buttons.
  
  It is a really great game that all baseball fans should get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schlitzohr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Most of this game is fantastic. The stats sheets are ridiculously detailed (in a good way) , the 
 players and animations look great, and the game play is (mostly) solid. As someone has already 
 said, the replay value is almost infinite, and as long as you aren't the type of person who always 
 has to have the newest rosters every year in your baseball games, you should be happy with this 
 game for a long, long time.
  The many game modes are mostly a lot of fun. My only gripe (and it is a small one) is that for 
 someone who wants to play (and just play, not be a general manager too and make a ton of other 
 decisions) an entire season, the season mode can be a little too complicated, although aspects 
 can still be simplified to some degree.
  The gameplay is my only other problem. It's all right, except that 1) sometimes regardless of where 
 you locate your pitches they fly right down the middle of the plate, and 2) the computer auto-selects 
 which fielder should go after the ball defensively, and sometimes it's a poor choice - like you 
 might want to run the center fielder after a flyball, but the computer selects the second baseman, 
 and in the short second it takes to realize this, you've sent him the wrong direction because you 
 wanted to control an outfielder. And as far as I can tell there is no way to manually change what 
 defensive player you want to control during a play (if I am wrong here please let me know) . It 
 doesn't happen a whole lot, but enough to give up unnecessary runs now and then. I actually switched 
 the defense (except for throwing) to automatic.
  Even though I spent so much space focusing on this games problems (which are little as well as 
 few and far between) , I am very satisfied with this purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aussie_devo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  In the beginning, I was a big fan of the old NES Baseball Simulator 1.000, and I've been looking 
 for a baseball game since that hasn't taken itself too seriously. Here is that game. While we can 
 all appreciate realism, it's the gameplay that makes this title so engaging. The wide variety of 
 play modes offers more than enough variety to keep you coming back for more. Each of the modes 
 is deep, allowing for (what I imagine to be) hundreds of hours and near infinite replay value, 
 given that you can create so many different style players, and then actually use them. When I was 
 younger, being a big league ball player was a high priority; I never made it. However, in his rookie 
 season, my character was league MVP. Guess it's time to turn up the difficulty level. Great game, 
 get it, love it, stay up until 4am the first day telling yourself, "One more game..." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j32l16
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  In MLB Power Pros 2008 you can do many things. You can become an MLB pro and try to help your team 
 win the series while making friends along the way in MLB Life mode. In Season mode you become the 
 manager of your made up team for 10 years and you can get them to train the skills you want them 
 to get up in practice. You can also try the Home-Run Derby mode and try to smack one outta the 
 park! You also get points from various modes to spend on fields cards uniforms stances and more! 
 There are a bunch more modes where you can start in the minors and make your way up to the majors, 
 make your own team, or even just play an exhibition game by yourself or with friends. So have fun 
 and remember....... PLAY BALL!!!
  -------
  | |
  | | 
  | |
  | |
  | | 
  | | 
  | |
  ( _ ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjdj96
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  It's like the first game and the first one was good. It has a bit flaws but you could still have 
 fun playing this game.......................... It grows on you to.......................... This 
 one is way better than the first one because you don't have to use those fate cards like you had 
 to in the first game and it got me so mad in the first game because when i had all of my cards 
 saying no i had to pick one. The success mode isn't that long. It is only two years which you have 
 to get to the AAA to get to the major leagues. MLB Life is fun cause you get to do stuff that MLB 
 players get to do and you could buy a car or a house and you could get married or engaged and you 
 could play with your favorite team. This game is better than the first and it is a definite buy.!??!!!!???!!!!!!???!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveLogan
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  This game is a bunch of fun and the second-best baseball game out there (behind The Show for PS3) . 
 Yes, the graphics are a little cutesy, but the game plays very well. And behind the easily-grasped 
 controls there are more stats than you could imagine. The AI plays a good game and the games play 
 realistically. It should be said that this game doesn't add anything terribly new to last year's 
 game, except for a new form of 'be a pro mode' where you start in triple A and try to work your 
 way up to the majors , there is a new, more interactive pitching control (you can always turn it 
 to classic mode if it isn't your thing) and lastly, if one wants to use them, there are now bullpens 
 that you must warm your relievers up in before putting them into the game. I do suggest using a 
 classic controller (or a gamecube one) . For forty dollars, you can't go wrong. I highly recommend 
 picking it up. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
