-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MLB Power Pros
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/jikkyoupowerfulproyakyuuwii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Bobbleheaded characters give the game a unique, whimsical look.
 Controls are so simple that literally anyone can learn to play.
 Excellent physics and rich statistics for people who care about that stuff.
 Loads of in-depth play modes and player creation features.
 RPG-style success mode provides unique take on the typical career mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Technical aspects of the graphics are a couple years behind the curve.
 Play-by-play guy repeats himself constantly.
 No online features, not even roster updates.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 17, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.0, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 474 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Konami
Genre: Baseball
Date: Oct 3, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Konami has crafted a whimsical take on baseball that's as deep as you want it to be. 

  Spend only a few minutes with MLB Power Pros and you'll probably be led to believe it's nothing 
 more than a lighthearted, over-the-top take on professional baseball. After all, the bobbleheaded 
 renditions of familiar Major League players look adorable, and the controls make it very easy to 
 slam moon shots toward the outfield. However, the more time you put in, the more you will come 
 to discover what made the series so popular in Japan: Underneath the accessible spackle is loads 
 of the sort of physical and statistical realism that hardcore baseball nerds crave.  

  Initially, you'll smile at the way the game juxtaposes realistic stadium environments with player 
 models that resemble Lego people after they've hit the weight room. Manny Ramirez's dreadlocks 
 look doubly ridiculous coming out from underneath his batting helmet when he's a pudgy, 3-foot-tall 
 doll. You'll also find that the controls make it easy to place pitches and smash the ball. To throw 
 a pitch, you simply select it and position the cursor in the spot where you want the pitch to go. 
 To swing, you just position the sweet spot of the bat in the strike zone and press the button to 
 swing. If you want, you can press a button to toggle between hitting for contact and hitting for 
 power. Generally speaking, the ball will end up in play if the sweet spot is anywhere close to 
 the ball when it crosses the plate.  

           The players may look goofy, but you won't believe how realistically the ball flies off 
 the bat.      

  Look closer and you'll realize that even though the players look like caricatures of themselves, 
 their routines and athletic mannerisms have been captured with remarkable authenticity. Ichiro 
 does his samurai shtick, Big Papi lumbers down the line, Jeter makes that leaping-spin-throw of 
 his, and so on. That kind of attention to detail extends to the play out on the field. Of course, 
 you can lay down bunts, set up steals, reposition the defense, and make substitutions whenever 
 you like (the CPU definitely knows how to) . Beyond all that usual stuff, though, this game nails 
 the physical interplay between a bat and a ball better than every other baseball sim out there. 
 How far you reach out, whether you swing a little high or low, and whether your swing is early 
 or late -- that's all factored into the ball's resulting trajectory. Say a pitch is thrown to a different 
 location than you were expecting. You can easily move the cursor and make contact, but the hit 
 probably won't be as solid because you're more likely to make contact with the edge of the bat 
 and not the sweet spot.  

  Casual fans can pick their favorite players, teams, and stadiums in the practice, home run derby, 
 exhibition, and league modes. If you play the game on the Wii, you can even swing the Wii Remote 
 around like a bat in home run derbies and exhibition games. Battle-hardened baseball fanatics, 
 meanwhile, can kill hundreds of hours crafting their own players in the success mode and their 
 own teams in the season mode. Outside of those options, there's a stand-alone edit feature that 
 lets you quickly modify existing players and teams, create new players, and put together fantasy 
 teams. Stats gurus will love all of the statistical attributes that can be fiddled with -- everything 
 from contact and fielding, to nuanced stuff like clutch hitting and first pitch strikes. Regardless 
 of how you play, you'll earn points anytime you finish a game that you can spend in the store to 
 unlock alternate uniforms, additional player design options, and cheats for use in all of the game's 
 various modes.  

  Role players will really dig the season and success modes. The season mode gives you full control 
 over lineups, drafts, trades, equipment budgets, and everything else for 10 years. Specific emphasis 
 is placed on player training and depth charts. You'll assign players to different training groups, 
 so they improve over time, and you'll give them roles that the CPU will use when it's simulating 
 games for you. As for the success mode, it's the MLB Power Pros take on the career mode usually 
 found in baseball video games. You start out as a freshman on a college team and spend every week 
 for the next three years practicing different drills, studying, working a part-time job, and going 
 out on dates with girls. The whole process is open-ended, like a role-playing-game. You choose 
 which activities to do, and they, in turn, bolster your player's attributes. Random events and 
 choices dictated by a small deck of cards also influence the opportunities you'll have. You only 
 get a limited number of actual plate appearances in the success mode, but after graduation your 
 player will be added to the game's overall free agent pool, allowing you to continue his growth 
 in the season mode.  

           Factors like injuries, fatigue, and mood come into play inning by inning and day by day. 

  Admittedly, while Konami got a great deal right with MLB Power Pros, they also got a few things 
 wrong. The graphics are crisp and the players have a good variety of body and facial gestures, 
 but the overall presentation lacks spice. You won't see much in the way of camera angles and transitions, 
 for example, and the lone play-by-play guy repeats himself constantly. As it is, the visuals don't 
 push the graphical capabilities of the PS2 or the Wii, and neither version supports 480p graphical 
 output. The lack of any sort of online functionality is another annoyance, mostly because the rosters 
 are nearly a year out of date, and it would be nice to have a way of updating them that doesn't 
 entail manually editing every player in the game.  

  The PS2 version costs 10 dollars less, while the Wii version offers slightly quicker load times 
 and lets you save your data to the system memory. Otherwise, both versions of the game look, sound, 
 and play the same. Much ado has been made about the Wii version's support for the remote's motion-sensing 
 capability, but it's really not that compelling of a feature since it's restricted to exhibition 
 games and home run derbies. Simply put, get the game for whichever system you play the most. It's 
 a fantastic choice for anyone in the market for a fun-loving alternative to all of the other hardball 
 sims out there, and one that doesn't skimp on statistical and physical realism in its pursuit of 
 goofiness.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (41 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: marcnm
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 7:30 am PT
Review:  I love this game, and I'm not even what you would call an obsessive baseball fan. The controls 
 are intuitive, and the graphics and sound are great. The pitching was a little hard to get use 
 to at first. With the avatars' little bodies, it's hard to visualize the strike zone when the box 
 is not displayed. Other than that it's been a blast. The General Offense and Defense are great 
 (of course for me batting is always more fun than pitching) , and the home run derby is a blast. 
 The fielding practice exercise isn't bad either. There are plenty of customizable controls that 
 so far, I haven't felt the need to bother with. I've tinkered with the "baseball cards" feature, 
 but haven't yet understood the value of that. My main peeve is that the game announcer's voice 
 is a little annoying after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tucayo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  MLB Power Pros is a great game, it has got an incredible replay value, and it's pretty fun to play 
 it with someone else. The Wii Remote game modes is a great game option for those who aren't good 
 at learning all the buttons.
  It's many game modes makes it a long game with an awesome replay value, the season and success 
 mode are my favorites (I love that rpg-like mode) , and it's pretty interesting to play as yourself, 
 have a normal life, go to school, study, work, and have dates.
  Though many people disagree with the looks of the characters, I think they are great, because they 
 resemble extremely good their real-life counterpart.
  The things i would add, would be more games to the success mode, as you can only play the last 
 games, and a co-op mode to the league and season mode.
  OVERALL RATING: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgwii
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  I was surfing gamespot for a while one day i was looking at top games and what do i see. a brand 
 new baseball game for the wii that gets an 8.0. as u might imagin i was exited so i went to the 
 store to get it. wat a mistake! ill start with the bad wich is about 95% of the review. first of 
 all i put it in and click and suddenly this japenese guy shouts "MLB POWER PROS". oh thats great 
 i definetly need a japenese guy to shout the title out at me as loud as he can. you know incase 
 i forgot. so anyways i see the main screen and start a game. first of all the players look like 
 pokemon and the commentater sounds like some steriotypical movie star. so anyways i start pitching 
 and i cant pitch no matter how hard i swing my arm later i find out that to make it so much more 
 realistic u press a. isnt that what i want in a wii baseball game. so anyways on to hitting. same 
 damn thing when the hell do i use the wii remote. well the answer is never!!!!!!!! u can even use 
 a gamecube or classic controller. unless u pick wii remote mode which is like wii sports but the 
 batter doesnt track ur movement unless u swing. so if u want to be gary sheffield ur out of luck. 
 so as if its not bad enough already lets take a look at sucess mode (story mode) . well you start 
 out as some wierd guy without a mouth. then ur nerdy friend walks up and starts yelling at u about 
 something im to bored to read about. you keep talking to people for about 10 minutes when suddenly 
 u get to do something. you have a choice you can either sleep workout or go on a date with no one 
 later in the game u get peoples numbers or something. anyways i ended up going out with my math 
 teacher. oh ya ur a college ball player on some team called the tulips. why iunno but you finally 
 in may or something get to play. after about 30 minutes. and u cant save. but wait u actually dont 
 get to play cuz ur a rookie. oh and u dont get to play till ur second seasen or something. u also 
 have these things called choice cards some say yes and some say no. some also say challenge but 
 i dunno what the hell they do. so if someone asks u to be the president of the worled u cant always 
 say yes. so anyways once u get to finally play you dont even really play u just play when ur at 
 bat or if ur the captin u play the last 2 innings. but u cant be the captin cuz u never have yes 
 cards when people offer u captin. any ways heres the 5% thats the good part. well the arenas are 
 thouroughly desined and have good detail and you can control how hard u hit it easily. but thats 
 about it anyways dont buy it its a piece of crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  MLB Power Pros is a game where you can just pick it up and play, it may take a few tries, but you 
 will get the hang of it after a while, also MLB PP has alot more stats then most MLB Games, and 
 that is the frist thing that I was really surprised to notice along with the fact that the gameplay 
 was really fun.
  
  Another good thing about this game is the fact that there is a Wii Remote Mode where you can have 
 all your Miis play againts a Major league team, the only thing is this is for only Three Innings, 
 so at least be ready.
  
  The only really hard mode from when I play it is the Sucess Mode, and that is where your in collage 
 and your teying to get yourself noticed, along with make a friend ship with your team, and also 
 building up your stats, so if you think you can play just as good as the pros then this is the 
 mode for you, the other thing about this mode is there is alot of talking, likje a RPG game, and 
 even after a while you'll think you really are playing a RPG Game.
  
  But other then that and you got also the normal Season mode, where you take your favorite team 
 and play season after season, trying to win a World Series or two along the way, just remember 
 this game will have some players get hurt, but I think the best part is that you can take Triple 
 A plaers and bring them up to the majors, so if any of this sounds interesting, then I would really 
 buy this game, this probably is as good as the second installment but if you can find it new somewhere 
 and you can't buy the newer one yet then buy this one, so with that being said, I hope everyone 
 liked this reveiw, and hope to see you on the feild someday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aximill12345
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 25, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  My family loves baseball. Not me. Still, I bought this game for my dad in an effort to get him 
 off of just Wii Sports. And for someone who loves stats, this game was great.
  
  The major draw would be the season mode. The script and voice acting leave parts to be desired, 
 but the look and game play is good. My dad and brother go really into the tweaking and customizing 
 of their teams. There is even a training mode where you can boost your players abilities after 
 some time in the batting cages or on the pitchers mound. You maybe turned off by the oversized 
 heads and cutesy appeal of the game, but the style works well with the Wii since realistic people 
 do not seem to turn out well on the system.
  
  For me, this game was not ideal. I did get the basics of playing a baseball game, but all the information 
 about which pitcher I need when I am one run up vs a tied game was lost on me. If you like baseball 
 and the intricacies, you'll be happy with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshicon8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  And it's a homer!!! This is tied for my favorite baseball game. Tied with "MLB 08: THe Show". This 
 game is great, great story, great season, great... everthing. This game is great and in a span 
 of 1 week I've payed it for 6 hours or so. GO POWER PROS!!!
  
  Now for Season Mode. In this you are the GM of any team you wanna be. Including 2 teams that you 
 can make up, but you can't make a stadium. You can do a dream draft in Expansion mode, but in Normal 
 Mode you just play as the real team, and you can't make teams in Normal Mode. Your col is to win 
 the World Series. Tip: If you want to make it on the first year, DON'T SIMULATE THE WHOLE SEASON!!!!!!! 
 I did and we were the worst team in the league. But anyway this is a great, great game mode.
  
  Now for Succes Mode. In this mode you're a college kid, going for his dream of making it to 
 the Majors. You totally choose his direction of life, like who to date, to be captain or not, when 
 to study, where to work, and have the coach and scout to like you. This is also a great, great 
 mode.
  
  This game has many ups and not many downs. The only down is that the announcer keeps re - saying 
 things. This is (as I've said before) is tied for my favorite baseball game ever. There aren't 
 enough words for me to say for you to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunyerbiz
Rating: 7
Date: May 28, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I know I am late to the party on this game, seeing it was released about seven months ago, but 
 I just picked up a used copy and decided to share my thoughts. 
  
  Anyways, I won't get into too much crazy specifics, as you can get most of that from the main Gamespot 
 review. I'll just break down what I've liked and what I haven't liked... In case anyone out there 
 is still looking for a decent MLB game on the Wii. 
  
  The Good: Surprisingly deep sim / general manager features that you can easily drop endless hours 
 into, complete with built-in tutorial from a CPU "assistant". The pitcher / batter interface is 
 top notch and never seems to grow old. Games against the lower quality teams tend to be easy, games 
 against the better teams are more difficult... that might seem obvious, but respectable AI balance 
 is something that few sports games can pull off. Power Pros is hardly perfect in this regard, games 
 are still slanted towards offense... but overall things are nicely balanced right out of the gate.
 
  
  The Bad: This game was designed around PS2 / conventional gamepad. Using the Wii Remote + Nunchuk 
 is workable but not really ideal. (NOTE: The game can use the classic controller, but I don't own 
 one of those yet) . Baserunning especially seems needlessly complex when mapped to various combinations 
 of d-pad + analog stick. I'm sure things are more intuitive when you have more face and shoulder 
 buttons to work with. The shoe-horning of the controls from standard gamepad to Wii setup is minor 
 in the big picture. 
  
  The major issue with the game is the fielding. The game does a horrid job of choosing which fielder 
 should make the play... resulting in many infield hits and/or weak pop-ups dropping in. This frustration 
 crops up every game without fail... and it's a major problem considering this was something that 
 was worked out on NES games from 20 years ago. In addition, the fielding circle that you have to 
 stand in to make a play is ludicrously small... which means that there is no such thing as a routine 
 fly. It's a constant battle of tweaking to make sure you are perfectly aligned. Watching fly balls 
 that appear to hit your player directly in the head, only to see them ruled as base hits is a major 
 point of aggravation. Also, the fielders are far too slow in relation to the size of the ballparks. 
 Even fast outfielders don't seem to have any range to catch up to high fly balls to the warning 
 track or the corners... if it's not hit directly at them, it's dropping in. All of this leads to 
 the aforementioned offensive-slant the game has. It's not that pitchers are weak or hitters are 
 overpowering... it's that the fielders can't get to enough routine stuff to make plays. 
  
  Overall, I have found myself enjoying the game and have probably averaged about 4-5 hours per week 
 over the last month. I'm about 35-40 games into my season... and the sub-par fielding can be glossed 
 over when considering that the pitcher/batter interface and general manager features are so much 
 fun to keep revisiting. I'd still recommend this one as a used / bargain bin purchase... and I'm 
 sure playing it with the classic gamepad would get rid of some of the goofiness with the wii remote 
 + nunchuk control scheme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkthemaniac
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a game that utilizes the Wii controls to the max, go play The Bigs or Wii 
 Sports. If you want a deep baseball game that allows multiple levels of skill, then Power Pros 
 is your bag.
  
  As I said above, the gameplay is not waggle. It uses the nunchuk to move the bat across the pitching 
 box. It works like this: If you don't put pressure on the nunchuk in any direction, it will stay 
 in the center. Putting joystick pressure to the far right will put your bat to the far right, and 
 more sensitive pressure will put it between the two. It's difficult to do at furst, but in time, 
 it becomes very intuitive. You swing the bat with a button press. It's the same for pitching, but 
 your bat is substituted for a ball. the controls get complex in base running and fielding, but 
 they wortk well, and the ability to turn fielding control on and off for rookies levels the playing 
 field more.
  
  The game's most unique feature is its story mode, called "Success Mode." It follow your player's 
 college career and uses a stat system, making it more of an RPG than anything else. Living through 
 the college life of a baseball player is very entertaining, partly due to the dialogue being hilarious 
 and a "fate card" system. It gives you cards that have Yes, No, or other responses that you can 
 use to answer questions, such as "Will you buy a lotto ticket?" Sometimes, it feels like you don't 
 get a variety of cards, but it's still fun.
  
  Other than that, you have a season mode which you can import your college players into, a store 
 to buy different styles for your players, and every American and National League team. The graphics 
 are so-so, but the style is excellent, and the music is fitting and catchy.
  
  Being the second real baseball game on the Wii, and seeing as how the first was the iffy title 
 "The Bigs," Konami's approach is thoroughly enjoyable, and will stand the test of time above the 
 wagglefest sports games that people have been seeing on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenpeny
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  MLB Power Pros is a great game with cute character and incredible realism. The controls are good, 
 and the gameplay is awsome. Everything you want for a normal video game console is here. EXCEPT 
 the Nintendo Wii is NOT a normal video game console! In case you don't know it has movement sensors 
 and this game present only a very little feature of a game where you use the wiimote to play. In 
 MY opinion, this feature SUCKS! It only adds the power hit, the pitching types and the fielding 
 feature to Wii Sports baseball. Of course you can play with the MLB players too, but it's almost 
 the same game. The Season mode. It's a good mode but should be improved, like the training should 
 be more detailed, the level of friendship of the players should be shown and some other little 
 things. Success mode. Oh I waited a long time to talk about this. First of all, your team sucks 
 compared to the other top teams and even if your player has potential it's HARD to get to the Pros. 
 So you sped time practicing, adding skills and then suddenly the scout says that you can't go to 
 the pros? WTH? So I've trained for 4 seasons and every single thing I've done was fo NOTHING? Ok. 
 Fine. No problem. Or should I say GO F*** YOURSELF! Then if you think it's easy to practise and 
 get skills, your injury chance is about 1 in 30 times you practise you may get injured. Other features 
 missing: Create a player (not in success mode where your player sucks, but where you can determinate 
 his skills) . You can only edit existing players. A chalenge mode where you have to do something 
 special (just to make the game time longer, otherwise you get sick of his game very easy) and a 
 better tutorial (If you aren't used to baseball game you take a time to learn how to play this 
 one) . Here I conclude my review, if you liked it vote thumbs up, if you don't thumbs down. Thanks 
 for the patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidRswii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Now as you can tell this is a baseball game which is a sports game and if you don't like sports 
 please look for something else alot of people have given this game bad review but they don't know 
 that this is actually a very good game don't underestimate it for its graphics this is a hardcore 
 baseball game. Now lets start with the season mode of course its just a plain season which starts 
 in April and finishs around Augest or July now in this mode you have th epower to trade players, fire 
 them, what practices they are doing, and etc. now in the Season there are usually 3 or 4 times you 
 play one team which sound bad but actually isn't there are two features that one you can skip the 
 game or you can use the fast game mode when the your paying a game you can just pasuse it and press 
 fast game and the computer will do the rest of the innings which saves alot of time, and thats pretty 
 much the season. Now theres a mode known as Sucess mode this for the RPG fans where you create a 
 young college player whos want to make it into the majors and you devolp he's skills through out 
 the way and any postion you can choose probobly the hardest is the pitcher but in ths mode most 
 likelly your players will come out weak oh and you can aslo put them on free agents and register 
 them in your faviorate team. There is also wii-mote mode where you use the Wii-mote as a bat and 
 pitching, there is also home-run contests, exibition, and a league. The game also gives you points 
 to purchase baseball cards, batting/pitching styles, various uniforms, and stages. Also the game takes 
 place in the year of late 2006 early 2007 so Johan Santanna is still on the Twins =/
  
  PRESENTAION:
  MLB mashs up with power pros and it works very well. Many customization, amazing 
 stat tracking, and impressive to detail. But it lacks the Wii feel
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Its simple. Slick and polished but it is still a PS2 port
  
  SOUND:
  Commentary on every player 
 and every postion and every team... geys annoying after a-while but you hardley notice it. An crowd 
 cheering too.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Its the baseball feel moving balls and bats around with tons of modes and you cna use the clasic 
 controller, GameCube controller, or Wii-mote+Nunchuck. Its still port and lacks motion sensing and 
 also lacks the onlin play which would be great in this game.
  
  LASTING APPEAL:
  Countless modes, full creation mode, the RPG like sucess mode, and season play with achivemnets. The 
 lack of online play is whats keeping this game from a perfect 10 next year has to have online play.
 
  
  This game is highly recommended for those Wii-owners that are looking for a hard-core baseball 
 game this game hits it out of the park with a 9.5 out of 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballplaya13
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 4, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Mindblowingly little thought put into this game. Let me just start out by saying i love baseball. 
 Its my favorite sport. Im a die hard cub fan and play on my high school team. I got a Wii for Christmas 
 and this was the first game i played. It almost made me try to sell my Wii. I thougt its would 
 at least try to use the Wii controls like Wii baseball, but it doesnt, AT ALL. It lets you use 
 those controls for 2 game types, home run derby and exibition. Every other game type, including 
 season mode, makes you use the unbelivably boring "use the nunchuck analog stick to point at the 
 ball and push a to swing." Fielding can be impossible because the computer seems to put you on 
 the worst fielder possible to try to catch it. The graphics can be cute, but lose cuteness the 
 more you play. There is one thing i do love about the game, and it is the amount of statistics. 
 Stats of every kind can make scouting around the league for possible trades pretty fun. You can 
 by this exact same game on the PS2. In my opinion, if you are really compelled to play it for some 
 reason, you should rent it or borrow it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graberph
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best baseball games I have played. The success mode offers a unique role 
 playing option and even allows you to shortcut many of the events to quicken the pace. This allows 
 you to create/build several new players along with those in the majors already. While the graphics 
 may not suit those used to some other sports games the realistic nature of the gamemakes up for 
 it. The statistics kept on each batter, fielder, pitcher is remarkable. Season mode allows you 
 a lot of control down to how each player practices, AAA/MLB switches, trades, salary as well as 
 the option to control individual players. League mode affords you the opportunity to create a league 
 with up to 5 others and navigate a season. The voice commentary gets old and repeats quite often. 
 Downloadable roster updates would have been nice. The Wii version should offer a WiFi connection 
 as well as 4 player option to allow two per team to play. Overall this is a must buy for the Wii 
 and comes $10 cheaper than other Wii games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The gameing in this game is really fun, considering the wii mote lets you swing like your holding 
 a bat, or throwing a ball ! The caracters look really funny ,the proffesianal baseball players 
 are the best part of it. istead of using your own mii, you get to use thiers !!! The graphics are 
 not so bad either , the guys look really good in this game ! I cant take my eyes off of them. So 
 because of the steller game play, the real good graphics, and the funny professianal Mii baseball 
 players. So because of this I give this game a really, really specail 8.5. Thanks for listening, 
 and remember whos the best gamer in the world. Yeah, thats right its me. Curse Mark Chris, the 
 great !!! the really , really great!!! So remember whos the best gamer in the world and if you 
 challenge me you will be beat down sencessly. So I hope you have enjoyed my cool review , thanks 
 for listening !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schneevs67
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  At first MLB Power Pros seems like a kids baseball game when you first look at it with the cartoon 
 like player models, but don't be fooled it is extremely deep and customizable for almost any type 
 of player from the 5 year old kid playing t-ball to the die hard stat fanatic (like myself) . Stats 
 are almost endless and the game keeps track of every pitch, hit, run, and stat record that rival 
 a baseball encyclopedia. While there are no roster updates online you can use the success mode 
 to create a player and then upload the password to websites for other players to add that player. 
 The rosters can also be edited using "Arrange" mode to update offseason trades and pickups to make 
 them current with the MLB rosters. Granted it takes a little bit of work but is well worth it if 
 you want accurate rosters. 
  There are also modes where u can create your own league and play up to 10 seasons using Season 
 mode where you can manage a teams players salaries, income from games, and all the day to day operations 
 of a GM. If you don't want to get that deep you can customize it to your taste and tell the computer 
 to manage and even simulate games according to set preferences. In the Training mode you can have 
 players practice together in small groups to build friendships and pass on certain skills if their 
 friendship level is high enough. The Practice mode needs a little TLC in the next edition of the 
 game but is still fun nonetheless.
  It also has the standard exibition and HR derby modes where u just dive right into the game and 
 a deep practice mode where u can take batting or fielding practice to develop your skills. Believe 
 me, depending upon what level of automation you use you will need to practice just like the MLB 
 players do in order to be competitive.
  The Wii controls are basicly only used in exihibition and HR derby modes and at first I thought 
 this took away from the gameplay. However, it turns out that the game is better that it doesn't 
 depend on the Wii controllers heavily. It is such an indepth game that it would give it an arcade 
 type feel if the Wii mote was used in the season modes. You still need to be accurate with the 
 nunchuck and the remote in order to hit or you can use a gamecube or classic contoller to make 
 it bit easier.
  The Success mode is fun and with its RPG type syle makes the create a player mode fun and enjoyable. 
 You have to constantly make decisions which affect how your player is created and what skills they 
 will have if they are offered a contract at the end of the mode. Like in life you aren't always 
 offered a contract at the end of your college career if you don't perform well enough and/or the 
 scouts don't like you.
  The only major thing I don't like about the game is the announcer's tone at times is way too excited, 
 that he constantly repeats himself, and his speech is not fluid. He does come up with some pretty 
 kewl little tidbits about players like then they are about to hit a milestone in their career he 
 will say something like "David Ortiz needs only 8 more home runs to hit 250 for his career" which 
 I think is pretty cool.
  Finally, as far as replayability it is extremely high with all the different modes and ways to 
 play the modes. I plan on spending a lot of time developing and creating new players and teams 
 and then taking them to glory! Definitely pick this game up for fun for the whole family and don't 
 let the 'kiddie' look fool you! MLB Pros is the real deal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TorontoJock
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  I've never written a review before but after reading some of the "abysmalratings I had to write 
 a response. 
  
  THIS IS NOT WII SPORTS BASEBALL!
  
  This is a real baseball game and you will not get to use the wii mote (well, hardly) . Does this 
 mean it's not fun? Absolutely not. I have put more hours into this game then any other on my wii 
 and am still having a blast. Oh and I'm 26.
  
  So if you don't use the wii mote why should I get it? Look guys, the wii mote is awesome. It enhances 
 many games (Resident Evil 4 anyone?) but it does not work for everything (sword fighting in zelda) . 
 Personally, I am thankful that this game doesn't use the wii mote but rather makes use of the classic 
 controller, which I have used since I bought the game and have zero complaints about the control 
 scheme. Yes, sometimes I would like to be able to switch players faster without hitting R1 as fast 
 as I can to get to the guy I want, but when a ball is smoked between two guys and the computer 
 gives you the 'wrong' one it doesn't matter that you can't switch it to the shortstop faster because 
 your not going to have time to fix it anyways. Besides this happens hardly ever and has been a 
 part of video game baseball forever.
  
  If you want a good comparison to how this game plays imagine Ken Griffey Jr. Baseball for N64 or 
 the old timers RBI Baseball for the original NES, BUT with much better graphics, a lot more playing 
 options and incredibly realistic stadiums (each stadium is an exact replica of the real thing and 
 they look beautiful) . I say this because it's easy to pick up and play but there is a lot of depth 
 to playing and will hardly ever get frustrating. The gameplay actually is so good you will never 
 find yourself yelling at the computer that you hit that one better than the animation shows because 
 the ball comes off the bat so realistically. I play baseball and I know (I hate that the problems 
 I have in real life are the problems I have in this game as well; can't catch up to those fastballs!) . 
 
  
  Okay, this review has gone on long enough and I haven't even touched on the create-a-player mode, 
 which is very addictive. Again this is not your lets create an awesome player in 1/2 an hour. It's 
 a complete game filled with lots of choice (and resetting if you cheat like me ;) and very little 
 baseball. Anyway this game is highly recommended for baseball enthusiasts as well as for anyone 
 who just likes to play a game now and then. But really, the more you love this sport the more you 
 will love this game (all those stats are just too tasty) .
  
  Thank you for reading my (first) review, and for those of you who don't like this game, do a little 
 research before you buy a product. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_WHEE_x
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I figured this was a fun twist on baseball with cute characters and cool motion controls where 
 you really get to bat. Boy, was I wrong. The gameplay of power pros is the worst I've seen yet 
 and the way it tells you nothing about the game on the box is the reason i'm sure anybody bought 
 this. For instance, I thought it would be motion-sensitive like baseball on Wii Sports. But it 
 isn't. At all. the only thing motion-sensitive about it is the home run durby which is the worst 
 thing EVER. You get ten pitches and try to hit them as hard as you can. Yaaaa-hhoooo. The controls 
 for everything else are the A button to pitch and bat, and the D-pad to throw to different bases. 
 But the worst part, by far, is the carreer mode. All you do is choose to either work at your part-time 
 job, practice (and you dont get to really practice, the game does it for you) , or study each week. 
 and after you do this activity, you have to watch a boring catoon of no relativity to the game 
 for about half an hour until you get to choose your next activity. And you dont get to accualy 
 play baseball until the last game of the 2nd season, where you only get to play 2 innings as pitcher 
 and dont even get to bat. It took me 3 and ahalf hours just to get there, and after that I quit. 
 Why? Because MLB power pros is the worst game ever. If anyone reading this disagrees with me on 
 any of these things, then email me at nialstyle@ctcweb. net and tell me why you think so because 
 I would love to find something about this game that doesn't absollutley suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aknielson
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  A Wii baseball game that doesn't hardly use the Wii controls, what a waste. The rest of it is, 
 ehhh, ok, same baseball stuff you can get on old xbox or ps2. The players are cute, but if your 
 not going to get to use the Wii remote for any real pitching (Wii sports has more depth then this 
 game as far as controls go) . You may as well play it on a system with better graphics and animations.
 
  
  I was hoping for a wii sports baseball where you can also field the ball and control base running 
 just a bit. 
  
  Well thats about all I have to say. The review minum is like 100 words so just ignore below here.
 
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link_0f_Hyrule
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  This game has everything youd expect. Good graphics, sounds, gameplay, controls, and storyline. 
 This game has about 15 modes to choose from. But the main ones are: sucess, season, exhibition, shop, 
 and homerun derby.
  
  Success: in success mode you start of by customizing your little character. Then, you pretty much 
 start your life at college. You tryout for their baseball team and you make it. Then, its all up 
 to you. You can practice to gain attribute points, work at your job for money, go on a date, study, 
 rest, go shoppin, or you can add attribute points to your character. Throughout your college life 
 you play baseball games, face challenges, and of course the fate cards. Fate cards are 5 cards 
 that show up when theres a tough decision. Lets say you're going to hang out with your friends, 
 but then your dad asks yo if you wanted to go fishing with him. you would have 5 cards to choose 
 from: Yes, No, Challenge, or Marvin. In those 5 cards there may be 5 yes's or 5 no's or maybe 2 
 challenge's 1 Marvin and 3 no's. You're probably wondering what the marvin and the challenge cards 
 do???? (the other 2 are kind of obvious) Challenge pretty much challenges the question.. like at 
 the beginning of the game someone wants to sell you a bat for 20$ if you challenge he'll change 
 it to 10$. Sometimes, the challenge is rejected. Thats pretty much success mode an RPG. WARNING: 
 fun but very addicting, and pretty hard. Season: All you do is pick 6 teams (counting yours) and 
 you play against them.
  Like, if you chose the Cubs you would have to choose 5 other teams and play against. At the end 
 you get shop points. Exhibition: SELF-EXPLANATORY!!! But I will explain to all you noobs out there. 
 You pick an MLB team and play againts another MLB team and you kick their bahookes!!!!!!!!! (bahookes 
 meaning butt )
  
  Homerun Derby: Pick a MLB baseball player from any MLB team youd like and a pitcher throws slow 
 balls so you can have the chance to slug as many as you want to the stands. Shop: Get shop points 
 by doing stuff and you can buy baseball card packs!!!!!!!!! I almost got every card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinyu1115
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is decent. Don't be fool by the cartoon characters. This game is for real. It's harder 
 than the BIGS and it takes time to build your skill which you will be addicted to it once you start 
 it!
  
  The season and career mode is awesome, you can control every bite of the team and the players. 
 Even thought you might not always create the best player that you desired, that's life! It treats 
 the game as a real life baseball player.
  
  This game worths more than $39.99!
  Lack of updating and doesn't have the on-line play might be the only two cons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barloc1337
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  MLB Power Pros is a popular series in Japan from Konami, and we are fortunate to find that it has 
 come to America for the first time. And since it has 2K's name on it, it has all the licensed players 
 that you'd expect in a baseball game. Although your first glance will lead you to believe that 
 it is a kid type of game, but to it's credit, this game is one of the best baseball simulations 
 out there.
  
  MLB Power Pros plays like an arcade type of baseball game. But the game will surprise you with 
 how deep this game really is. There are a ton of modes in the game, and along with that, they keep 
 all the statistics for you just like a normal baseball game. There are of course your standard 
 baseball options such as the exhibition, and the home run derby, and many others you'd expect. 
 But two modes will jump out at you the most in this whole package, which of is the surprisingly 
 deep season mode, and the success mode.
  
  The season mode contains as much depth as the MLB 07 game, which was also by 2K. You play through 
 the marathon 162 game season just like any other baseball game, but it will allow you to control 
 many different parts of the game. You can switch around your lineups before the game, set your 
 pitching rotation, and switch players with your AAA team (usually not that many guys, but it's 
 just there to add more players to develop) . You can also manage your team's practice, and by that 
 you can select a different player to practice a certain type of drill. These things include batting 
 to improve hitting, fielding to improve a player's fielding rating, running the bases for speed 
 and stamina, and of course pitching to give pitchers more control. All of those things add up for 
 a mode itself, but what you'll find surprising is the statistics that they will keep. You can view 
 all the stats that you could in other baseball games, and even in games, it will tell you when 
 a player will reach a milestone for his career, or just a game record. For what the game looks 
 like, it will blow you away with how deep it's season mode is.
  
  The game also features a very odd mode called success mode. This mode plays a lot like an RPG kinda 
 mini game, but involving baseball. You'll have a player, and start him off in college, and work 
 his way up to the majors. But it's not just about baseball, the game will throw a lot of stuff 
 at you that you have to keep on track of. While improving your player's stats, you'll need to make 
 sure you study so that you can pass in school. You'll also have a part time job, and even a girlfriend 
 comes into play. This very deep mode will keep you going for hours, and if you like baseball, and 
 kinda like RPG's you'll like this mode a lot.
  
  The gameplay itself is pretty solid. It feels like a baseball game, and looks like a kid's game 
 all at the same time. Although this game is for kids as well as adults, you'll find that the game 
 plays realistically, and you'll notice this when a ball is hit, and how realistically the ball 
 comes off the bat. The ball really can land anywhere in the field, and depending on where you hit 
 it on the bat, that will determine how well you hit the ball. The game plays a lot like an arcade 
 game, and you'll notice that with the way you bat and pitch. The batting is done with a little 
 phantom bat, and a yellow zone where you can hit the ball for a hit (or at least a better hit then 
 if it wasn't there) . The pitching is done by just hitting the A button to pitch a fastball, and 
 for any other pitches, just hitting the analog stick to a certain side for another pitch. Overall 
 it results in a pretty solid approach to the game, and the most important thing is that it is effective.
 
  
  The game offers a couple different control schemes as well. You can play with the wiimote and nun-chuck, 
 virtual console controller, or probably the best choice is the gamecube controller. The game doesn't 
 offer up the most for Wii specific controls, but you can play with just the wiimote. You'll only 
 be able to play exhibition and home run derby with this controller, but none of the other modes. 
 The game plays a lot like Wii sports baseball, although you get to help with the fielding just 
 a bit, which involves shaking the controller to throw it in.
  
  The biggest complaint about the game, is mainly just the graphics. Not the whole approach necessarily, 
 but it looks like an early PS2 game, and has little rims on the side of the TV for 480p. The idea 
 of that kind of style of graphics is great, and is done top notch. You can't help but smile at 
 the legless players run around the bases, over and over again. The only other complaint is the 
 terrible voice acting in the game. The announcer likes to say the same thing a lot, and just gets 
 really annoying at times. Whenever a runner is on base your bound to get the nasal voice from the 
 announcer. Mute the game's announcer, it's for your own good.
  
  Beside those minor complaints, MLB Power Pros is a solid title for any baseball fan. I look forward 
 to any other installments that may come, as this is a good series to expand on. Overall, if you 
 like baseball, you owe yourself a chance to play MLB Power Pros, which is one of the best baseball 
 titles out this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdubbs16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Positives:
  1. Options- I don't think any sports game has ever had as many ways to customize your game. Think 
 a pitcher chokes with runners on base? There is an option for that. Does your favorite player talk 
 trash? There is an option for that. There is even an option for players ability to execute small 
 ball tactics such as moving runners over with a bunt or ground ball. 2. Details- While the game 
 does not focus on realistic graphics, it does a great job of replicating pitchers motions (check 
 Orlando Hernandez on the Mets high leg kick or Dice K's pause) and hitter's batting stance. And 
 while this isn't the first game to do this, the replay of the big hits at the end of the game is 
 a nice touch.
  
  3. Season mode- Tons of stuff to do, from having a draft that takes place in June, to having players 
 practice certain skills, the season is much more than playing a few games and simulating the others. 
 4. A. I.- CPU does a great job of managing. The computer does logical double switches, pinch runs, 
 uses defensive replacements, and even will bring in the situational lefty when it should. Negatives:
 
  
  1. Very text heavy- you will be repeatedly pushing the buttons to speed past the game explaining 
 simple things like what a trade is or how many teams are in the Major Leagues. The Career mode 
 has a TON of text and while some of it is funny it can get old pretty quickly.
  
  2. The announcer is a bit too excited. Especially early in the game. There is no color commentator, 
 just one play by play guy. 3. Navigation is a bit clunky. To switch to various modes you'll be 
 removing the classic controller then putting it back. The menus also take some getting used too. 
 The super bright colors on the menus is a little annoying.
  
  4. Animations- Some transitions such as turning double plays or attempting to throw out a base 
 stealer aren't crisp. All in all the positives far outweigh the negatives and this game is highly 
 addictive. Lack of on-line is bummer but the game is flat out fun and should be in the library 
 of every Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manticore32
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  At first I gave this game an 8.5, then a 9.0. This is my final score: 9.5. This game just keeps 
 getting better and better and I'm here to tell you why as well as I can.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack doesn't get annying but its not the greatest. The announcers have great voices 
 and really get you excited for even the most minor play but sometimes they get a little repetitive 
 with their comments and it just loses its effect. But what can I say, all sports games are like 
 that.
  
  Controls: The best part of the game. When MLB Power Pros was announced I wasn't sure what it would 
 be like. The Bigs had already been released by 2K sports and it got terrible reviews. But I decided 
 to try it out and I'm thankful I did. The controls aren't even motion-control. They might be appreciated 
 by some but for me it was good to get back to some button pushing and joystick moving.
  
  Visuals: An extremely crisp and refreshing visual design help give this game a nice feel. The players 
 look a little exagerated but you can actually still recognise them. Very careful attention was 
 obviously put into the glove and bat selection for each player. I have not found one character 
 so far that has the wrong equipment. The visuals are surprisingly liflike also.
  
  Modes: Another great part of the game. This game's modes are simple enough for beginners but deep 
 enough for pefectionists such as myself. Career mode is an interesting take on the life of a collegiate 
 baseball player, but Season mode was the one I really enjoyed. The inclusion of characters into 
 each of the modes gave it a nice feel.
  
  Sound: 8.0
  Controls: 8.0
  Visuals: 9.0
  Modes: 10
  Overall 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7Xfan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  There are so many little details in this game I could rant for hours. Character mannerisms, detailed 
 commentary (for almost any thinkable situation) , players moods are taken into concern here (you 
 can push the 2 button to pick up the Rosen bag to calm them down a tiny bit) , you can use Miis 
 in the Wii Remote Mode, you can collect baseball cards giving you a very in depth look at many 
 players (including guys in AAA) , and even lead a guy from college in an RPG Text adventure into 
 your team in Season Mode (basically a 10 year franchise mode) if you make th right decisions in 
 that mode.
  
  Just the look of this game is EXTREMELY decieving. Strikezones go from a players waist to his eye 
 levelfor starters (thought it ends up feeling just about right) . It seems like a Bacyard Sports 
 simple rendition of baseball. Pete Wheeler and Pablo Sanchez have nothing on Jeter, Varitek, and 
 real pros though. They're just urban legend folklore of the greats on the street.
  
  There are a few really great touches in the graphics though that aren't in other games. One such 
 example is upon hitting the ball there' s a little sign in the top right corner telling you the 
 number of outs. The Pitching cursor even has it so the seems on the ball move realisticly to show 
 you what pitch is being thrown so you can react quickly enough. I've found on numerous occasions 
 I just want to play a speedy game of baseball and sure enough little visual ques like that help 
 you think on he fly instead of spending 15 seconds between pitches thinking out what to do. The 
 interface is clean and very intuitive. There's a certain liveliness to these character models, 
 the fluecy of their movements feels real enough too.
  Stadiums are modeled exactly like you'd see them in real life, save for goofy advertisements like 
 Orange Blue . (I didn't try to make sense of it)
  
  The commentator has a tremendous variety of things to say. He has a few lines he falls back on-I 
 guess similar enough to real life commentators- but then has comments on very obscure moments that 
 other baseball games just don't include. After a player hits the ball he'll recap exactly what 
 happened during the at bat and why it was a triumph or have some comments about a player being 
 at his first at bat in the majors, there's an endless list of these little comments. The announcers 
 tone is inconsistent, speech i choped up into to fragments clearly at some points, and his introductions 
 when the game starts are very vague. Outside of that however there's not really much you can fault 
 him with. The gameplay is generally meant to be frantic and his voice matches that.
  
  Gameplay has genius moments, but simultaneously induces extreme frustration.
  The pitcher-batter 
 interface is simple yet extremely deep. You make it so simple that all you have to do is time your 
 swing or so complex that you'll have to watch the seems of that ball and place your bat accurately 
 where the ball ends up when you make contact. Swing slightly under it will pop the ball up, slightly 
 over makes a weak grounder, you can even have the ball hit the tip of your bat which makes an extremely 
 weak gronder. When pitching you can again just place the ball and throw the pitch and it will go 
 exactly there, no complex meters involved. OR you can play on expert mode, which has a pitching 
 interface similar to MLB 2k games of late, where you press the A button again when the circle closes 
 in on the ball for the most accurate pitch. You can adjust the infield and outfield seperately 
 depnding on where you plan on pitching to a batter. There's much more though. You can throw any 
 crazy pitch including gyroballs, froshballs, shuutos, drop curveballs, and vertical sliders. To 
 top that say a runner happens to attempt to steal a base during your windup. You can tap the Z 
 button quickly and pitch the ball out. By doing this you actually give the catcher and extra split 
 second to throw to the base. It's definitely an impressive little touch.
  
  However not everything about the on field gameplay is stellar. The only area I can seriously fault 
 this game is in the fielding. Specifically, there's no senstitvty in running, you either are running 
 full speed or not at all. This makes catching pop ups involve MUCH more twitch work then should 
 be necessary. It doesn't help that you only have a small radius to stand under to catch the pop 
 ups. The same can be said for grounders only its more frustrating at times, because routine plays 
 aren't so routine in this game. This is something you can get used to though, as dumb as it is. 
 There's another issue though that seems impossible to get around.
  
  To top that the computer automatically switches players for you and how they make the choice of 
 which player you control is extremely baffling. A bloop pop pup right in front of third base with 
 no men on, you'd expect the third baseman to step up and make the catch. Instead he gets shy and 
 hangs back while the game switches-rapid fire- between the pitcher and catcher making very little 
 progress towards the high pop before it falls. Once it hit the ground the third baseman was still 
 the closest man to the ball..... Hits to the outfield always have a similar effect. Hits to the 
 infield often having you control someone you wouldn't expect to be controling and combining that 
 with the over running the ball. It makes for far too many balls that are missed that should not 
 have been. That sounds like a massive deturrent and a great reason why you shouldn't buy this game. 
 It si frustrating and in the first few games it will cost you a lot of runs. I was losing my first 
 games by scores of like 25-3. Eventually I got the hang of it though and I beat the Yankees with 
 a custom team 8-7. So it's just a matter of practice and having to ajust to the computer's system.
 
  
  The real depth of this game however hasn't even been touched on. That is what goes on behind the 
 scenes. Like how your players batting average will be different next at bat depending on what happened 
 in the previous one. (mid game stat tracking something I haven't seen in other sports games at 
 least to that extent) . The way you manage players personalities, read their body language to determine 
 fatigue, build your players skills through practices and make them bond with one another to pick 
 up traits you'd like to see displayed by more players. (franchise mode) That last thing is actaully 
 really interesting. In Season Mode you conduct practices, you can have players practice a tremendous 
 number of different techniques and skills seperately or you can have players form bonds and make 
 training that much more effective. For example say a pitcher has a great curve ball and another 
 one has a great changeup. By having those two pratice as a group they will learn each others strengths 
 and incoperate them into their own playing. This is a massive asset, a great tool . Practicing 
 has never been so useful in a game.
  
  Beyond that there's a practice mode which lets you run through every conceivable event in a game 
 and keep drilling it over and over until you feel satisfactory with your improvement. So again 
 there's a practice mode which improves your players skills but there's also a practice mode for 
 you to fine tune every aspect of your skills too, and this mode is far deeper than anything I've 
 seen in any other baseball game.
  
  There's a simple little Wii Remote mode. And it's like Wii Sports Baseball. It's got a homerun 
 derby or exhibition match. All you do is swing just like in Wii Sports or push a button and pitch, 
 just like Wii Sports. Thought now there's an actaul bunt command. The one extra is that you make 
 another throwing motion when the ball is in the field, thought you don't determine anything by 
 doing this, you simply make the motion and the player makes the smartest play. When on offense 
 you use the Wii Remote to run. This mode lacks 2 things from Wii Sports however. the first being 
 the ability to waive the bat around when batting, a nice little extra. THE BIG OMISSION here though 
 is that there's no way to determine pitch speed. Throw it as hard as you want its still going to 
 be a regular fastball. So despite all the stuff it adds that one factor makes Wii Sports still 
 the best Wii remote version of baseball. Home Run Derby is pretty self explanatory. Pick a player 
 and hit as many HRs as you can.
  
  Finally there's a vast number of extras and unlcokables. From player baseball cards I've already 
 mentioned, which give an in depth look at the players. All the to buying new ball parks, new batting 
 stancespitching deliveries for created players, getting extra money for your teams budget in Seasons 
 Mode. A lot of stuff.
  
  There's tournament leagues and any number of extras here that I havne't touched on much. But I 
 gave you what's important here. I didn't stress this enough but this game could be played by your 
 little brother and with a little tweaking in the options he could be a good competition for you. 
 It really is as deep or simple and shallow as you want. Everything is there for a hardcore baseball 
 fan to thoroughly enjoy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SyMelt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  Traits: Baseball game, cutesy graphics, 2 player mode, Partial Wii-mote integration, Requires nunchuk, 
 classic controller or Gamecube controller to play main modes.
  
  Pros: Clean Smooth Graphics, Good player representations (for the art style) , Simple intuitive 
 tight controls, More statistics than you would ever imagine from a sports video game. Unique player 
 creator mode,
  
  Cons: Limited voice acting from announcers, So-so sound, No Wii-mote fuctionality in Main modes 
 of the game, No online component.
  
  Modes: Exhibition - (1-2 Players Simultaneous) - Quick game with adjustable features such as weather 
 and difficulty. Wii-mote motion sensing available as a control scheme.
  League - (1-6 Players, 2 at a time) - Create a league of up to 6 teams, Choose features like season 
 length, type of controls for each team, weather, etc.
  Practice - (1 Player) - Learn the basic controls of the game such as pitching hitting and fielding.
 
  Home Run Challenge - (1 Player) - Pick a batter, select a pitcher and the pitch types, see how 
 many home runs you can hit in 10 pitches. Wii-mote motion sensing available as a control scheme.
 
  Success - (1 Player) - The game's create a player mode follow a kid through 3 yrs of college baseball 
 dealing with practice, studying, part time jobs, dating and life's little surprises to try and 
 make it to the pros.
  
  Review From looking at this game on the shelf at the store you would peg it as an arcade style 
 baseball game similar to Mario Superstar Baseball for the Gamecube. However, This game despite 
 its cutesy graphics is the deepest and most involved baseball game I have ever played. The amount 
 of detail put into representing the players (within the art style) is impressive, players have 
 the look of their real life counterparts. Due to the simplicity of the character design, some characters 
 look similar, but you'd be able to id many characters by their notable features (Manny rockin' 
 his dreads) . Similarly a lot of effort went in to giving each player his real batting stance (Like 
 Jim Thome's one handed bat point) making the characters that much more real. Similarly all the 
 major league parks have been accurately represented in scale and detail. If you know what a park 
 looks like in real life, you'll know exactly where your playing just by looking at the stadium. 
 The controls are very clean and intuitive especially with the classic and gamecube controller options 
 as these are the controls I feel the game was truly designed for. The using the Wii-mote is an 
 option in exhibition and home run Challenge modes but it is limited to the swinging as a button 
 press style of control. This limited Wii-mote usage was disappointing to me as I long for a sports 
 game (baseball and golf being the most natural) with one to one motion sensing. This game is very 
 customizable. Control schemes for batting ad pitching have various options and levels of difficulty 
 selectable for you to get just the right level of challenge (and balance out the game between levels 
 of skill. There are also many different display options that can be customized. And for better 
 or worse, all the abilities of the pro players can be customized at will with no restraint. So 
 if you think one of your favorite players is poorly represented you can go in and boost his abilities. 
 and if you don't want those changes anymore, there's a restore button to take it back to the original 
 attributes. One other major trait which may or may not interest you is the mind boggling amount 
 of stats this game collects. Most game will track stats in pitch count, era, batting average, and 
 other standard stats. This game tracks for example, the location of every pitch you threw in a 
 game, which ones were hit, where they were hit, what type of pitch it was what was, what percentages 
 of pitch types you threw on the different strike counts. It is insane the amount of statistical 
 depth this game goes into. This is not that important to the casual player and, luckily, is not 
 forced on you. But it is readily available for all you stat heads out there that really want to 
 dissect your performance after every game. Finally I would like to talk about the success mode 
 in this game. This is the most unique and challenging create a player mode I have ever seen. In 
 this mode you start as a freshman baseball player just getting to college. Your school only allows 
 players to play for 3 years, requiring you to focus on your studies in your fourth year. It seemed 
 odd and unnecessary to limit the length of this mode to 3yrs instead of 4 but it is what it is. 
 Through this mode you have to balance practice, a social life, work and school to develop your 
 players characteristics. Dating allows you to improve your motivation and receive stat improving 
 items. Working allows you to make money to buy stat improving items, or presents for your girlfriends. 
 Studying improves the information you receive and keeps you from flunking out. Finally, practice 
 gives you experience points you use to enhance your abilities. The whole process is has random 
 events (both good and bad) and a randomized fate card system used to vary your options in given 
 situations. This adds much depth to the experience and gives the player a different experience 
 every time. At the end of the third season if you have impressed the scouts enough with your performance 
 your player gets drafted to the minors and you can now use the player in the other modes. This 
 adds a good amount of difficulty to this mode as getting drafted is far from a sure thing. Although 
 there is only a little playing baseball in this mode. This is a very enjoyable mode with enduring 
 playability. All in all this is an excellent baseball game with a variety of interesting modes, 
 but is limited by its half-hearted Wii-mote inclusion and lack of online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Louzon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Everyone that has played this game or has seen this game will already attest that it is nowhere 
 near the graphical firepower of The Show or the 2K series; however, the style of the visuals in 
 this game are still very nice, and can be appreciated on their own account. What should matter 
 most in any sports game is not the graphics anyways, but the gameplay, and MLB Power Pros delivers 
 hand over foot in that category, with some of the deepest options of any baseball game I've ever 
 played.
  
  For starters, the batting controls are amazingly accurate and in-tune with the yellow target they 
 give you. If you hit the ball on the top of the circle, you'll pop it up, and vice versa for the 
 bottom. Pitching is very nice, and it makes you learn your entire bullpen, seeing how strong each 
 pitch is for each pitcher, and aiming the pitch for how much break your current hurler can utilize. 
 Fielding is natural; however, it is here that I have my one issue with the game. It is a little 
 off accuracy as to how fast players can get to first base on a ground ball. Turning double plays 
 is much harder than it should be, and for some reason, I wasn't able to throw out Jim Thome when 
 he hit a soft ground ball to third base; anyone who knows Jim Thome would know that my grandmother 
 could throw him out on that play. Other than that, though, the controls are simple enough that 
 anyone can learn them, but still leave enough advanced enough for those of us who know a bit more 
 about the subtle nuances of the game to be able to do more.
  
  Season mode provides an amazing amount of detail for the player to be able to control. Every player 
 can be set up to do their own individualized training, to work on their own weaknesses, and if 
 players work on the same things, they can become closer friends and work better together. Also, 
 you have a point system that works as your team funding, and you have to balance playing well to 
 earn points against paying the players' salaries in daily increments and shopping for tools to 
 improve training. Also, as in real life, trading does not happen in one day. If you offer a trade 
 to another club, they are given 5 days to consider the trade and get back to you. That's a nice 
 feature, as it gives you more of a realistic feel to the trading game, for you never really know 
 what day out of those five that are given when they will get back to you. I'm still early into 
 this mode, so I continue to look forward to seeing where the season will take me.
  
  Success mode is my favorite feature that I have ever seen in a baseball game. It gives you a very 
 RPG-ish kind of feel, where you start out in college as a very poor player, and have to work and 
 train to become good enough to be drafted to the pros. However, it can't be all training for the 
 game; you still have class to study for, girls to date, and work for money to buy items to make 
 you a better player. Before you start with the I don't need to buy more items, dating isn't important, 
 and who needs to study when you just go to the pros , I can state that most of that is partly true, 
 but if you don't study you'll fail your college finals and be kicked out of school (game over) , 
 and the equipment you buy is a great help to you. I never did go on a date, but I'm sure that helps 
 too. :) One of the best things about success mode is that the events that happen are entirely random, 
 giving you endless replay value; there were times I restarted a section because I hit the wrong 
 key, and the re-loaded game had different events for the same timeframe. Also, the fate cards are 
 a nice touch; it's a game of luck to have the right decision to make, and if you don't, you are 
 forced to just pick the best bad choice. All in all, Success mode really made me feel that when 
 I got drafted, it was really ME, not just a created player I plugged into the roster.
  
  In conclusion, aside from a small fielding bump in the road, MLB Power Pros is a smooth ride from 
 starting pitch until they call in the closer. Any baseball fan would do well by giving this game 
 a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  MLB Power Pros is one of the few great buys for the Wii. You will get more bang for your buck because 
 there are so many things to do involving a lot of strategy such as the Success, Season and League 
 modes. Even if you don't know much or have interest in baseball you can have an easy time learning 
 how to control the game the game play is done real well. Nothing special about the sound or graphics, 
 but the look of the players and characters are appealing; they all look real cute compared to their 
 real life counterparts. It goes to show that you don't need to make super realistic characters 
 to produce a great sports game the simplified and cute look works well too if developers care about 
 making outstanding game play. For the record, this game would appeal to young baseball fans maybe 
 even brought to the U. S. for that reason. Whatever the reason this game should not be mistaken 
 as a child's game, if you are willing to open up to a new perspective on baseball then you will 
 be satisfied playing Power Pros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Well I grabbed this game thinking it would be like an extension of Wii Sports Baseball, but it 
 wasn't. My fault for not being more diligent I suppose.
  
  The majority of the game is spent pressing buttons to time your throw or swing rather than actually 
 mimicking the game of baseball. Though there is a Wii Remote mode you can go into where you swing 
 the remote to both pitch and bat, it felt to me like that was just something kind of thrown in 
 there for Wii owners.
  
  There are a bunch of modes such as career that you can play. Once interesting mode was where you 
 start your character literally from baseball school and try and get them to the major leagues. 
 This mode however contained a HUGE amount of scrolling text to read; scrolling text that you don't 
 care about. I found myself having a hard time wading through all the read this then click x screens.
 
  
  There is a HUGE amount of statistics and things of that nature too keep you busy if you are into 
 micromanagement of a mlb team. So there IS some value here for certain players, just not me.
  
  Graphics are something you could only see on a Wii. Unimpressive and simple. Unfortunately 
 awesome gameplay was not present here to draw away from the lack of eye candy.
  
  Controls are ok though I was extremely disappointed to find that the motion sensing felt more like 
 an afterthought.
  
  Music was annoying.
  
  Gameplay was tedious.
  
  So if you are really leaning towards buying this game I would highly suggest giving it a rent first, 
 or better yet keep on looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaysonguy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  I play all kinds of sports games and when it comes to baseball nothing is as deep as this game. 
 This game is the epitome of what a hardcore gamer needs.
  
  Sure it's easy to pick up and play but scratch that surface a little and you are in for a baseballapalooza. 
 Not only is this game for the hardcore but if you drop a brick on it the brick breaks and then 
 files assault and battery charges against it.
  
  Novice games? Don't let me scare you. You're going to get a ton out of this game too.
  
  Like 
 the baseball in Wi sports? Want to play a game like that? Want to import your Mii's when you do? 
 Then this is the title for you. Heck there's even a way to have a home run derby using the Wiimote 
 motions.
  
  Gamers still there? Coolsville
  
  There is a ton to do in this game.
  
  Let's start with the fact that there's no motion control in the main game and you'll be using a 
 controller the standard way what controller? Well the Wiimote and chuck, Classic Controller, or 
 the Gamecube controller.
  
  Now for games modes what are you looking for?
  
  Want practice? Got it. Want home run derby? Got it. Want to play a season? Got it. Want to play 
 seasons for a decade? Got it. Want to play as a freshman in college and make it to the pros? Got 
 it. Want to make a league of up to 6 different player controlled teams to make a run to a championship? 
 Got it. Heck, want to play just one exhibition game? Got that too.
  
  How much are you into character customization?
  
  Think that Arod's stats should be tweaked 
 a little after the season he had? Go do it. Think that Ryan Howard's swing for the fences needs 
 to be at a different angle for Coors Field? Don't let me stop you. I know I know, you've been waiting 
 for the baseball game that let's you make your own team then create Ted Williams to play alongside 
 Willie Mays and Joe Dimaggio in the outfield. It's here.
  
  The gameplay mechanics are great. Click the button to switch between knocking a ball into play 
 or hit the long ball. This isn't just swing the bat when ready, you have to make sure the ball 
 hits the sweet spot on the bat if you want to get on base. If you're looking to pop up a fly to 
 score a run aim that sweet spot a centimeter under the ball, not too much or the catcher is going 
 to make the out.
  
  Running bases is an uncomplicated method of hitting the control pad while directing traffic with 
 the thumbstick to control one or all runners.
  
  Pitching is great also. pick the pitch and then very gingerly aim with the thumbstick. Paint the 
 outisde of the plate or throw a four seamer down the middle and challenge the batter.
  
  Fielding is intuitive and lets you dive and jump for differently hit balls. Throwing to bases is 
 simple by hitting the control pad.
  
  This isn't even all this game provides the games but I'd bore you (maybe) if I explain it all. 
 Words do not do this game justice.
  
  MLB Power Pros fits the needs of all gamers. To the most novice player to the hardest of hardcore. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radiohead85
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I first picked this game up on a whim, believing that it would probably be just another overly 
 cute Wii game that would ultimately disappoint.
  
  When I booted the game for the first time, I knew my preconceptions were out the window when I 
 was presented with twelve different options from the main menu. This game has some very obvious 
 depth just in game modes
  
  The gameplay is astounding, playing a great and realistic game of baseball despite the cartoonish 
 appearance of the players. I wasn't even a big fan of baseball before I rented this game, but now 
 I'm hooked. If you're even a passive fan of baseball, this is the only baseball game you'll need 
 this year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Regian
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  If you don't own a Sony console, you're obviously looking to 2K Sports to rely on your Major League 
 Baseball fix. With 2K in the middle of their exclusive agreement with MLB, they wanted to branch 
 out and try some different things with the license along with building on current franchises.
 
  
  We saw MLB 2K7 this year hit in March. To me, it was a very disappointing edition of the franchise. 
 While it was great to have slick graphics, the gameplay just wasn't there. Homers seemed to be 
 frequent and gameplay at times could be frustrating while on the field or running the basepaths. 
 A few months later, we were treated to the birth of a new franchise: The BIGS. Touted as Epic Arcade 
 Baseball Action , the game delivered as advertised. Huge jumps over the outfield walls to rob homers 
 and Sportscenter-like highlights packed into a simple pickup-and-play package catering to those 
 not able to sit down and enjoy a long, drawn out simulation game. While it was a great deviation 
 from sim play, a few minor fielding issues and lack of depth ended up being the game's glaring 
 weakness.
  
  As the MLB Playoffs are in full swing here in October, 2K has released their third MLB game this 
 year entitled MLB Power Pros. Power Pros is based off of the Japanese baseball franchise Jikkyou 
 Powerful Pro Yakyuu developed by Konami, which has been a top-seller for Japan for several years.
 
  
  Looking at the game, you would think that it was developed for younger gamers in mind. The players 
 on the field having a figurine-like look as they walk on the field. Big headed players with no 
 legs roam the field and the batters box, each looking the same with the exception of unique hairstyles 
 and some having unique facial features to distinguish themselves from the others. The stadiums 
 are nicely detailed, each one looking like a very authentic replica of their real-life counterparts 
 while maintaining the art style of the game. It does look a little childish, but as the old saying 
 goes: Looks can be deceiving.
  
  The majority of the game modes take the Wii Classic Controller or a GameCube controller to play. 
 Batting is as simple as moving your player's bat zone around the strike zone to make contact. You 
 have two choices when hitting: A contact swing which has a wider bat zone to make contact with, 
 or a power swing which only has a circle around the center of the bat which requires precision 
 to pull off a big hit or a home run. The better the hitter is, the wider those two zones will be. 
 Advancing your runners is as simple as holding down one of the advance buttons (one advances a 
 single runner, the other advances all runners on base) and aiming the left stick in the direction 
 you want a runner to go.
  
  Fielding requires simply getting under the red part of a target to catch fly balls and using the 
 face buttons that correspond to that base as they look on the controller (A is first, Y is second, 
 etc.) to throw a runner out. You can still pull off diving catches in the game, but it all depends 
 on your player's fielding rating, and robbing home runs are quite a rarity in the franchise. I 
 haven't seen one yet.
  
  When you boot the game up, the amount of things you can do is rather incredible. First, you can 
 play a simple exhibition game against the computer or a friend, for starters. You can also utilize 
 the Wiimote to play an exhibition game using your Wiimote as a bat, but sacrificing manual fielding 
 as well. The Wiimote exhibition games also allow you to import your Miis into the game, playing 
 as yourself and all of your Mii friends on a team against your pal's Mii team.
  
  You can also play a single-player Season mode that is more than just playing your favorite team. 
 You play the part as a young GM set to take the reigns of an MLB team. Results are expected and 
 you have only ten seasons to get what you need to get done. You get two options when starting a 
 season, you can either play as an MLB team or choose to play as an entering expansion team. As 
 an expansion team, you can select where your team hails from along with team colors and a team 
 logo. Either way you go, you will need to have your players trained and utilized properly in order 
 to make a run at the World Series. You'll have to set practices accordingly along with making the 
 right front-office decisions such as contracts, trading and calling up/sending down players through 
 your farm system. If expectations aren't being met, expect to get a pink slip handed to you by 
 the owner.
  
  One of the main attractions of the game is easily the Success Mode. Success Mode blends RPG elements 
 with baseball that proves to be very entertaining and challenging. You start the mode as a college 
 student with a dream to make the Majors. You'll have to practice hard on the field as well as studying 
 for the big exam at the same time. That's right, you'll have to make sure you study for classes 
 in order to stay on the team as well as stay in school. You can also snag dates and get a part-time 
 job among other things. When it comes down to it, the decisions that you make on and off the field 
 determine if you make the Majors or end up looking at a Game Over screen. Getting a few of these 
 Game Over screens already, there seems to be different storylines you can encounter when playing.
 
  
  One thing the game lacks this year is online play. With the lack of online play also means roster 
 updates are not possible, which is a bit of the bummer with the fact that some of the current rosters 
 in the game are outdated. If the game does get picked up for another year, the addition of online 
 play would make this game's lasting ability even longer than it does without it.
  
  Some other modes in the game include a Home Run Derby that can be played either with a standard 
 controller or the Wiimote, a League Mode that allows up to six players to duke it out for bragging 
 rights, an Arrange Mode that allows a player to copy an existing team and edit it any way they 
 want to either creating a team with custom names or an entirely different team altogether, the 
 ability to create your own players that you can either place on a team or import into your season 
 as a free agent and a Shop where you can unlock stadiums, alternate jerseys and even some gameplay 
 enhancements.
  
  Don't let the look of the game discourage you from even renting this game. Deep down the game is 
 a very intense simulation mixed with a slight bit of arcade feel. MLB Power Pros is one of the 
 best baseball games I have played in a good long while. With enough meat on this game's bones, 
 you'll have enough to do until Spring Training kicks back up next season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveman110
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  I am absolutely taken aback by this game! I am a baseball fan and have enjoyed the MVP series for 
 my old PS2. When it broke I questioned whether I would buy a system again. Having purchased a Wii 
 and The Bigs (SUCKS!!!) I was thus-far disappointed. That is until now. I had not heard about this 
 game until recently. And after having played it I do not know why. While this game may not use 
 the potential of the Wii remotes to their fullest but the game offers a great experience. I find 
 that the game contains all of the aspects that the MVP series that me and my friends always said 
 I wish they had done this, or I would have changed this . If you can get past the fact that the 
 players are not visibly accurate and the graphics are nothing to write home about this games feature 
 more than make up for it. I would suggest to anyone who has a Wii and enjoys baseball games to 
 get this one, unlike 2K sports' other baseball game this is fun to play and has some longevity 
 to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsons2102
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  There is so much to say about this game. Its very addicting and very fun. There are many modes 
 in this game such as season ( were u pick a team and try to win the world series) , success mode ( 
 the feature of this game, your a college student trying to make it to the majors. You can go on 
 dates, study or go to your job.) there are also many other modes along with them. The graphics 
 to this game arent bad. The people arent that good but the stadiums are very artisically designed. 
 The price of this game is amazing! $40 for a great game that just came out is a really good price. 
 This game is for any baseball lover or wii owner. Altogether i give this game a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TESM
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Like Phoenix Wright when it first came out here in the states, MLB power pros had something about 
 it that made me think, 'This is cool and I have to get it.'
  
  I wasn't dissapointed. I had already gotten the BIGS, which was a bit disapointing, especially 
 since you couldn't stat track. But in MLB power pros, it almost hurts how much they track. For 
 example: AVG, SLG, QS, OBS, Stolen Bases, where each of your hits went, whos inhured, how the player 
 is feeling, how much each player trusts each other, who hit what type of pitch over the season; 
 it just keeps going.
  
  First and foremost, the game is just fun to play. Simple, easy, and a lot of depth. Season mode 
 is a blast, and although their's a lot of reading in success, and surprisingly little baseball, 
 the writting is witty and funny, and isn't to bad to sit through a few times. As mentioned, this 
 game has a lot of heart put into it, where it lacks in graphical proficiency it makes up for in 
 detail, humor, charm, gameplay, and wit.
  Like a close strike will have the players look back, or the Ken Griffy Jr. Baseball (SNES) 'OH 
 C'MON!' when it's a strikeout.
  Or the players who look pretty good/exageratted by their facial features, everything is worth a 
 good laugh. (or a chuckle)
  
  Graphics: 8.0
  All the stadiums from PNC park and Wrigley, Miller Park with all their quirks. It's cool to the 
 the CTA busses go by at Wrigley, reminds me of where I live :)
  The players and the style is all it is supposed to be and comes off very streamlines and enjoyable.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Very easy to pick up, fun to play. The neccessity of any good game. Hours of gameplay per sitting, 
 or a quick 20min game, either way it's fun to duke it out against any team. One problem is the 
 fielding which will sometimes take the first baseman or 3rd and lock them to their base, making 
 the SS or 2B get the ball that is clearly the others, which can ruin a perfect game and be very 
 annoying.
  
  Sound: 7.5
  The commentator is very excitable and must have, in his excitableness, forgotten how to pronounce 
 many players names, or make some proper calls. The music, however is catchy when it needs to be 
 and backgroundy when it needs to be. You don't notice it much when your flipping through menus 
 or devising the best lineup, but it moves you along, and I was impressed.
  
  Replayability: 10
  
  Easily one of the best sports/game experiences I've had. Has that addictivness 
 of a good Harvest moon game, but the gameplay intensity, at times, of some of the classics.
  
  Overall, a great game worth 40$, I guarentee that it will be worth anyone's while and great 
 to play with a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trini_hoshi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  The wii really has made some games that have a lot left to be desired. MLB Power Pros not in their 
 common. This game is deep with a ten year season GM mode that gives you a serious baseball gameplay. 
 The rosters are a little off but, keep in mind this game came out in Japan back in Summer and the 
 rosters were accurate at the time. I love the ability to arrange a dreamteam and then use them 
 in place of the default team in season mode. Plus this is the first game I've seen where you can 
 alter what a player looks like. I altered Johnny Damon back to the Captain Caveman days of the 
 Boston Redsox and I put a go-tee on Roger Clemens who in the recent past has had one. I also like 
 that you can have your players work on different parts of their game. I've turned A-Rod who at 
 the beginning of my season was striking out a ton of times into a tough out who carrying my lineup 
 at the moment. My only dislike of the game is if a starting pitcher is not ready for a game the 
 game automaticly during season mode will put in your long reliever to start the game instead of 
 one of the other starting pitchers. My suggestion to that is my an arranged team though and your 
 bullpen carry all starting pitchers and your closer. This is a must buy for baseball fans. This 
 is one of the Wii's best games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mugen76
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  MLB Power Pros, known in Japan as Jikkyou Powerful Major League 2 (PawaMajor 2) , is the first game 
 in the long-running series to make the jump to the United States. Granted, the series has traditionally 
 been all about Nippon Professional Baseball (Japan's pro baseball league) , but the arrival of Daisuke 
 Matsuzaka to the Boston Red Sox probably inspired the people at Konami to make a MLB PawaPro game. 
 This is the 2nd PawaMajor game this season, but is it something that people will play?
  
  The first thing you'll notice are the graphics, which is the sticking point for many people in 
 this game. A lot of people will dismiss this game on looks alone, dubbing it a kiddie game, and 
 that is wrong. Too many people care only about graphics nowadays, and the gameplay is what matters.
 
  
  Gameplay has always been the hallmark of the PawaPro franchise since its humble beginnings on the 
 Super NES back in 1994. Instead of pressing a button and praying for contact, you actually have 
 a bat-like silhouette with a grid that represents the sweet spot for the batter. As you might expect, 
 the grid gets bigger depending on the hitter, so while Ichiro will have a larger contact zone, 
 a nobody or a poor hitter like Richie Sexson might not have a large contact zone. However, each 
 batter also has a power zone, the size of which depends on the power rating.
  
  The gameplay will come in handy, because the game contains 17 (!) game modes. Exhibition, Season, 
 Practice, all the old standbys are here. However, PawaPro puts its own unique spin on the last 
 two. While most games have a separate season and GM Mode, PawaPro blends everything, using elements 
 of GM, Season, and even Franchise mode. The Season mode lasts 10 years, and you manage every aspect 
 of the team in that time frame.
  
  Another mode is the Practice Mode, where you can build up your created players, and even current 
 ones through the rigorous training options.
  
  However, the big draw of PawaPro is not these modes, but the long-running Success Mode, where you 
 build a player up from nothing to become the next great MLB ballplayer. The story is that you are 
 playing at a college where the team stinks, and you get to build the team up from the ashes. You 
 have to balance your studies, the ladies, making money, and of course, baseball to become the best 
 ever. This mode is so addictive that it holds more weight than any other game mode. You will go 
 back time and again trying to create the perfect ballplayer, and with the ability to create 110 
 position players and 90 pitchers, you will be there a while.
  
  Other modes abound like Arrange Mode, where you can create a dream team of MLB stars, Edit Mode, 
 where you can fine-tune players stats, and you will want to do it because the rosters are so out-of-date, 
 this should have been released early in the season. I mean, Wily Mo Pena is still a Red Sock, Mark 
 Texiera is still a Ranger, and Scott Linebrink is still a Padre. Some of the attributes are inaccurate 
 too. However, the Edit Mode fixes all of this, and makes all of these complaints irrelevant.
  
  This game may get an immediate bad rap because of the graphics, but if you sit down and play 
 it, MLB Power Pros will grow on you, and you'll love it. This is easily the best baseball game 
 of the year.
  
  MLB Power Pros gets a 5 out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegrinder2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  At first i thought that this game was going to be one of those backyard type games, but i realized 
 that i was wrong. This game is alot of fun to play.
  
  Graphics: 8
  The game isn't getting any awards for how good it looks. But one thing that it does is, because 
 of the cartoony characters, they are able to make facial expressions and show more emotion that 
 just some face that is pasted on a body.
  
  Controls: 8.5
  The controls are pretty easy to pick up and play. Doesn't take much time to get used to how things 
 work. Plus you chose if you want to take advantage of the WII sensor or just use the buttons on 
 it, or the gamecube controller, or the wii controller that can be purchased seperately, so the 
 options are open.
  
  Sound: 7.5
  The game is lacking in this area. The music that plays in the background suits the kiddish-looking 
 characters, but can get old at times. The announcers do a great job at describing MANY different 
 things going on in the game, but sometimes they talk too much.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  The gameplay is awesome. There are so many different modes of play and things that you can do in 
 those modes, it keeps you wanting to play again. This game has all the options of realistic-looking 
 sims, and many more. It keeps track of more stats and things than you could want or even know what 
 to do with. Also, the way that new characters are created in the game gives it an interesting twist 
 from just naming a guy and giving him stats.
  
  Overall: 8.5
  This is definitely one to try. A lot of fun and a great sim in hiding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cultura15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  MLB Power Pros is a long running Japanese baseball series that has finally come to the states. 
 I embrace and love the cartoon baseball players, for me its a throwback to RBI Baseball. This game 
 is extremely easy to pick up and play, even with someone who knows little about baseball. The WiiMote 
 play mode ensures that.
  
  Once you get into the Franchise (10 seasons) mode, you will see how much depth this game offers. 
 All of your standard franchise options are included, from free agents and injuries to player progression 
 and draft. The game keeps track of all of your stats, achievements, and trophies. Sure, the rosters 
 are from opening day. However, MLB Power Pros features a fully fleshed-out edit mode where you 
 can change everything about a player, including his 2007 statistics! Arrange mode allows you get 
 the rosters completely updated and play through in franchise mode.
  
  Within the actual game of baseball, there are tons of options to set the difficulty just how you 
 like it. As you progress and become a better player, there is plenty of room to increase the CPU's 
 strengths. I sincerely hope that we continue to get MLB Power Pros games, and I think this will 
 become an instant classic among veterans and rookies. For the next addition to this series, online 
 play and better announcing should be the highest priorities.
  
  Overall, a wonderful game. I have been playing baseball sims since the NES era, and would rate 
 this as top 3 of all time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tekn0wledg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  The old saying don't judge a book by its cover applies directly to MLB Power Pros. The cartoonish 
 characters add a lot of charm to this game, which adds to its lasting appeal.
  
  The graphics aren't top notch, but the players, stadiums and animations more than make up for the 
 Japanese style of presentation. The menus take a few minutes to get used to with all of the color 
 coded options and plethora of content on the screen, but once you familiarize yourself with the 
 menu system the menus look less obtrusive.
  
  The gameplay is really where this game stands out. The controls are really built for anyone. You 
 can play with just the Wiimote, or add the nunchuk for more control. The statistics are fairly 
 deep, and the game offers a GM/season mode, as well as a semi roleplaying mode for taking your 
 character from college to the Pros.
  
  This game has much more replay value than The Bigs due to it's great gameplay and character charm.
 
  
  If you like baseball, this is the best game yet on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Dont let the kiddy graphics fool you. This game packs in more gameplay and stats than any baseball 
 game out there. With all the MLB teams and players, this game brings a whole new feeling to baseball 
 games. Lets get to the full review.
  
  GRAPHICS 7.75/10
  
  Its not the best looking game on the Wii but its certainly not the worst. The players have a Mii 
 style look and most of them you can tell who they are by their faces. This game also features every 
 major league stadium in very good detail. Take Wii Sports Baseball and give it a major face lift. 
 Thats what you got here.
  
  SOUND 8/10
  
  The game lacks in crowd noises but shines in announcing. The gameplay announcer is spot on and 
 delivers the play by play instantly. You can even hear the stadium announcer announcing the player 
 up to bat.
  
  GAMEPLAY 9.5/10
  
  Finally a Wii title that makes motion controls an option. You can use the classic controller, Gamecuber 
 controller, Wiimote/nunchuck, or just the Wiimote. There are tons of modes like: Success - Where 
 you create your own player and try to become a major leaguer.
  
  League - Compete in a league with up to 6 players with friends or computer.
  
  Arrange - Create 
 your own team
  
  Season - Pick one team and try to complete the full schedule and with the World Series.
  
  
 Homerun Challenge - Homerun derby.
  
  and more......
  
  You can also collect baseball cards to learn more about the players and there is also a Shop where 
 you can purchase easter eggs and whatnot.
  
  There is also an enormous amount of stats. So many that I cant even list em all. A nice feature 
 in the stats is the ability to see how many calories you have lost while playing which are saved 
 to your Mii. Every stat is saved in this game.
  
  CONTROLS 9/10
  
  Very easy to learn controls. The nunchuck is used for picking pitches and moving your outfielders. 
 The Dpad is used for picking which base to throw to. The Wiimote can be used for swinging the bat 
 or you can use the nunchuck to aim where to swing then press A to swing. There are many types of 
 controls to choose from and you can change any of them.
  
  OVERALL 9/10
  
  This game is probably the best baseball game I have ever played. This is also the first Wii title 
 that makes me feel like I am actually getting what I paid for. With all the different modes and 
 stats this game offers the fun will last a long time.
  
  Score - 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazemonkey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  MLB Power Pros! I'm so stoked! I've played the import version of this game for years. I can't emphasize 
 enough on how great this game is. The series itself has been running in Japan for about 13 years 
 and has been considered the best baseball game in Japan for years now. What the John Madden series 
 is to football here, this is to baseball there. I know that alot of people will see the cutsie 
 characters and dismiss it as being for kids, they couldn't be more wrong. This game has always 
 been well ahead of it's time and that trend continues to be the case when compared to American 
 baseball games. Even though it's arcade baseball and has cutsie characters, realistic baseball 
 physics and game play are very much in place. There's tons of stats, options, franchise play, and 
 career mode (rpg like) play options that would satisfy even the biggest sim fan. Here's a little 
 run down on some of the sports games I play and enjoy so that you can better gauge where my perspective 
 is coming from..
  
  I'm a huge baseball fan I cut my teeth on the following...
  Hard Ball on the PC.
  Several iterations of World Series baseball on the Sega Saturn.
  High 
 Heat baseball on the PC.
  Baseball mogul.
  
  Current favorites.
  MLB 07 the show ps2 and psp (currently my favorite baseball game along with OOTP)
  OOTP 2007 (out 
 of the park baseball)
  
  non-baseball
  Winning Eleven 2007 (Pro Evolution Soccer)
  World Soccer manager (basically OOTP for soccer) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSGDevilDog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  When I first read about this game coming to Wii and having known nothing about the Japenese series 
 this is based off of, I immediately figured I'd be seeing a Wii Sports Baseball with MLB players 
 and maybe a generic season mode. Boy was I wrong. It fits that description in a way, but it is 
 so much deeper than that.
  
  I don't really want to discuss the use of the so called cartoon graphics of the game too much because 
 they are what they are. If the series has been successful for years before the release of a US 
 MLB version, then it's not like these visuals haven't worked for anyone. Besides, I accept these 
 graphics as perfectly acceptable considering that it was what the developer was obviously going 
 for. But don't be fooled by the cartoon appearance... you WILL recognize a good number of players 
 by facial expressions and visual details. Just one look at Manny Ramierez and you know exactly 
 who it is, likewise for the old-school wind up and thin goatee of Paul Byrd. These graphics work 
 and they really do provide a good visual representation of the players. Stadiums look very much 
 like their real life counterparts too, so Indians fans will see the Home Run Porch at Jacobs Field 
 and Cubs fans will see the apartment rooftop seats at Wrigley Field.
  
  The sound is a bit on the weak side, however. The crowd sounds are pretty solid and the crack of 
 the bat is well done too. But the announcer is one that will quickly grate on your nerves. It's 
 not so much that he is repetitive (which he is... oh God is he repetitive) , but it's moreso that 
 the robot effect is in full force here. His voice fluctuates between euphoria and Ben Stien monotone 
 within just a couple words and the name drops can be very odd sounding. Thankfully, he can be turned 
 down, or if you wish, off completely.
  
  As for the gameplay, it really has enough to reach out to everyone. For those who just want to 
 pick up and play, there is the Wiimote Exhibition and HR Derby. In this mode, you just swing the 
 bat to hit, shake the controller up and down (like you are running) to speed your players up and 
 make a pitching motion to throw the ball on the mound. It is as simple as can be and while it may 
 not be the most fun for those hardcore baseball simmers, it is a great way to get those of less 
 skill (parents, kids, significant others, etc.) to play a fun game of baseball. For those looking 
 for more depth, you have the season and career modes. In season, you are a fresh from college GM 
 hired to a 10 year contract with orders to turn your team into a winner. You can do everything 
 here that you can do in other baseball games: negotiate trades, pick up free agents, make roster 
 moves and check your income/expenditures. You can also get your players to improve their skills 
 through practice mode, which lets you focus on certain players and attempt to raise their ratings 
 in certain ability areas. Career mode is just as deep, but the focus is on you as a college player 
 trying to make the big time. You have to balance everything in your life (practice, social life, 
 academics) in your quest to become the next superstar of the Major Leagues. There are lots of settings 
 to tinker with to make this game as easy or as challenging as you like, so everyone should find 
 a level of difficulty just about right for them.
  
  When I say this game is deep.... I mean it is deep. You can edit just about anything for any player. 
 Appearances, abilities, special abilities, stats, ratings... you name it, you can change it. Think 
 Prince Fielder has more power than what he is given by defaut? Jack that power rating up to an 
 A and rip long balls all season long. Think that Matt Holiday decides how the Rockies play overall? 
 Give him the sparkplug special ability and he will affect how the rest of the team plays based 
 on his performance. You can also create a dream team of MLB stars or create a team of your own 
 Mii's and see if they can stack up against the league's best (no feeling like watching my Mii take 
 CC Sabathia yard!) .
  
  Some players may be turned off by what they think is a kiddie game. Don't let the looks fool you. 
 This is a deep and very engrossing baseball sim with an arcade look to it. I hold off from giving 
 it a higher rating because some folks may be disappointed by the Wiimote control-style being restricted 
 to the exhibition and HR derby modes and by the fact that no online capability means that rosters 
 (which are already out of date) will quickly become obsolete.
  
  But despite these slight shortfalls, MLB Power Pros really is a great baseball game that will appeal 
 and be accessible to everyone from a technologically impaired non-gamer up to the most stat-driven 
 baseball purist. This is truly a case of don't judge a book by its cover . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
