-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Monster 4X4: World Circuit
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/driving/monster4x4worldcircuit/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New steering controls work fairly well.
 Sometimes stuff catches on fire or breaks.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Racing is wholly boring.
 Destruction and stunt elements are vastly underwhelming.
 Graphics and audio leave much to be desired.
 Minigames are just dumb.
 This used to be a budget game, and now it costs full price.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 28, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 5.4, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 198 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date: Nov 19, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
New driving controls add barely a smidgen of excitement to this Wii port of a thoroughly boring 
 monster truck racer. 

  As any child of the '80s will tell you, monster trucks are awesome. There's no disputing it. It's 
 science, an irrefutable fact. However, just because monster trucks are awesome doesn't mean that 
 every form of entertainment based on monster trucks is awesome. Take Ubisoft's Monster 4x4: World 
 Circuit, for example. Originally released earlier this year on the Xbox and now available for the 
 Wii, World Circuit completely misses the point of what makes monster trucks excellent. Sure, it's 
 got the big trucks, but it also has exactly zero of the excitement. It somehow makes the act of 
 driving these trucks over rows of parked cars, through various sheds and other breakable bric-a-brac, 
 and off of carefully placed stunt ramps, completely and utterly dull. Not to mention that it can't 
 even do you the service of actually including some actual monster truck events. To its credit, 
 World Circuit for the Wii does include some new driving controls that make the game just a hair 
 more enjoyable, but these controls aren't nearly enough to make what was only recently a lousy 
 budget game worth a full retail price tag.  

          The monster trucks might be goofy, but that's about the only thing this dull and shallow 
 racer has going for it.     

  So what, exactly, does Monster 4x4 do differently on the Wii? Much the way Ubisoft did with GT 
 Pro Series, its other driving game available at the Wii's launch, this game turns the Wii Remote 
 into a steering wheel. The game comes with a cheap-looking plastic steering wheel attachment that 
 you can plunk the remote into the middle of. By turning and steering the wheel, you'll control 
 your truck onscreen. The only buttons you really need to mess with are the 1 and 2 buttons, which 
 brake and accelerate respectively. The handling of the trucks via this new control method is a 
 little touchy at first, but once you get a handle on it, it works well enough. The slightly more 
 unpredictable nature of this control scheme does occasionally make the game more frustrating, but 
 it also makes it a bit more exciting, since you feel as though you have more direct control over 
 what's happening onscreen.  

  It's too bad, then, that the actual racing is completely uninteresting. World Circuit includes 
 a few different race types. The normal races include things like stunt ramps, destructible set 
 pieces, pitfalls, shortcuts, and the like. Racing monster trucks, as you might imagine, isn't always 
 a speedy affair. These are big, honking driving machines, so the relative speed of each one isn't 
 great. The game tries to make up for this by letting you create some chaos on the track. You are 
 rewarded for breaking various pieces of scenery set about the track, and by performing stunts. 
 You are given points for doing these things, and you can eventually use the points to upgrade your 
 trucks in a few different stat categories. However, that's really your only reward, and it's a 
 dubious one at best. The actual destruction you cause looks cheap and doesn't hold much satisfaction 
 on its own. As for the upgrade points, the truck upgrades are barely noticeable. You really won't 
 become aware of any serious differences in how your truck performs, so it's a waste of time to 
 even bother.  

  Stunts are no less dull. To perform a stunt, you simply spin the steering wheel in some kind of 
 random circular motion. Your truck will do some form of ridiculous barrel roll, and that's about 
 it. We'll certainly concede that monster trucks doing stunts like this is crazy, but it's not interesting 
 when it's the same basic stunt done in a few different directions over and over and over again. 
 The only reason to do stunts is to build up your nitro-boost meter, but even that is a fool's errand, 
 since nitro boosts rarely seem to do much to actually boost you past the competition.  

  What is there besides the normal races? Just basic split-screen multiplayer races and a few multiplayer 
 minigames for up to four players. These minigames include such gems as monster truck soccer, which 
 is precisely what it sounds like, and monster combat, which has you driving around, trying to launch 
 as many flaming barrels at other drivers as possible. But even with their wacky nature, there's 
 just nothing interesting or engaging about these games. Driving the trucks is still just as boring 
 in the minigames as it is in the races, so these games aren't useful for more than just a menial 
 distraction.  

          This really seems like it ought to be fun, but it's not.     

  Monster 4x4 used to be a budget game, and nowhere is that more apparent than in its presentation. 
 The graphics look about on par with a PS2 game from a couple of years ago, just with a steadier 
 frame rate. The trucks are blandly designed, the various destruction effects look cheap, and the 
 environments are just a muddled mess. Apart from ugly textures, it's just impossible to tell where 
 you are or what's going on half the time. All the tracks are supposed to be set in various historical 
 locales, like the Egyptian pyramids, Mount Rushmore, and such, but apart from very occasional glances 
 at something like the Sphinx, you might as well be racing through some anonymous dirt track somewhere 
 outside Santa Fe, New Mexico. The game does occasionally feature some nice lighting effects, but 
 that's the extent of its graphical pluses. There's not even much of a sense of speed on display 
 here. You constantly feel as though your truck is chugging along at a snail's pace, and the boost 
 effect just adds a bunch of cheesy motion blur. There's not much audio beyond the revving of overly 
 grimy-sounding truck engines and an insane amount of wailing guitar solos -- enough to where you'll 
 question your love of electric guitar by the time you're done playing.  

  So, to recap: Monster trucks are awesome, but Monster 4x4: World Circuit is not. The racing is 
 bland, the destruction is minimal, the excitement is nonexistent, the presentation is poor, the 
 content is lacking, and last, but certainly not least, Ubisoft is now charging $50 for what was 
 a budget game less than a year ago. There's no excuse to charge full price for a driving game this 
 hollow and boring, and there's no reason for you to bother playing it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gmaster456
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  You have probably seen this type of game countless times before and thought that it looked like 
 a waste of time and why anybody would buy this. This game won't do anything that will change your 
 mind but for the casual gamer this is actually worth buying. With fun multiplayer games and a wide 
 variety of trucks and tracks it is a great game if you are just looking for something to pass the 
 time or you just really like this type of game. The controls are quite good and the single player 
 is mildy addicting and every time you finish first place you unlock something new (mostly tracks 
 and track types) . The game should take you just 4 hours to complete (and thats being generous) 
 although I have not yet finesh the game myself. If you like a good and casual single player game 
 or you just want something to do this game is definatly worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alaney2k
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  As part of the first wave of Wii games, I didn't buy this game. Looking for a game to pass the 
 time until Xmas, I spotted this in the bargain bins at a local department store.
  
  After playing for a while with my 11-yr-old and 15-yr-old sons, I can report that it was not a 
 waste of money. While it is nowhere near the level of Mario Kart, it is a diverting change from 
 the Nintendo universe.
  
  This game, like many unlocks features through single-player play. Unlike many, a casual player 
 (aka adult) can play the single-play without difficulty. Not joking! So many games are aimed at 
 making it hard without high levels of concentration, that I like that it was ok to proceed.
  
  This game has a lot of faults. You can't play two player profiles against each other. The jumping 
 for speed-ups doesn't always work and it's not clear why. In multiplayer, a player can get away 
 and unless they mess up by themselves, there is no way to catch up sometimes.
  
  About the wheel. Unlike the Nintendo ones, you can't use it as a pointer, because it blocks the 
 end of the Wiimote. But my son likes the heavier weight of it compared to the Mario Kart ones.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mythicfiredark
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Every Platform is crying out fpr more monster truck game. Come n now, who doesn't like the humble 
 monster truck, the gas guzzling crass symbol of everthing that is great about the big square states 
 in the middle of the united states of america? If you are one of tose people that don't love monstertrucks 
 then you're a communist and the terroists have proboly already won. You prpboly don't like turkducken 
 either! Terroisits! Why all this crap about terrosists and stuffed up birds? Well in all honesty 
 being stupid and wasting time is more fun than playing this game, one of the most painful boring 
 and nothing bout wii games. It's stering aspect sucks heaps and it's graphics aren't up to wiii 
 standards. So why did I buy this game? I thought it would of been good but i was wrong and very 
 stupid. results epic fail for a monster truck game only mediocricy here nothin to see here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pk-gamespot
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 1, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  
  this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those this that those 
 this that those this that those vvv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  My friend and I rented and played this game over a year ago and had a great time playing through 
 it in a few hours. Took 3-4 hours to beat everything from what I remember.
  
  The game isn't the greatest graphics or visuals, but you don't get the best with the wii anyways. 
 But for people who have families and want to see what its like to drive a car, the wheel turning 
 is pretty responsive for this game and it was enjoyable and easy to catch on to.
  
  I have also played the other monster truck game for this system (monster trux arenas) and that 
 one was good as well, tho I would say that this game was much better thought out and better in 
 the controls and graphics department.
  
  If you are looking for a bargain bin game, this is definately it. But otherwise a quick rental 
 from Blockbuster if you have a game pass would be worth it as you can play through it in a night 
 and return it the next day. We were not dissatisfied with this game at all. It was a fun play for 
 sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 129260
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I found this in walmart for $20. (note to people, always wait a little while after a game comes 
 out, it will be really cheap then later. ;) 
  
  Anyway's, back to the game review:
  
  Controls:
  I found this game to be kind of dull, however this being my first driving game on 
 the wii, I found it pleasing to drive with its unique game controls. I didn't bother using the 
 wheel to control the monster truck. I just used the plain wii remote to drive. I found it works 
 alot better that way, not sure why. 
  
  Graphics:
  I found the graphics to be decent. Not if your used to the ps3 or xbox360 will it be decent, but 
 if your used to the ps2 and knowing that the wii wasn't designed to be a good graphics system, 
 you can appreciate the graphics in this game. I do not think the review from gamespot was fair, 
 as they are looking at the wii to provide good graphics, it was not designed to do that! The wii 
 was designed for uniqueness and a different way to play games. Nintendo has stated several times 
 it did not try to provide "good" graphics, and was not looking to compete with the ps3 or xbox 
 360. I believe this game does graphics well, considering the system and what it can handle. 
  
  Gameplay:
  I found the gameplay and the races to be quite unique. There are 2 races that 
 i found to be very enjoyable, but that is it. The rest of the races didn't suck, they were just 
 a little bit too easy. The minigames are dumb, I will agree with that. But my main focus for getting 
 this game was the multi-
  player and the main campaign thing. I liked the nitrous idea, and the several barrels that you 
 can use to hit players in front of you. They work well. Unlike the review from gamespot, i did 
 not feel like a "snail" while i drove along. Actually, when the burst of speed happened, i felt 
 quite the opposite. 
  
  Summery:
  Get this game if the following are true:
  -You don't mind spending $20 for a game that you will beat soon. (depends on your skill level though)
 
  
  -Want to have some friends over to do multi player.
  
  -Graphics do not have to look "amazing".
  
  -You would like to have a unique driving game for 
 your wii.
  
  Don't buy this game if:
  -You want good graphics. ( If you have a wii, you must not care to much about that anyway. Not 
 saying that all wii games have crappy graphics, they just do not compare whatsoever to ps3 or xbox 
 360. Because they weren't supposed to. Several games look good, at least to me they do.)
  
  -You wont ever do multi player races. 
  
  -You hate "minigames"
  
  -You dislike paying 
 $20 for a game, (and a free sterring wheel.) that you might drop within a couple of months.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crooknook
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 20, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  I disagree with the Game Spot reviewer and others who quickly dismissed this game with low and 
 disastrous scores. Unfortunately most reviewers are Gears of War and Halo junkies (I'm a Halo man 
 myself) who are quick to ignore family fun games. 
  
  This game isn't going to wow, but it is fun for kids. At a recent birthday party at my house this 
 game actually became the center of the party as the kids had a single elimination tournament. They 
 had a blast. Do I love the game? No. Do my children love the game? Yes. 
  
  The game isn't overly complex and has some fun unlockables (racing with a fire truck is cool) . 
 
  
  This game is a budget bin find. I purchased this at Wal-Mart new for $20.00. Hey, it also comes 
 with a slick little controller that feels great. If you have children from ages 5-11, they would 
 probably love the game, and at $20.00 your wallet won't mind buying it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewd29
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  This games controls are so hard to use them you need to be the biggest fan of terrible games. If 
 you want to get good wii games i advise you to ignore this game and stick to GOOD games such as 
 rayman raving rabbids 1. There are no game modes in this game but story mode. And you only start 
 of with a few trucks. Its is so boring! There worse games i must admit but this is still bad. The 
 graphics are good but you cant make a game thats unfun and put in good graphics to male things 
 better!
  One last thing. On the case of the box its says it comes with a free steering wheel. Well all it 
 is is bits of plastic put together to make a shape looking nothing like a wheel! And it breaks 
 instantly.
  
  So all in all this game is a rip-off and you cant get any fun out of it what so ever.
  So my 
 verdict is DONT BUY IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmrage
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 14, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Basically, the game puts you in the seat of a monster truck. You race against others while performing 
 stunts around the track, hitting others with barrels and gaining power ups.
  
  This game does not have a very interesting single player mode. With multiplayer, some may be able 
 to play for long periods of time because there are different types of games.
  
  Most of the vehicles are just normal ones put on top of huge wheels. Good or bad idea? You can 
 decide. But within the selection of vehicles there's a mini, a taxi, a pickup, a fire engine, ambulance 
 and many others. As expected, they all have different stats  bigger vehicles mean more strength 
 but less speed.
  
  The circuit mode can be made much better. Starting off on a positive, it was a good idea to have 
 24 racers in the circuit and not just the six who are on the track at a time. However, the low 
 level of difficulty and a small range of tracks make this a dull circuit. There are about 12 tracks 
 and in circuit mode you race on them all twice  normal and reverse. After the circuit, you're 
 basically done with the game unless you want to unlock everything in the game. The circuit can 
 be greatly improved by increasing the number of tracks, making the whole circuit harder, and not 
 just doing races in the circuit all the time (surely you can do combat mode with 6 competitors.)
 
  
  The game has some interesting multiplayer games. Combat mode, where you try and hit barrels into 
 the opponent; football, where you obviously try and knock the ball into the goal with your vehicle 
 (this is quite difficult but you'll get the hang of it) ; and monster ball, which I haven't got 
 round to unlocking yet, but it involves knocking balls into your opponent's area. But unfortunately 
 again, these may not last long and will soon get boring.
  
  If you're a race or monster truck fan, then by all means buy the game. But anyone else, and some 
 of the race fans, should consider renting it first  you could probably finish the game in the 
 rent period.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spitfire-95
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  when i bought this game i went home, put the disc in and started playing...
  i began the training wich was not too bad, once i finished this i started playing properly. I played 
 for about 5 minutes and frankly, i was abseloutely APPAULED by it! there was nothing interesting 
 about it! it was sooooo boring! i usually give games a chance but after not even reaching level 
 2 i just turned it off. i think the only gain from buying this was the free racing attatchment 
 wich was also rubbish as it took me 10 minutes to get on.
  
  frankly i definetely do NOT reccommend buying this game and i suggest buying excite truck wich 
 is 100 times better!
  
  thanks for reading
  SPITFIRE-95
  (my first review!:) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slionheart_8
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Monster 4x4 World Circuit is an OK game. There is nothing really special about it. It is fun sometimes 
 but its just the same things over and over again. Few vehicles, few tracks, few extras, few things 
 that are good. What is there to do? Nothing but race the same vehicles on the same tracks either 
 normal or reverse. I kind of found this a waste of money but not a waste of time. They could of 
 done a better job by improving the amount of things in the game. The game is too short. Once you 
 finished the main mode, there isn't anything to do.
  
  Overall, an OK game, not worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 8, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Monster 4X4 World Circuit is Ubisofts first attempt at a Wii racing game. It pretty much copies 
 almost all the basic stuff from, Excite Truck while adding on a few new touches. However the games 
 low difficulty and length combine to prevent, World Circuit from reaching its full potential.
 
  
  World Circuit controls almost identically to Nintendos Wii racer Excite Truck. The only difference 
 is the small trick system that is easy to learn but fairly hard to master. World Circuit comes 
 with a nice mini steering wheel which you can put the Wii remote in to get slightly more precise 
 steering. Obviously you turn by using the steering wheel like you would a normal steering wheel. 
 However if you make a looping motion with the steering wheel after going off a jump you can perform 
 flips and other tricks. World Circuits main game mode is the World Circuit mode which consists 
 of a twenty week schedule with one race a week making a total of twenty races. However after a 
 while you start seeing different versions of the same tracks and your opponents never get any harder. 
 The leaderboard in the World Circuit mode is based off of points. You get a certain amount of points 
 depending on where you finish in the race but if you can manage to get second place or up on most 
 of the races youll easily finish in first place. The World Circuit mode only has one real downside 
 which is the super short length. You can easily finish all twenty races in two hours or less and 
 all of the races are very easy.
  
  Luckily a good amount of the courses in the game are cool so it will take a few races to get bored 
 of each track. You can play through all of the available tracks with the quick play mode. Its 
 smarter to wait to use this mode until youve unlocked all of the tracks. You can also unlock mirrored 
 versions of all the tracks although at times its hard to see any noticeable difference.
  
  There is also a selection of random mini-games that fit well with the games wacky theme. However 
 the mini-games arent that much fun. The different cars you get throughout the course of the game 
 are all pretty cool. You get your basic monster truck cars but there are also a bunch of random 
 cars with big wheels added on. For instance you can drive things such as school buses, fire trucks, 
 and ambulances.
  
  You can also upgrade your cars thanks to a sort of RPG like level up system. During races performing 
 tricks, wrecking cars, destroying barrels, and doing some other stuff earns you points. At the 
 end of each race your points total is added up and if you have a certain amount you get an experience 
 point. You can then go into your garage and choose to update a cars stats. These stats vary from 
 things such as speed, turning, acceleration, and many more. However as handy as this feature the 
 way they chose to do it isnt the best way they couldve done it.
  
  Monster 4X4 World Circuit does an okay job of presenting itself. The games menus all have scenes 
 of monster truck destruction going on in the background but during the actual game you wont find 
 anything really to close to those movies. Graphically the game looks more like an average Gamecube 
 game. All of the environments look okay but they are rather boring. All of the cars look okay none 
 of them are too blocky. All around the graphics arent terrible but they are far from being great.
 
  
  The sound in Monster 4X4 World Circuit is okay. The game features a nice soundtrack but some of 
 the songs are just plain boring and some are annoying. The sound effects are very disappointing 
 for a monster truck game. There are no awesome sounding explosions like you would expect from a 
 game like this and the other random sound effects are fairly lame.
  
  Value wise Monster 4X4 World Circuits main mode the World Circuit mode can easily be completed 
 in about two hours. However there is some replay value thanks to the quick play mode where you 
 can easily try out other cars and replay your favorite courses. There are also mirrored versions 
 of all of the games tracks which provide a slightly different take on the same courses.
  
  All in all Monster 4X4 World Circuit is an underappreciated racing game. It may not be true monster 
 truck racing, it may be super easy, and it may be slightly over-priced but for those looking for 
 another good Wii racing game after they beat Excite Truck I suggest trying to find a used copy 
 of this game or at least renting it you may be surprised.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Porshe911Turbo
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 16, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  This is a fun game were u can drive many different 4x4 vehicles and go on many tracks including 
 some 4 player mini games like soccer. Theres vehicles like school buses, fire engines and of course 
 all with BIG WHEELS. You can use boost by tilting your controller forward and shoot barrels at 
 other cars. Theres tournament mode were you race on every track earning point by where u get. Including 
 4 mini games were you can play against each other. They are all quite fun or u can choose to play 
 4 player and just race on normal tracks. Then theres garage where you can upgrade your car, change 
 the paint and put decals on it.
  
  I advise you get this game if you enjoy going up jumps doing tricks and driving around on having 
 some fun with your mates Make sure you do rent this out 1st though before blowing your money on 
 something you may regret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinman069
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 4, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  i like the game and it is certainly worth a try... it has had some crappy reviews but i would give 
 it a go... the graphics aren't the best by any means... but they still look good.... the sound is 
 good.... the gameplay is fun... the only thing i found that took a couple of races to get used to 
 was how the screen turned whrn your truck turned... kinda different at first... it actually makes 
 the wife kinda sick watching the screen turn... so she ends up leaving the room...
  all in all... if you like 4x4 trucks and spinning around and the sound of motors rev-ing... give 
 it a go... ya make like it....!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freedom_Link
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 20, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  Oooh Monster trucks! This should be destructive and exciting and ill crush things! Words I uttered 
 when seeing this game in my game store. I took it out when I got expecting some Kick-ass game for 
 the wii. Sadly I was mistaken, 1st this game took me 3 hours to complete. 2nd the minigames are 
 mulitplayer only (No Single player Option I know about) .3rd I think there was about 10 tracks through 
 out the game and to boost up the number of tracks all they did was reverse them. The Grafics were 
 TERRIBLE for the wii, sound was nothing memerable and as for the Crushing stuff! part all you can 
 crush was some wheels piled on the road and some stands.... fantastic.... Scarcasm!, But I did 
 geta odd little wheel to stick on the controler... that was fun... All trucks handled well with 
 the game responding as I tilted the wheel. Thats the only good thing... Please save your money. 
 Leave this in the bin.
  ONM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codethought
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  I think this title is being unfairly panned by people. Granted, it's probably more of a kid-oriented 
 title, but my kindergarten-aged child loves playing the game and that's a big part of why I'm rating 
 it a 7. True it's not the best racing title I've seen. But it's a decent enough title - especially 
 for kids. It's fun to watch others play it, and it's easy to learn how to play quickly. Keep an 
 open mind, and if you're looking for a good child or family-oriented and easy to play racing title, 
 this would probably be a great choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kweni
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun. But the sound is terrible, the music doesnt fit and you can't hear the music 
 clearly.
  The minigames that are in it are booooring, no sounds either.
  The grafics are are bad i mean the wii can do mutch better, take a look at Excite Truck. When you 
 are a monster racing freak, then i'll suggest you will take Excite Truck, mutch better grafics 
 and awesome music.
  Acctualy i buyed this game cause a thought that this was Excite Truck ( didnt rememer the name 
 when buyed it )
  so guys just wait for Excite Truck.
  
  When this review helped you choosing a game 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
