-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Monster Lab
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/rpg/monsterlab/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 In-depth customization system.
 Stylish visuals.
 Quirky characters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bad controls in certain minigames.
 Minigames are repetitive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 41 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Backbone
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Nov 4, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Monster Lab has a ton of monster-making potential, but poor controls ruin this experiment. 

 
  If you were to judge Monster Lab by its cover, you might be put off by the green monster head 
 licking a massive snot bubble off of the gruesome face beside it. What you would be missing, however, 
 is a well-put-together game for a younger audience that includes a variety of minigames, an extensive 
 monster-customization system, and easy-to-learn battle mechanics. Monster Lab starts off as an 
 intriguing monster-experimenting game in which you build your own walking freak show to duke it 
 out against other abominations. The game starts to fall apart as you progress, though, when the 
 Wii motion controls mar what could have been an enjoyable experience.  

           Embrace your inner mad scientist in order to vanquish a house with legs.      

  As 
 the newest apprentice in the Mad Science Alliance, your goal is to master the three sciences -- mechanical, 
 biological, and alchemical -- in order to create the perfect monster to do your bidding. One of the 
 former members, Baron Mharti, has gone off the deep end and is wreaking havoc with his miscreants 
 in the Uncanny Valley, and it's up to you to stop him. The narrative doesn't extend beyond that, 
 but the over-the-top voice acting and well-animated cutscenes keep the story entertaining. The 
 professors that you'll meet are a diverse and deranged bunch and the Baron is your stereotypical 
 monocled villain, with a well-manicured mustache and a maniacal laugh. You'll also meet other amusing 
 characters along the way as you help them with fetch quests and monster-slaying duties.  

  Monster Lab is about experimenting. You are responsible for collecting junkyard ingredients to 
 create arms, heads, torsos, and legs. Once you slap the pieces together and bring your hunk of 
 junk to life, it will be yours to control. You deploy your Frankenstein creation from the comfort 
 of the mad science castle and supervise through a camera. Exploring the regions of the Uncanny 
 Valley is similar to a board game in which you are restricted to preset paths. The areas aren't 
 very large, but they're all uniquely themed and have their own charm. You'll track down items through 
 minigames and fight monsters that get in your way, consulting your quest log for tips on what to 
 do next. Gameplay does start to feel monotonous after a while, but it's the headache-inducing load 
 times before and after each battle that slow the gameplay significantly. This is incredibly frustrating 
 when you consider that battles can often be shorter than the loading times.  

  When you collide head-on with a monster, you'll enter an arena and face off gladiator-style in 
 a turn-based match. The fighting mechanics are simple: Two commands are tied to each body part, 
 and you select and point to the one you wish to use. Actions require energy, and you can take a 
 turn to recharge when you're low. To win, you need to take out the opponent's torso, or if you 
 want to be cruel, destroy every limb and knock off the head. Part of the strategy is anticipating 
 what your opponent is going to do next, but most of the fights are ridiculously easy as long as 
 your monster hasn't gone too long without an upgrade. After each fight, the only way to heal is 
 to do field repairs, which involves completing a short minigame. It isn't terrible, but it does 
 start to feel like an interactive load screen that you need to slog through so that you can get 
 on with the game.  

  In the first half of Monster Lab, the Wii motion controls work surprisingly well in the various 
 minigames you encounter. Towards the second half, however, things take a turn for the worse. There's 
 one alchemical minigame that has you flying through a tunnel with rotating openings that open and 
 close. You're in first-person view with no indicator onscreen to let you know your exact dimensions 
 and you're controlling yourself with the Wii Remote. If you manage to pass through a hole, it's 
 out of sheer luck, and with that luck you'll get a boost in speed, which will promptly propel you 
 into the next wall. Your skills will improve with practice, but it's no longer fun by that point. 
 There are four levels of difficulty with all of the experimental minigames, and though most are 
 manageable, there are a handful of games that are maddening because of the remote. The games that 
 use the control stick are fine, as well as the one in which you're steering with the remote on 
 its side. The problems tend to surround anything that involves pointing or shaking with the Wii 
 Remote or Nunchuk. Your performance affects the resulting monster part, so you'll want to do well 
 if you want to have a decent part to use.  

  The production values are quite high in Monster Lab. The graphics are pleasing, and the cinematics 
 that are sprinkled throughout the game are well done. Even the battles are fun to watch because 
 you know you'll always end the fight with a bone-crunching finish. On the auditory front, there 
 isn't much in terms of music that stood out. However, there are appropriate sounds of nature and 
 ambient noises to enhance the atmosphere in town or in the cemetery, from barking dogs to eerie 
 groans.  

           This minigame isn't going to end well for one of the remaining robots.      

  One 
 of the game's strengths is the customization, given that there are millions of possibilities with 
 all of the ingredients and parts that you can collect and experiment with. After you've completed 
 the game, you can continue to scavenge, build, and enhance your creation to pit it against friends 
 online. Playing against a human changes the battle entirely, and it's interesting to see the creations 
 that other players have come up with. It's similar to fighting a boss, except that they're generally 
 smarter. The entire campaign will last more than 12 hours, depending on how much time you spend 
 tinkering away in the lab.  

  Monster Lab's main appeal is in the collecting, building, and experimenting. It's rewarding to 
 watch your creation come to life and see how it fares against a real opponent. Unfortunately, you 
 can go only so far before the creeping repetition and unnatural minigames start to drive you mad. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Akriloth_2160
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 1:52 am PT
Review:  I've always had a thing for Tim Burton's movies, wether they be awesome such as Batman Returns 
 or average such as Willy Wonka, mainly due to that comical style over a veil of gothic awesomeness. 
 If Burton's Nightmare Before Christmas was crossed with Custom Robo Arena then got given tons of 
 minigames, then you would get monster lab, a fantastic rollercoaster ride of an RPG which provides 
 a simple, yet utterly captivating experience. Ok, so the plot, which involves a guy called Baron 
 Mharti trying to take over the world (Bison: OF COURSE!!!!) is pretty paint-by-numbers, and by combining 
 the items you get to make a new part for your monster, most of the time you end up having a defect 
 in the part such as draining battery power or inefficiency. Still, that's the whole point of the 
 game- to gather the necessary ingredients from wherever and play the minigame in order to combine 
 the parts you choose so that you're eager to see what results you've come up with. Ok, so a few 
 of the minigames are a bit meh, such as the awful IQ Injector and the slightly inaccurate Stitch-O-Matic, 
 but for the majority it all helps sew all the seams together in what is by every means possible 
 a masterpiece of an RPG. If you're tired of games these days being confusing, and/or if you've 
 got bored of your copy of Custom Robo Arena (As I did around 10 weeks after I got it!) , defiinitely 
 pick this one up! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
