-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mortal Kombat: Armageddon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/mortalkombatarmageddon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Every Mortal Kombat character, big and small, is here in some form.
 interesting single-player story mode.
 supports the Classic Controller.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Reuses a lot of stuff from the previous MK games.
 custom fatality system lacks personality.
 not a ton of differentiation among the game's 60+ fighters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 788 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Developer: JGI Entertainment
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: May 29, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Armageddon is a good entry point to the series, but if you've played any of the recent Mortal Kombat 
 games, you'll see that most of this stuff has been recycled. 

  Mortal Kombat: Armageddon is Midway's attempt to take most of the stuff that has appeared in a 
 Mortal Kombat game since Deadly Alliance was released back in 2002 and mash it all into one big 
 game. It is a send-off of sorts of the current fighting style and game engine for the series. It 
 was also a fitting send-off of the previous generation of consoles when it was originally released 
 on the PlayStation 2 and Xbox last year. Now, that game has come to the Wii, where it automatically 
 becomes one of the best fighting games currently available on the platform simply because the options 
 are limited. Armageddon reuses a little too much content from previous games, and as a result, 
 it feels like it is coasting. But it's also the first substantial modern fighting game to be released 
 on the Wii, and that alone, makes it notable.  

          Can't these robot ninjas just get along?     

  There's a real kitchen-sink mindset 
 at work in MK: Armageddon. If you can think of a Mortal Kombat character that has appeared in any 
 of the previous games, real or rumored, chances are he or she makes some kind of appearance in 
 this game. There are more than 60 playable characters in the game, each with his or her own fighting 
 styles, though in practice, most of the major differences come down to their special moves. Each 
 character has a handful of special attacks, and the classics are all present. Scorpion will still 
 jab a spear into your chest and yank you across the screen, while Sub-Zero can still freeze you 
 solid for a free attack. And yes, Stryker will still whip out a gun to blast you. All in all, the 
 characters feel balanced, which is a feat, considering there are a ton of them. On top of that, 
 there's a robust character-creation system that lets you customize the look and moves of a fighter, 
 which can be cool if you're willing to put some time into it.  

  That sense of creation has also crept into the game's grisly finishing moves. While fatalities 
 in previous games were unique, canned sequences of gruesome-yet-usually-hilarious violence, now 
 you can choose how to eliminate your opponents by executing a series of moves after the fight has 
 ended. These moves are simple and include changing your opponent's position, ripping off limbs, 
 punching his or her head off, and so on. It's a clever idea that, unfortunately, totally lacks 
 personality. Sure, it's up to you to decide how to finish your opponent, but nothing that you can 
 do matches the thrills of setting your foes on fire, kissing them to make them explode, or performing 
 any of the other classic fatalities that the MK series has demonstrated over the years.  

  The interesting thing about the Wii version is that the game has been updated and altered to fully 
 support the Wii Remote and Nunchuk combo. You can do these special moves by holding down the trigger 
 on the Wii Remote and swaying it in a specific fashion. For example, if you move it away from your 
 opponent then toward him or her with Scorpion, you can do the spear. It's a neat idea that is hampered 
 a bit because the Wii Remote never feels quite right. It's difficult to get a high level of accuracy 
 and timing with such an imprecise control method. On top of that, the game maps all of your normal 
 attacks to different directions on the Wii Remote's D pad, which isn't very friendly when it comes 
 to tapping out combos. It's sort of fun to mess around with it, but once you get serious about 
 actually playing MK: Armageddon, you'll be thankful that it has support for the Classic Controller 
 and GameCube controllers.  

  In addition to the basic arcade mode, where you'll fight your way to the top and take on a boss, 
 the game has a gimmicky-yet-charming kart racing mode, called Motor Kombat. It also has a konquest 
 mode, which is an interesting single-player story mode where you'll run around 3D environments, 
 collecting items, interacting with the various characters from the MK universe, and getting into 
 a lot of fights. If you're familiar with the konquest mode in MK: Deception, you'll be happy to 
 know that this is a much more in-depth and interesting mode than the one in Deception. Along the 
 way, you'll unlock plenty of alternate outfits, new characters, music, concept art, and so on. 
 Most of this unlockable stuff surfaces in the krypt, which is a menu featuring page after page 
 of little knickknacks and curiosities. It'll probably take most players about six hours to navigate 
 the fights and traps of the konquest mode, which is one of the game's high points. There's also 
 an endurance mode that's exclusive to the Wii version of the game, and like similar modes that 
 appear in other fighting games, it has you face off against one opponent after another, stopping 
 to give you a little health boost after every few fights.  

  It's unfortunate, though understandable given the lack of online Wii games at this point, that 
 MK: Armageddon doesn't have any kind of online support. Being able to fight or kart race against 
 players around the world was a substantial part of the PS2 and Xbox releases, so it's worth noting 
 that the Wii version lacks any sort of online play. However, you can fight against another player 
 in the game's versus mode, and up to four players can play Motor Kombat via split-screen. So if 
 you're surrounded by MK fanatics, or really, anyone who is up for a fight, you probably won't care. 
 As in most fighting games, the game is best when you're playing against a similarly skilled human 
 opponent.  

          Endurance modes are nothing new in the fighting game world, but this one is exclusive to 
 the Wii version of the game.     

  Armageddon has a good look to it, with plenty of painful-looking strikes and flashy special moves. 
 Like most aspects of Armageddon, it's a little less impressive if you've been following the series 
 on other platforms because a lot of the animation has been reused. Many of the background stages 
 look really nice and, as an added bonus, have stage-specific fatalities that can end a fight quickly. 
 You can knock people into fans, lava, and all other sorts of nefarious traps. The soundtrack helps 
 move the game's dark feel along nicely. The sound effects that go into the strikes and attacks 
 also help make them all sound like they really hurt. While you get the impression that a Wii-specific 
 game could have looked better, this port still looks just fine.  

  Though you may find yourself nonplussed by the latest MK entry if you've been following the series 
 for any length of time, Wii owners who haven't kept up with Midway's fighting series will find 
 plenty of thrills, a ton of characters, and a lot of different things to do. The utter lack of 
 good fighting games on the Wii certainly doesn't hurt either. If you're a Wii owner looking to 
 knock off some heads and own a Classic or GameCube controller or two, Mortal Kombat: Armageddon 
 is pretty kool. Ercool.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (60 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2009 4:56 am PT
Review:  The only reason I give this game such a high score is because I've followed Mortal Kombat from 
 the first time I stepped into an arcade and started playing it. Once we reached MK5 I was like 
 "would it not be fantastic to have a Mortal Kombat that has all the characters... like ever?" My 
 dream came true with Armageddon!
  
  It's fantastic that you can play as any of the characters that's ever been in any of the Mortal 
 Kombat game. It makes the sheer scope of the game, and the amount of hours you can play it without 
 getting bored really really long. 
  
  I was a little disappointed at the Konquest mode. I found it very easy and very short. I probably 
 finished it in about 3 hours.
  
  The other thing that I did not like about this game is the Fatalities. I personally like that you 
 have a set bunch of fatalies and not have to create your own. So I did not like this.
  
  I did like the fact that you can now also fight in the air. Adding another level to the game. Weapons 
 and fighting styles can only add so much. 
  
  Again you have a large amount of stages and all of them have secrets and death traps waiting. New 
 costumes for the characters are pretty awesome, and so are the alternative costumes to the characters.
 
  
  Great game for the MK lovers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaK360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it; playing as every characters was a dream. We all wanted to play a game like that. 
 There it is now. Kintaro, Fujin, Onaga, Blaze, Stryker, Sektor, woo! I give Midway a 10 out of 
 10 for puting them all in one game. How generous! The only problem is that it's probably the only 
 good thing in the game, even if they're not so original with their moves.
  
  Endurance Mode: We, Wii owners, are very proud to get that exclusif mode for the Wii. Seriously, 
 I do like the endurance mode, it's well done and fun.
  
  The fightning engine is the same as Deception and Deadly Alliance, but it is still a nice engine 
 and that gives MK a unique style. 
  
  Kreate-a-kharacter is kind of boring, but I never liked the idea. I don't feel like playing as 
 Yowatup with Scorpion's and Sub-Zero's moves.
  
  Kreate-a-fatality is an average option. The fatalities in that game were boring as hell. Crap, 
 they ruined the magic. WHERE ARE THE GOOD OLD FATALITIES?!?
  
  Konquest: Can't really agree with the people who says that they like this one more than Deception's. 
 It's hard to say. The one in Deception was much usefull, with characters and everything to unlock. 
 
  
  Kart mode: Forget this, seriously.
  
  No online mode: Oh well... the best multiplayer mode will always be with your friends on your couch 
 in your living room.
  
  Very bad endings. A couple of lines of text, and the characters dancing around.
  
  Wiimote 
 control: Don't like the idea. The good point is that we can play with the Gamecube controller or 
 the classic one.
  
  Air combat; parry; Not fan of these either. We never got the chance to fight in the air, while 
 there are 475 moves for it.
  
  This is pretty much it. It does deserve the 7.5 ou of 10. It is a pretty good game, could be a 
 rent it first. But it's not as good as Deception. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grorusso
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  mortal kombat armageddon wii is one of the best figthing games on the wii it's not perfect but 
 it can be really fun specially making characters and the motor kombat racing mini-game well anyway 
 onto the review
  
  gameplay-very good and bloody, and really fun story mode
  
  controls-i will like to say that if you do not have the gamecube controller don't bother buying 
 this game the wii mote and nunchuks controll's are terrible!!! the wii controls aren't ment for 
 fighting games there more of mini-games, racing games and sports games
  
  sound-the music isen't really that good i always put cds into my radio to play this i don't really 
 like the music in most stages
  
  
 
  
  conclusion-this game is a must have for any mortal kombat fan or casual player it's really good 
 and all the things you can do with the Kreate a Karacter feature is great! you can make people 
 from: final fantasy, kingdom hearts, dragon ball z, dragon ball gt, dragon ball, dc, marvel, resident evil, ect 
 if you don't have this game go buy it as soon as you get money i got this for only 24 dollars so 
 it's really cheap! so no excuses go buy it rigth now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlasmaBeam44
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat has been around for a long time. It's a cultural icon and was responsible for the 
 creation of the ESRB. This is because the game is full of gore and people love games with lots 
 of gore. Not to mention the Fatalities are some of the coolest deaths in any game. But Mortal Kombat 
 Armageddon doesn't have the coolness factor that the previous games have.
  
  The first thing that makes this game fail is it's controls. Specifically the Wiimote and Nunchuk 
 attachment. To do your special moves you must hold down the B button and move the Wiimote to the 
 left, right, up, down, or do half circle movement to do the attacks. This might sound easy but 
 getting them to work is a chore. They don't register well and you'll do the movement over and over 
 again just to get it to work once. So instead of wasting time trying to do a special move you can 
 punch and kick. These are mapped to the D-pad on the Wiimote. This is very awkward to do and it's 
 not ideal.
  
  But never fear because the Classic Controller and the GameCube controller are both supported. But 
 using either one completely defeats the purpose of playing this game on the Wii. It just becomes 
 the PS2 and Xbox versions of the game minus online play and it looks worse than either of those 
 version too.
  
  The games combat system is just flat out pathetic. You've got your simple stock standard punches 
 and kicks, then you've got your grapple moves and special moves. You can't string different combos 
 together either. So it's just basic button mashing mixed in with some special moves making the 
 fighting extremely unsatisfying.
  
  There are over 60 characters in the game. You start out with all of them with only 4 available 
 to unlock. All the character play the same with the exception of a select few. Every single character 
 that has ever been in a Mortal Kombat game is playable.
  
  What the Wii version has that the other versions don't (other than the Wii controls) is an Endurance 
 mode. This mode has been in just about every single fighting game known to man and MK has just 
 got around to putting it in there games it seems. This mode is exactly how you would expect it 
 to be. You fight until your die.
  
  Other than your basic Arcade modes and versus modes there is a mode called Konquest. In this mode 
 you take control of an incredibly generic character by the name of Taven. This mode plays like 
 a really bad flash game that you would play on the internet. The combat is bland and the story 
 is at best forgettable. There is also another Kart racer called Motor Kombat. It's a small distraction 
 and isn't anything special.
  
  Mortal Kombat Armageddon is a average game at best. It's nothing revolutionary and there are defiantly 
 better fighting games out there with better controls, deeper fighting systems, and better differentiation 
 between the characters. To put it simply, this game isn't what you think it is and it's worth a 
 rental if you feel the need to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veixsinx
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Anouther MK fighting game to the series. I just got this gameand im already hooked. Its frigging 
 alsome. Only a 7.5???? WTF............ This game has lots of fighting, lots of action, lots of fun..... AND 
 A WHOLE LOT OF BLOOD!
  In fact this game has so much blood, if you fight for long enough you will be ina pool of blood.
 
  
  
  
  
  The good: Lots of blood. Cool Konquest mode. Lots of charecters, like 5 dozen. This time New to the 
 MK series is Motor Kombat. You get in these little cars and race aroundand try to kill each other. Its 
 not realy fun but its creative. Also you can create your own charecter! I ITZSWEET!!!!
  
  The bad: Konquest mode is way to short for my likeing. The boss charecters are as cheap as hellsinkey, 
 and scorpions little chain is cheap. aND Blaze ............ IS SO FRICKING HARD IN KONQUEST MODE 
 OMG.
  
  
  Well overall its a solid, 9.0. of 10.
  
  Peace out and happy gameing! Next review on brothers and arms! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  I boutght this game, reading the reviews of how there were 60 characters in this game, and i read 
 the list of players you could play with and i simply HAD to get it the day it was out. I read about 
 the story mode and how much fun it could have been... 
  
  I got the game, and i tried playing it immediatley.. but was unable to pull of any of the special 
 moves that require motion, and was frustrated in the lack of ease you can pull off combos within. 
 the direction buttons on the wii-mote are used as the punch and kick buttons, and at first was 
 very, very awkward. I had to go to practise mode and try and learn the motion controls and combos, 
 and half an hour later, i had conquered the easy mode of the game.
  
  At first, the game seems challenging, sometimes impossible but your skill levels will rise rapidly 
 after you beat arcade mode a few times. you may even get quite far in survival in the end. but 
 the mario kart- like mini game is the biggest waste of time and effort in the world, and the konquest 
 mode was like tekken force mode in tekken 5, the same thing over and over again, not my thing to 
 be honest.
  
  All the players in this game, all 60 play exactly the same, once you master the motion controls, 
 you can play with anyone as the same motion will do a different (or in some cases, the same) special 
 move. there were so many characters that special moves were reused- making each character quite 
 impersonal and boring, and is such a dissappointment. they should have made around 30 characters, 
 completely unique rather than 60 almost identical ones.
  
  The graphics in this game are quite impressive, the characters are smooth and the levels you fight 
 in look great... however the blood looks like tennis balls flying about and could have looked a 
 lot better... but the death traps look as great as ever. quite impressive overall... except in 
 the mario-kart racing minigame, they look incredibly stupid, and isnt much fun to play either,.
 
  
  The sounds in this game are average, each person has their own grunts and cries, but the voice 
 over acting in the konquest mode is quite good, although some parts just plain suck and are painful 
 to listen to overeall. 
  
  Multiplayer is the most fun you will get out of this game, one player gets tiresome and you can 
 only do arcade mode and survival for so long before getting completely bored, and konquest mode 
 gets really repetetive after a while, so its not fun to play that either. its worth trying to unlock 
 the objects int he krypt however there are so many pointless things to unlock, that even that turns 
 out to be a waste of time. Overall i feel that this game is average, but is a decent introduction 
 to fighting games on the wii. it cannot possibly get more frustrating than this game, and can only 
 get better. i will be trading this game in pretty soon, but only when there is another game worth 
 buying on the wii.
  
  i say generally, avoid this game unless you are a die hard mortal kombat fan, you will regret spending 
 your hard earned cash on this, you WILL get tired of this and is repetetive and annoying. Wait 
 for smash bros. or find something better to do, because this game is quite bad overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Methuselah6463
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Seeing how most games that include so many characters like Street fighter (whatever) are very cut 
 and pastish "in that they have the same moves over and over and never any real creative play with 
 each fighter" I can say that this game was built very well. The Fighting is loyal to its two pre 
 releases "Deadly alliance and Deception" only that this time around each fighter has one Weapon 
 and One style. Not a bad thing but not a great thing in that the combos have changed yet again 
 and it takes maybe 5 mints to re-learn what you already know or thought you knew about each fighter. 
 The stages are great in that most have death traps and can make any match un predictable no matter 
 how good you are at the game. Some of the fighters like "Goro or Shao Khan" have the slight upper 
 hand against most of the fighters in that they have more power on hits yet the speed of most the 
 fighters are basicly the same. makes for a even fight and basicly easy to learn.
  The other modes in the game aren't so bad either. The go kart game could have been better in that 
 you only have so much to do with it then it gets boaring as hell... Konquest mode is a good run 
 up from Deception even thou "THE STORY WAS NEVER FISHED" which angers me very much but being a 
 mortal kombat geek i forgive it. The Krypt isn't as fun as i thought it would be also. In that 
 you know exactly what your getting before you buy anything... not leaving the fun of secrets like 
 Depection and Deadly Alliance. Create a fighter is probably one of the most fun features i found 
 to the game in that you can make up just about anyone in any fighting game with the proper know 
 how and abilityI myself have made ryu and guile from street fighter which was pretty funny to 
 see" 
  Over all its probably my favorite mk game aside from MK 2 which was just what got me into this 
 whole series. While the story line wasn't finshed for the game and made for a HUGE dissapoint me 
 for me. The game itself is tones of fun and i recommend anyone who likes good fighting games to 
 at least give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makedonijo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat Wii addition didn't get very good reviews from gamespot but it surprised me when 
 first played it... Me and my brother are big fans of the Mortal Kombat series and we bought this 
 game because it would be interesting to play on the Wii. We were surprised at how good it was. 
 The story mode version of the game is lots of fun its just a good ol' hack and slash Wii game. 
 For multi player or arcade mode there is a wide variety of characters to choose from and most of 
 them also have alternate costumes, you can also "Kreate-A-Fighter" and choose how he looks and 
 what his moves are. One thing I didn't like was how it lacks online play and the specials don't 
 register sometimes but it is a load of fun the play with other people. Motor Kombat is very fun, 
 it is a mini game and you use the Wii remote as a steering wheel to drive your car and you can 
 use specials with the A button. This mini game can be played with up to four people and all can 
 choose their favorite character. The only bad thing I can say about Motor Kombat is the fact that 
 you cannot choose from all of the characters and that it is limited to 3 or 4 maps.
  
  This game would be good for any MK fan or any fighting game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokerules123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  The grand daddy of all fighters makes its appearence for the first time on Wii. You get all the 
 characters from all the MK games (MK4, MK: DA, MK: D, etc) & most of the stages from past MK games, 
 as well as the game it self. You get 2 other games with it to; Motor Kombat & Konquest. Motor Kombat 
 is a Mario Kart style spin off which you can choose one of the characters & stages, complete with 
 fatalties. Depending on what character you have chosen, they have their own special moves. For 
 example, Scorpion can do his famous spear, complete with "GET OVER HERE!" saying, while Sub-Zero 
 can shoot a freeze ball to an opponent & they are frozen for a short time. In Konquest, you play 
 as Taven, & unlike the past Konquest's, you now have to fight people. Now back to the fighting 
 game, as well as the 60 characters, there is also the ability to "Kreate-a-fighter". This mode 
 lets you add different parts & other crap "pimp out" your customisable character. Whats more, if 
 you suck at the Wii-mote & nunchuck, you can use the Classic Controller & Gamecube controller. 
 & heres a special treat only for owners of the Wii & the Wii version. Khameleon, the female replacement 
 of Chameleon (who was from the PC, PSX & Saturn versions of Mortal Kombat Trilogy) who was only 
 in the N64 version of Mortal Kombat Trilogy, will make a playable debut in the Wii version only (as 
 well as the male Chameleon) , making a whopping 61 characters in the Wii version (not including the 
 creatable characters) . Unfortunately, this gets rid of the online play :- (
  Overall, despite its flaws, this game is excellent.
  
  Good:
  Every character from every 
 MK game
  Loads of unlockables
  Wii exclusive Khameleon
  "Kreate" your own fighter
  Motor Kombat & Konquest is fun
  Uses the Gamecube & Classic Controller
  I'm loving the new 
 Kreate-a-Fatality system.
  Bad:
  Online play absent
  Has some flaws
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: s-baller23
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge of fan of every type of fighting game from Tekken, Mortal Kombat, Street Fighter, King 
 of Fighters, and so on and I must say this 3D rendition of Mortal Kombat is one of my favorites. 
 The graphics are really awesome and there's a lot of detail in each character. I was glad to see 
 Liu Kang back as a zombie. The fighting is highly addictive but the only flaw throughout the whole 
 game is the fatality system. It's not that bad but it leaves a lot to be desired and I would have 
 preferred the old school fatality system. The racing mode is cool, it's kind of like a cheap Mario 
 Kart. What I really love the most and what really keeps me engaged is the music in the konquest 
 mode. The music game me chills and every time I died I would have a serious heart attack and my 
 heart would start beating uncontrollably. The konquest mode is addicting. I would recommend this 
 game to all fighting lovers. You can even create your own fighter which is another plus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Review_King
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  All right, most everybody's favorite fighting game series Mortal Kombat is on the Nintendo Wii 
 :D! But there's still many flaws about this game to mention. The worst flaw is that about depending 
 on the time, the special move wiimote censoring is very poor. Depending on how good it's working, 
 which shifts around a lot, around 20-90% of the time, the censoring seems to not do anything, or 
 read it as a completely different special move than the one your attemting to execute. In practice 
 mode, I found out it always seem to censor, just not censor the right thing. And this is a major 
 problem which greatly makes special moves hard and frustrating to do, and special moves are an 
 important part of this game. Another flaw, is that the graphics just don't seem as good as it's 
 Playstation 2 and Xbox counterparts, but as I'm not really much a graphics person, it's okay with 
 me. Also it could of easily had Wi-Fi Connection, which would add much fun to this game, but it 
 wasn't added, which is a good flaw as well. But the good things about this game greatly outweights 
 the bad. The graphics are good and do the job done well, despite motion censoring the controls are 
 fun and great, every major character in the Mortal Kombat series can be found in this game, and 
 it's just simply a fun game. There's a create-a-character feature, which is fun and cool. You can 
 give your character it's own looks, colors, clothing, special moves, and stance, but it would be dandy 
 for more fighting styles to be able to be chosen. Motor Kombat is fun too and the control is much 
 funner and better than it's Playstation 2 and Xbox counterparts. The "Konquest" mode is also very 
 fun, and you can unlock a large amount of stuff in it such as characters, create-a-character pieces, coins 
 to unlocked items in "The Vault", and stages, but somehow it seems a bit short and incomplete, 
 but it's still fun and great. "The Vault" is an area where you can unlock items buried underground 
 in coffins with the coins you earn in "Konquest","Motor Kombat", and "Arcade" modes. So overall 
 this is a great game which has it's flaws and you should buy it, or at least give it a try and 
 rent it. If you like Mortal Kombat or other fighting games, this games certainly a great fame for 
 you :) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baker94
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat Armageddon on the wii surprised me. At first i expected the controls to be hard and 
 the game to be slightly disappointing. After playing this game on the PS2 i wasn't sure whether 
 the wii version could live up to it, i think it did and is an absolutely sublime game. 
  The freedom in character selection plays a big part of this game, as highlighted in the full review 
 every character is there from scorpion to Blaze. 
  The controls are the biggest factor in this game though. the D-Pad controls replacing the standard 
 circle, square etc. works and is easy to use. The Z and the C buttons have been incorporated well 
 with a flick of c for weapon and a hold of z to block. The combinations work extremely well and 
 rarely fail. However the best part of the control system is the special moves; the simple hold 
 of b and the gesture of half circles and up and downs walks very well and is very easy to use. 
 I think that is easier than some of the more complicated button mashing sequences on the PS2.
 
  The 'kreate-a-fighter' application is good and easy to use. The campaign or "Konquest" as it's 
 called is quite good but has it's downfalls. Despite the vibrant colours in the background there 
 isn't much freedom you always know that this is the only route to it. Also the number of hidden 
 objects needed to be found is annoying and can especially annoy in the create a fighter mode.
 
  The only downfall is the custom fatality which can be hard and a pain to use with the motions 
 being regularly not picked up.
  Overall i think this is a game thats worth buying and could keep you busy for quite a long time. 
 Although this wont be one of the best games on the wii you'll play on its a good buy.
  
  Graphics = 8
  gameplay = 9
  Sound = 7
  lifespan = 7
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: antiredcap
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I bought Mortal Kombat Armageddon for the Wii without doing ANY research on how the Wii remote 
 would work with the game so needless to say I was quite skeptical.
  Lets start off with the highlights:
  Create a fighter.
  60+ characters
  Khamelion female 
 character - exclusive to the Wii version!
  Shows how fun fighting games are with the Wii control system.
  Konquest Mode IMPROVED.
  
 
  Some of the downfalls:
  Same old graphics.
  The game seems VERY recycled.
  Motor Kombat not as fun as Puzzle Kombat.
  
  I first owned Armageddon on another platform and 
 really enjoyed it but since I've played it (and gotten use to it) on the Wii I dont want to play 
 another fighting game without the Wii remote.
  I've seen in other player/reader reviews a few people didn't like the control system and I really 
 don't understand why. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enrique_marrodz
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  First please note that Mortal Kombat is a long time running series appealing, firstly, to arcade 
 fighters lovers who prefer gore and bloody fights over the ones full of lights and beams.
  
  Most of the skill required in both cases had been always button/stick coordination, and now 
 this schema gets complemented via Wii-remote/nunchuck.
  
  Ok, now that we settled the bases let's talk about the rest of the game.
  
  The story revolves 
 around a plot to deprive avery fighter in wvery realm of their special powers and abilities to 
 fight, in order to finish all fights. Two brothers are selected to, at last, confront the ultimate 
 fighter and absorb this powers.
  
  The game contains a story mode (Konquest) , were you play as one of the brothers to fulfill your 
 role in the plan. This mode also serves to collect "Koins", which are used to buy the several extras, 
 and to find special armor parts to create fighters.
  
  There is also a kart race mode which features a lot of the bloody environments and traps to race 
 along, and although is not much of a racer, it serves it purpose as a good distraction.
  
  Obviously the main mode is the fighting mode, featuring every single character from the series, 
 an even allows you to use characters created with a big assortment of parts, skills, superpowers, 
 etc. There are also several scenarios to fight, each one boasting it's unique elements and death 
 traps.
  
  For the gameplay you can use the Wiimote/Nunchuck combination, classic controller or Gamecube controller. 
 Even in a mixed fashion (in versus mode) .
  
  Nevertlhess, my personal favorite is using the Wiimote as it allows you to perform any special 
 move with similar movements using the remote. Also, when ensambling fatalities, you can act all 
 the moves via remote and nunchuck, which actually is pretty amusing.
  
  In general, the controls works very well, but it is important to keep the proper angle when doing 
 this in order not to miss the actual movement intended.
  
  The graphics are clear and well animated, there are a lot of blood and gore all the time, and the 
 scenarios play an important role in the fights.
  
  The sound is also good and serve its purpose to set the mood. The special effects are full of pain 
 and fight screams, as expected.
  
  Finally, this is a very welcomed addition to any fighter fan and, specially, to any Wii owner who 
 enjoys the genre. The game itselfs is very reminescent to recent iterations, as Deadly Alliance 
 and Deception, but the controls actually put the innovation note for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate1222
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat: Armageddon celebrates the Mortal Kombat series by having the ENTIRE ROSTER OF KOMBATANTS. 
 This is, for the most part, good; it keeps long time fans (like my own geeky ass) drooling. The 
 bad (and not too bad at that) ; it seems to lack abit of variety, as Carlos Pasina the Mo Cap guy 
 had to stretch his entire knowledge of martial arts between 60+ karacters. For those not nerdy 
 enough to do their homework on MK, Carlos Pasina is a martial arts expert and did the motion capture 
 for every karacter in MK: DA and MK: Deception. Mr. Pasina also portrayed Raiden in the old 2D MK 
 titles (no, it was NOT an Asian guy; it was a Latino guy) . Where as MK: Deception had 3 styles per 
 karacter, MK Armageddon only sports 2. Hara Kiris have also been nixed= (. In plce of the karacter 
 specific Fatalities are Kustom Fatalities. Kustom Fatalities are the same for every karacter-they're 
 fun to pull off, but offer no incentive to try different karacters. Kombat is simpler and less 
 stretegic than Deception because of the lack of fighting styles per karacter, but stays fun do 
 to the use of arial kombos and juggles (an obvious and welcome throwback to the old days of 2D 
 MK) . And if the Wii-mote controls don't work for you (like many) , a Gamecube controller can be 
 plugged in and used for a more conventional control scheme. All in all, MK: Armageddon falls a 
 little short of Deception, but has ample reason to be in any hardcore MK fans library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortalcyrax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  lets start with the good well its got great graphics (duh) the gameplay is cool and the story is 
 awsome u start as this guy named taven and well i dont wanna ruin the rest. the coolest part about 
 the game is you can play as every mortal kombat character. any way theres a bonus game called motor 
 kombat u select a certain a character like sub zero cyrax (sweet) scorpion and a few others theres 
 death traps and items and special abilities. oh i almost forgot u can create ur own character .
 
  
  now for the bad the storymode is good but not all the mortal kombat characters are in it most of 
 them are but still. the bad part about makin a character u have to buy stuff or unlock it in story 
 mode.
  
  now on to the WORST!!!!!!!!!!! *ahem* EVERY ONE HAS THE SAME FATALITY!!!!!!!!!!! they dont have 
 there own u just move the wiimote in diffrent places to do it. It SUCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! well thats 
 my reveiw on mortal kombat armageddon for the wii i hope u enjoy the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingbucassasin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  I think it was good because u can do konquest mode and endurance mode and arcade mode and kreate 
 a fighter and practice and mortor kombat all of those u can do by ur self. So if u have brothers 
 or friends that come over u can play them in arcade and motor kombat. I think its a bit difficult 
 fighting with the motion detection. But it is still fun and is just another challange to do. THe 
 easy set is really easy so u can probably beet it one time on easy then go harder. It is a different 
 game then most games that are out there for the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gruan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat Armageddon is the first mortal kombat game on the Wii, and it not only improves on 
 the PS2 version, but succeeds with its use of controls. The special feature of Armageddon on the 
 Wii is that it uses the Wii remote very nicely. The Wii remote is used to do special moves in the 
 arcade and controlling the race cars Motor Kombat. Also, which I believe is the coolest thing that 
 the Wii remote allows is the fatalities. Make your own fatality is one of the coolest additions 
 in Armageddon (For some reason I never really liked the unique fatalities each of the characters 
 had) . I thought it was a nicer and the Wii makes it even better with the remote. Swing it in various 
 different ways allows you to do different fatalities, such as ripping your opponents arm off, head 
 off, etc. Overall, I believe that anyone who has a Wii and likes fighting games should definatly 
 get Armageddon even if you are not a Mortal Kombat fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shatecake
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  well im not saying its a bad game.
  there are bucket loads of modes and loads of moves.
  but some modes are just complete poo.
  konquest controls really badly and the motor kombat is 
 just terrible.
  as for the fighting, yer its good but its all sooooo slow the time it takes for the character to 
 execute the move after pressing a button is too long and unresponsive. trying to block is also 
 a big chore because its, again, too slow resulting in too much damage being inflicted on your character 
 = death.
  while on the subject of death the fatalities have been ruined from previous games as the remote 
 is too unresponsive. i spend myself getting frustrated and waving my arms around like a nutter 
 when they dont work. the motion sensitive special moves are pretty much spot on though, only having 
 a few bad moments.
  
  all in all its a decent game but with too many flaws to be ignored 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LanceK17
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Pros +
  +Same old great bloody MK fighting action
  +Over 60 playing characters, every single MK character you can think of is a playable character 
 here
  +Graphics look really good
  +Lots of fun can be had here with tons of different modes including Arcade, Endurance, Konquest, 
 Motor Kombat and even Kreate a Fighter
  +Wii controls takes a little while to get used to but once you do it really is a lot more fun to 
 play with motion controls than imputing button combinations
  +Tons of unlockables
  +Supports Gamecube controllers and even Classic controllers
  +Makes great use of the Wii hardware 
 and controller with use of the pointing device and the Wii-mote speaker
  
  Cons -
  -No online of any kind
  -Ya kinda wish you could do the old fatalities, you know, the Animalities, 
 Babalities and Friendships.
  
  Neutral =
  =Konquest, as always, is linear, and fighting a whole bunch of weak standard minions can be a tad 
 repetitive, but overall does tell an interesting story
  =Strykers back, but its not the same Stryker we all remember from back in the day
  
  Final 
 Comment...
  Mortal Kombat Armageddon for the Wii is a great multiplayer fighting game. Anybody interested into 
 2D styled arcade fighting games or is just a big Mortal Kombat fan, you really can't go wrong with 
 this purchase. With tons of different modes, unlockables, and characters, MK Armageddon definetly 
 delivers on the quantity, but the question is, does it deliver the quality............. Yes it 
 does, in fact its quite possibly the best Mortal Kombat game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyauau
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:57 am PT
Review:  For Gamecube owners who own Deadly Alliance, don't despair, this game makes great use of the Wii 
 controls with great care and love.
  
  The Wii controls is simple to use with a special video how motion controls makes a difference to 
 standard gameplay by previous controls. If you find it too hard to use, then you'll be greatful 
 it's also on Classic and Gamecube controller.
  
  The graphics looks more sharper than the other consoles and has the best looking character model 
 with an epic level to play around.
  
  The sound is true to Mortal Kombat theme with the dark tone narrator with obnoxious music and very 
 faithful sound effects not to mention the fatality which I'm not good at.
  
  The value is excellent in all levels. From single player, to mulitplayer with Motor Kombat and 
 valuable extras makes you want to do anything to get all those prizes.
  
  Since this game is already out in Australia, I find this game extremely fun to play. Just don't 
 think like Kramer from Seinfeld in "The Foundation" where he takes up karate to dominate a bunch 
 of kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bilich
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Well the Wii does it again!! I just picked up this game 2 days ago and I Kan't seem to put my Wii-Mote 
 and Chuck down. This is by far the greatest MK game I have ever played. The Kontrol scheme is the 
 most intuitive I have ever seen, and it never ceases to amaze me how the developers keep making 
 very wise choices to utilize the Wii's kontroller.
  
  I have been playing MK games for a long time (since I got the original on my Sega Genesis) , and 
 the franchise has Kome a long way since then. A lot of the sequels to that game have added some 
 kool features and new playable Kharacter's but they still had that Kloud overhead that made them 
 tough to just jump in and play. The need to memorize kountless kombinations to perform the special 
 moves always left me limited to using maybe 1 or 2 Kharacter's to their full ability, and I honestly 
 don't think I've ever seen every Kharacter's Fatality.
  
  I have enjoyed using pretty much every kharacter in battle and seeing some of the moves they kan 
 perform has been instantly rewarding. As everyone uses the same gestures for their moves all you 
 need to find out is which does which, all it takes is 1 try and you will perform a special move.
 
  
  I found the fatality system to be pretty responsive as well, I kan easily perform the Dekapitation 
 and the Torso Rip at will and it makes me laugh every time. I will say this though, it might be 
 kool if the fatality's were performed a little different based on the kharacters. So when they 
 do the moves it doesn't seem so generalized (but thats just nit picking :)
  
  I have kreated a few kharacter's in the kreate a player option, and that is very fun. I think I 
 have made an unstoppable kharacter by the name of 'Sorrow' and the Kostomization options that are 
 available have given me the ability to make him able to adapt to any situation that I am faced 
 with. There are a lot of options so anyone that wants to spend time making something exactly the 
 way they want it, you pretty much kan.
  
  Konquest mode is pretty fun, to me it is sort of the Non PS2 Owning / Wii owners 'God of War' (I 
 am sure there are some that might disagree, but it feels like that to me) . Its a slasher type of 
 style but they throw in some diversity to some of the different enemy's and terrain to keep it 
 from getting boring. Having to fight the bosses of levels in the klassic MK 1v1 style is definitely 
 a nice touch. Motor Kombat is an entertaining escape from the traditional fighting but I find it 
 is much more enjoyable with multiple players. Gone are the days of gamers saying ah.. I kan never 
 play those games , Too much button stuff going on Well Done Midway and JGI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t-mac720
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  alright where do i start with game this game is extremly good and exciting to play. In this game 
 it is sooo much easier to make those special moves everyone loves to do the moving is with the 
 nunchuk and u fight with the remote using these buttons i forgot wat there called. and each charcter 
 still has a weapon and a fighting style. here are the modes u get to play in : Konquest-which is 
 like the story mode which a lot of ppl say is not good but i beileve it is. next is arcade- this 
 mode is like a tournent u pick a character and fight with him untill u reach the boss. next in 
 practice and wiii remote training- wii remote training it basically teaches how to do special moves 
 on ur wii remote and practice is just letting practice ur moves duh!. oh and there is one mini 
 game though i wish there was more its just a racing game but mortal kombat style u get power ups 
 and get to use them to eliminate ur oppenet. I really like this game for many reason and one of 
 them is how many characters u get to pick there are sooo many ppl u can be i think about 50 and 
 u also have to unlock 4 i think. The only thing i hate are the fatalities cause number 1 i cant 
 do them to me its soo hard but i always have trouble getting fatalities so its no big deal to me 
 and the second part is the fatalities are just riping the bones of ur oppenets body its npt how 
 it used to be like say i was scorpion and in the earlier games his fatalities was he taking off 
 his mask and shoots fire off his skull or say i was sub zero his i think he freezes u and than 
 destroys ur body or makes a ice pillar and throws u in the air and u land on that pillar well in 
 this game there is none of that its just ripping the head off of some one which really bugs but 
 other than that this game kicks ass anyone should buy this game trust me dont rent it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Jeremy-
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 5, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  If you are familiar with the Mortal Kombat series you will know how this game is. There is a lot 
 of blood splatter, kicks and punches. Mortal Kombat Armageddon is similar to MK: Deception and 
 Deadly Alliance. The fighting engine hasn't changed much at all. This really isn't a bad thing 
 but it is starting to show some age. In this game they basically take all the things from previous 
 MK games and jam pack it in one game. Every single character from the MK fighting series is in 
 here. Its really cool to have all these characters and it adds to the replay value. All the levels 
 are not present in this game. There are only about 17-20 levels in the game. I was a little dissapointed 
 by this but its not such a big deal.
  
  The newest additions to the MK series in this game are Kreate A Fighter, Motor Kombat, Taven/Daegon 
 characters, Kreate a Fatality and in the Wii version Endurance mode. These new additions to the 
 series are great but I have to say I was a little dissapointed in the Kreate a Fatality system. 
 You basically link together a combo of limb ripping and punches to do a really gruesome fatality. 
 The system works okay but it gets repetitive pretty fast even though you use WiiMote/Nunchuck movemesnts 
 to preform them. I actually prefer the older character specific fatalities. Another one of the 
 new additions that is a little dissapointing is Motor Kombat. It is basically a Mario Kart rip 
 off with MK characters and lots of blood. Its pretty fun but you will find yourself playing it 
 only 5 or 6 times before it becomes boring. The graphics are pretty good. All of the characters 
 and environments look good. I do think they could look better especially for a Wii game. Never 
 the less they look good and all the limb ripping and blood splatter makes the game look awesome.
 
  
  As you may know the Wii version features a new control system with the WiiMote and Nunchuck. Basically 
 you use gestures of the wiimote for special attacks and you punch and kick with the D-PAD. It feels 
 akward for the first 15 minutes but once you get used to it the game feels fine. Sometimes the 
 response on the Wiimote is not the greatest but I found this happening to me very rarely. The new 
 gestures actually make preforming special attacks very easy.
  
  Mortal Kombat Armageddon should last you a while. They have a new improved Konquest with shaolin 
 monks type fighting and a bunch of other features like the krypt. Once you've unlocked everything 
 you will still probably be coming back to play some versus with your friends. Also getting all 
 of the endings takes quite a while.
  
  All in all MK: Armageddon is a great addition into the MK series. If you like the MK series and 
 don't already own the Xbox or PS2 versions you should pick this up. I really enjoyed it. MORTALLL 
 KOMMMBBAATTT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themixta43
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat Armageddon is the 7th installment in the long running Mortal Kombat series and fans 
 of the series
  will not be dissapointed with Armageddon on the Wii.
  This is the game that is going to send what we know
  of Mortal Kombat now out with a bang and 
 get us ready
  for a totally brand new Mortal Kombat game. Maybe next time
  they can get their spelling right...
  
  Graphics: The Graphics in the Wii version of Armageddon 
 are
  relatively good, but definately below par compared to other
  games out there at the moment. Hey, the Wii wasn't meant for
  great graphics, it was meant to 
 give us a new way to play
  and so far has not failed on that in my opinion.
  All of the characters in Armageddon look like they are born
  to rip off heads, each with their 
 own different look to them.
  I mean the ninjas are pretty much the same bit they try their
  hardest to make them different from each other. The graphics
  in Armageddon are definately as 
 good or better than the PS2
  version. The levels in Armageddon look great and give it a really good feel depending on where 
 the fight takes place.
  
  Gameplay: Mortal Kombat Armageddon still has that... well, Mortal Kombat
  feel to it but with 
 the added on Wii controls it makes it more accesible to everyone who plays it. Hey, if you don't 
 like
  the new controls, at least you have the option to play with
  a Gamecube or Classic Controller. The modes are pretty much the same as
  any other Mortal Kombat 
 or even most fighting games.
  You got the Arcade mode where you fight your way up the tower and defeat
  the boss at the end. 
 You got Practice where you can try out your moves
  and train for fights. They threw in an Endurance mode which wasn't in the PS2 version, but it doesn't 
 really add that much.
  You practically just beat people with the one lifebar, gain some
  koins, regenerate some health after a couple of battles and so on. The Konquest mode, although 
 having not played it yet but have watched it, looks like a heap of fun. Kind of like the one
  in MK Deception but you can fight enemies there and then.
  You can also utilize the Wii controls 
 to unleash special moves
  on your enemies. Another new mode is Motor Kombat, which is a kart racing mode which is suprisingly 
 addictive and fun.
  Especially when using the Wiimote sideways and steering by
  moving it left and right. There are tons of characters in this
  game, every character ever shown 
 in the 7 MK games in fact.
  
  Sound: Usual Mortal kombat stuff... which is a good thing.
  The themes really add to the mood of the levels and the fighting
  noises sound brutal. Your usual 
 Finish Him and 'Fatality are
  in there too which is nice. No Toasty this time unfortunately
  but it wouldn't really affect 
 my enjoyment with this game.
  
  Overall this game is a great fighting game and even a better
  one for being on the Wii. The amount 
 of characters, the different
  levels, brutal fatalities and tons more really make this game a great experience and should not 
 be missed by anyone who owns a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteboyJR123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 15, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  MKA is an excellent example of the wii's gameplay. With easy and fun controls to perform special 
 attacks and the tilting feature used in motor kombat makes the game that much enjoyable. Kreate-a-fighter 
 and kreat-a-fatality allows the person playing to chanel his or her own imagination and see it 
 in the game (for instance, in kreate-a-fighter mode you can make up an imaginary person or make 
 it look like someone such as a celebrity, relative, or a character from another game.) And kreate-a-fatality 
 allows you to make gruesome and provocative sequences of moves to sever your foe. Konquest mode 
 (similar to and rpg) allows you to unlock hidden bonuses and characters in the game, without purchasing 
 them at the krypt. (note: you cannot purchase hidden characters or one of the hidden stages.) Konquest 
 mode tends to get frustration after awhile, and is a very confusing storyline to it. overall, id 
 say this is a superb game for any video gamer out their looking for a fight! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 8, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Well, I havn't played a MK game since the series left the SNES... in fact I think most of my MK 
 experiance has been of MK2. Sure I've played Shoulin Monks at a friends place, and played some 
 MK3 here and there, but I havn't really delved into the game since MK2.
  
  All in all, I'm happy that I decided to now... Sure I may not know why Liu Kang is a zombie, or 
 who 90% of the characters are... but it's still a fun game!
  
  The unique abilities of the Wii shine thorugh here, but it can be a bit frustrating at first. Sure 
 with practice the Wiimote/nunchuk combination is way more leathal than the standard control method 
 with the Classic Controller or GBA controller, but it sure takes a lot of practice to get things 
 right!
  
  The Kreate a Kombatant feature is really cool, and you can really take things to the next level 
 and combine the favorite moves of your favorite characters and put them into one fighter. And it 
 dosn't take long to get enough Koins to buy new moves anc cloathing either. In about an hour of 
 exploring the various game modes I collected enough Koins to build a Laura Croft look alike (gun 
 holsters and all!) and unlock enough special moves to have the perfect mix of Scorpion, Katana, 
 Cage, and Sonya. The Kart game is definatly an after thought, and dosn't play as well as one would 
 hope, but it's still a fun addition that shouldn't go unmissed.
  
  The story mode is interesting... combining parts of action/adventure and the standard fighting 
 mode into a story intrigues me. The story seems a bit lame, and the voice acting can sometimes 
 be lifeless, but it seems to be a quick way to unlock things for the standard style of play. Graphcis 
 are pretty good for a fighting game, and animations are usually pretty fluid. The biggest fault 
 in the animations is where the losing character regains their balance after an attack, and then 
 just keels over backwards... it looks really really bad... after so many editions of this game, you 
 think they would have figured out a way to fix that!
  
  Your custom fighter dosn't appear properly during loading screens or character selection either. 
 It's just a generic picture... this is really lame. The least they could have done was allow you 
 to 'snap' a portrait shot that gets added to the selection screen, and then take the pose of that 
 character for loading screens. It may be harder than it sounds in reality, but I bet with an extra 
 month or so of development they could have had that in there...
  
  Overall a fun game, and lives up to my expectations of a MK game... I guess Ill have to rock this 
 until a new Streetfighter makes it's appearance... I hope its soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flawie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  + All of the Mortal Kombat characters ever, both famous and not so famous.
  + A truly balanced and fun fighting game. Still one of the best in that aspect.
  + Wii controls 
 are super smooth, really makes it easier for everyone to enjoy MK
  + Great leveldesign &amp; layout
  + Fun Motor Kombat, Kreate a fighter &amp; endurance modes. 
 + Loads and loads of extra content for the hardcore fans !
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  - New Finish Him/Her 
 system is not as personal to the fighter as the old finishing moves
  - Wii controls sometimes glitch and moves wont work (very unusual)
  - The whole conquest mode 
 feels very patched on and is both clumsy and boring
  - A few bugs here and there, unlocking a character in conquest mode locks up the game...
  - Graphics 
 are dated and widescreen support are wierd 
  - Only one slot for custom fighters per profile.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  To put it short this is really the ultimate version of Mortal Kombat. This one has the most stages, 
 characters, music, lore, moves, modes and bosses of all the MK games so far. So If you&acute; re 
 wondering what this game is the short answer is as much Mortal Kombat as you can possibly handle 
 . Its also a direct port of the Ps2 version of the same game but with Wii controls. If you&acute; re 
 a big MK fan like me this game is really heaven in some aspects. Packed into this lovely game is 
 every character you can possible imagine and its also the best version of them. Its the Sub Zero 
 WITH the mask and its Zombie Liu Kang e. t. c. Every character is very intact and true to their originals. 
 They have just the right moves and just the right sounds and voices. Scorpions harpoon shout Get 
 over here! sounds just the same as in MK1 but with cleaner sound of course. The leveldesign is 
 crazy. You get all the cool locations you would expect from a MK game with Hell being my personal 
 favorite. But this time the stages are divided into several arenas that can be accessed by hitting 
 you foe into certain points of the arena you&acute; re in. This will for example launch him through 
 a stone wall, down some stairs or through a fence and this will move you both to a different area. 
 This can result in some super crazy fights where one player is uppercutted through the roof to 
 the floor above and after some fighting there launched through the wall into a 3rd section of the 
 stage where the round finally ends. The stages also have danger zones where you, if knocked into 
 them, instantly die. They are really frustrating for the player that loses a winning round because 
 of one hit into a danger zone but they are easy to spot so you should try and avoid them at all 
 times. They are all over the top violent and always fun to watch. Simply put they are masterpieces 
 of violence. On one map you have a catapult with a huge burning ball of fire put onto it. If you&acute; re 
 lucky you can send your opponent onto the burning ball wich will kill him in the following order. 
 1 - He will start burning madly just bursting into flames and screaming. 2 - The catapult will 
 fire and send him flying forever out over a cliff and towards a castle in the background &amp; 
 3 - He will finally smash into the wall of the castle in super speed effectively killing him like 
 a bug on a windshield with a large splat sound and blood all over the wall.
  
  MK: Armageddon also feautures loooads of extra content as if the great fighting engine wasnt enough. 
 First of all you get a Mario Kart mode where you race with small childlike models of the fighters 
 in their own little gocarts on different MK themed tracks. This is actually great fun and a welcome 
 break in the fighting. The game also sports a complete system for creating your very own fighter 
 for use in both Single &amp; Multiplayer. You get to pick everything from the characters complete 
 appearance to what kind of horns / wings / ears and or facemasks he/she should have. Then you pick 
 some moves and name your fighters fighting style and of course the fighter itself. The sad thing 
 here tho is that you can only have 1 custom fighter per profile so you cant make both a female 
 version of Scorpion and a female verion of Reptile on the same profile wich is a shame. Then we 
 have the Conquest mode wich is just down right silly. Its a clumsy 3rd person adventure with all 
 of the characters included in some super bad story wher you run down a linear path to earn money 
 (wich you buy Kreate a Fighter parts for, money can also be earned just by fighting in Arcademode, 
 racing or playing multiplayer) and unlock bonus content such as Art and scetches. I actually played 
 this mode until I unlocked a new character but the game actually stopped responding on me... so 
 this whole mode seems to stop working when you reach your first big unlockable wich is of course, 
 just dumb. In addition to this you have the classic Arcade mode and the Endurance mode wich pits 
 you against a neverending stream of opponents with only 1 lifebar of your own. Then you have the 
 Krypt where all the insane amounts of extra content are collected. If you&acute; re a fan you will 
 find endless goodies in here, im guessing most of it will require you to play the conquest mode 
 tho.. and you dont want to do that.
  
  The graphics in MK: Armageddon are a direct port from the Ps2 with some wierd widescreen support. 
 The textures are nicely designed but feels very dated at times and the game IS played in 16:9 but 
 still some parts of the game feels very stretched out wich is a shame. The game still looks OK 
 tho. You still get a very nice MK feeling thanks to the graphics. The sound is superb. Everything 
 from the commentator to every characters voice is done the right way and punches kicks and special 
 moves sounds just as brutal as they should. The Music goes in a typical MK vein and feels just 
 right for the fighting !
  
  The big thing to notice in this version of the game tho is the new Wii controls. They make special 
 moves so much eaiser for those that never really got the hang of the up, down, punch thing. Simple 
 motions with the Wiimote will now execute special moves for you and once you get the hang of it 
 it works like a dream ! Lets take my personal favorite Scorpion as an example where a back -&gt; 
 forward motion with the control will launch his harpoon, a forward -&gt; back motion will do his 
 teleport kick and a down -&gt; up move will do his fire attack. This system is also worked into 
 the new finishing move system wich is, im afraid, not as good. Its still very very cool since moves 
 you make with the controller will result in a long finishing combo where a quick thrusting motion 
 will rip out the heart and a forward -&gt; up motion will rip off the head but the system takes 
 away all of the personality that was in the old system. I want all of the characters to have completely 
 unique finishing moves. I want my Scorpion to rip his mask of, revealing the Ghost Rider head and 
 then have him flame his opponent to bones and ashes. They could have baked in the new Wii-controls 
 into that old system instead.
  
  All in all tho this is a VERY solid Mortal Kombat game that any fan of the series will truly appriciate 
 and I can safely say that the Wiicontrols are a great success. You can of course still go old school 
 and play the game with a gamecube or classic controller if you want but even I, old school as I 
 am, prefer the new system. It actually is as smooth as Ed Boon wants you to think it is! Its a 
 very balanced and fun fightinggame that now also has a truckload of extramodes and content that 
 makes the value of this release go up even higher.
  If you own a Wii and are looking for a solid fightinggame this is really the only choice for you 
 at the moment. The spirit of MK truly lives on and tho you can clearly feel its a Ps2 port and 
 tho the game has some bugs and glitches its still truly worth buying ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PandemicRcks502
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat Armageddon was good on the PS2, but now that it's on the Wii, it's like a whole new 
 game. This version of the game includes Khameleon, who is a really good fighter. Chameleon was 
 a secret character in Mortal Kombat Trilogy, but if you had the N64 version, you'd have Khameleon 
 instead. (A little history lesson for you) This game also has three new main menu screens with 
 even better graphics than the other ones, which I find really cool. The Wii remote training mode 
 is perfect for perfecting your special move skills. The all new endurance mode is extremely fun 
 and addictive. I love the way the opponents explode into a pool of blood when you defeat them, 
 the way they come down from above, and the rejuvenation motion. Many MKA Wii videos say that special 
 moves are extremely easy to perform, but when it comes to the circular motions, that's a complete 
 lie. To sum up, if I had to choose between the PS2 version or the Wii version, I'd pick the Wii 
 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  The Good: MK on the Wii!, 60 fighters, tons of content, revamped konquest mode, kreate-a-fighter 
 system adds a lot of replay value, custom fatality system is fun
  
  The Bad: Extremely poor Wiimote controls, only special moves use motions, no online multiplayer 
 kills the replay value, rehashed stuff since Deception, short Konquest mode, no Puzzle Kombat or 
 Chess Kombat, the series is starting to feel really old about now
  
  The reason why I picked up MKA for the Wii is because of the motion sensing. I thought this would 
 be really slick and after struggling through the training I gave up. The game does NOT respond 
 to the Wiimote at all. You hold down the B button then execute the motion on screen and you would 
 think that's simple... but not with MKA. I even tried flailing the remote around wildly and it did 
 nothing. The game requires such precise movements it makes you so frustrated in the heat of the 
 battle. The ONLY cool thing about the Wiimote here is the fatalities. You feel like you're actually 
 ripping the guy apart. The bottom line with the controls is that the Wiimote is a gimmick here. 
 ONLY the special moves are pulled off with motions and the rest is controlled with the Dpad... yawn. 
 Instead take the classic or GC controller instead but if you played this for PS2 or Xbox don't 
 bother because you're not missing anything exciting here. This game is otherwise EXACTLY the same 
 as the other versions so if you want to play MKA and all you have is a Wii go for it but use a 
 controller. Also, with no online multiplayer it really makes things dull after awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 82ndRmilkman
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 2, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  overall the game is good but lacks in certain areas on the wii
  
  the fatality thing on the wii i just find myself waving the wiimote and nunchuck in the air and 
 i either kick them in the balls twice or if do some weird **** and crush there head thats about 
 it konquest is ok a good adventure game i guess but still more could of been done
  
  the kombat is easy to get despite looking harder then it is
  
  the 60 + characters is ok
 
  
  ok you got lets name the cool guys
  
  --- Sub-Zero - classic
  Scorpion - classic
  Kano - classic
  Shao kahn - awesome
  Raiden - classic
  Lui kang - dead classic
  kung lao 
 - classic
  rieko- cool character
  kai - cool moves
  Cyrax - cool character n moves
  sektor - cool character n moves
  ermac -awesome
  rain - cool moves n character design
  noob 
 - very good joke character fun to play with
  smoke - cool character design don't like his moves though
  reptile - classic
  Shang tsung - 
 classic
  kintana - classic
  Kenshi - cool moves n character design
  Kabal - awesome
  Shinnok- cool character n moves
  mokap - fun to play with
  nightwolf - cool character design 
 n moves
  fujin - cool moves n character design
  
  thats about 24 characters that are worth playing with
  
  characters on the border of stupid 
 and playable is-
  
  baraka - everyone remembers baraka what a great character in the older mks but his debut in this 
 game inst as good as earlier games
  
  Jarek - cool moves but not really a cool character
  
  Shujinko - ok i guess but wouldn't be my first choice of a character
  
  Quan Chi- was cool 
 in the earlier games now hes just a ****
  
  Khameleon - i could see myself picking kitana b4 her
  
  Chameleon - ok but id rather pick sub 
 zero or scorpion
  
  Havik - has some cool moves
  
  Bo Rai Cho - funny to play with
  
  stryker - good idea of a character but he could of been better
  
  ok 24 + 9= 33 characters 
 that are playable so where are the other 30 or so characters oh here they are
  
  Jax - a classic but they made him look retarded i cant even play with him
  
  meat is stupid 
 hes a no skinned wreslting thing
  
  hsu hao - probalby the worst character ever
  
  mavado - was almsot borderline cool but oops bad fighting style makes him suck
  
  goro , sheeva, 
 n kintaro - are just boring n slow to play with
  
  onaga is so cheap hes not even fun
  
  motaro looks stupid with only 2 legs
  
  nitara is borderline ok i guess but i wouldn't 
 think of picking her
  
  jade has nothign special about her in this installment
  
  same with milenna
  
  sonya always sucked
  
  kira = stupid sareena = boring
  
  tanya 
 = wtf stupid
  
  Sindel- no one wants to play as character who reminds you or ur wife or mom yelling at you all 
 the time
  
  Moloch- wtf is this
  
  dariou - ive never played with this guy cause he looks stupid
  
  Kobra - um Ken belongs in 
 street fighter not Mortal Kombat
  
  Lie Mei - stupid design
  
  Darrius - welcome to the matrix
  
  blaze- stupid character design
  
  ashrah - ok character 
 design but terrible moves make her not fun at all
  
  taven and Deagon - bad character designs and arnt fun to play with
  
  ok characters aside lets 
 move to the mini game Motor Kombat
  
  a fun little copy of mario kart
  
  a limited selection of characters like maybe 6 or 7 dunno how many made me sad
  but the mini 
 game is rather fun with friends
  
  
  
  the actually fighting is pretty good the multi-leveled stages make the fighting interesting n fun 
 knocking ur opponent off a cliff down stairs or just uppercut them into a pool of acid spikes or 
 lava how fun so the combat with a K is rather fun despite half the characters sucking
  
  the endurance is jsut u fighting a string of guys until u die very simple
  
  the character 
 creation is quite fun making akuma guile and sagat with the character creation was funny
  
  and once i gave them moves that fit their street fighting style all i do is play with them
  
 
  so all in all its a pretty decent game only really bad thing is midways terrible character designs 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraZySeahorSe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  There are three major ways to play Armageddon: regular kombat mode, motor kombat, and the new and 
 improved konquest mode. All are great, and fun to play. The most extensive of the three is the 
 konquest mode. It's much more advanced than MK's previous game, and includes just about every character 
 in the game. You form alliances and hatreds with several characters, and it's fun to beat down 
 on the one's that come against you. Kombat mode is the classic fighting style, the levels are great, 
 and the destructible environments add character. Last but certainly not least, motor kombat is 
 great. It's a four player hectic racing game where you can die 4-5 times and still be the first 
 to cross the finish line... very fun for a group. Besides these three major types of gameplay there 
 are other things like create a character (very extensive) and ofcourse all the mysteries of the 
 krypt. Graphics
  In my opinion, the graphics are fairly impressive. They look very good in some places, and yet 
 other times they show their faults. However, in an overall showing, the graphics added lots of 
 effects and were very respectable. Good graphics for the Wii. Sound
  The sounds are the typical sounds of MK. Great grunts and high pitched screams from male and female 
 characters during fights, the intriguing battle music, and the big event music in konquest mode. 
 It all seems to suck you into the game pretty well. Plus the odd, freaky noises from the krypt 
 are always just... well, weird. Value
  With all the things to do in Armageddon you won't get bored for awhile. Konquest mode is surprisingly 
 a fairly long quest, and kombat mode really never gets old. Plus, with motor kombat, four people 
 can be playing at once, along with a bunch of computer controlled racers trying to knock your socks 
 off. MK: Armageddon will keep you content, especially with friends, for a very long time. Mortal 
 Kombat: Armageddon (Wii) - 7.5-10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BuryMe
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 23, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat Armageddon compiles every fighter from the Mortal Kombat series in to one big game. 
 But the question remains, is it any good?
  
  MK Armageddon is very similar to Deadly Alliance and Deception, both of which are several years 
 old. Each character has 1 fighting style (down from 2 in the previous entries) and a weapon style. 
 You can switch on the fly, which creates some neat strategies.
  
  The roster may be one of the biggest attractions here. The previous versions of Armageddon had 
 almost every character in the Mortal Kombat series. The only person missing was Khameleon. She 
 makes her grand return to the series in the Wii version, which is great. It now features every 
 character who has ever been playable in any previous game. But the problem with this is, do we 
 really need all these characters? Some people in the roster haven't been seen in years, and many 
 of them were dead. Now they suddenly return with no explanation. How many people have been dreaming 
 of seeing Sheeva fight Stryker?
  
  There is standard arcade fighting, which lets you fight a list of enemies. Upon beating the boss, 
 you get your charcter's ending.
  
  Endurance has been added to this version of the game. Here, you fight a string on enemies. 1 round 
 decides the victor. You don't get your health returned after each fight, so you you need to play 
 carefully.
  
  The control scheme has been revamped for the Wii. The analogue stick on the nunchuck controls movement, 
 the Dpad on the Wii Remote lets you attack, and motion is used to complete special moves. This 
 generally works very well, but the Dpad is a bit small to be used as 4 separate buttons. The classic 
 controller and the Game Cube controller are also supported, if you want to play classic style.
 
  
  Fatalities are done differently than in the previous games. Instead of putting in 1 combination 
 and watching and elaborate death sequence, you now string together a series of moves in any order 
 you like. This pales in comparison, simply because of the lack of variety. There aren't that many 
 moves you can pull off, and nothing is charcter specific. In the end, everything comes off looking 
 very uninspired.
  
  Unlocking is done in the Krypt, using koins you earn in Kombat. Everything ranging from alternate 
 costumes to production art can be found here. Some of the things in the Krypt can't be bought. 
 Your only option is to play through Konquest mode.
  
  Konquest is an adventure game about Taven and Daegon. They have been in a dormant state for years, 
 and have just woken up. The were awakened to save the world from Armageddon. Once again, the Wii 
 Remote and Nunchuck are used to move. The remote is used to move the camera. As a side game, it's 
 isn't really all that bad. But with sub-par voice acting and repetitive gameplay, your only goal 
 might be to unlock the exclusive content.
  
  Kreate a fighter is here once again. You are given several options of what your character should 
 look like. You can make them a normal human, an evil zombie, a Tarkata or one of the many choices 
 they give you. The character's fighting style, weapon style and even their story is completely 
 customisable. There are plenty of options to make the character you've always wanted.
  
  The final play option is Motor Kombat. It's a simple mini game, featuring cartoony versions of 
 the Mortal Kombat characters in race cars. They each have a special move that can work to their 
 advantage, or their opponent's disadvantage. It's fun for a few laps, but it wears thin fairly 
 quickly.
  
  Mortal Kombat came out a year ago, and it certainly looks its age. The character movements are 
 fairly stiff and mannequin-like. It looks good, but still could've looked much better.
  
  The sound isn't too bad either. The music is fitting for the stage. Character grunts sound appropriate, 
 but it would have been nice if there was a bit more. The voice acting in Konquest is a bit cheesy, 
 and the writing isn't much better. It stands out as the lowest point in the game.
  
  Armageddons is a good fighting game, and one of the few choices on the Wii. It isn't worth getting 
 if you already have a version of it, but if you don't, this is the one to get. Any fans should 
 feel right at home with this installment, but new comers would be wise to rent this first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucky-22
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  then again... my low review was due to the fact that this was my first MK game so... if this the 
 fighting style and gameplay goes with the trend, disregard this review
  
  the graphics were horrible for wii standards. it's not just horrible compared to ps3 and xbox360, 
 it was painful to watch compared to other wii games.
  
  all characters were almost similar in moves, if you think about it, almost everyone was the same. 
 the animation for most of the characters were similar
  
  special moves with the wii-mote was difficult to achieve at times, i spent a long time trying to 
 master the wii mote motion but the speed to snap your wrist, hold / let go of the z button is pretty 
 awkward
  
  the gamespeed and fighting was way too slow, combos are frustrating to pull off and the life bar 
 was way too short to enjoy a good fight. the fighting itself was pretty boring.
  
  seemed like a game for super nintendo, not even for n64
  the hype and ratings are over-rated
 
  
  dragonballz budokai achieved a lot more in fighting, graphics, and the wii-mote use.
  
  smash bros better be NOTHING like this game or i will throw my wii into the oven 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzyking
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat uses a lot of motion control for the Wii. It takes a while to get used to, but once 
 you get it, you can do combos. that problem i have with this game is there is almost no super combo 
 moves, just hit, hit hit hit hit ans so on. The game is very responsive, but you still have to 
 get used to doing half-circles or lines. The graphics are pretty good and the sound is OK. Fatalities 
 take some gettting used to. Multiplayer is fun, especially when there are 60 players to choose 
 from, and you can even make your own. This is game great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  It's nice to see Mortal Kombat on the Wii. It's a port of their latest game, Mortal Kombat Armageddon. 
 This version adds Khameleon to the character roster and a new Endurance mode. There's also other 
 new features found in this version, such as controlling your character with the Wiimote. You can 
 do motions with your Wiimote and press the B button to do certain moves with your character. It's 
 nice, but it gets kind of old after a while. If you get tired of using the Wiimote to play, you 
 can also use a Classic Controller or GameCube controller.
  
  I already pretty much gave my opinions in my review for the PS2 version. That can be found here: 
 http://www. gamespot. com/ps2/action/mortalkombatarmageddon/player_review. html? id=379372
  
  One downside is that they don't include UMK3 with this version. But the other new features more 
 than make up for it. I'm really enjoying Endurance Mode and I hope they'll include it in every 
 future Mortal Kombat game. So, if you don't own this game yet and you own a Wii, get the Wii version. 
 It's even better than the PS2 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: striljr
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Some may say since this game was already out on the PS2 and Xbox that it's too late to spend $50 
 on this version because th PS2 went down to $20 like all those games do, but I'd say it's worth 
 it if you're into these kind of interactive games and this is the one game I was waiting for for 
 months to come out on the WII. It said at first this was coming out in April, but then of course 
 it got pushed to May 15th then May 31st, and on May 31st I finally got it!! Hurray!!! I played 
 it and it took me a bit of frustration with the Wii remote and nunchuk to learn all the moves even 
 though you look up all the moves if you press pause or go on Youtube. com, but I found experimenting 
 with the remote and nunchuk one of the easiest ways to figure out the controls, but when it came 
 to fatalities boy it frustrated me big time and I found my last resort. I actually found a site 
 which has the whole list of fatalities from top to bottom!!! I was so glad I found the list and 
 BOOM!!! I was totally hooked on MKA on the Wii. I played and played, practiced and practiced by 
 just hooking up a gamecube controller in the second port of the Wii and practiced on a fake opponent 
 and I finally got so good that I played one player arcade mode and did the fatalities so well and 
 I can do an average of 4 to 5 chains. I can take the sword out and chop the arms off and the head 
 off. I can Rip one or both arms off and knock the head off with them. Or I can just kick, punch, 
 rip hearts out and just finish it off by ripping the head, spine of the entire torso off the opponent!!! 
 TOTALLY AWESOME!!!!
  This game finally in my opinion got great!!!
  Get this game if you are willing to take a lot of practice playing it.
  After alot of practice 
 it's a load of fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CastlevaniaFan
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 16, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  First thing you do when you pick it up is say Im gonna doo sum cool motions wiff ma wiimote! , 
 I felt the same way. Although the system rather works, it is impossible to pull off your first 
 5 or so moves correctly. The motion is really precise and can take anyone some decent practice 
 to finally learn. Try starting with easy super move characters (kabal for example) and you'll learn 
 it soon enough. Even after you know the system errors still do occur. I still mess up about 2 out 
 of 15 special moves- but it works. Other than motion (and worthless 'khameleon' addition) it is 
 still the same game as for ps2. I do believe that the fighting system has been dumbed down for 
 wii though. you fight by using the d-pad, which works fine, but with the fighting system dumbed 
 down for d-pad use it is extremely boring on classic controller. Wiichuck I highly reccomend for 
 this game. Being a fighting game, you know all the rest to expect. good game, worth the money if 
 you like the mortal kombat series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: butterbrains506
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 12, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  While a bit difficult and some mediocre controls keep it from shining as much as it could, it's 
 still a fantastic game. Also, the awesome amount of characters make it good, and the character 
 creator is really cool. The campaign delivers a new view that just isn't as good in games like 
 Soul Caliber, and the weapons truly deliver. Also, the game dishes out a massive amount of blood 
 and satisfying disemboweling. Overall, this is a good game, and merits a good amount of playing 
 time. There are, however, a couple of shortcomings. The Wiimote is not capable of correctly identifying 
 all of the motions, and the B button must be pressed down exactly when the motion is executed. 
 Also, the battles sometimes get repetitious, and the campaign sometimes gets frustrating. All in 
 all, however, the game is a solid investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruttness
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because I've always wondered how a MK game would be on the Wii. I figured it would 
 be fun and at least worth buying. Gamespot gave it 7.5 so I didn't expect something too special. 
 Boy, I was wrong. This game is awesome. Now, nothing can beat the original MK games but this one 
 comes close. The Wii-Remote and Nunchuk work flawlessly with this game and makes it tricky/fun 
 to do fatalities and other cool moves. But you can also use a Gamecube Controller or the Classic 
 Controller with the game too, so if you don't like using the Remote and Nunchuk then fear not. 
 You still have your groovy shouts and screams from all the different characters and the music is 
 pretty good, but nothing too fancy. The graphics kind of let me down a bit. It still looks really 
 good but it looks just like it would on the X-Box. But with this kind of game, it's really not 
 for the graphics and sound. It's for the gameplay. And this game is just plain fun. You can play 
 this for hours without getting bored. Plus, the KONQUEST mode (story mode) is awesome too. Overall, 
 fantastic game definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAZZOR
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 8, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This is going to be a short review. This game sucks. It's like a blackhole of crap. The motion 
 controls are okay but you don't get very much special moves. Konquest mode is some lame adventure 
 mode with boring repetitive gameplay. MotorKombat is a lame kart racer and there's not even a real 
 arcade mode. Graphically it's okay but they really dropped the ball on this one. Also the combat 
 (not kombat) is pretty lame compared to games like Tekken and Soul Calibur. I still fail to see 
 how spelling things with a K instead of a C is cool. It's 2007 not 1993.
  
  Only for the hardest core of hardcore MK fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom4567
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  I bought this game for no reason, just wanted to try it out on the Wii. You gotta admit that in 
 the beggining, you'll feel pretty frustated because of the controls, but give it a few hours or 
 one day, and you'll get used to it. The arcade is awesome, with passable graphics, and all the 
 blood and gore you'll expect from a MK game! I also was frustrated fighting the shokans (goro, 
 kintaro.... you know the four-arm monsters) because if you're using a charcter like Scorpion, you 
 know that they're not easy to knock down, you can't grab them, and also you can't grab them with 
 the Scorpion rope!
  
  Here are the stats of the game:
  
  Gameplay: Amazing and just plain fun, you'll spend a lot of days playing the konquest!, and also, 
 the newest addition: motor kombat, that they combined Mariokart with MK. Also gotta love the kreate-a-fighter 
 feature.
  
  Graphics: Incredible, not what I've expected for a Wii game.
  
  Sound: Just right, and the music goes with the fights, but most of the characters's roar and screams 
 are the same compared to all the other characters.
  
  Value: It cost me 53$, I should've just went to another store, its a little bit expensive, but 
 hey, I bought it. LOL!
  
  Tilt: You'll get used to it! After that, you can continue on with the game....
  
  This game 
 is just plain fun, with all the blood and gore included, truly its one of the best MK games out 
 there! Recommended to everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalheadbrian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  mortal kombat armageddon has a lot of good things about it over 60 playable characters you can 
 also make your own fighter armageddon has some cool modes like motor kombat it is like mario kart 
 but not as good endurance mode is a new mode that was made just for the wii it is not on ps2 and 
 xbox khameleon is also just for the wii konquest mode is a lot like Mortal Kombat Shaolin Monks 
 which is cool it is a lot better than Mortal Kombat Deception konquest the game also supports the 
 classic controller and the gamecube controller this is a great mortal kombat game and a good fighting 
 game to get for the wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat: Armageddon is definitly the best MK game in a long time. With over 60 fighters, 
 every fight makes for a different experience and the different levels makes it even funner. Konquest 
 mode is great and it is cool that they added a little story into this game. Motor Kombat is a fun 
 little minigame that can be played with up to 4 players. There are plenty of unlockables for you 
 to try and get and you can unlock things with points you earn which include alternate costumes, 
 concept art, clothes for custom characters, moves for custom characters and many more things. The 
 create-a-character is a great feature and allows you to make your very own, one of a kind, MK character 
 in which you can customize appearance as well as moves. This is a great game and I recommend it 
 to everyone who is a fan of fighting games and even if your not you should give this game a try! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: missonrs
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  I have to be honest i have never played mortal kombat before and this game rocks. The only PROBLEM 
 you encounter at first is the controls. Because they are hard for the wii. Once you learn the controls 
 you will love the game. You have no need to rent it first. Mortal kombat is one of the best games 
 i have played on wii. Its fun watching your person send the other person on to a train track, conveyor 
 belt, and ect. and watch them killed with the blood all over the screen. One thing great is the 
 character selection because you have a choice of 60 characters. Buy the game don't rent Buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdcazares1980
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  When Ed Boon introduced the idea of using the Wii remote to play MK: Armageddon and after showing, 
 I was psyched. Really. I finally can play Mortal Kombat without any button memorization, but just 
 using the motions of the Wii remote. Even the Fatality moves seemed first-rate to execute.
  
  But all these were not meant to be. Needless to say, I was a bit disappointed in how unresponsive 
 many of the moves were. Primarily, I was using Sub-Zero, since he's one of my favorites. The ice 
 block move was a bit difficult to execute even though you just swing the remote half-circle while 
 holding the trigger button. You really have to be precise to get it. I know what you're saying 
 You just need practice to 'get it' that's all. But no, it's just way too much hassle to to switch 
 from the classic control to the gimmicky remote and nunchuck. Using the directional control pad 
 on the remote to execute basic fight moves takes away the feel on what a fighting same should be. 
 If you like gimmicks and are a casual player, then I guess there's nothing wrong in using the remote 
 and nunchuck. But if you want results and want to be good at it, then there's always the Classic 
 Controller (which, of course, I recommend) , but you would have to fork over another $20 to get 
 it as if getting a $250 system wasn't already enough. There's always the GameCube Controller, but 
 the CC is more suited for these kind of games.
  
  Of course, there is no online play which hurts the replayability of the game. When using the Classic 
 Controller, the Fatality moves are surprisingly easy to execute, but there is no variety, no exclusivity 
 among the characters. Only the combos and special moves are different for each character. Otherwise, 
 they're all the same. The endings of each character are only explained in text with a narrator 
 which takes away some feeling of accomplishment, no cinematic scenes to heighten the narrative 
 hook of the characters. Again, if you have the Classic Controller, then this is a good game, but 
 a bit disappointing at the same time. If you're a MK veteran, then this feels a bit recycled, but 
 overall you'll have a good decent time, and perhaps even better with friends over you're house.
 
  
  P. S. I've read reviews from other websites on how responsive the Wii remote was, so perhaps let 
 me be the first to demonstrate the contrary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadYeti
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  First off it's not actually a bomb, it's a decent game. I gave the game an 8 because well it does 
 somethings pretty well and other things it could do better. I've been playing MKA for a week or 
 two now and at times it can be definately fun and rewarding and other times it can leave you wanting, 
 but let me get started. The positives are the game has tons of characters a good training mode 
 for using the wii remote and quite a few other good modes, Konquest can be fun at times but it's 
 not great, the krypts a great way to spend koins and gives you a reason to do Konquest, but that's 
 not all to the game it also has Kreate a Fighter and Motor Kombat which I'll admit I haven't really 
 delved too far into because I spend most of my time in arcade mode. (Transition) Arcade mode actually 
 can be fun at times with the wii remote and challenging for people with inept coordination (I kinda 
 fall into this bracket) . The moves that you must perform with the wii remote often work but when 
 they don't it can be frustrating especially when you get stuck in a corner, however the actual 
 fighting is pretty straight forward it's easy to do and switching between your fighting stance 
 and weapon is a sinch. That's not all though the main point at least for me of arcade mode is those 
 wonderful fatalities. Fatalities in the game are a bit hit or miss you either get them right and 
 pull of something cool and rewarding or you end up punching the guy once and bumble with the remote 
 and nunchuck. Example: Good Fatality: Rip off arm, hit with arm, smash skull (neat) Bad Fatality: 
 Punch (buh buh it it not working?! buh buh) fatality over you win! Really when they do work and 
 are dead on it's great, there's nothing better than your opponents brain being ripped out and their 
 skull smashed to bits, but when you go into your fatality and all you do is punch the guy after 
 mutilating them during the match it can leave you disappointed. So overall an okay game but an 
 okay game with enough blood and organs that'll last you weeks upon weeks of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bond2003
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat Armageddon for the Nintendo Wii, is one of the best fighters out so far for the console, 
 with improved graphics and a new way of playing. Mortal Kombat Armageddon on the Wii takes full 
 advantage of the nunchuck and remote, performing special moves and fatalities is now easier thanks 
 to the motion sensing of both the nunchuck and wii remote. In addition to kombat, the wii remote 
 also can be used as a steering wheel in motor kombat. Not to mention an improved Konquest mode 
 and a Wii exclusive character Khameleon. The Wii version of Armageddon is great, even if it does 
 not have the online play. Mortal Kombat Fans, be prepared for a new way of fighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanyaLover
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Fans eagerly awaited the arrival of MK: Armageddon, and as a result, I could sum up to say that 
 the wait was worth it. The new experiences gained with the clever Wii remote and nunchuck and blended 
 wonderfully in this port of an already good game to make it even better. MK: Armageddon for the 
 Wii is to say in the least superior to the other two launched on the PS2 and X-Box. It offers more 
 special features, new combat options and is -- just plain more fun.
  
  The gameplay in this game is more than fun. The Wii Remote is perfectly used to engage in many 
 special moves. Though at first , it most likely will leave a player discombobulated, however, it 
 will later become as ease that will turn into hours of endless play. Aside from the actual physical 
 movement required in the remote, the new button system used the + button (s) as the attacks. Again, 
 this may take time for the professional feel, but after time fades, skills will dramatically increase. 
 ---- Konquest will also be a new experience with the Wii's wireless controllers. I personally seem 
 to not be using the physical tactics used in the one on one kombat mode, but instead using the 
 more basic system. But, this doesn't mean the motion of waving the remotes don't occur, because 
 they do if wanted.
  
  The graphics in this game were pleasing, but not fully to the Wii's capacity. During Arcade mode 
 is when the gameplay graphics are seen at their best, which are of great quality. It is during 
 Konquest when the eye sores will exist. It produces many poor rounded polygonal shapes that are 
 edgy and quite choppy at certain times, but mostly they can be considered to be not too bad. Midway 
 keeps up with their obsession of high gore content, and doing this, you will see much blood. Generally, 
 the gore system does a decent job of realism -- perhaps a few times the blood may look more like 
 bouncy-balls... but we can't have it all, yeh?
  
  MK: Armageddon doesn't have the best sound in the world, but it's not too terrible. Voice acting (s) 
 are pretty good, but some are ridiculous and unbelievable. Also, at times, the sounds or musics 
 will seem rather repetitive and will grate on the player. Sound wasn't a strong point for this 
 game, but it's easy to not be affected by it.
  
  Overall, MK: Armageddon for the Wii is a great port to a great system. It will supply many hours 
 of just plain fun -- even if it doesn't contain online options... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natebayne
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 3, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  First let me ask this.... why is there ANYONE saying they are having trouble with the wii-mote 
 motions in this game. THEY ARE EASY, if you arent a noob.
  
  Ok here we go:
  
  Gameplay 10/10:
  The gameplay in MK: A is fantastic, at first I was a bit annoyed with the controls, 
 they seemed unresponsive and lame. But I actually spent some time with it, and I have mastered 
 them. The motions make the game so much better, the moves are so much more accessible. In Addition 
 the Konquest mode is beautiful in gameplay. The story actually DOES NOT feel tacked on. In fact 
 I have spent so much time on the Konquest mode that the Arcade mode feels like the tacked on part 
 lol.
  
  Graphics 7/10:
  The graphics are pretty good, a little rough around the edges but they are good for a mortal kombat 
 game. The enviornments are nice in the backgrounds and they add a nice touch to the game.
  
  Sound 8/10:
  The sounds are great. From the music, to the ambient noise, and the crack of 
 a knee upon your opponents face, you can really FEEL the sound.
  
  Value and Tilt 10/10
  
  Overall 9.4
  
  This game is great, please PLEASE PLEASE do not listen to the people who 
 say the controls are bad.. because they are FANTASTIC. You just need to keep at it for more than 
 20 minutes. This will be a classic for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jskosoff
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat: Armageddon is a great game for the wii and definitely deserves a 9.4. The game play 
 is amazing and the fighting is very intense and addicting. In my opinion, the best part of this 
 game is the Create-a-Character because it is so in-depth and there are so many options to choose 
 from while making your fighter. I also like how you need money from the role playing game to pay 
 for the outfits you buy for creating your fighter. And once youve created a fighter its even more 
 fun to fight with him and duke it out with some of your friends. This game is a must for the Wii. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theintwowords
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  It's been one of the most anticipated titles for the Wii, and with good reason. The latest title 
 in the MK series has some holes in it, but it holds as the strongest Wii fighter so far. Some of 
 it's ups include endurance mode and Wii training, along with a revamped specials and fatalities 
 system. However, it lacks an update in graphics and online play. The Kreate-A-Fatality system is 
 still implimented, meaning the kombatants still have the same fatalities as everyone else, but 
 that doesn't stop this game from being a solid game for any Wii owner, whether you be a veteran 
 of the series or not. It has a lot of features, just like the other versions of this, and the mini-game 
 of this title, Motor Kombat, is changed to become the classic Wii driving game. It utilizes the 
 Wii's motion sensing capabilities for stearing. The specials and fatalities can be easily performed 
 through simple gestures on the WiiRemote, and if you're a veteran of the series who doesn't believe 
 in new fangled technological garbage, you can use the GameCube controller or the Wii's Classic 
 controller. All in all, it adds some nice features to the original 2006 release of MK Armageddon 
 and ups the ante in fighting games for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first MK to appear on the Nintendo Wii. It is a great game, I just picked it up 
 and I am really surprised that I like it alot! The controls might take a little while to get used 
 to but hey, you will love this. This is probably one of the best MK's to appear on any nintendo 
 console. I think the graphics are decent but nothing like PS3's or 360's. I hope this game sells 
 well because it is a great fighting game for the wii. There are ton of playable Characters. There 
 is even a racing minigame. I would give this game a try. Well hope you liked my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vividtan
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 31, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  The game is a little frustrating at times because the motion controls take a little bit of fiddling 
 to get used to it; however, once you manage to figure out how the controls work or how exactly 
 you need to move your hands, it becomes easier. The one thing i actually hoped that the game implemented 
 would be motions for the normal attacks themselves. The Kreate-A-Fighter mode definitely makes 
 the game a lot more interesting, gives the game a lot of re-play value. Unlocking items and buying 
 moves, etc. The games graphics are decent, some of the sound effects are a little cheesy, and the 
 wii-mote controls take a little getting used. Overall - MK: Armageddon is a good game that is worth 
 buying (compared to the other games that are $50) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ2Genku
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 31, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is all but a direct port of the PS2 and Xbox versions, only with an endurance mode, two 
 training videos, and an extra character, Khameleon, in replace of Online Play. The Wii Remote, 
 is surprisingly unresponsive at times to specific hand movements and when are performed, mroe often 
 than not you get a different move altogether. Unless you have the steadiest hands alive, I'd suggest 
 playing this game the old-fashioned way on the Classic or GameCube controllers. The Game modes, 
 themselves aren't that much different from the PS2 and Xbox ports. The only main difference is 
 that there is no online Play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDeviot
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 31, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat Armageddon intrigued me because I had wondered how Midway would get it to work on 
 the Wiimote, and I liked the fact that if you've graduated to the Wii from the Gamecube you can 
 use your old GC controller (It even supports the Wavebird!) . So seeing how MK5, and MK6 were collecting 
 dust, I headed down to the chain store, and used them as a coupon toward MKA.
  
  MKA for the Wii is a mixed bag. I was actually pleasantly surprised at how well the Wiimote setup 
 works. The trick is to press, and hold the B trigger AT THE SAME TIME AS you do the gestures, not 
 before. I've read a lot of reviews before writing mine, and I have to say that most of the complaints 
 about the gestures being spotty, are probably due to this fact. Once you master that timing, it 
 becomes fairly simple to do the special moves, and even the fatalities. (More on that later.) MKA 
 cut out one of the three fighting styles from each character, so the game is now less Dial A Combo 
 happy. That doesn't mean they don't exist, and several years after MK5 sort of reinvented them 
 from MKT, they seem stale when compared to other fighting games. Thankfully, though just the fact 
 that a lot less of them exist makes the game more accesible to newcomers, or those who haven't 
 played MK since it's 2D heyday. The Wii version makes it even more accessible yet with the Wiimote. 
 Again even the fatalities become less of a chore. Some will complain that the Fatalities in MKA 
 have no identity because they aren't character specific. This is partially true. You won't see 
 the outlandishly silly fatalities from the original MK games. That's because MKA has replaced those 
 with a feature called Kreate A Fatality . Here you chain specials together up to ten (Although 
 hardcore types can in fact crank it to eleven)
  Moves that will culminate with a gory murder. In it's defense, while not everyone has a unique 
 finisher, MK5, and 6 fatalities had lukewarm receptions anyway, and the KAF makes the showboating 
 less cumbersome as none of the character's finishers had the same movement from game to game anyway. 
 On the Wii, chaining them together was pretty seamless for me, and I was torso ripping, and decapitating 
 in no time. The trick is you do have a timer between moves, so there is some skill involved.
  
  Midway also added a Kreate A Kharacter mode in the vein of THQ/Yukes WWE games. Though not 
 as refined, you can make a fighter of your own imagination, and they give you enough to recreate 
 other fictional characters should you choose to do so. (I was able to create a decent SKELETOR 
 after playing through the arcade mode a few times)
  Playing through other modes earns you Koins much like the last two MK games, and you can use them 
 to buy things not only in the Krypt (Which returns) but in the KAK mode too. Ultimately, this mode 
 isn't as fun only because you can't create more than one character. Had Midway taken a page from 
 Yuke's this mode combined with the new fatality mode would have given the game a little more charm 
 for those of us who like interpromotional fights, or inside jokes with our friends. Maybe in the 
 next MK
  
  Konquest mode also returns. This explains the story of Taven, and his evil brother, How they've 
 been reawakened by their ancestors to try to stop the coming of Armageddon. In this mode you play 
 a more streamlined Shaolin Monks styled action game which is a Godsend compared to the MK 5 Training 
 styled Konquest, or the MK6 Action RPG styled Konquest modes.
  It fits the universe better, and it's infinitely more fun. It's only real shortcoming is how short 
 it is compared to something like MK SM
  
  Motor Kombat replaces the MK6 minigames Chess Kombat, and Puzzle Kombat. It's not too bad for what 
 it is, a small diversion, and it has superdeformed cute fatalities that occur when your kart wipes 
 out, but after a race or two you'll wonder why you just didn't play Mario Kart instead. It is easy 
 to collect koins in it however, so some may want to spend a few minutes playing it to get Krypt 
 money.
  
  Speaking of the Krypt, it's back, and less of a pain this time. Each tile tells you exactly what 
 it is so you don't need to worry about blowing a bunch of money on something corny. In fact there's 
 also only one Koin type, so no more worrying about having the wrong color koin if you were meticulous 
 about unlocking everything in MK5, and 6 this little sticking point could take you months. You 
 can also get most of the krypt items in the Konquest mode, so the krypt is already a lot less monotonous. 
 It is a shame that they''re very few tongue in cheek krypt items however. No you won't be watching 
 Cooking with Scorpion I'm afraid. But thankfully, at least unlocking secret characters, and backgrounds 
 is less of a hassle.
  
  Mortal Kombat Armageddon isn't a perfect fighter, it still has some of the dated Dial a Combo play 
 carried over, the character models haven't changed much, and some will likely complain about unique 
 finishers being gone.
  
  But with that said it's refinements bring the compexity down to a comfortable level for those without 
 Barry Allen fingers. The Wii Version makes the game even more accessible yet. MKA for the Wii could 
 very well be the best MK game since MK II. If you're a hardcore Mortal Kombat fan, all of the characters, 
 and refinements will certainly appeal. If you love Mortal Kombat, and have friends who feel fighting 
 games have become too complex, the Wii edition of Mortal Kombat Armageddon will certainly fit the 
 bill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 31, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  Story wise, Armageddon delivers the least. While Deadly Alliance and Deception tied into each other 
 well with interesting and epic plots that have a heavy impact on the MK universe ... fans of the 
 series will realize that MKA barely has much of an interesting story at all. It's well thought 
 out out, yes, with Taven and his brother Daegon fighting in a race to achieve the ultimate power 
 of godliness from their father ... but beyond that, it has absolutely nothing to do with the epic 
 story of Onaga and his army, which makes it sort of unfitting as the final chapter of that generation 
 of Mortal Kombat games. Indeed, the well thought out story nonetheless revolves around the stupidity 
 of we're putting everyone together in one game so we can kill most of them! Yay! ... and fans of 
 Mortal Kombat who are purists as far as the story goes will wonder where everything went wrong.
 
  
  On the bright side, the 60+ characters are amazing. It'll take you a while just to play with each 
 one once, let alone master all of them like some fans like doing ... and its simply hard for people 
 to argue Oh I wish they didn't put every single character ever in one game . Because ... seriously, 
 this rocks. It's every MK fans dream. And granted, each character was cut down one fighting style 
 to make them feel more unique, but for the amount of selection you get for it, it's worth the sacrifice. 
 The Wii version of the game gets Khameleon, the more thought-out, female counterpart to Chameleon, 
 but in all honesty she's literally that -- a female counterpart to the male, which doesn't make 
 her feel all that unique in the end. Which ... kind of defeats the purpose of adding her.
  
  Although the Wii version lacks Online play (and it would have rocked if it was included) , players 
 of this generation of Mortal Kombat games on Nintendo will probably not notice anything different. 
 From Deception on Gamecube, and now for Armageddon ... online modes have been omitted from the 
 build. Does it stink? Sure. But loyal Nintendo/MK gamers won't really notice anything amiss. The 
 problem occurs when PS2 or XBOX gamers who have switched over to Wii in the last few months pick 
 up the game only to realize it lacks a feature that was alive and well in Deception ... and this 
 is where people start getting disgruntled.
  
  On the bright side, Wii gets Endurance Mode. Now personally I hate endurance modes ... I've always 
 felt they were annoying and unfair ... but for some reason I find the Endurance in MKA on Wii pretty 
 fun. It's probably due to the massive amount of characters in the game -- you're positive there's 
 no real way you could ever get close to winning , so you just play for fun, and watch as you collect 
 koins and beat however many baddies you can in the process. It's a nice distraction from the main 
 game.
  
  Motor Kombat, however, is not. It's really a pretty pathetic and shallow build of a racer that 
 simply doesn't execute tightly at all. The Wii version allows you to use the remote to race ala 
 Excite Truck style, but that doesn't save the feature from simply feeling tacked on. After months 
 and months of playing Deception, gamers have kind of begun to feel that Puzzle Kombat and Chess 
 Kombat have kind of fused themselves into the soul of Mortal Kombat ... and to have them ripped 
 out from under you in MKA makes the game feel sorely lacking in its additional kontent ... and 
 Motor Kombat, with its shallow design and replay value, doesn't make a substantial substitute.
 
  
  Konquest, however, has evolved exponentially from each incarnation in this series. From the text-and-fight 
 only konquest in Deadly Alliance, to the fairly rough sandbox adventure in Deception ... MKA now 
 offers a Konquest mode that borrows the engine from the not-so-well-received Mortal Kombat: Shaolin 
 Monks. Sure, that game may have not been very good on its own, but it reaps a solid 3D beat-em-up 
 engine for use in the extra little Konquest mode in MKA. The controls are actually infinitely tighter 
 than the actual fighting game itself, and the feeling of being an unstoppable killing machine massacring 
 everything you walk into is really satisfying ... not to mention the amount of things you unlock 
 and koins you can collect by just doing the most simple tasks ... and the even cooler things you 
 get from completing the most mind bending ones. The mode is filled with everything from terror, 
 to betrayal ... and even comedy, which is a really great touch for a game so dark.
  
  Ah ... the fighting game itself. Well ... this is where MKA falters a bit. The game hasn't really 
 grown with the times -- as other fighters get more fluid and easier to play, Mortal Kombat remains 
 stiff and unrelenting, with it's archaic dial-a-combo gameplay standing out like dents in a ferrari. 
 The unique gameplay introduced in Deadly Alliance made the game very ground based, fast paced, 
 gorey ... and fun ... but I'll be damned if MKA hasn't back-peddled entirely ... adding back in 
 the nearly ridiculous air combos from the previous generations that not only look stupid, but don't 
 fit well in the very ground-oriented engine that was built for the fighter. And the amount of air 
 combos worked on limits the most powerful ground combos to only a handful of hits ... which will 
 make veterans of this generation of MK games feel like the engine was tweaked to a horrible fault.
 
  
  That being said, the new Wii-based motion controls are pretty nice. When they work great, you can 
 execute special attacks as mindlessly as you can in Smash Bros. However, the half circle attacks 
 are easily miss-read as away-toward attacks, or vice versa ... and once in a blue moon the the 
 game won't even register a movement at all, which is frustrating. The simple fact that the controller 
 is now separated kind of makes you forget you can actually block ... since all your attention is 
 focused on the remote section itself. The D-Pad mapped attacks are definitely unusual, and would 
 probably feel much better if the game itself wasn't so stiff, but once you get past the learning 
 curve and familiarizing yourself with how close together the attacks are ... it becomes bearable, 
 and sometimes even fun ... when the stupid AI isn't magically anticipating your every move.
  
  Like everybody else on the planet, I think the kreate-a-fatality addition sucks. With the Wii 
 remote you can actually swing wildly and start doing stuff, but you'll probably never actually 
 learn what you're doing, nor complete a fatality at that.
  
  Finally, Kreate a Fighter is amazing. It may not be ROBUST, but it definitely offers you the ability 
 to deck out your dream fighter the way you want, and customize him fully. He may not look as polished 
 as the real fighters, but you'll be damned if he doesn't become your favorite.
  
  Overall, MKA is one of the better ports that have ever hit the Wii ... and as a fighter, its a 
 must-pick-up for fans. It's faults fundamentally lie in the fact that it wasn't really an amazing 
 game to begin with on the PS2 and XBOX nearly a year ago, but in the drought of good, hard-core 
 oriented third party games on the Wii ... Mortal Kombat Armageddon fits the bill, even with all 
 its faults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMH74767
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 30, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  I just got the game today 5/30/07, been playing it for about an hour now, &amp; I don't like it, 
 it doesn't pick up the motion controls that well, &amp; I don't like how they assigned the punching 
 &amp; kicking to the directional pad, yes I know you can use the classic control or gamecube control, 
 but let me ask you guys this, Why should I have to, when I purchased a system thats all about innovation, 
 this game falls short of my expectations, rent it if you're curious, but I definately wouldn't 
 buy this, no way no how. The selection of fighters is tremenous, and I do commend Midway for adding 
 diferent game modes, it just doesn't seem like a worthwhile purchase, I just wished it controlled 
 better, also, doing fatatlities is way confusing, its just too bad it couldn't be any better :- ( 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok, Mortal Kombat has been through a lot. It started as the bad boy of gaming by introducing blood 
 and realistic combat. It helped bring about the rating system for the gaming community. It stiffled 
 the SNES for a bit by not including a blood code per Nintendo's request. Mortal Kombat shook the 
 planet and made head line. MK2 (considered by most purest's as the best of the MK series) came 
 back with more violence, more characters, bigger content and a better story.
  
  MK3 added the run button, and the button link combos, which didn't really make the series that 
 much better. Plus they made Ultimate MK3, MK Trilogy, and so on and so forth. MK4 made the series 
 hit rock bottom with generic combos, poor graphics, terrible controls, and futile attempts at 3-d 
 fighting. MK: Deadly Alliance came out and changed the face of Kombat. It took the best of the 
 prior games and made it a great gaming expierence. Aside from only 1 fatality it lacked nothing.
 
  
  MK: Deception made the best MK outing in the New frachise, keeping the 2 empty hand styles intact 
 and the weapons styles. Each character got 2 fatalities. There were tons of great characters and 
 replay value.
  
  Much like MK3, Midway decided that they should have a full cast of characters invovled with their 
 new way of fighting, and thus Armageddon came to life. On paper the game sounds good, but in actuallity 
 there was a lot of lost content to make a game this big.
  
  I originally played the PS2 verison, and let me say I was disappointed. Each character only had 
 1 empty hand and 1 weapon style. Unique fatalities were replaced by custom fatalities, which I'll 
 be it sounds good, but they animations are all the same for all the characters, and it gets boring. 
 The adventure mode is boring, and the only reason to play through is for the extra characters. 
 Kart Kombat is fun, but not nearly is fun and Mario Kart, and it doesn't replace puzzle Kombat 
 or chess kombat. The extras that you can purchase are no longer a surprise and you don't really 
 want to open them all because they have shown up in prior games. So this is what we get in order 
 to play with 60+ characters? Well that's not all. Most of the characters have simular animations, 
 special moves, and a lot of the lamer ones feel tacked on. What makes up for this? Kreate a Fighter! 
 I made mine look so much like me, I feel like I am part of MK. You can make your own story, and 
 your own ending to the game. That's pretty sweet! Does it make up for the rest of the game desrepancies? 
 No. Here's the deal Sparky on why I will recommend the Wii verison versus the X Box or PS2 verisons. 
 The play control.... It's totally different way to play MK. It's not perfect, but if you practice, 
 it'll ge the job done. basically the basic moves are assigned to the cross at the top of the Wiimote. 
 You move, block and switch styles with the nunchuk. You throw and access menus with the + and the 
 A button. Now here's the cool part, the special moves are controlled with the B and motion. Also 
 the Fatalities are controlled the same way! It's too cool, and it's totally different then the 
 prior 3 MK games, and Nintendo alone has pushed Midway to change the way they make games. Now not 
 all of it is rosey. The graphics aren't much better then the original X Box verison. The music 
 is about the same and the voices and sounds are exactly the same. But they did add some things 
 to the Wii verison. First there are more levels that you can fight in, there is an all new fighter, 
 As far as the lack of good Wii titles right now, this one is a keeper. It's too bad that once again 
 it has to be a port of another system's game. But we'll take what we can get. At least it will 
 keep my Wii warm until RE:4 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zekk34
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I've been with MK since the first game came out oh so long ago, and fell in love with it right 
 from the start, and thats exactly what happened with the new rendition of MK on the Wii. The moment 
 I fired it up, and selected my character of choice, (Scorpion, who doesn't use him first ;) ) and 
 entered the wiimote training session to get a quick feel for how things actually would work out, 
 fire off his spear and hellfire kicks and punches, and it felt good. Maybe a little clumsy at times, 
 but hey new game means learning, its not something you can expect to master in the first 5 min, 
 but takes a little time to get the right feel of how to do the motions, I remember trying to figure 
 out some of the moves in the traditional way, I sure wasn't getting them right everytime. The more 
 you play the better it feels.
  
  Please note this mini review is based just upon arcade mode. Controls as previously mentioned are 
 a little finkcy, and just need to get used to them, Fatalities, at first were confusing but once 
 I figured out you need to press and hold B then make gestures to start the process of the fatality, 
 (note you must release the B button, after the motion, then press it again and do your next motion 
 and so on.)
  My only real complaint about the controls is punching and kicking using the D-pad its just not 
 the same as a seperate button, but I can get by that. Once again just need to get used to the feel. 
 9/10
  
  Use of the Gamecube controller wasn't too bad, though kinda disappointed that the specials have 
 been changed some, for example, Scorpion's spear wasn't back back low punch but away towards punch 
 (like the wiimote gesture. Just something to get used to, but a nice alternative if your wiimote 
 batteries die, or don't have another wiimote and nunchuck, or just can't get the hang of the motions. 
 8.5/10 Graphics and effects in my opinion are very good for a Wii game, though I am using component 
 cables, and have yet to check it out with normal cables, but graphic and effects are great, Love 
 all the blood pools that still stay there, unlike the classic games where it disappeard very nice 
 touch. 10/10
  
  Sound what can I say, with a nice hard rock track in the background and all the fighting sounds 
 you are used to. Yes some is rehashed, but It all works well and the level sounds were nice like 
 the buzzsaws or the ghouls howling. 8.5/10
  
  Odds and Ends, Liked how the fights got harder as you progressed up the ladder, I think the default 
 setting is probably on normal so that might explain why I was having some issues. Insane number 
 fightrers, just looking at the screen is kinda dizzying, makes you go ok... who should I pick next 
 lol.
  
  no breaks between a fight like the old games, you guy just gets up and is ready to fight. Level 
 death traps are a nice touch as well, though a paid if you have half a bar left and your opponent 
 nails you onto one. Lots of little details in the fighting styles, like mid air fighting ala Crouching 
 Tiger. Yes blood can be turned off, but Fatalities will be disabled, (good for if you have parents 
 who don't like that sort of thing)
  
  Overall this game rocks despite no online play, I can live with out that, personally I save the 
 online gaming for the PC, just my preference.
  
  Hopefully you get a little perspective out of this review, this is my first one, and probably last. 
 This is a very fun game if you are in to fighting games, or are a fan of Mortal Kombat.
  
  Side note: I gave difficulty a hard because first time playing it's not a walk in the park, getting 
 used to the controls and motions takes time. And learning curve 4 or more hours due to the fact 
 that with MK there is lots of things you can lean, from combos to just general play control.
  And for classification, too many words to describe, Yes its Amazing, and Awesome, and worth the 
 wait, but it's what a video game should be Just Plain Fun.
  
  Also from the training video, where Ed said that its so easy even your grandmother can do it, well 
 I don't think my grandmother would be too impressed with all the blood and gore, but your sister 
 might find it easy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
