-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mushroom Men: The Spore Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/adventure/mushroommen/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Beautiful, quirky presentation.
 Catchy and strangely compelling music.
 Assembling weird weapons is fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The camera doesn't play nice.
 Combat is underwhelming.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  6, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.3, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 116 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gamecock Media Group
Developer: Red Fly Studio
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Dec 2, 2008

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mushroom Men's rich world is muted by bland gameplay. 

  Mushroom Men: The Spore Wars looks great and sounds even better. The unique visual style and catchy 
 music work together to create a quirky world ripe with exciting gaming opportunities. Unfortunately, 
 most of these opportunities are missed, and the disappointingly generic gameplay and poor camera 
 control keep this platformer from fully capitalizing on its distinctive premise.  

           It's too bad the game looks a lot better than it plays.      

  As the subtitle implies, 
 the world of Mushroom Men is one of war. After being brought to life by the dust of a magical meteorite, 
 the peaceful, edible mushrooms were soon attacked by their aggressive, poisonous cousins. You play 
 as Pax, the last remaining member of a peaceful mushroom sect. Though Pax is just a drifter, he 
 seems to have a special connection with the meteorite chunks spread across the land, and that doesn't 
 sit well with the evil mushrooms. Before he knows it, Pax finds himself pitching in with the remaining 
 peaceful 'shrooms in their fight against the more aggressive fungi. The story is simple and very 
 short, but the dark, distinctive world of the mutant mushrooms is charming and worth exploring 
 while it lasts.  

  Underneath the eccentric style and attractive atmosphere lies a by-the-numbers action platform 
 game. Those who have been around the block with Rayman, Mario, or Crash Bandicoot won't find much 
 new here in terms of gameplay, though there are a few twists to the standard collection-and-exploration 
 formula. Collectible items come in three varieties: meteorite chunks, "scav" (random junk used 
 to cobble together weapons) , and concept art. Although meteorites will make you more durable, the 
 scav is what you'll need to find to survive. There are dozens of weapons to construct among four 
 weapon types, each with their own pros and cons. The system isn't as deep as it initially appears, 
 considering that your newest weapon is almost always the strongest, but the weapon variety and 
 inventiveness (some tweezers and a diamond ring equal a shiny stabbing tool) will keep you searching 
 for more.  

  The level designs do a lot to make you feel like a tiny mushroom in a giant world. You'll explore 
 a dingy garage infested with rodents, mushroom villages held together with bottle caps and gum, 
 and other offbeat locales oozing with gloomy charisma. Most of the levels are spacious and require 
 you to scale tall structures or investigate hidden tunnels to achieve your goals. Unfortunately, 
 navigating the imaginative landscape can be tough when you have to fight the sluggish camera, which 
 has a tendency to get stuck when in tight corridors and lag behind during jumping sequences. There 
 are a few puzzles to sort out during the adventure that, while not particularly challenging, require 
 a bit of ingenuity and are satisfying to solve.  

  Aside from an underused telekinesis power that lets you move objects to solve puzzles and interact 
 with the environment, there aren't many features that use the motion controls in meaningful ways. 
 You have to wiggle the remote in any direction to strike with your weapon, but given that your 
 random wiggles trigger the same canned animations, the shaking feels arbitrary. Add to that the 
 fact that adjusting the problematic camera with the D pad on the remote is a chore, and you'll 
 find yourself wishing for an option to use the Classic Controller. A second player can join in 
 with another remote in a supporting role, where theyll control a cursor of their own that lets 
 them move telekinesis objects, aid in puzzles, or supply Pax with much needed health. It doesnt 
 add much to the gameplay, but its a nice feature for parents who want to assist their kids.  

 
  The best part about Mushroom Men is the rich presentation, which is on par with some of the Wii's 
 best games. The muted color palette suits the dank and dreary world of the battling mushrooms well. 
 Although the environments don't look as lush as the concept art that you'll see during the loading 
 screens, the organic art style triumphs over any technical shortcomings. Little things such as 
 the way Pax's bulbous head cuts away to reveal his gooey brain when injured, and the glowing remains 
 of a dead rat (which also serve as a form of energy) , help set a unique and darkly funny tone. 

           Dig around your house long enough and you too can cobble together a flamethrower!     

  The music is just as eccentric and compelling as the visuals, and it really helps bring you in 
 to the strange tribal world of sentient mushrooms. The funky synthesized beats and melodies often 
 build and evolve with the action onscreen, incorporating earthy sound effects from the subjects 
 around you, such as rain drops in a pipe or the buzz of angry insects. Other sound effects, including 
 the gibberish spoken by the mushrooms and the screech of wild rodents, have the same interesting 
 organic/synthesized blend found in the music.  

  If you don't care to hunt down every last hidden item, you can breeze through Mushroom Men in less 
 than five hours. The short length, poor camera, and mostly generic gameplay prevent this game from 
 reaching the potential that the presentation implies. Nevertheless, Mushroom Men is a promising 
 start to what could be an interesting franchise. If you're in the mood for a stylish platformer, 
 and you don't mind putting up with a few setbacks, you'll have a good time with Mushroom Men.  
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Fenris1124
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 8:32 am PT
Review:  Well this game has some stunning visuals but it also has some major game play issues. First off 
 the environments are really awe inspiring. They make you really feel like your three inches tall 
 in our world. Also the enemies look really realistic which is saying something for a wii title. 
 The mushroom cities are really unique as they are all made out of everyday items. Other than that 
 Mushroom Men is very disappointing. The items where my first problem since there is three different 
 melee types which are slashing (horizontal) , piercing (straight forward) , and bashing (vertical) , 
 and this kept making me switch items almost constantly. Also the story seemed a bit short to me 
 as the levels can be beating with relative ease. This game may be frustrating or too easy at times, 
 but I highly recommend that you at least rent the game to experience it firsthand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wonkyman
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2009 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the teaser trailer was unveiled at GDC 2007, exactly 2 years ago, I've had my eye on 
 this title. That trailer was kickass. Don't believe me? 
  
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=7-pfF1AhZOQ
  
  I really wanted this to be special. And as more 
 and more footage of the game started coming in, it started looking less like a work of genius. 
 By the time it was released, I was hesitant, but still bought it.
  
  Let me be blunt. This game sucks. There are annoying invisible walls everywhere, dialogue apparently 
 written by Gargamel, frustrating enemy mechanics, major slowdown in some busier levels, no maps 
 or compass, and a story you just don't care about that only lasts 6 hours. Yet, there are little 
 touches to it that make you wish it was a better game. The art direction is top notch, characters 
 and settings have a very attractive dark comic book feel to them. And the music also caught my 
 attention. Sound effects like enemy bees buzzing or a faucet drip are rhythmic, going along with 
 the beat of the background music, which I thought was brilliant. 
  
  Had this game been longer and better written, with more inspired gameplay to go along with the 
 very inspired artistic side, it really could have been the start of a very satisfying franchise. 
 But as it stands, Mushroom Men was a disappointment in many ways, and won't be staying in my collection. 
 Better luck next time, RedFly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donkey_Face
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I found this game very original because how many games do you get to be a mushroom?... Not very 
 many. The story is the best story I've ever seen, and it makes you really get into the game. After 
 playing the game for a bit you begin to think there really are mushroom people. Fighting enemies 
 by shaking the wii remote or using spore punisher with the wii pointer makes fighting easy, but 
 not boringly easy. The main creatures you fight in the game are: spiders, rats, evil mushrooms, 
 and wasps. For boss battles you have to use your brain, but not too much. The downsides of the 
 game are the story mode is too short, there's no replay value, levels sometimes get frustrating, 
 and there's no online. The good things about this game is it has a great story, great graphics, 
 cool weapons, good music, and interesting characters. Over all it's a pretty good game and if you 
 like original games, Mushroom Men, The Spore Wars is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIackwoIf
Rating: 0
Date: Feb 6, 2009 2:36 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Mushroom Men: The Spore Wars 
 User Reviews for Wii - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, 
 iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; 
 } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  
 Do goodbye e-mails pose a risk?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegamemonkey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a breakdown of mushroom men: the spore wars, and is somewhat based on opinions, so take 
 it with a grain of salt.
  
  Gameplay: Mushroom Men consists of everything you would expect from a 3D platformer. It pulls of 
 the genre decently, but not quite on par with Super Mario 64, or banjo-kazoo, but still pretty 
 good none the less. Mushroom Men also introduces new ideas such as fully customizable weapon system, 
 but dose not take the idea far enough.
  
  Graphics: Pretty good. Overall they look nice, but occasionally you will come across a back-ground 
 object that is poorly animated and sticks out from the rest of the scenery. The character models 
 are especially detailed!
  
  Sound: The sound-track is clearly the best aspect of mushroom men. There are catchy and original 
 tunes. The sound effects also fit pretty well.
  
  Control: The control leaves a lot to be desired, due to the fact that the players motions don't 
 register as often as they should. Otherwise, the controls are responsive enough to be bearable 
 to the players.
  
  Replay value: In terms of length, mushroom men is really weak. It is noticeably short and there 
 is nothing to do after beating the game, which only will take about a week. 
  
  Overall: I recommend this game to anyone who likes platformers or needs a good Wii game that is 
 easily accessible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddiea23
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 12:03 am PT
Review:  Determining a single rating score for "Mushroom Men: Spore Wars" is difficult for one simple reason; 
 its a game with a lot of potential, marred by a feel of being rushed to delivery. 
  
  The Good: First off, the artistry is great and the environments are mostly well designed. In fact, 
 the world itself really seems to be the main focus of the game. There is also a lot of subtle humor 
 here and -- if you are a Les Claypool fan (who wrote some of the some of the soundtrack) -- the 
 music is pretty cool too. There is a definite sense of immersion here, where thorough exploration 
 of the levels is both necessary and visually rewarding. The combat system is pretty fun since the 
 weapons are all very creative and entertaining to use. There are also numerous mini-games that 
 break up some of the potential monotony of the typical platformer. Though, as I've played this 
 game, its clear that the focus is far more about exploration than combat.
  
  The Mediocre: Some of the puzzles seem to suffer a bit from the "do random things until something 
 happens" syndrome. Though in context, this isn't too bad, since exploration is key to the game 
 anyhow. The movement might also be a bit slow for some people, but I found it quite reasonable 
 and just more relaxed. Others might also find that the "infinite re-spawn" system ultimately makes 
 the combat fairly un-challenging. 
  
  The Bad: This is where the game's delivery seems a bit rushed. My first and foremost issue involves 
 the camera control. Though manually looking around is critical to the overall game, the "automatic" 
 camera movement can make some areas of the game frustrating because it often just feels a bit random. 
 Additionally, the infamous "invisible wall" effect appears occasionally and several areas of the 
 game suffer from frame-rate issues. Though not severe, these things do detract from any overall 
 sense of "polish" in any modern game in my opinion.
  
  Anyway, if you are interested in a slower paced "experiential" game with lots of places to look 
 around, then I'd highly recommend picking up Spore Wars. If you're looking for a more solid, faster, 
 and highly polished run/jump/shoot platformer with lots of clever puzzles, you may be a bit disappointed. 
 Given just a little more refinement I could have easily given this game an 8+, but the technical/game-play 
 issues are enough to warrant a slight score reduction in an otherwise light and entertaining game 
 that, if nothing else, is just fun to look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMAZINGJECKLBOY
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  so this Christmas I got mushroom men and the spore wars a game i had been anticipating since mid 
 October when i seen a full page advertisement in cannabis culture magazine *cough*
  
  when i saw the case the top read "best wii game since super mario galaxy" "Bah" i said "what game 
 doesn't try to say its the best" but then i started playing.
  
  first i want to talk about the graphics. They are the best graphics ive seen on wii to date (next 
 to SMB: G and metroid prime 3) the graphics are crisp, very not blurry and i think another website 
 said that the graphics were muddy but i really don't think so. the games color is so amazing that 
 its hard to really think about it. Do you remember back in the good ol' N64 days with rareware 
 games such as donkey kong 64 and banjo - kazooie. do you remember how colorful and vibrant those 
 games were. just imagine that same kind of amazing color but on ... mushrooms hehe
  
  next its on to game play. nice and smooth controls. it takes some getting used to to do the cap 
 glide right because if you hit a wall you start plummeting and have to press the A button quickly 
 to get gliding again. I adore the weapons system exept for the fact that all the weapons of each 
 class are exactly the same just with different damage meters. however anyone who has played it 
 who liked it should agree with me on this. basically you have to find objects that humans usually 
 take for granted (such as matches toothpics, pencils, tape etc) which to the mushrooms is called 
 "scav" ( i can only assume this is an abbreviation for scavange)
  when you've collected the right pieces of scav you get to create a new weapon , and as i said earlier 
 the people who like this game should agree with me that seeing the little create new weapon icon 
 on the bottom left of the screen is so satisfying being in anticipation to see what it will look 
 like or how powerful it is.
  
  playing mushroom men showed me how big of a world we live in compared to those smaller than us 
 and it really shows how the simplest things we take for granted are amazing to others.
  
  i gave this game a 9 out of 10 and i think that its one of the best games for the wii and i fully 
 recommend it. and im the kind of guy who will search a game on gamespot before buying it to make 
 sure i dont get a bad game (ive learned my lesson with celebrity deathmatch and superman 64 *puke*)
 
  (i 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
