-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MySims Kingdom
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sim/mysimskingdom/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Bright, charming visuals.
 Genuinely funny characters.
 Accessible, rewarding gameplay keeps pace moving.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Occasional control and camera snags can be annoying.
 Essence gathering can get tiresome.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 195 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Redwood Shores
Genre: Virtual Life
Date: Oct 28, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With its cheerful style and accessible gameplay, MySims Kingdom steps out of The Sims' shadow to 
 stand on its own as a fun adventure. 

  Last year, EA brought The Sims to the Wii and DS in the form of MySims, a cutesy take on the popular 
 social life simulation. In an effort to make a more widely accessible game, EA removed much of 
 The Sims' micromanagement and socialization features and made building the focus of MySims. If 
 you enjoyed that game or you're just looking for a lighthearted adventure sprinkled with a few 
 trademark Sims features, you'll have a good time with MySims Kingdom.  

           Building assignments range from the mundane to the celestial.      

  Unlike traditional 
 The Sims games, MySims Kingdom has a story that ties everything together. Back in the day, the 
 kingdom was populated by wandoliers -- wand-wielding citizens whose job was to help those in need -- but 
 for some reason, they all retired and no one bothered to hire any more. With the kingdom in disrepair, 
 King Roland decides to find a new wandolier (that would be you) and have him or her shape things 
 up. While the overarching story in MySims Kingdom is about restoring peace and happiness to the 
 kingdom, each island has its own story in which you play a part. These enjoyable ministories include 
 helping a robot who wants to open a diner, a zombie looking to liven up his graveyard, and an outlaw 
 trying to make a friend. Some stories are more entertaining than others, though even the mediocre 
 ones are spiced up with some witty dialogue from your traveling companions.  

  Most tasks in MySims Kingdom require you to build or decorate things. You'll often need to use 
 specific items or furniture from a themed set that can only be acquired by collecting essences. 
 You gather essences by mining, fishing, treasure hunting, or simply plucking them from trees. Nearly 
 every activity yields an abundance of essences, so finding what you need usually doesn't take longer 
 than a few minutes, which is nice considering that item collection is such a large part of the 
 game. There are, however, certain rare items that take longer to find, especially when you have 
 to fish for them. Though the tedium does set in toward the end of the game -- when you have to revisit 
 some of the islands to move on -- the fact that it doesn't get old until then is a credit to the 
 game's quick and rewarding pace.  

  Once you've gathered the appropriate essences, you can start construction. Building tasks range 
 from setting up houses to connecting gears and electric motors. The build mode is accessible and 
 easy to use; pieces snap into place and then transparent outlines help you find the right placement. 
 You're never asked to do anything too complicated, though you're given the freedom to make some 
 elaborate designs if you want. Outside of the construction tasks, you'll also be asked to herd 
 animals, socialize with people, and find hidden items. Socialization doesn't play as a big a part 
 as it does in The Sims, which is good because the socialization minigame is nothing more than an 
 exercise in trial and error. The tasks vary on each island, so you won't be doing the same things 
 every time.  

  Navigating the various islands is easy thanks to the mouse-style controls. You guide your custom 
 created sim with the Nunchuk and use the Wii Remote to navigate menus, move the camera, and build 
 things. The controls are simple and work well for the most part, though they can come unstuck when 
 building in confined spaces or when trying to place things in the corner of the screen. You can 
 spin and zoom the camera with the D pad, but you can't control the tilt, which can make the construction 
 of tall structures frustrating at times.  

           Not even zombies can escape the cuteness of MySims.      

  The visuals in MySims Kingdom 
 are delightfully cheery; even the graveyards and gloomy goth kids manage to charm. By completing 
 tasks, you'll unlock dozens of outlandish outfits for your custom Sim to wear and even more themed 
 objects to use in your construction. The music is also upbeat and relaxing. Each island usually 
 has multiple tracks that fade in and out depending on your location. Like the Sims, the game's 
 characters speak in Simlish, a gibberish-sounding language that often adds a silly twist to conversations. 
 The cute, expressive visuals and upbeat music, mixed with some humorous dialogue give the game 
 a fun Saturday-morning-cartoon feel.  

  Finishing the main story should take about eight hours, though that could be doubled if you feel 
 like hunting down every object and completing optional tasks. Despite the occasional camera or 
 control snag, MySims Kingdom is a lot of fun and recommended for those new to The Sims or for anyone 
 looking for a lighthearted, laid-back adventure.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: scootergogo
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 20, 2009 10:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is the worst game i have ever played. This is also the worst thing i have spent my money 
 on. I cannot fully explain how bad this game is. The movement is terrible. The game is terrible. 
 The graphics and animation is terrible. Why i got this game, I still dont know. The commercials 
 make it look way better than it is. You are better off getting the regular sims for the PC. Please 
 do not waste your money on this game. If you must, rent it. Do not waste you time and money on 
 this game. The game is worthless. I do not recommend buying this game if you couldnt tell already 
 and buying spin offs and other versions of this game. I know what a good game is. This is a terrible 
 excuse for a video game. How they could charge $50 I dont know. Sims 2 Castaway looks fun, but 
 with this game in my mind I am not gonna get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wandolier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Before I had a Nintendo Wii Console of my own, I used to have a saved town on my best friend's 
 My Sims game. It was very addictive and a lot of fun for everybody! Getting able to create your 
 own cute character, building original houses, and exploring the scene, I knew that when I get my 
 own Wii, it would be one of my first games to buy!
  But when My Sims Kingdom came out, with an even higher score from the critics, I decided to choose 
 it between the Original My Sims. I was glad I did, too! Unlike My Sims, My Sims Kingdom has a very 
 clear and interesting plot. You are a "pig herder" in the Kingdom's capital, Capital Island! You 
 have two best friends named Lyndsay and Buddy.
  Buddy is King Roland's, the ruler of all the islands, messenger (you might remember him being the 
 bellhop in My Sims) , and he brings you and Lyndsay a message that says that King Roland is going 
 to employ a new Wandolier, for the Kingdom is in dire need of help, but most have retired or moved. 
 
  So the new part about this is you don't randomly get your "powers" right away, but get to participate 
 in a contest, and whoever has the best skills with their Training Wand wins and becomes the new 
 Wandolier! Of course, the game is programmed to ALWAYS make YOU the winner, so don't worry about 
 that!
  Once you become a Wandolier, the King sends you on your first quest: explore the Kingdom and help 
 it's citizens with whatever they need assistance in. And the end, I might give you a reward! So 
 off you go, taking Lyndsay and Buddy with you, on your adventure! Throughout the game, as you travel 
 from island to island, you get delivered new maps by King Roland.
  I have finished the entire game, and would be happy to help you with any questions you might have, 
 but I am NOT gonna tell you what the reward is! But it will be "your own"! *hint hint*
  
  Well, it's up to you to find out for yourself what your prize will be, by getting My Sims Kingdom 
 for the Wii. (Don' go for the DS game though, it's boring and badly rated.) 
  
  Good luck, Wandoliers, for your quest awaits! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negemite
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 7:26 pm PT
Review:  For eight years Electronic Arts has been releasing many games based off The Sims. But now Electronic 
 Art's Redwood Division have decided to try to appeal The Sims francise to children once again by 
 making a follow up to MySims. But is it worth it to make a follow up? Well let's look behind the 
 Nintendo Wii version of MySims Kingdom.
  
  MySims Kingdom takes place in seven differnet island in the Kingdom. It was once a peaceful place 
 because of the Wandoliers brought people in the kingdom everything they want. But one day the Wandoliers 
 moved away from the kingdom and now the kingdom is falling in dispair. So the King held a Wandolier 
 contest to see which one is worthy enough to bring the Kingdom back to it's former glory. Meanwhile 
 your character was working with Elmira Clamp on Capital Island, then Buddy came in with sheets 
 of paper for the Wandolier contest, then Princess Butter comes to you from her garden that she 
 will win the Wandoiler Contest for good. Then Buddy showed his papers to you, but then Buddy fell 
 and the papers are scatter around the area. So after you collect the papers, then Lyndsay comes 
 to you and Buddy that she thought of a new adventure about Hidden Tombs. But then they realized 
 that the competition is today, so they ran over to the castle and Princess Butter, Barney Cull 
 and yourself are competiting to become the next Wandolier. King Roland is doing his speech before 
 the competition starts, he said that whoever wins will become a new Wandoiler and win a toaster. 
 Then Marlon the Wizard transport you and the two competiors to the Island Of Magic for the competition 
 to be held. Then after your done, then you are declared winner and Barney Cull won a Toaster by 
 King Roland. After you leave the castle, then it's time to help people all around the kingdom.
 
  
  MySims Kingdom is kidda like the previous game and Animal Crossing. But unlike the first game you 
 can build whenever there's spots to build new buildings and such. But unlike the previous game 
 you cannot decorate your own place until the end of the game, but you can decorate your client's 
 house with how many stuff they want in each catergory. You can still shake down trees like in the 
 previous game, but some new Wii Remote features come in handy. You can prospect anywhere you want 
 unlike the previous game that you can only do in certain areas. Like the previous game you can 
 fish in places, but this time it's mostly the ocean and certain lakes on each island.
  
  Building stuff in this game is very differnet from the previous game. This time you can decorate 
 the outside and the inside with the same amount of materials you can get by completing scrolls 
 by collection essences. There is two differnet modes for building, one is the construction mode 
 and the other one is paint mode. Painting in this game is very differnet compared to the previous 
 game, instead of one color decorations, you can get tons of wacky paint jobs for peoples houses 
 and their stuff. The building blocks returns in this game and yet they don't live up to the previous 
 game because of their size and useage.
  
  MySims Kingdom graphics are basically recycled from the orignal game, but improved. The colors 
 in this game are bright and cheerly, and all the glitches the previous game had are now gone. The 
 framerate is better, but not as good as some Nintendo Wii games due to it's limited technology. 
 The characters looked cute and the animals are cuddly in MySims Kingdom. Unlike the previous game 
 where you can see barely no shadows, MySims Kingdom fixed that and put a decent amount of them 
 on every object.
  
  MySims Kingdom's soundtrack sounds more cheerly than the originial and it has differnet variety 
 of music depending which area you are building at or which island your on. If you leave the area, 
 you can hear only nature sounds. Sometimes when you are neither listening to the radio or listening 
 to the DJ, you can hear some licensed materials, but translated into simish.
  
  The sound effects are recycled from the previous game, but Electronic Arts added some new ones 
 and remixed the old sound effects. The Simish in MySims Kingdom has more variety than the previous 
 game and each of them still sounds the same to another Sim or have a differnet tone.
  
  MySims Kingdom's controls are kidda like the previous game, but Electronic Arts decide to throw 
 in some new Wii Remote features like chopping down trees and mining. It still does have it's point 
 and click elements to build stuff. When you move has the same controls, but Electronic Arts have 
 decided to add a jump button and use every button on the Wii Remote and Nunchuck. 
  
  MySims Kingdom is quite simple for people who are fans of The Sims. So if you like the previous 
 installment and I bet you will like this game even more. This game may have a few flaws, but it's 
 great for kids and adults too and also it's easy to use too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Niksia
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the original MySims game, but got frustrated making furniture with millions of tiny pieces. 
 The MySims Kingdom got rid of that and let you place premade, themed furniture instead.
  
  It's just a shame they didn't put more into the game itself. The main quest ended abruptly, while 
 there was still lots to do! The quests themselves didn't take long, though sometimes it was a bit 
 confusing knowing exactly what was needed. Electric and water piping can be the bane of your life, 
 you think you're lined up until you swing the camera around. The gears weren't much better either. 
 Keep that camera twirling if you want to avoid frustration.
  
  Even the essence gathering didn't take that long, by the time you reach the end you should have 
 them coming out your ears. Coupled with the side collections, it might bump your hours of play 
 up but not by much. More scrolls to gather would have helped, which just goes back to game length.
 
  
  Probably more of a rental game, or for the kids, but still good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_toad123
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 5:45 am PT
Review:  Ok, at first when you get the game and begin to play it, you are probably going to think, "Nah, 
 this is boring,"
  
  But... If you wait a little... you will be addicted. This game has good graphics and good control. 
 It is not a physical game but not entirely just sitting around pressing buttons. You still have 
 to swing to chop down trees and mine rocks and pull weeds. Anyway, this is nice game for kids 12 
 and under because it has no violence or blood or anything most teenage boys like. This is not a 
 boys game! It is not a girls game! It is boy AND girls game. Also, this is a single player game, 
 and there are only three game save spots. It is a decent game. It can get hard at some spots like 
 fishing and you get one fish over and over again. I absolutely love this game, and i hope you do 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellbullet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 5:41 pm PT
Review:  The first game in the Sims series to have a plot, MySims Kingdom is a very addicting and fun game, with 
 easy-going characters and quests, and alot of things to collect. However, it lacks a few of the key 
 elements needed for a great game-a main Villain, and some sort of romance with the main character. While 
 you best friends, Buddy and Lyndsay travel with you to different lands with different themes, you 
 earn many items and collectibles, and meet new MySims made just for this game, and you discover things 
 like Scrolls and Fish, Minerals and jewels. While theres a few villains on the islands, most don't 
 have any really long plot, with the exceptions of Cowboy Junction, Spookane, Rocket-Reef, and The 
 Academy (where you learn Lyndsay has a crush on Buddy) . These islands have fairly long and decent 
 quests, but the fun doesn't end there! Each island gains new quests after you beat the game, and you 
 have to do every quest and scroll to become Best Friends with everyone on every island! You even 
 get your own island at the end of the game, which requires no Mana at all, and you can create your 
 own home. Its a great game and has great graphics, and I recomend that you play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack_croft
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  The game is great but way too easy as I completed the first island in around 30 minuets. It's annoying 
 sort of because I could not find any of the things for some scrolls. It was funny when I was mean 
 to the king because I stepped on his toe so it is a very entertaining game and I got sad points 
 and got more mana from which is cool. My sister really likes the game and she is playing the game 
 as I am writing because I can not get her of it even though it is my game. Overall the game is great 
 and not a waste of time. It is  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jambajuice95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing this game I instantly comparing it to My Sims and I have to say that it 
 is a lot better than the first. They have made a lot of improvements from the first game like getting 
 rid of the extremely long loading screens. Which in this there are barely any at all, where in 
 My Sims there was a loading screen every time you went to a different area or entered a building, 
 ext, ext. There was also a better storyline in this one. 
  You play as a Sim who enters in a contest to become a wizard type builder who is sent by the king 
 to travel across his kingdom to help other Sims who need your construction expertise. You collect 
 mana along your adventure that you need to create objects. There is also parts of the game where 
 you must convince people to do things for you or to give you things such as blueprints and objects 
 that they may have stolen from Gino the Pizza Chef.
  Unlike in the first My Sims where you collect essences for paint for objects that you build for 
 people. In this one you need them to unlock scrolls so that you can make new items. So it's a little 
 different and I like it better than having to build everything, because it got so fricken tedious 
 like when you would make an object that has 4 pieces but they want 20 of some certain kind of color. 
 In this one it usually consists of fixing things which means you usually need to connect the object 
 to a power supply or plumbing. On some occasions you do actually have to build things like stairs, 
 bridges and houses for people. 
  So I would highly recommend this game to anyone likes a casual game or who like Sims. I give it 
 am 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokefan_10
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 1:54 am PT
Review:  MySims return with a totally different, weird look. MySims Kingdom is much like its predecessor 
 but with more and better features and some deleted ones. The story of the game is about the player's 
 Sim doing his chores until his/her best friend, Buddy (the clumsy bellhop from MySims) gives him/her 
 an invitation for the search of the next Wandolier (a magician who uses his/her magic to fix the 
 kingdom) which the Sim enters. The Sim becomes the next Wandolier and sets off for an adventure 
 with his/her two best friends, Buddy and Lyndsay (an adventurous girl) to fix the world. The game 
 is set on a weird kingdom where every island differs in type (Fun type, Scary types, etc.) Some 
 Sims from the previous game return such as DJ Candy (the DJ) , Vic Vector (the poet but is now a 
 janitor for Dr. F and later an astronaut) , Dr. F (the mad scientist) and many more. Unlike the 
 previous game, the game focuses on rebuilding and repairing but furnitures are still included in 
 the game but instead of making furnitures, players must unlock them by collecting scrolls and gathering 
 the required Essences. MySims Kingdom mostly contains islands where players can travel to by boat 
 but players must have a map to travel to that island. Players not only build houses but they can 
 also build bridges, pipes, wires, gearss, stairs, etc. The most important thing in the game is 
 that its fun and people should buy this game or beg for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue4avenger
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  The Sims are back for their Second Wii and DS appearance from last years My Sims.
  
  The story is a bit like last time, where you need to help a town, but this time, it's in a medieval 
 theme and you need to help a kingdom.
  
  On your way, you have two buddy's: The same name Buddy, as he was the Hotel manager in My Sims, 
 and a new person who is a girl and keeps you in supply with all the things you need to make buildings 
 with your new wand. So it means you don't have to go back to your workshop to build everything 
 and go to your people in need. You can collect scrolls, which give you tasks from people around 
 town.
  
  Building is more clever, as you now have new items for machines like cogs and gearboxes, and all 
 the other traditional stuff.
  
  But there are 5 islands (I think) where people are, so that means collect scrolls, do some building 
 and more scrolls and more building and yadda yadda...
  
  But one problem: for larger structures, you will have to move yourself to where you place the object, 
 which gets frustrating.
  
  Overall, it makes a good edition to play, and original fans will play this for hours.
  
  Rival:
 
  SimCity Creator 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameboyad1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This is a nice clean game with LOADS of fun and more. This game is SOOOOOO much more entertaining 
 than any other game, led alone any Sims game. I mean, choosing another game is like choosing a penny 
 over $1,000,000. Who would prefer making furnichure for your whole life with no pay instead of 
 rockets, buildings, and more... and for a reward, too. This game is also very, very, very addicting 
 the first time you decide to play it. Even the most picky person on the planet earth would enjoy 
 this game. Chritics all over the world , as we all know, should be hailing My Sims Kingdom. This 
 is also a great game for the whole family to enjoy playing. There's so much more that I could say, 
 but I should wrap up.
  
  
  This message was brought to you by My Sims Kingdom's biggest fan,
  gameboyad1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryang08
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  My sims kingdom is a really big letdown and couldnt improve on the pervious my sims. The story of 
 the game is similar but instead of building up a rundown town and watching it develop, you travel 
 between islands helping the natives building or decorating houses or spaces.
  
  The game becomes very repititive after your first few games and your told to build and decorate 
 the same thing over and over again not to mention the mindless and boring job of collecting essence 
 and essence. Collecting essences in the previous my sims was no different but it was balanced in 
 a way that your not constantly collecting them and its spaced out well between building but in 
 my sims kingdom your constanly collecting essences then using them to get new furniture, to use 
 to decorate a lot then your sent back to collect more essences.
  
  A new feature to the game is the addition of mana which you use to create blocks or furniture. Collecting 
 mana isnt very hard but it can be resticting at times and forces you to hold back on your creativity, unlike 
 the previous my sims game were mana wasnt used and it was up to you to decide how you wanted to 
 make the building look.
  
  One good thing about the game is that its very rich in humour. From its cute and funny graphics 
 to your hilarious side kick buddy, my sims kingdom provides houmour that will make you smile and 
 laugh from start to finish.
  
  Overal the game is very disapointing and not even its cute and funny characters can give it a rating 
 higher then 5.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariamunchkin
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I loved the first MySims. Yes, I am an adult, and no, I have no qualms playing a 
 game so obviously aimed at young children. I always loved the Sims. In this game you will find 
 many familiar characters from the first game, reimagined or repurposed in the second in a much 
 more dynamic and enjoyable world than the first.
  
  MySims Kingdom is the second installment in the MySims world. The overall world is governed by 
 a nice old king who loves cupcakes. You start on Capital Island as a humble pig farmer. Apparently 
 humble pig farmers are still well known to the King (although, since the whole island is inhabited 
 by five people, it's probably hard not to know everyone) . You have to "audition" for the role of 
 Royal Wandolier, which is basically a fancy way of giving you a tutorial.
  
  So, no suprise, you are named the wandolier, and you, along with your best friends Lindsay and 
 Buddy (the hotel guy from MySims, reimagined as a royal messenger) get to travel across the islands 
 looking for essences to unlock scrolls, and help the citizens of the kingdom build their lands.
 
  
  I won't go into detail about the gameplay, because if you played the first game, it is virtually 
 identical, if not just a little smoother. Traversing between islands is a lot less time consuming 
 than travelling between the different areas of MySims. Instead of building complicated furniture 
 to use up essences, you must use the essences you collect to unlock scrolls, which give you different 
 furniture-making abilities. You'll still have the ability to free-build with miscellaneous blocks 
 once you unlock the scroll, but you can easily get through most of the game without having to use 
 anything but the pre-created furniture, which can still be custom painted to match the likes of 
 whatever Sim you are trying to please. 
  
  The islands themselves are diverse and entertaining, with everything from an elfin forest, to a 
 dude ranch, the cutest castle ever, and a spooky island inhabited by Goth Boy, a zombie, a lunatic, 
 an evil old man, and the world's most famous cookie-making Grandma.
  
  Overall, totally fun. My favorite island so far was "Royal Academy Island", one of the last to 
 be unlocked, which holds a school, and I swear I have not interacted with so much high-school boy-girl 
 drama since I was IN high school. It was hilarious (and a little sad, all at the same time) .
  
  The dialogue between characters is much more dynamic and amusing than before, with characters 
 falling in love, or learning valuable lessons, or just in general trying to drive each other nuts. 
 It's fun to watch too, my roommate found herself staring at the TV for half an hour as I helped 
 build a Nature Preserve for a couple bears, a pig, and an extremely spoiled kitty.
  
  Except for a tedious sequence involving chasing a terrible actor in a dragon costume, the game 
 is totally fun. Mindless, stupid, childish, and completely without any sort of technical or visual 
 merit, but still. Fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  MySims is dead. Long live MySims Kingdom. Just a year after the excellent MySims hit Nintendo consoles, 
 EA has ripped the whole thing up and started again. Rather than being an Animal Crossing-style 
 socialising sim, MySims Kingdom is now an adventure game.
  
  This does mean we have to enter a short period of mourning for the Workshop - the place where you 
 could let your imagination run wild and build anything you like. For many, this was what made the 
 game stand out from everything else but it's gone and although you can still build things, this 
 time you're doing it to help people with their problems on the Kingdom's various islands. 
  
  
  Yet EA hasn't killed off everything from the first game and when you land at Cowboy Junction 
 you'll be greeted by a familiar face: Gino the chef. He wants to take you on his famous pizza tour 
 but his tomatoes are dead, the cow's pen has been destroyed and a thief has stolen his lucky horseshoe. 
 Reviving the tomatoes is a bit puzzling as you'll need to build a water station, then fix some 
 pipes and sprinklers to it. But before you begin a task you need to unlock a scroll power with 
 essences. To do this, you'll need to pull up weeds, shake trees and mine for metals. This also 
 gives you a chance to explore the beautiful island.
  
  King For A Day
  Each island is stunning and is filled with great characters and its own little story. Gino is desperate 
 for no one to learn that his pizza making skills are thanks to his lucky horseshoe and it's amusing 
 to watch the expression on his face turn from joy to woe as you complete a task only for him to 
 find out that something else has gone wrong. Once you've completed Cowboy Junction you'll leave 
 with a big smile on your face as Gino throws a big party. It's actually a bit of a wrench to leave 
 but there are new places to explore, new friends to meet and things to build.
  
  In the nature level for example, your first task is to build the new visitor centre. While you 
 can't create anything from scratch you can still be creative. After you've dropped basic blocks 
 you can add windows, doors, chimneys and give the property a lick of paint. Next you can plant 
 trees, sunflowers and roses before getting to work on the inside, placing your furniture and putting 
 up pictures. The construction tools are not as expansive as in the previous game but you can still 
 build a property that's very much your own.
  
  
  Unfortunately, as soon as you land on Rocket Reef you'll realise that the variety of locations 
 isn't matched by the variety of tasks on offer, as you're asked to collect robot parts. This would 
 be okay if you hadn't already collected bandanas on Cowboy Junction and crab keys on the Nature 
 Reserve. Each island's various mishaps will require you to collect stuff, build something or fix 
 pipes to solve a puzzle, all of which demand that you mine, metal detect and fish to collect essences. 
 
  While the tasks do get more complicated a lot of the puzzles are easily solved with trial and error.
 
  
  Like a lot of games these days, MySims Kingdom is all about the experience and it takes you on 
 a charming journey where you get to meet and greet some brilliant characters. Yet, as an adventure, 
 MySims is now in the company of the best that Wii has to offer and it just can't live with the 
 likes of Galaxy and Twilight Princess. Still, provided you have some heart, this Kingdom packs 
 more than enough personality to make it well worth a visit.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
