-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MySims
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/strategy/mysims/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Construction is intuitive and flexible.
 Presentation is cheery and clean.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Social dynamics are nearly nonexistent.
 Collecting essence is a grind.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 17, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 1,061 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Redwood Shores
Genre: Virtual Life
Date: Sep 18, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Too much construction and not enough socializing keep MySims from really flourishing. 

  MySims is a straightforward open attempt by Electronic Arts to bring The Sims to the Wii, a potentially 
 potent cocktail when you consider the mainstream appeal exhibited by both. This isn't the first 
 time The Sims has taken a stab at console relevance, and like previous attempts, MySims streamlines 
 the experience, making the game more accessible, adding firmer game structure as well as its own 
 whimsical presentation. The result is a game that's almost as reminiscent of Nintendo's own Animal 
 Crossing as it is The Sims. It's an easy game to pick up, and it's got some cutesy charm, but it 
 doesn't quite capture the addictive qualities of the games it takes after.  

           That the sims in MySims look kind of like Miis is likely no mistake.      

  While 
 previous console outings for The Sims have usually relied on the pragmatic art style of the PC 
 original, MySims builds its look around charmingly blocky characters who live in a similarly blocky 
 town. Though simple, the visuals aren't crude or thrown together, and it's largely the game's sunny, 
 playful visual style that sets the mood in MySims. A suite of cheerful, location-specific tunes 
 carry a certain amount of that load as well, and there's even a smattering of simlish to help remind 
 you that you're indeed playing The Sims. The game's cartoonish presentation ultimately benefits 
 the whole experience, making the silly, sometimes bizarre happenings common to The Sims seem more 
 reasonable.  

  Your first exposure to the game's visual style comes when building the sim you'll actually be controlling 
 in MySims. It's pretty basic for a character creator, and its most noteworthy aspect is an apparent 
 lack of regard for gender roles. You won't actually choose your sim's sex, and you can freely mix 
 male and female hairstyles, eyes, mouths, and outfits. From here your potentially androgynous avatar 
 will then be dropped into a run-down little village, where it's up to you to rebuild to its former 
 glory by bolstering its population using your interior design skills.  

  Right off the bat you'll be given two structures to call your own -- a workshop and a home. Or, rather, 
 you'll be given the pieces you need to build a workshop and a home. Construction is simple, relying 
 on a diverse collection of prefab boxes and bric-a-brac that you can drag about using the Wii Remote. 
 When you pick up a piece of flair for your structure, you'll see blue dots wherever you can actually 
 place them, and though there are several different-themed sets of building blocks you can choose 
 from, the game will always first present pieces that are most appropriate for the structure you're 
 building. Curiously, there's apparently no correlation between choices made when building the house 
 and the actual layout or floor space inside the house, which often means that an apparently two-story 
 building will actually only have a single floor. It's a weird disconnect, but it's an easy one 
 to roll with.  

  Once you've got your workshop and your house in order, you can get down to the business of civic 
 pride. Before you can start attracting new residents, you'll have to spruce up the existing homes 
 and businesses in your town. By approaching and chatting with a current resident, you'll be asked 
 to build some piece of furniture for them, which you can do in your workshop. Here you'll be presented 
 with a translucent 3D blueprint of the furniture in question, along with several pages' worth of 
 simple polygonal shapes. Building furniture is easy, as the game highlights the pieces you need 
 in green, and grabbed pieces will snap into position when you get them close enough with the Wii 
 Remote. You'll also find that you don't need to fill in every single piece of a blueprint to make 
 a successful piece of furniture, and at a point the game will actually encourage you to start building 
 outside the blueprints. As you progress, you'll earn blueprints for more ornate furniture, but 
 the real big catch when building furniture for residents is that they'll always ask for you to 
 include a number of specific types of "essence" in your design.  

  Essence is, well, essential to the experience in MySims, acting as the sole resource in the game. 
 There are seemingly dozens of different types of essence, ranging from apples to 8-balls, and they 
 can be earned in a number of ways. Some can be had just by chatting with another sim, with different 
 sims dropping different types of essence. Some grow on trees, which you can tend to by watering 
 and fertilizing, and you can even plant one of these tree-borne essences to grown a new tree. Some 
 can be fished out of various bodies of water, while others can be found in designated areas with 
 a metal detector and then dug up. You'll spend a lot of time scouring the earth for essences, and 
 though fishing and prospecting with the metal detector add some simple minigames to the process, 
 it's still kind of a grind.  

  Once you've actually got the essences you need for the furniture in question, you can apply it 
 either as a physical icon or as paint, the latter of which usually ends up being the more elegant 
 solution. Part of the challenge of building furniture is figuring out how to cram all the essence 
 you need into a piece of furniture, though this doesn't always necessarily result in the most well-designed 
 piece. It doesn't take long to figure out that there are different personality types among the 
 residents, and that each reacts favorably to specific types of essence. You can improve your standing 
 more quickly by slathering their furniture in those essences, as well as by decorating their houses 
 with frills that appeal to that personality type.  

           Gathering essence takes a lot of time, and isn't as much fun as it ought to be.      

 
  By building furniture for and decorating the homes and businesses of the established residents, 
 the town's star rating will improve. Whenever you reach a new star level, new people check into 
 the hotel in town, at which point you can invite them to move into one of the town's empty lots. 
 Part of what makes MySims approachable is that it takes its time introducing concepts, and lets 
 you play with them for a while before adding new kinks and complications. After a few hours, though, 
 you'll hit your stride, and a pattern of building houses, scouring the landscape for essences, 
 and then building furniture with them emerges. How long it takes before this process loses its 
 charm will depend almost entirely on how much joy you get out of creating customized furniture. 

  As easy and intuitive as the construction aspects of MySims are, they don't make up for the fact 
 that the social dynamics that have been central to The Sims are all but absent. Your own sim doesn't 
 have to worry about eating, sleeping, hygiene, holding down a job, or any of the other concerns 
 that have plagued sims since the year 2000, and your interactions with other sims are limited, 
 and almost always end up revolving around building something or collecting essence. These choices 
 arguably allow the game to move more quickly, but they also obliterate any emotional connection 
 you might feel towards these little virtual people.  

  The pleasantly goofy production and the ease with which you can build houses and furniture make 
 it easy to burn a couple of hours with MySims, but it's ultimately more successful as a virtual 
 dollhouse than anything else.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (92 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ferraro007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 11:59 am PT
Review:  Cute graphics and an addictive design making plot makes My Sims great! Not as much social time 
 may be a downer, and taking away your urgency's makes it less involving. My Sims could be called 
 something completely different, the only similar thing is the green diamond. It may seem dumb, 
 but it's fun.
  Going from the city to the forest, all the way to a desert is open. Finding new Sims to bring into 
 you town, some with buisiness that make you fetch them stuff. Essences replaces simleons, but is 
 sometimes tricky to find when searching for say, clown fish. When building you will normally have 
 to use essences, either put them on on it, or paint with it's color pattern.
  With many characters, such as a chef, liberian, ice cream seller, hair cutters or even a mad scientist 
 the variety is large. I only wish the extra places (Forest, Desert) were larger than just 7 open 
 spaces each.
  
  Graphics: Frame-rate falls occasionllay, sometimes for no reason, but very cute and it works.
 
  
  Sound: Okay, not much but what's here, is okay.
  
  Gameplay: Super addictive and fun, makes this great.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: froggiecrossing
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2009 12:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game ever. It gets you hooked on. One of my job choices is an architect and 
 it has a lot of construction in it so that is really fun. I love helping people out and when I 
 finally got 5 stars it was a real accomplishment! You can change your look at anytime in your house. 
 I adore the workshop because you can make things for yourself and for other people. The bad part 
 is it takes forever to load! It takes forever to fish if you need octopus and tiny shark essences. 
 : ( This is a very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very well organized game. This makes me very suspicious about my sims kingdom and my sims party. 
 All I advise you to do is get the game you will find out that you will really really really really 
 really really really really really really really like this game too. 
  
  Over all it is a great game and has good graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lisandro_v22
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 16, 2009 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I hardly have time to play as much videogames I'd like (not because I don't have time just because 
 I play lots of them) so most of the games I get are proven masterpieces or at least above average 
 and it's strange for me to buy a game knowing it could be bad (though I wasn't expecting it to 
 be so bad) just because of a whim, this was the case and I totally regret it (though it was funnier 
 to review than good games) .
  
  Did you ever hear the expression "so bad, it's good"? ok just forget the last part, this game takes 
 that expression to a totally different level, after a few seconds of playing (2 or more) you are 
 not sure why it's just plain bad, half of my brain says it's not bad enough to be "so bad it's 
 good" but the other half, my favorite half (don't tell the other) says that Mysims is just beyond 
 those kind of games, it's just that it's so, so, so bad it's not even bad/good.
  
  But I cannot deny that, this game is sort of an inspiration both as an encouragement for kids ("everybody 
 can be a game designer") than as an immediate inspiration, it's like a blank page to fill in, or 
 most likely a really screwed up page that should be erased to start all over, so you will be able 
 to sit during the long loading times to think of a thousand ways to improve it, or you could just 
 turn it off and spend (as i did) long time thinking if they did it on purpouse or how they could 
 have upgrade it scratching the cd for example.
  
  Conclusions list:
  - They probably had original ideas but they just couldn't afford to make them real.
  - The game 
 is crap.
  - Probably the most expensive part of the developing was a pizza they ordered.
  - It's not true that FPS create aggressive gamers, this game delivers the same effect without any 
 firearms.
  - You can't kill Mysims, no matter how hard you try.
  
  Overall:
  you know the song: Don't try suicide, by Queen?
  if you are going to play this game, be sure 
 to have your iPod ready to play it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negemite
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 6:51 pm PT
Review:  For seven years Electronic Arts has been releasing many games based off The Sims. But now Electronic 
 Art's Redwood Division have decided to try to appeal The Sims francise to children and the japanese 
 market. Did Electronic Arts did a good job? Well let's find out about the details behind the Nintendo 
 Wii version of MySims.
  
  MySims is about a rundown town with a few residences still remaining in town. The town used to 
 be a five star rated town all because of someone who use the power of the essences, but one day 
 he moved away. Then sometime after that residences stopped coming and all the shops has been closed. 
 A few years has passed and Mayor Rosalyn heard that someone also has the power to use essences 
 and he or she is planning on coming to your town. When your character arrives in town, he or she 
 goes to Mayor Rosalyn to try to meet with her. Then Mayor Rosalyn wants you to fill out a fourm 
 of your entry to the town, then afterwards Mayor Rosalyn takes you to your lot somewhere near Town 
 Hall. Then you realized that your house isn't there, so Mayor Rosalyn suggests you to build a house. 
 So after your done building your house, you go to the garden somewhere in town and Mayor Rosalyn 
 wants you to collect ten apples and after your done collecting apples, then you go back to see 
 Mayor Rosalyn and she will tell you what should you build for her. Then Mayor Rosalyn takes you 
 to your workshop and then you realize that you have to build your own workshop. After your done 
 building your workshop, she wants you to build a furniture for your house and she gives you a chair 
 blueprint, then after your done with the chair, then Mayor Rosalyn wants you to put it inside your 
 house, then after your done putting inside your house, she wants you to build her a podium for 
 her speeches. So after your done building the podium and then Mayor Rosalyn suggests you to help 
 other people around town and introduce yourself, then your adventure begins.
  
  MySims is kidda like Animal Crossing, but unlike Animal Crossing you can build furniture and houses 
 for people and yourself and also you can decorate the house with various differnet things. Well 
 when you control your character, you control it how you would play Animal Crossing, expect you 
 find differnet essences by using differnet methods by shaking down trees, prospecting around one 
 area, fishing in lakes or ponds.
  
  When your building a house you use the Wii Remote and put a house and place blocks and decorations 
 on your furniture. If you to make it look better or worse, you get some paint and choose what your 
 house should look like. For building furniture you build over the ghost or do it anyway you want. 
 You can also paint them by using essences and you can also use the essences as decoration. When 
 your placing furniture you just find a spot to place your furniture in, and also you can paint 
 the walls and floors, you use some essences or use the paint jobs without essences. In the sandbox 
 world you can talk to people, make them happy or mad, or use special interactions that can only 
 be used on commerical sims.
  
  Many of Electronic Arts games don't have the best graphics, but for MySims is just like all of 
 other Electronic Arts games, the graphics don't look bad, but like most Wii games it have some 
 jaggies. The Sims look quite good compared to the environment, and since the game takes place in 
 a bird's eye view, there is not pop-up, although some are barely noticeable. Also due to glitchy 
 framerate problems that this game haves, well this game freezes for a few seconds depending what 
 are you doing, people inculding myself find that really annoying.
  
  Well Electronic Arts doesn't always make the best music for their games that cannot use EA Trax 
 for a game targed to children. So Electronic Arts makes their own music and make it sounds happy 
 and kiddie as possible. Well all of this doesn't make a music sound bad, well it sounded pretty 
 good, but forgetable, also some music you hear where remixed from previous games of The Sims francise, 
 but sometimes it's quite hard to notice if you never played these games.
  
  Electronic Arts usually recycles their sound effects from older games, but they decide to try something 
 new and put in some new sound effects and may not be realistic, but it's quite relaxing at times. 
 But sometimes you can hear some glitchy sound effects depending how the game is loading, also you 
 can hear the sound effects delayed after you done something. The Simish voices are pretty good 
 and quite cute as well, you can hear it everytime you talked to your Sim and also you can hear 
 simish by doing differnet options as well, like with the sound effects, it also gets some delays 
 by a few seconds and sometimes you don't hear it all.
  
  The controls are easy to use. You use the controls kidda like a point and click game, but easier. 
 You use the Wii Remote to shake down trees and going fishing. There is not much Wii Remote freatures 
 for this game, but some of it can be okay.
  
  It takes some time to max out your town, but afterwards it's worth it to try to get every blueprint 
 in the game, or just goof around like you do in Animal Crossing after your done paying off your 
 dept. You can also redecorate your town anytime and anywhere. So if your waiting for Animal Crossing 
 Wii, then give this game a chance if you like other Simulation games other than Animal Crossing 
 or if your a fan of The Sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxim565
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  EA Games make another series of The Sims for Wii. But the game is not amazing as I thought. For 
 me, its just a simple game which constructing things and colored it, but a bit hard though. MySims 
 is exactly a game that played by 5-9 years old kids. And it means nothing for an adult who really 
 like the real The Sims game, that we build our own house, and waste our time on real life more. 
 This game's mission is just to make a country to shine again. Nothing important, I guess. I feel 
 like a Bob The Builder in this game.
  
  
  Positive side : Cute graphics. All cute character that reminds me the Lego people it is. And a 
 very creative way to decorate our own furniture and stuff. Yeah, anything we want.
  
  Negative side : Where's the person's Needs? Like hunger, energy, bladder, or something like that. 
 This game is a plain old constructing game without that thing!
  
  Overall, an average-leveled game. I didn't play this game for like, 5 hour streaks. Its just boring. 
 You'll get bored if you didn't like a game like this for only 2 hours. But it is a worth playing 
 game if we have nothing to do at home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATL14
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is a kid-friendly version of the Sims, and kinda mixed in with Animal Crossing. in this 
 game, your a chibi sim moving into a nearly deserted town and you are asked by the mayor to make 
 it a 5-star town again. there's a process i've noticed in the game, all you pretty much do is see 
 if sims are in your local hotel and ask them to move in, build a house for them, they move in and 
 then you build stuff for them and repeat. basically, your a workaholic Tim the Toolman until your 
 town gets 5-stars. building items for your neighbors gets boring and repetitive and sometimes it 
 gets annoying trying to line up the right pieces in the right spot, especially with the wiimote.
 
  one bad thing is that you only have 3 towns and your sims from other towns cant move into them. 
 what's good about this game is that no money is needed for anything and the looks of the characters 
 might get some liking for younger children. maybe im just too old, but alot of the game's features 
 just dont do it for me. im only recommending this kids under age 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steph10892
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 15, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  This game had lots of potential if you ask me. The graphics are nice and anime like but it's kind 
 of boring. Unlike other sims games in this one you end up building every waking moment of the day. 
 You have to build houses for everyone from the pizza chef to regular neighbors and it doesn't stop 
 there you also have to build a bunch of furniture for each one. To make the furniture you have 
 to collect many essences which you use to paint the furniture.
  You can't buy anything either, you want a plasma tv well here's a hammer and nails and build it 
 yourself. This mysims takes out all the socializing out of it makes you feel as if you're just the 
 handyman of the place.
  Same thing with emotions in previous sims games you would have to try to make someone happy or 
 sad now you just click on the be nice or be mean icon and there you go your sim will do whatever 
 it is to make that sim happy or mad with no effort on your part. Very disappointed, hopefully they'll 
 make a different mysims with more of the sim charm we all know and love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  If there's one game that I look back on and thinks, "hmmm... with hindsight that score just doesn't 
 hold up anymore" then it's Nintendo's Animal Crossing. Nintendo's fictional village simulator was 
 a breath of fresh air and it was perfect for people who wanted to get wrapped up in a little fantasy 
 world. But we can look back on it now and agree that maybe, if we were to review the game again 
 now, it wouldn't score quite as highly as it did. And then a game like MySims comes along and proves 
 the point we're trying to make perfectly.
  
  We've been following the progress of MySims very closely ever since we first unveiled it back in 
 February, and we always knew it was going to be something special. You get that tingling feeling 
 on the back of your neck because you know you're in the presence of a development team who knows 
 just how to make a great game. MySims on the Wii is one of those rare occurrences when the developer 
 hits the nail square on the head.
  Despite quite obviously being an off-shoot of the increasingly tired Sims franchise, MySims is 
 actually an amalgamation of all your favourite sim-style games... just minus the rubbish bits. 
 
  It takes all the really fun elements from Harvest Moon, Animal Crossing and The Sims and puts them 
 together in one perfectly formed package. You have to wonder why it's taken this long for someone 
 to do it.
  
  
  
  From the word 'go', it's very apparent that the attention to detail, style and polish is there 
 in spades. Your first task is to create your character, a job that introduces you to the games 
 fantastically simple but extremely effective creation system. It's what the Mii Channel should 
 be like (listening Nintendo?) and it offers dozens of different clothing designs, hairstyles and 
 facial expressions. You can change your outfit as often as you fancy too - just look into any mirror 
 in the game to customise your Sim.
  And now the game starts properly, with you being told by the mayor that the town could do with 
 someone to come and fix it up a little bit. Things used to be very different in these parts but 
 now the town's hotel is ghostly quiet and most of the locals have moved on to pastures new.
  
  
  
  First things first though. If you're to sort this place out, you'll need a base of 
 operations. And so you're introduced to the Workshop, a place in the game where you'll be spending 
 an awful lot of your time. It's here where you can create items. From chairs, to cupboards, to 
 beds, to full-blown houses, your Workshop is your main method of drawing people back into the town. 
 We've gone into detail on how simple it is to use it elsewhere but suffice to say that this single 
 element represents the backbone of the game and it will suck up your entire life. We spent over 
 an hour just creating our first house.
  In order for an item to become 'useful', you'll have to use one of the blueprints given to you. 
 This is essentially a set of instructions in the form of a transparent 3D grid on the floor. Fill 
 this grid and your construction will be given the finishing touch. This can range from the front 
 door of a fridge, to the duvet and pillow on a bed, depending on the item. As long as you fulfil 
 the minimum requirements of the template, you can do whatever you want with your construction. 
 
  As you can see from our screenshots, we've made all manner of things - a Mario cupboard, twin-toilet 
 sofa and train engine chair included! Your imagination sets the limits. As you progress through 
 the game the people around you and the new residents you draw in will give you new blueprints... 
 and other things depending on their personality. 
  
  
  
  
  Everything that happens in MySims is all based around a set of personality traits and emotions. 
 To start with, each character is a certain type of person and likes certain things. For example, 
 Poppy the flower shop girl is very cute and girly and, as such, she likes cute and girly things, 
 like flowers and dolls... and a flower doll, well that would be her idea of perfection. The hotel 
 bellhop on the other hand is a bit of a geek and he's really into robots, gadgets and the like.
 
  You'll learn their likes and dislikes by watching their actions and, more importantly, what emoticons 
 appear over their heads when they're talking to other people. You can then decorate their houses 
 and give them presents based on what you think they will like. Make them happy and they're more 
 likely to give you presents in return, such as decoratives (that you can use to decorate your house 
 or someone else's) , new blueprints or Essences.
  An element in the game that's possibly as important as the workshop is the Essences system. Everything 
 in the game has one. If you shake a red apple tree and pick up an apple you will have one apple 
 essence. You now have three 
  choices. You can literally give that apple to someone. Alternatively, you can plant that apple 
 in order to grow another tree. Or you can use its essence to paint and decorate.
  
  
  
  
  Every item's essence has an over-riding quality. The model robots that someone buried in the 
 field are geeky, so they're ideal for decorating the walls in the hotel. Gino the Italian chef 
 loves food, so it seems only right that you would want to find apples, or even fish essences, to 
 make him happy.
  We can really only scratch the surface 
  of this game. There's so much to do and everything around you is so nice to look at that you'll 
 find yourself absolutely hooked from the get-go. And then you'll discover a new area with new things 
 to do, new trees to harvest and a whole bunch of new essences to utilise.
  The graphical style pulls the entire game together. It's strange because you don't think twice 
 about the cartoon stylings. Like Zelda: Wind Waker on the GameCube, the toon style is perfect for 
 facial expressions and a seemingly hand-in-glove fit for the Wii. It's one of those games that 
 would probably look exactly the same if it was on an Xbox360 or PS3. Everything around you is so 
 crisp and pretty... you almost forget it's just a videogame sometimes.
  
  
  
  Every little part of the game works so well that you'll crave even more creativity, and this is 
 where the game shoots itself in the foot a bit. The workshop and essences systems are so good that 
 you'll start treating them like professional creation packages. We want more control. We want to 
 be able to create our own art and map it onto our creations. We want to be able to write things 
 on our car instead of using tiny blocks and colouring them. Animal Crossing had it. This month's 
 DS racer Race Driver has it. There's really no reason why MySims shouldn't have it in. We guess 
 it's just an oversight but it's a strange one when you consider how great the game is otherwise.
 
  And another thing... when we've spent an hour making a train engine chair or a Mario wardrobe, 
 we want to be able to send it to a mate via WiiConnect24, or at least save it to SD and transfer 
 it to their world. And so on...
  These are small gripes though and we're sure that once Nintendo gets its online arse in gear (early 
 2008 hopefully) developers across the world will be able to incorporate many of them as standard.
 
  
  
  
  MySims is an adorable little game 
  that caters for the creative and caring personality that hides away in all of us. 
  And even 
 if you're completely evil, MySims caters for that too. Be demonic and go around causing trouble 
 if you must - there's an entirely different side to the game in their for you mischief-makers. 
 
  It's better than Animal Crossing and Harvest Moon in almost every way, while also being a completely 
 different kind of game. A little confused? Play it and love it. It's as simple as that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xocandii
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I love the whole sims 2 series but for me this game was fun at first but got boring after 2 days. 
 I had an urge to play again and only kept it on for 5 minutes because of how bored I was. This 
 game's challenge is to make a town into a five star town but to do this you must make items for 
 your sims and houses throughout the whole game and find essences. This game also doesn't have a 
 lot of building items, after I made a couple places my houses started to look the same. My friend 
 had said before I bought it to don't get it but I thought it looked so fun I wanted it and didn't 
 know what he was talking about but then after I regretted it. Oter than that the sims are really 
 cute but you also don't get a lot of clothes to choose from when you make your character. I was 
 highly disapointed with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _AbBaNdOn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  My Sims is an amazingly fun game. You create a sim and arrive in a town that is in desperate need 
 of someone with the skills to create. The game is all about getting people to resettle and repopulate 
 the town. You do this by visiting the local hotel where each day new people will show up and think 
 about staying. Its your job to pick one person and then choose a location for them to live in town 
 and then build them a house.
  
  If they run some kind of shop or store then you usually have to help out further by building them 
 stuff they need to get things running again, like kitchen stuff, furniture, other things.
  
  As you move more people back into town and helps the shops get back into the swing of things 
 your towns rating goes up giving you access to other sections of town.
  
  Basically the game revolves around building stuff whether its buildings or bathtubs. Both are pretty 
 easy to do and only limited by your imagination. All the sims in the game have two interests. To 
 make them happy they want their house and their decorations to match those interests. Interests 
 include: "Geek, Scholar, Fun, Cute, Food, and Sad".
  
  To make buildings match a sims interest you are limited to using specific building materials like 
 doors, windows, lights that are themed. Making furniture and decorations is where you will spend 
 most of your time. Thanx to the killer workshop you can make the furniture/decor look like anything 
 your imagination can come up with. To make it appeal to an interest you use paint.
  
  To get paint you have to collect "essenses". These are all over the place. Some are buried, some 
 you get from interacting with people, some grow on trees, and some you get by fishing. One example 
 of an essense is a "red apple". It takes 1 essense to paint one block of whatever you made, so 
 if you used 10 blocks you will need 10 essense to finish it (although you can use less) . Usually 
 the sim your building for specifies how many essenses they want used, but you can go over that.
 
  
  Anyways each type of essense like red apple has 4 patterns associated with it. They all consist 
 of 2 prints, and two shades of a solid color. Besides painting blocks you can also just place an 
 essense in a design in which case it looks like the object. A red apple would be a red apple and 
 you could place it where ever. But that would take up a crapload of space so its better to just 
 paint.
  
  Back to making stuff. To make something you have to choose from a blueprint which will set what 
 its premade parts will look like. You enter this rotating platform with a grid on it and a ghost 
 image of where you should place blocks. The cool part is in the ghost image there are little shiny 
 stars. To "complete" the design and create the premade look of the object you just have to cover 
 those stars. The rest of the ghost image can be ignored or you can go on to build something insane.
 
  
  Do you want a basic tv set or do you want your tv to look like its sprouting giant claws with eyeballs 
 on the tips?? Do you want a nice comfy flat bed or do you want it to be made of really sharp angles 
 and held up by one leg made out of balls? The item building is what gives this game so much enjoyment.
 
  
  The end goal in the game is to make everybody your best friend and that only happens after you 
 trick out the inside of their house. You are given new blueprints each time you do a job for a 
 sim and for when you become best friends with them. Some of the sims dont run a shop or anything 
 they are called townies. Townies are your chance to go nuts and do whatever you want. They dont 
 ask for anything so you can build whatever you want as long as it matches their interest, but they 
 usually have cool rewards.
  
  I guess I should mention that unlike all the other sims games you dont have to manage your sims 
 needs and wants. You will never get tired, you will never have to take a dump. You just have to 
 keep building like you are an 8 year old from china who has a quota to meet.
  
  I loved this game and thinks its a must own. I think you can get bored with it if you are not creative 
 but if you are creative the game has no end because you can just keep changing everything in the 
 game, where people live, what their house looks like, their interior.
  
  Its probably to late for this since My Sims: Kingdom is already getting released but there were 
 a few issues I took notice of:
  
  #1 Framerate. This game pushes the poor little Wii to its limit and here and there the game really 
 bogs down in the framerate, especially when moving complex furniture or searching for buried stuff.
 
  
  #2 Clean up the friends list. You should see a list of a large number of sims with a pic of the 
 sim, their relationship status towards you, and their two interests all on one screen. Right now 
 you have to open the list and then choose a sim just to see some stupid tiny images of their relationship 
 and interests and a bio.
  
  #3 Sometimes you get asked to build something specific but it doesnt go into your official task 
 list which is stupid. If something specific gets asked for PUT IT IN THE LIST.
  
  #4 When you build something you should be able to save the design and name it. I figured out its 
 best to build stuff and leave it unpainted as templates and to leave them at home. Then if somebody 
 wants something I have a template for I go grab it and use the edit/copy feature and then paint 
 up the copy. This result in a house full of unpainted crap though. It would have been so helpful 
 to be able to just save and name designs. Like bathtub60 which would mean a bathtub made of 60 
 blocks.
  
  #5 Why are we unable to use essense to paint houses?? Maybe that unlocks later in the game? I only 
 made it to 4 stars in the two days I had the game. They did such a killer job creating awesome 
 paint patterns and then you can't even use them on the outside of a house.
  
  #6 When your painting a design we should have had a paint all blocks option. When your creating 
 your own stuff for people it would have been helpful to have this. Most sim requested items are 
 mix essense so not so much for those although i guess even for that. If you have 99 of one thing 
 you could use all paint on the object to paint all the blocks and then use the other essense to 
 fill in just the ones you need. So thats 2/3 situations it would be helpful.
  
  #7 Last but not least... the buttons definately need reconfigured for making stuff. The rotation 
 buttons are on the same controller as the placement button and the button you have to hold down 
 to place multiple blocks?? What freaking moron thought that up? I guess the easiest fix to the 
 problem would be to make the B button/copy button an on/off button. Right now you have to hold 
 it down and if you let up it deletes the block your working with. If you trying to place multiple 
 blocks and have to rotate them to its a freaking two handed nightmate. On/off B button would totally 
 fix this because you just turn it on, rotate away without fear of losing your block and then turn 
 it off when your done.
  
  Those problems were all pretty minor. If I owned a Wii I would definately buy this game and My 
 Sims: Kingdom as soon as it drops. Your fun with this game is only limited by your imagination. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamiKitten
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I was excited at first glance on this game. Cute design, and cute little Sim characters. Of course 
 tho in my head I was still reliving the really old Sims days like the silly add-ons like Hot Date 
 and making majic. What a surprise I was in for, or lack there of I should say.
  
  Story ~ Simply your a budding personality to the other Sims that you'll revolutionize and wow them 
 with new furniture to bring in more sims. Hrrmmm...
  
  Gameplay ~ Really really easy. You talk to Sims, they ho hum to you about what they need and you 
 go build it. Each new item you create you unlock another set of wood pieces to create something 
 even better later. Controlling your sim is dirt easy, walking and talking to the others. Sometimes 
 the building of furniture was a little frustrating as that one piece just wouldn't go where it 
 needed to go! Finishing off certain furniture pieces draws in other types of sims: the party, the 
 nerdy, the emo/goth, and the overly happy lol. The more of one certain type of sim moves into the 
 town, you could "unlock" a special sim neighbor. A pirate girl, a sushi chef, and some others. 
 But after a time, building chairs and fridges for others become mundane and boring. Same goes for 
 the farming of materials. You just basically walk around shaking trees, or digging the dirt for 
 items to build your masterpieces.
  
  The over all look of the sims had potential, it was cute, and bright. The sims characters still 
 talk in a silly sim jibberish. You still pick clothes, but sadly it's in premade outfits so you 
 really can't make your particular style. You're just one in a few that look alike. Overall this 
 game could have been made a lot better. I suppose it was more or less made for a younger group 
 of simulation addicts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narutorulz111
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Well, mainly you create houses and funeriture and do tasks for the people there. You can custimse 
 your charatar with many different eye colors, hair styles and colors, etc. I liked this part about 
 the game. It can be a very fun game. After awhile, though, it starts to get a bit repettive. Also, 
 you can talk to people and becaome thier enemy, friend, arch enemy, etc, but there is no romance 
 (like on the PC sims games) . There are also very little ways of talking. You can pick "Be Nice", 
 or "Be mean", which is extremly limited compared to the Pc games. Overall, it has many flaws but 
 it is a good game. Its more of a game aimed towards younger kids I think, but older people can 
 enjoy it to. If you can, I suggest you rent it first.
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david1233
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  When I first saw that MySims was heading to Wii alarm bells started ringing in my head. I thought 
 that It would just be a kiddy Sims game. I was wrong. very wrong.
  
  You have to realise that this game is a completely different game than the Sims we know and love. 
 does that mean It's not good? Oh no.
  
  Sure the game might look cartoony and kiddy but It's actually a surprisingly good game that sees 
 you build your own Sim.
  
  Then your Sim moves into a town where he or she has to fix up the deserted town to make It good 
 again.
  
  The goal of the game is yopu have to make the zero-star town into a five star town.
  
  Easy? 
 Yes... well actually no. At every moment you have to buiild something for someone. True It's a bit 
 repetitive but It's still a fantastic game that everone who owns a Wii should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  In the game you can create a character and you work at the town and there are stars you first start 
 off with the 1st star. The 2nd star is that more people are coming to the town but not enough. 
 The 3rd star is that it is half and half. The 4th star means that you are almost done with the 
 game. The last star the 5th one you are done with the game really to get this stars you gotta help 
 out the main characters you can have a job and you help people out in the game and you also decorate 
 you house with the furniture you like.
  
  The good of this game is that there is plenty to do at the start of the game.
  
  The bad of 
 this game is that there isn't enough to do at the ending of the game.
  
  Overall I rate this game 9.0 outta 10 because there is plenty to do at the start until you get 
 up to the 5th star then it gets boring until then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akiak
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  When I got MySims i tried it and my first impression was that its boring. After finishing Mariokart 
 wii I decided to give Mysims another chance. Man was I surprised!
  
  You have to play it for at least an hour before judging it or you'll lose all the fun. There are 
 tons of options and things to do.
  First of all, you can create your own Sim. Then you can make your own house from the outside using 
 many different shaped and sized blocks and decorations and then painting it. Then you can decorate 
 your house by building your very own furniture!
  
  Building is simple and innovative. You start out by choosing the thing you want to build (couch, 
 bed. tv, oven, etc.) . You then end up in your workshop where you see a ghost image (or blueprint) 
 of the thing you are building with some dots scattered around.
  You can now fill it in any way you like using pre-made shapes or these so-called "essences" that 
 are items you find around town. The only rule you must respect is to cover the dots (for example 
 on a tv, the dots represent where the screen goes) . You can then paint it with tons of patterns. 
 Each essence has four patterns giving you tons of options.
  
  
  In your town there is a hotel where Sims come and stay and you can go ask them to move in the own. 
 Each Sim has different tastes and if you satisfy their tastes they will be very happy. Sims occasionally 
 ask you to build stuff for them.
  
  As your town grows you earn new options and you can expand your town.
  
  MySims is a lot of 
 fun especially if you're into creating stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoshiFan14
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  MySims got me addicted. But for 2 days, really. And I haven't played it since. Nothing like the 
 Sims games. You just build things! I thought it would be like a Sims game! You don't really take 
 care of your Sim like in the other games. There is no point to eating. It just keeps you entertained 
 the first time, then you never feed them again. You build things for people. And you hardly socialize. 
 Scratch that. You BARELY socialize. Once you build everything you need for your house, you really 
 won't want to keep playing. They could've taken a little more time making this game so they could 
 make some money off it! The game is awful. It just took me 2 days to realize that. If you want 
 to play it, go ahead, see if you can get passed 2 days before you fall asleep from  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  My Sims is cute, it's nice, it's cleaned up... But all in all, there's just a few BIG things that 
 I have wrong with it.
  
  Firstly, My Sims loading time is terrible. It takes a long time to load, after the PS2 I figured 
 we were done with outrageous loading times, but evidently not.
  
  Secondly, lag... Lag is terrible in this game, your town is so big and I suppose it was just to 
 much for the Wii to handle, the game lags a lot and houses you built might not show up for a second 
 and show up a second later. It's frusterating.
  
  Third, the relationship system. It takes sooo long for you to become anyone's friend on that, and 
 best friend? Be prepared to put a good hour into talking to the same guy until he becomes your 
 best friend.
  
  Now the bad is gone, let's go over the good!
  
  It's cute, your character is customizable down to the voice! It's pretty cool, everything is cute.
 
  
  Love building things, using imagination is great, everybody loves it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDawg333
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Well some people actually happen to think MySims is a great game! Why did Gamespot give MySims 
 such a bad rating?! I dont get it. The game is fun. And its definently good for Sims fans, like 
 me! I mean really! Its not such a bad game!
  
  U can make ur own sim like in the previous games still. And u can build the houses and go inside 
 them and decorate the inside! Why is it such a bad game? I read the review and its not all that 
 bad! There might be a little lag and some wierd features but hey! I like the game.
  
  U got all these kool places to build houses and move other Sims into! And u can go around looking 
 for kool essences! Its pretty unique! And u can use a metal detector to find new ones. I like it.
 
  
  The game isnt a great as any of the other Sims games. Like The Sims 2, but its mostly aimed at 
 the younger kids. And u dont have motives and skills which kinda sucks. But its a good game if 
 u wanna take a break from the motives and skills!
  
  The game is just allright to me. Its not supurb, but it is great. I give it an 8 out of 10. Almost 
 a 9, but not quite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cartoonguy11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This game in a nice one to have in your collection. It's a game where you help people, build stuff, 
 and help a town get popular again. The Nunchuk is required in this game because that's how you 
 move your character. My only problem in this game is that the game has no multiplayer, neither 
 local nor online. But there are more good things than bad things about this game. You can build 
 your town pretty much how you want. If you like anime style characters, playing with Legos, and 
 building things for people, then this game is for you! You can customize your character with reward 
 outfits you get when you give a Sim everything they need. You can make friends and enemies in the 
 game. This is a nice game to have if you own a Wii, but I've heard the DS version isn't that great. 
 Oh well. I like this game, and I feel that this game is not as loved as it deserves to be. This 
 is a great game for kids, too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crszn962015
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  My Sims is a pretty good game, but I could think of 10 ways it could be better. Here are the 10 
 reasons:
  
  1. More lots
  2. Bigger houses
  3. Bigger town area
  4. Families 
  5. Less cartoony look
  6. Ride on Hotel Elevators
  7. Less Constructing
  8. Pets
  9. More 
 Connections with other Sims (Socializing)
  10. More Essences
  
  Graphics: 8/10 The graphics are O. K. for a Wii game, but unlike other Sims games I have seen, the 
 graphics are too cartoony. Likely on purpose the Sims actually look more like Miis.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 You will be hooked on the game for hours, but a few tweaks that I mentioned could 
 make the game better. The gameplay gradually gets not as fun.
  
  Addictiveness: 10/10 When you start the game, you will jump right in to it, but later in the game, 
 you will probably just trying to get the last sims and best Friend awards for the Sims.
  
  Overall: 9/10 This game is highly addicting if you are looking for a virtual life game. My Sims 
 is good, but not quite perfect.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirby684reader
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  My sims is the kid-friendly game created by ea games and isn't half bad. You create all the houses 
 and everything inside it. But you have to collect things called essenses which can be rather repetitive 
 and tiring. The creating interface is great and the graphics are mii like and cool. Slight lagging 
 is a problem. I have played the game for about 40 hours and it froze once. All though creatings 
 stuff can be a blast the social relationship with other sims isn't that great. There are plenty 
 of sims but there are a limited amount of lots to put them in so it can be a pain having 5 sims 
 in the hotel ready to move in but no houses. Kicking people out is what you have to do and that 
 is sometimes unwanted because every sim is unique. Sims can range from anstronomers to Librarian 
 and plenty differnt types. It can be quite addicting to constantly create things and move in people. 
 My sims is a great game that almost makes the incredible games list but just shy of it. Before 
 buying this game remember that you might get tired of it in the first few hours but in my opinion 
 that won't happened. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jambajuice95
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game, I thought it would be a good game....... I was only half right. This game 
 had plenty of room for improvement. Now I know this game was meant for a younger consumer, but 
 i mean come on. You shovel out crayons and dolls, what is this? Is this Sims or Teletubbies? I 
 seriously can't tell the differance. Now to be fair, the game wasn't completly horrible. There 
 were some good things. Like building construction was kind of fun. And moving in all the differant 
 buisnesses was some what enjoyable. But then you walk in and they expect you to build crap for 
 them. Then sometimes they would tell you to build something that was impossible to do. Like they 
 was an object thats like 3 parts but they want 50 parts of it painted a certain color. But you 
 can spend all day nit-picking this game, and i don't have that kind of time. So I'm gonna rap this 
 up real quick. The game could have been better but was still an ok game. But I expected more from 
 Sims. I give this game an 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokefan_10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 1:56 am PT
Review:  This game is really great, who else doesn't want to build a house and furniture for others and 
 yourself.
  
  Gameplay:
  The good thing about the gameplay is building houses and furniture and designing it with whatever 
 you want. Unlike the other Sims games (except for The Sims 2 for the PSP, PS2, DS and Game Boy 
 Advance, The Sims Bustin' Out and The Sims for the PS2, Xbox and GameCube) , this game has tasks 
 by just building furniture and houses and designing with the required essences.
  
  Graphics:
  Nearly just like the Miis, they are very small and have standard colors no shade but 
 they have shadows. Like the console version for The Sims, it doesn't have dusk and dawn and it 
 doesn't tell time just daytime and straight to nighttime.
  
  Story:
  The story is the same as SimCity but instead of building a city, the player must build homes and 
 move in more Sims to make the town back to a 5-Star rating.
  
  I'm very excited for the release MySims Kingdom and MySims Party. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deltaman3
Rating: 1.5
Date: May 5, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  I really dont know why i even wanted to get this game, just dont ask. The first thirty mins is 
 laggy, and it happens every time you start. Also, you have limited controls of how you build things, 
 making it really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cotch1212
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 29, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Well I had been meaning to try this game out for quite some time so I picked it up via Gamefly. 
 And I must say I was pleasantly surprised by this little title. Let me say right of the bat, if 
 you tried Animal Crossing for GC or DS and hated it, DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME. It bears a striking 
 resemblance to those titles but adds a little bit of sims-like flair to the mix. My wife liked 
 it more than I did and spent MANY hours playing through it. Can be a little repetitive but it works 
 for this style of game. I would recommend renting to anyway before buying it though, it's definitely 
 not for all, but it was a good time waster for me.
  
  Basic premise is that you move into a town where everyone has pretty much left and you are the 
 new builder. Your job is to build homes and furniture and run little tasks for the townspeople. 
 The more successful you are, the more people will move into your town. Can get a little boring 
 collecting supplies for building furniture, but like I said this game is not for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynwri8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  Sure it's a game that is rather simple, but that's one of the enjoyable parts of the game. It is 
 very family friendly and even younger children can design fun, cute and silly houses. There are 
 always new people to add to the town and everything is what you design it to be. 
  For adults it's a relaxing game that let's you sit back and create some really crazy stuff. The 
 people are even cool to make. It's an adorable game that should be just be had for fun. Not all 
 games have to be complicated social and constructed masterpieces. This is a nice addition for the 
 kids to play and no one has to worry about the content and situations. I am hoping they come out 
 with more MySims and they keep with the same style of play. There is so much they could do to give 
 new variety to the game. It will be fun to see what is coming next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kilgorin666
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 15, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  MySims is one of the latest sims games to hit the Wii. Wii is an amaming console and a Sims game 
 would have rocked on this console! But, does this game cut? I'm sorry, but it doesn't.
  
  Housemaking, one of the Sims hotspots over time, is now extremely shallow and you HAVE to have 
 a square house (Or rectangle) . Houses have no real personality. 
  
  THis game uses a colouring thing called 'Essenses'. These can colour houses and furnature, which 
 you make furnature yourself. This gets utterly boring after a while and you can never be arsed 
 to make your own furnature because your too busy making other peoples furnature and getting nothing 
 but paper in return.
  
  Yep, there is NO simoleons in this game. Payment is in blueprints so you can make MORE furnature. 
 Whoopie! I'd prefer to hjave making furnature thing on the side and be able to buy furnature.
 
  
  Furnature and housemaking aren't the only shallow thing in this. Interface is AWFUL. Bight nice 
 is anything imbetween giving someone a flower and throwing coloured paper at them. Nice. And bieng 
 mean is water ballooning them and poking them. Boring indeed. Plus, they just say the same things 
 over and over again when you select talk. Plus, even if a character (Even GOTH BOY) , says "I don't 
 like flowers and confetti", when bieng nice, they still enjoy it. Erm... Whaa?
  
  To win the game, all you need to do is get to a 5 star rating. Easy to do in 2 hours, i mean it. 
 And from then the game is UTTERLY boring.
  
  To conclude, would you pay 39.99 for 2 hours of boring and monotonous gameplay where people throw 
 confetti and water balloons at eachother, making furnature for ungrateful pixels, and playing the 
 most shallow sims game ever? I wouldn't pay 4 let alone 40. Avoid this game
  
  One word: SHALLOW.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameGoddess32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for 3 months now, and I LOVE it!! It is more kid-friendly than the other Sims 
 games, but I just love the cutesy style of the characters. I bought the game guide too, because I 
 wanted to get the most out of this game, but I
  don't think alot of people would need it. I have the DS version too, but the only complaint I have 
 is that it's too short. I just saw that they are making a new
  My Sims game. Woo-Hoo!!!!! I hope the new version for DS is not so short and
  incorporates more 
 building like the Wii version did. I didn't like the idea of the other Sims games because it's way 
 too much like real life. I've heard you have to teach your sim to go to the bathroom...... if I wanted 
 to teach something to go to the bathroom, I'd get a cute little puppy. But everyone might not like 
 this Sims game, and that's ok...... I mean hey, I don't like the looks of the other sims games, but 
 that's just my personal opinion. So if you're thinking about this game, try renting it first. That's 
 what I did, and I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikejo2603
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I made a big mistake by BUYING this game before RENTING which I usually do... D'OH! 
  
  Pros- 
  *New, cute character design which varies widely from goths to librarians to socialites. 
 
  
  *When creating your house, your building style can be whatever you wish. 
  
  *The easiness of the game is yawn worthy.
  
  *Numerous different building blocks and essence 
 wallpapers.
  
  Cons-
  *The character design and game world get way too cute after a while and you're soon longing for 
 any game with any shred of realistic style.
  
  *Your Wii will sound like it will explode if you play this.
  
  *Loading screens are slow and 
 laggy when transferring back to your character from build and decorate modes.
  
  *The whole game is a torture device. 
  
  *Can you say SIMS meets LEGOs?
  
  This is the 
 WHOLE GAME....
  
  Build your house and workshop. Collect essences. Build the city's houses/businesses. Collect necessary 
 essences. Build furniture for the new tenants of these houses. Collect necessary essences. Collect 
 essences until you go nuts with the monotony of the process of essence collection and building 
 and absolutely no REAL interaction with characters other than accepting tasks, finding essences 
 and moving people into your town.
  
  RINSE AND REPEAT!
  
  I give it .......1.5.
  
  1 for the cuteness of the characters and for the first hour.
  
  .5 for the repetitive nature 
 of this incredibly weak title that would not serve to be any better for any other system.
  
  
  In closing, this game was probably the worst game I have ever played and I have been known 
 to pick out some clunkers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TechNick1
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  MySims is a brand new Franchise for Nintendo only consoles. It is the first in a new series of 
 games based on "The Sims" by Maxis, but with a little Nintendo-ish charm mixed in. The game puts 
 you, the player, into a small town that's just barley on the map anymore. It was long mostly abandoned 
 when the creator, a man who had the power to paint with the pure essence of objects, suddenly vanished 
 from the town. Because of this the towns locals moved out. It became very rundown and it's small 
 sub cities were take away. It was reduced from a 5- Star town to a 1- Star town. 
  
  BUT, you have the power of the essences too! You go to this town and meet up with the mayor. When 
 you do, she shows you the controls, gets you a house, a workshop, ect. Then she shows you what 
 to do, you must go to the hotel and convince some of the visitors to move in. Then you go around 
 finding these "Essences" and you use them to color the objects that the occupant wants for their 
 home. This is the basic pace for the game. Your goal is to do this until you have the town gain 
 another star. When a new star is gained so is a new Tool. These tools allow you to open new areas 
 in the town.
  
  Now this is a new game on a new system so it does come with it's problems as you'd expect. There 
 are many constant loading screens everywhere. Even from small things such as opening a menu. There 
 are also some areas where you will experience some frame- rate drops. This is strange as the game 
 isn't even pushing the Wii's capability's to hard. Also there may sometimes be some "Glitches" 
 that will occur. Such as you walking through an object, getting the cursor stuck in a position, 
 or getting your sim's animation stuck in a certain position.
  
  So if you can look past the obvious technical Glitches and problems, you will most lickey have 
 a good, fun experience with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  This game was most likley intended to be for kids, i'll bet. And it was a very kid friendly game 
 when it came out on September 18. But this is not the best Sims game ever made. There is an awful 
 lot of construction going on in the game, and I'm not the most creative constructor; this game 
 isn't easy for those of you who aren't creative. The least though, there is a lot of socializing, 
 which will appeal to many gamers young and old. But some of it is not to the max. Plus, as we go 
 back to the construction, there is not a wide ranch of choices. Many choices, but not a wide range.
 
  I end this review with a few last things. Props to EA for making a kids game, but sorry because 
 this is not going to appeal to the average gamer. If you are looking for new life in the virtual 
 world, it'd be worth trying this game. But the least to say, this is not the best virtual world 
 to live in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeveefan93
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  As You Know You Start The Game At A Trashy 0 Star Rating City!
  Witch Used To Be A Heck Of A Town! It's Up To You To Get
  The Town Back To A 5 Star Rating! To 
 Do Such A Thing
  Biuld Places Like Arcades, Pizza Resturants libaries, clubs, houses. And Locate Them Where You 
 Want Like Forests, Deserts And The Central Plaza! And Billed Stuff! Design Your Town How You Want!
 
  Decide Who Gets To Live In Your Town! And Most Of All, Be Creative.
  After All That, Make Friends And/Or Enemys! Also Help Your Friends With Their Goals!
  
  The 
 Pros Of This Game: You Can Billed Stuff, Doing Stuff Like: Eating,
  Go To The Bathroom Is Optional, And Good Experience For Starter Sim Players!
  The Cons Of This 
 Game: The Stupid Loading Screens Wastes Your Time, And I Can't Evict Mayor Rosalyn!
  
  Mysims Is The Most Fun Sims Game EVER! It Beats The Other Sims games any day, any month, any year, 
 any decade, or any century. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  MySims is a Sims game that has a storyline, with a little bit of open-endedness. The game's story 
 starts out with a flashback illustration of that was once a beautiful town, that turned into a 
 trashy dump. The player's sim comes to town and is hired by Mayor Rosalin as a builder. The player 
 sim hopes to turn the town back into the five star beauty that it once was. To do that he has to 
 build houses, arcades, libraries, resturaunts, hidden ninja hideouts, martial arts academies, etc. 
 He also has to move people in.
  
  What I liked about this game is that it's a great starter sim game for kids. Building is great 
 fun. Great chibi sim art. The same sim socialization.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that five star retrieval can be difficult. Building items 
 can be frustrating. Boys wearing dresses (optional) . Not everything in MySims is for kids.
  
  Overall, this is a great Sims installment for Wii. I love creating my town.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mech-warrior97
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  It's a fun game but not enough length or social commands. Also, when you build a massive mansion, 
 it's the same size as any other minature building. But this game isn't just bad things. The way 
 you can build anything you want (like a chair that looks like a rocket ship) is fun. I enjoyed 
 watching the blocky characters interact with each other or chugging down a can of soda. One of 
 the weird parts is that people think of a sign (like a plate of pasta for the Italian restaurant) 
 to show where their going. I do enjoy showing off to the people who juggle things by doing it just 
 as well. Overall this a fun game for a younger gamer that wants an interesting game. If your not 
 sure about getting this game, rent it first. 
  P. S. If you already have this game, don't you wish Buddy the Bellhop will stop tripping every twenty-five 
 steps!?!?!?!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NatendoWhisky64
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  If your looking for the Sims game your used to playing then don't bother to keep reading, because 
 this game is nothing like the other Sims you have played. To be honest, I never liked the Sims 
 games, but this one I did. In this Sims game you actually had tasks that you had to complete otherwise 
 it would be a pretty boring game. Also the people were cartoony and they actually looked cooler 
 than the regular sims people. 
  
  The thing I loved about this game is that you got to build your towns houses, people, and what 
 they have in there houses. Even if you don't want that person in your town, boot em out. If you 
 feel bad for kicking them out invite em back in. There are not a lot of wrong choices you can do 
 in this game. The only wrong choice is probably not giving this game a try.
  
  The basic goal of this game is that you move into a under populated town, and it needs to be fixed. 
 So you, with your all powerful ability to use essences, needs to bring this town back to life. 
 To do this you need to build people houses, and become there friends. 
  
  The only hard part about this game is finding the right essences, because everybody in the town 
 wants different ones. So you have to search the town, the forest, the dessert and the beach until 
 you find the right ones. That's what kind of reminds me of harvest moon, except it's not always 
 the food that you deliver. 
  
  It's a fun game to play, even for me, someone who needs violence in a game to like it. I was very 
 suprised I liked it. My friends have there own files on it for whenever they come over. I would 
 reccomend this game to everyone who has a Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xlrb5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't one of the best Wii games I've played but it is alot of fun to run around and build 
 stuff. Doing some of the errands you have to run aren't that much fun, in fact it gets very boring. 
 It's like "Please save me from doing these boring errands!!!" I know there are a lot of you saying 
 "Why don't you turn it of then if you find it that boring." Your right I should just turn the game 
 off and play one of my better games, but instead I just run around, go into buildings, eat food, 
 and splash around in the fountain. I do like the costumes though. Wearing different clothes that 
 you get or earn is alot of fun. Trying to see what goes with what and all that sort of thing. Just 
 rent the game first and see if you like it. If you don't like it then it gives you another game 
 to give a crappy review to, but if you like it then it's another game to add to your collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsons2102
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  my sims for the wii is a very entertaining and fun game. like i said before the graphics arent 
 the best but for the wii ur really not askin for good graphics. the gameplay in this game is really 
 fun cause all u really do is build stuff, decorate buildings, find essense and some more stuff. 
 The music is kinda cheesy but it pretty good. the price of this game ($40) is really good for a 
 jam packed game like this. everything in this game is great except for one thing... i hate that 
 u have to put the essenes on ur decorations it gets really annoying because it makes the decortion 
 look like junk. if anyone knows a way that u dont have to put the essesens then please tell me 
 in a pm. overall this good is really fun if u like simulation games. So in total i give this game 
 an 8 for being a good game, but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 22, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  The answer to that is no.....
  But it isn't a bad a game at all, but it does like every game have its faults but it also has its 
 good things going as well. Since there are a lot of faults ill begin with that.
  First off there are tons of loading times, when you go in and outside is the main hassle that gets 
 in the way, because your constantly going in and out. You do a lot of building which is all good 
 and all but you don't have enough socializing. If you choose to socialize on your own your not 
 going to get a lot out of it but the same exact message reappearing. The game also is going to 
 get a couple yawns out of you while playing it, while i am used to playing action games i play 
 the sims 2 and that doesn't occur until it is worn out. The good thing about the sims 2 is you 
 have re-playbility in which this game you really dont. 
  second, the good stuff is. It is unique and the my sims looks fit well, you do get very little 
 motion out of it but what you get works well with the game. The game attires it self well with 
 a nice cozy feel while you play it and if you get that feeling and like that feeling you should 
 enjoy the game while it last.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IamaFreakygamer
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 2:30 am PT
Review:  ... MY SIMS...
  
  I think this is an amazing game and is my 2nd best game I own!
  I olso have My Sims on DS but the DS version is appaling!
  Ive got 5 stars and You can go so 
 many places!
  But on the DS version when you get a star lvl up the town doesn't change much!
  
  GOOD THING 
 :)
  
  Amazing graphics,
  Build mode,
  The use of over 100 odd essences,
  Building Buildings - lol,
  Great free roming!
  Lodes of interesting costumes to choose from!
 
  NO Sim game has ener done this - Choose your voice (brilliant)
  
  BAD THINGS : (
  
  I think think when you click on "be nice" or "be mean" there should be options to do or to say 
 rather than your Sim randomly doing the action.
  ... also they should of put about 10 more lots in the game so you can store more visitors in your 
 town.
  
  ... Unfortunatly my game is second hand : (...
  You have to get this game...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  My Sims is pretty much a kid friendly version of The Sims. This fits well on the Wii's lineup of 
 casual children players, but it can also be enjoyable for other gamers as well.
  
  Don't go into the game with high expectations that you would have for a proper Sims game, because 
 if you do you'll be disappointed, if you don't then you'll be able to enjoy the game for mindless 
 fun. 
  
  You start off by making your Sim, which has no gender. I spent five minutes looking around the 
 create a sim screen for a gender switch option. I figured out that you simply have to cycle through 
 the hair/clothes until you get male/female items and then change your voice. Safe to say, cross 
 dressing can happen a lot in this game, and if you're... freaky, transsexuals can come far too 
 many. Someone call Jack Thompson. Anyways, after that... LOADING SCREEN
  
  Yes, am I wrong to think that I have never actually noticed a loading screen on a Wii game? For 
 all the games I've played I can't seem to remember any game having them. Well My Sims has them 
 every time you enter or exit a building and every time you start building. They are fairly long 
 and common so its quite the annoyance. 
  
  But anyways, the premise is, you need to rebuild a town to get people to move in and then interact 
 with them. Building buildings is pretty easy, it's pretty much just using building blocks. Same 
 goes for items and furniture. You will also need to collect "essences" which you can use to paint 
 stuff or add items. These essence items are necessary for objectives such as "Make a chair with 
 6 sad essences for the whiny emo kid down the street" If you're having a bad day, you're not going 
 to be happy when you have to actually go around and grind the game just to find the essence you 
 need.
  
  Despite it's flaws, My Sims is an enjoyable time passer, but don't think that it is a must have 
 for your Wii collection... unless you're a ten year old who doesn't know better and just likes 
 bright colors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TPSISO9000
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  First, let me say that it's fun while it lasts, and if this is for a child or someone who really 
 loves to virtual build, they'll really like it. After what I said at the top that may not make 
 sense, but flash games are fun too, but not for $50. 
  The official review is too nice, the game has very little character interaction. It all boils down 
 to a sentence or two and then "here's a blueprint of what I want, go build it". That's cool until 
 you find out that's the whole game, over and over; period. Sometimes the characters say some cute 
 one liners, but that's it.
  Building can be fun, and the interaction tool using the Wii remote works. You can follow the blueprint 
 and sticky placement (the game helps to place items correctly) or turn that off and go freeform. 
 It's cool, but there aren't enough pieces or room to actually go creative, so you can change the 
 look of the very basic furniture, but thats about it.
  The lazy programming is just annoying. I don't care what fanboys say, the Wii isn't the next comming 
 of computing power, but after playing Zelda, Mario and Metroid; watching it chug, sputter and struggle 
 with this game was irritating. The graphics are incredibly simple, and thats fine (I like Animal 
 Crossing) , but the game is plauged with slowdown, small freezes, very long load times with loading 
 screens and messages (they knew it when they made it) . Sometimes it pauses when you walk around 
 the world, and sometimes the music slows. Best of all, the disc runs HARD, almost all the time 
 when you're in the overworld, and sounds like an old harddive (or jiffypop) . I've downloaded more 
 graphically demanding games on the virtual console, there is no reason for this!
  Last, the game is very, very short. My wife started on New Years and finished on the fifth. She 
 still plays Animal Crossing sometimes (bought it when it came out) and she's done with this!
  After $50, this is the video game equivalent of "drink more ovaltine". It's very cute, and totally 
 non-threatening, so it's a great buy for little ones; just wait until it's really cheap. Better 
 yet, if they can play on the PC, just get Virtual Villagers, it's almost free and much better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi1993
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  It's great for 10 seconds but then it burns out and your left with nothing but smoke. The first 
 day I played it I was addicted, and I didn't stop playing it all day. Then the next day when I 
 went to play it again the magic was gone. I saw nothing but a chore. Building furniture over and 
 over again creating no one except yourself. The only thing I enjoyed was painting with essences 
 (these items you collect like apples, scary, crabs, and so on and so forth) . Even that got boring 
 in a while. The character design is cute and... nope that's pretty much all one will like after 
 a few days. If you still won't heed my warning and are going to get it, RENT IT FIRST!!! Try it 
 out for a week or so (you'll see what I mean) and if you still want to buy it for 50 dollars be 
 my guest. In conclusion, MySims is not a game for everyone, but there will no doubt be people who 
 can't resist its cuteness and won't sell it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursedmonkeY95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  MySims is an interactive game where you start with an empty town and fill it up by going to the 
 hotel and get a Sim to move in to a house throughout the town. There is a Forest, a desert and 
 a main part of the town. As your town gets to a higher leval, you get more and more space for the 
 people to live in. Soon enough, you run out of space and you just play with the people or do the 
 tasks that the people want done becuase you can build it with your workshop.
  
  What I'm dissapointed about is that there is no Wi-fi (online play) in the game. Im mad because 
 this is like Animal Crossing and that has Wi-fi on it. Im also mad becuase of this essence thing. 
 When you do a tasks, someone wants like 60 of those essences and I can't find them. That's why 
 you should have a walkthrough with you while you are playing so you can find where the essences 
 are. Also, I really want more space in the game so I can move in more Sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  When you first hear about a game like My Sims, you have high expectations.. I mean you can bulid 
 your town to whatever you want and you can communicate with other sims in your town. When The Sims 
 did a kid friendly spin off for my sims you think it would be fun.. but honestly there is not much 
 in the game at all.
  
  When you start the game you have to bulid your character. Now there are all kinds of different 
 things and people you can make.. Including a new thing where you can pick your voice. Once your 
 done buliding your doll like verison of yourself then it is time to hit the town. It worn down 
 and it does not look pretty at all. you have a few remaining villagers but most are gone. its up 
 to you to build up this town.
  
  In doing so you have to bulid everything, from the inside and outside. This is fun cause it simple, 
 but very complex at the same time. you can get really creative in doing this. But it gets old.. 
 very fast And that is all the game has you doing. you get members you have to do task and build 
 them. its not much in the game
  
  You also collect essenses.. You find them around town and that is how you bulid things for people. 
 You can place the actual essesance on your item or paint it! some are easy to find, while others 
 are more rare. 
  
  The game also has a terrible lag and extremely long load times. In a game that does not look too 
 great and have it take that long to load, really worries about 3rd parties.. They should have fixed 
 this before they put this on the market. i mean if they pushed it back a month they could have 
 fixed this. But it has slow down for no reason, including going from night to day.
  
  Overall there is not much game. You build and make your town bigger. There is no challange, or 
 hook like animal crossing gives. They don't give you that reason to keep playing the game at all. 
 There is no reason, what to get more essenses, and more towns people?? It is a good attempt at making 
 a game like animal crossing, but its too shallow, and has no pull in the game that make it anywhere 
 near as fun as animal crossing.. They need to do a better job in pulling there ideas together.. 
 The game feels incomplete
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: Is there much, you build with blocks, not much too it
  Graphics: Good look to them, 
 not that detail, but that is the point of the design, personally i think it looks rad
  Sound: you will reconize some tunes from Sims 2, and custom voice is cool
  Value: You don't get 
 your moneys worth.. i say 30 bucks is the price for this NEW..
  Overall: All flashy, but really not much in the game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacobar
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  The game MySims is a good game for the younger generation, it is very easy to operate compared 
 to the other sims games.
  This game has everything you could ever find in a sims game;
  Building houses **BONUS** You get to build furniture.
  The beggining of the game is a slow process 
 but of corse it is the built in tutorial. After the beggining its just smooth pace sailing.
  As you build your town the more starts you get, and with more stars you get new tools to open up 
 new places just around your town including;
  Chinese themed "forest"
  Wild west Style desert.
  In my opinion this game is a very good game but the bad point is the 
 lack of online "mingling" or the benefit of allowing 2 players to play the game.
  But all in all i believe that this game is definitly worth the mark i am giving it. Not for the 
 added features or the missing ones, but the simplisity and fun of making your own stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I feel I was one of the lucky ones, I chose to rent the game rather than buy it right out. As a 
 Sims fan I saw MySims as the possibility to give new life to a series that has seem to slow down 
 in the shadow of Spore, I was sadly wrong.
  
  The graphics are great, but look as though they could easily be on Gamecube. Now I know that Wii 
 isn't a graphical power house but seriously a company like EA should have pushed it to its limits 
 while sticking with the nice style they had. Overall the game feels like a polished version of 
 Animal Crossing, which isn't bad but you are left with the question of "if Wii has more horsepower 
 why didn't you use it?"
  
  The worst part of the game (and most misleading) is the "Sims" aspect of the game. In the normal 
 Sims 1-2 you build a family as well as relationships with the various inhabitants of your city, 
 in this game you just "be nice" and you go from aquantince to friend, or you "be mean" and get 
 an enemy. The social aspects of MySims are more shallow than a kiddy pool on the hotest day of 
 summer.
  
  In the end the game will leave you wishing and wanting for more, but you'll never find it. If your 
 interested in the Sims I say go grab the PC version, or possibly the gamecube one (which will work 
 in your Wii) and play those, because MySims has nothing of value in a Sandbox style game. Seriously 
 its like playing in a sandbox but without the sand! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  I have played many sims games through the years and when I saw this I thought it looks fun and 
 some what different then most sims games that I have played in the past. I went to the store and 
 got this game and could not stop playing it! It reminds me a lot of sims mixed with Animal Crossing. 
 You move in to this town and you fix it up and get new people to move in. You get to chose who 
 you want in your town and you build their houses and stores and then you get to make things for 
 them and yourself in your work shop. You have to go around and make friends with people in the 
 town and I think this is one of the best WII games of the year. It really is good clean fun for 
 the whole family and once you start playing you just can't seem to put it down. I think just about 
 anyone would love this game and it is a must have for the WII. If you want rent it first but I 
 think you will run out and buy it once you give it a try. A+ Sims does it again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentCH
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Unless you've been living in a cave since 2000, you must've heard of The Sims, a fun virtual life 
 game where you play God as you create a virtual family, buy them a house and furniture, control 
 their lives, and eventually set them on fire and giggle with sadistic glee as you watch them burn. 
 EA has brought the franchise to the Wii, but in a way that's drastically different from its predecessors.
 
  
  Despite having the Sims name, MySims has little in common with the other games. You can still create 
 your own character, and the people still talk in the gibberish language known as Simlish, but the 
 gameplay feels more like Animal Crossing with a bit of Harvest Moon.
  
  The premise of the game is that there's this town that used to be fun and beautiful because this 
 guy with the power to build houses and furniture used to live there. Then he left, and the town 
 became a dump and most of the people moved away. Now you're moving in, and it turns out that you 
 have the power to build as well, so the mayor wants you to make the town look nice again.
  
  Immediately, you'll notice that this game is cute. Incredibly cute. The characters are small 
 with big anime eyes, happy faces, and cute voices. The NPCs can do things like blow bubbles, have 
 picnics, fall down, play video games, dance, and play with dolls. You're guaranteed to go "Awwww" 
 just looking at it.
  
  And then you play it.
  
  The game revolves entirely around creating buildings and furniture for the other characters. That's 
 really all it's about. In order to improve your town's rating, you have to make buildings for people 
 so they can move in, then make furniture for them when they ask for it. For example, the pizza 
 chef will ask for things like a pizza oven and tables for his pizza restaurant. The flower shop 
 girl will want a flower stand, and the DJ will want a turntable.
  
  To make things, you enter a construction mode where you assemble the building or furniture in a 
 way not unlike playing with LEGO sets. It works pretty well, though there's a tendency for the 
 automatic aligning to fight you as it keeps putting a part just off from where you want it to go.
 
  
  Creating buildings is purely an aesthetic deal, though. You can make a building as big or as small 
 as you want, but it will always be the same size inside. Even making your own house the size of 
 an outhouse won't change the sizeable, three-room setup inside. It hardly feels like there's a 
 need to bother actually creating the buildings.
  
  Back to your neighbors' needs, half of building furniture is the construction. The other half is 
 Essences. Essences are items you can collect to paint furniture, and Sims that order furniture 
 from you will want them painted with specific Essences. They fall into six different categories 
 as well, as each Sim has their own likes and dislikes: The goth chick likes spooky stuff, while 
 the trucker likes food items.
  
  Essences can be collected by growing them on trees, fishing for them, receiving them from neighbors, 
 or digging them up while prospecting. Prospecting and fishing get annoying and tedious, since they 
 take a while, and there's always more than one kind at any given prospecting spot or fishing pier, 
 so you'll keep getting essences besides the one you're trying to build up a collection of for your 
 order.
  
  You can interact with your neighbors, but it's very limited, with talking and being nice or mean 
 as the only options. There's no real point in trying to befriend a Sim. You can't get them to move 
 in with or marry you, and even being mean to them gets shrugged off and forgotten right away. If 
 a Sim becomes your best friend (which requires making them furniture, naturally) , all that happens 
 is you get a new blueprint for making more furniture.
  
  While you can make furniture for yourself, again, there's no point. Sure, it'll fill up that empty 
 space in your house, but aside from a few that let you change your clothes or hair, they don't 
 so anything. Sims in this game don't have to eat, sleep, bathe, or anything. They can, but they 
 don't need to, so the furniture and use thereof is just for looks. Other Sims won't come to your 
 house, and players can't visit each others towns, so no one's going to see it but you.
  
  The game's major flaw, though, is that it's constantly slowed down by loading. I'm not just talking 
 about the loading screens that pop up when you enter or leave a building, area of town, or the 
 construction mode. The game keeps having to load up people, actions, effects, music, sounds, and 
 props. For example, let's say you're digging up Essences while prospecting. You start digging, 
 but the shovel doesn't appear at first, suddenly materializing in your hands just as you finish 
 the digging animation, and then the game will pause a bit as it loads up the treasure chest you 
 dug up. The Essences it holds will appear a full second after they were supposed to pop out and 
 the chest is already gone, then when you collect them, it doesn't make the pickup sound right away. 
 It's absolutely bewildering that all of this wasn't fixed before the game was released. Did EA 
 actually think this was okay?
  
  This game was too boring for me and the long load times were annoying. I suppose if the loading 
 was dealt with, I could've stood to play this game longer. If you're a very, VERY patient person 
 and you don't mind the repetitiveness of doing nothing but building stuff over and over, you MIGHT 
 enjoy this game, but in the end, it's just a rushed shadow of what it could've been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galadreil782
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  The original Sims games are all about simulating real life. One of the main aspects of these games 
 is the needs meters. Like the bathroom, hunger, and fun needs. Well, this game put a whole new 
 definition under the Sims category in the dictionary ... building. This game is all about building 
 what you want, when you want, when ever you want! Game Play: 19/10 As I stated before, this game 
 is all about building. One day you move into an old rundown town and there you find out you are 
 a creator. Meaning you can create stuff with essences. You then go on to bring the town back to 
 its old 5 star rating. Building is the main aspect of this game, you build your house, your furniture, 
 and you paint everything. Then you go on to other peoples house, making them to suit the kind of 
 personality that person has. Also, you can fish, plant trees and lots of other stuff to collect 
 essences which can be used when building. All in all the building in this game is very good! But, 
 alot of lag and long loading screens really bring this game down.
  
  Sound : 8/10 Nothing special here , when you create a character you can change the sound of their 
 voice which is a pretty cool feature , but other than that nothing really stands out in the musical 
 aspect of the game. Graphics: 9/10 Now, this part of the review could change depending on the person. 
 Myself, I like the new chibi style graphics of this game. I think they really do the game justice. 
 I feel it adds a new style to the Sims games and kind of spices it up. Other people may not like 
 it, but I feel it's very nice and much needed change. Replay value: 9/10 this game has pretty good 
 replay value because you can always go back and make more random stuff! Design new houses, make 
 new friends, plant more trees, there a lot to do and although I just got this game recently, I 
 feel it will keep me entertained for a while. And I bet you will feel the same way. So all in all 
 this game is very nice .I would definitely buy this game. With lots to do and a totally new fresh 
 Sims game ... what more could you ask for? I am having great fun with this game and I'm sure you 
 will have fun too! I give this game an 8 out of 10, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alaaan_h
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  MY FIRST REVIEW (shame it's for this)
  
  If you want a decent game of this genre get animal crossing.
  
  I've spent ages trying to get 
 something half decent out of this game. It is so damn BORING!
  -Not worth the time.
  -Not worth the effort.
  -Not worth the money.
  
  You spend all your time in this game running 
 off to find some stupid random essences by digging, e. c. t to use them to colour some stupid table 
 or something which your just going to give to someone else anyway.
  
  The whole game consists of this and there is nothing to do after. All you do is stare at the stereotype 
 characters. The interaction with other characters is base on getting essences from them so it soon 
 becomes pointless.
  
  It's a complete go - make this - bring back - get crap gift adventure
  
  Avoid it's poisonous. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxx12381
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  This game can switch back and forth between very fun, to extremly annoying. When you first play 
 this game, you start out by customizing your avatar. The avatar can take around ten minuts or less. 
 The house is a whole different story. You can litterly spend hours coustomizing your house with 
 the very limited amount of different items you have at your disposle. The interior isn't as exciting 
 though. Most items must be made in the work shop. The only missions you start and complete are 
 the chores for the other sims. First you have to build there house. and then you have to build 
 their bed, or bath tub, or sink, or other crap that isn't nessisary. When you complete a task, 
 you get more points toward your town ratting. Every time your town goes up a star in ratting, you 
 get more sims demanding houses and furniture. The only reason you take their crap would be to go 
 up ratting and get more sims wanting this and that. My Sims is a pretty good game, but it just 
 seems like an Animal Crossing remake. I definetly recomend renting or borrowing this game before 
 you consider buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaza-for-wii
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  The good-Cheery graphics
  -Ability to kick out sims at will.
  -great for kids
  -You can create your own house
  
  The bad -Too much construction
  -Finding essences is a 
 drag and putting them on items is even more confusing!
  -Load times can be tricky
  -It says shape your own town to your liking..... most of the time sims you woudnt want near you 
 are staying in the hotel instead of shifting for another sim
  -sims youve kicked out go back to the hotel.... if youve kicked them out whyd you want them again?
 
  -Game gets boring after 5-6 hours and feels like a chore
  
  Overall rating-6.1
  
  My sims is Ea's first installement of sims into the wii. They dropped the realistic avatars and 
 went with small square headed ones. Although theyre cute, they lake custimization. They social apected 
 was filtered out with no wi-fi OR mulitplayer, which really sucks. They also abandoned the buy items 
 and house thing for a construct a house and items for free... the problem is you now have to find 
 everything via scaring, digging, shaking ,baking and fishing and joking.
  
  It starts as you go to a run dowm town as the new person who can use essence to paint things. The 
 town on first sight doesnt look run down and looks pretty good. Well too bad you cant change town. the 
 mayor briefs you and sets you on a course of pure torture of building and finding. Youre treated 
 as a slave from day one and are forced to build and did I mention find essences. Only a drugged 
 up hippy-missionary would do this reallistically.
  
  Eventually you find a desert and a forest to do MORE hard work. Youre drugged up missionary-hippy 
 now has to move in sims to do work. At first its enjoyable and cakey, with the chef and DJ but then 
 goes bad with 3-4 people wanting in and wanting every little thing from a new piece of 1 mm string 
 for their thousand metre ball of string after their cat made a little fibre stick out to music, yes 
 the all abstract music, on a counter top!
  
  Your sim isnt very customizable either. the basics of clothes, hair, skin, glasses, etc. are done. Howver 
 the clothes are in sets so you cant mix and match. although a small thing, it can lead to you clashing 
 with another cpu!! Scandolous!!!
  
  Overall the My Sims for Wii isnt great, and if you buy one sims game for Wii this year make it sims 
 castaway! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pork_Lord
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  By adding apples to the podium, youve made it tastier!
  
  Every genre holds certain defining elements that both separate it from the alternate media offerings 
 and provide a basic expectation for a title. In this case were looking at the mega-happy bright-coloured 
 talking-animal realm of kids games. What makes a kids game? Is it the aforementioned abundance 
 of cutesy charm? Most probably. When you buy a kids game you can expect a certain amount of silly 
 jokes and friendly characters. What you can never be sure on is the quality and content of the 
 actual game. While some titles are nothing more than an interactive form of cartoon with nil intellectual 
 value, others can still sport the quality and content youd expect from a more mature, serious 
 game.
  
  MySims is a kids game. Theres no question about it; but does this necessarily mean there is no 
 value for the older gamers? While previous Sims titles have as much appeal to mature adults as 
 children they were never intended to appeal to a specific age bracket. MySims is a different story. 
 While it still features some of the values of The Sims many have come to love, it ends up a smaller, 
 cuter and somewhat-limited Sims experience with a few new features for the series.
  
  From first boot of MySims the impending experience was pretty clear. Being presented with mini-people 
 that look like bloated LEGO complete with colours brighter than my pasty skin and faces smiling 
 harder than the most excited of ravers was a pretty intense experience. After choosing from a decent 
 range of skin options, I was off into Phaxx Town to meet the world and build a better community. 
 It seems its my task to build a new town and furnish the buildings to each Sims requirements.
 
  
  Soon before I could really ponder my own existence I was slapped with the menial task of collecting 
 20 Red Apples from the nearby trees for the mayor. No problems. 20 Red Apples later I found myself 
 chopping down a tree to harvest its essences of dark wood. Well that was a sudden weird twist. 
 What next, summon a dark troll? Not long later I realised that these tasks are getting very samey. 
 Every Sim that appears in town wants me to build them a house and furniture, themed with essences 
 easily acquired throughout Phaxx town. Suiting children and their renowned lack of intellect, the 
 entire basis of MySims is repeating the construction process many times until your town boasts 
 a shiny 5-star status.
  
  The numerous, linear object-driven goals are fairly redundant anyway. Collect giraffes, soccer 
 balls, gold or spiders; its all interfaced the exact same. In fact, every item in MySims is very 
 limited in interaction. A failed excuse could be that you dont NEED to interact with anything 
 in the town apart from exactly what you require for the task. Your sim has no needs, no abilities, 
 no aspirations or any basic human function requirements. Interacting with something such as a fountain 
 (splash in fountain) provides nothing other than a few seconds of watching your Sim splash in 
 a fountain. Once a noticeable number of Sims had moved in a bit more excitement surfaced. Walking 
 around town to see familiar faces you moved in can be quite rewarding. Theres a lot of Sims to 
 move in (some with important tasks, some who just want to chill) and a lot of house plots, spanning 
 from the desert  to inner town  out to the forest. Once you hit a level 5 town you realise the 
 bustling metropolis that has been constructed with each building placed and furnished to your choosing.
 
  
  Constructing buildings and furniture is an interesting experience when compared to that of the 
 original The Sims games. The most significant difference is that walls and rooms are not defined 
 when placing a building. Placing varying block types (again very similar to LEGO) in an arrangement 
 will create only the outlay for the building, while rooms and inside walls are seemingly auto-generated. 
 Its up to us to choose size, roof, paint, windows and more of these soon-fashionable constructs. 
 It sounds limited, but walking around town to see each building crafted to my size and specification, 
 it is quite a nice system that is suited well to the Wii control scheme. Creating furniture is 
 another fun creative outlet in MySims. If a Sim requires something specific, blueprints for the 
 item (such as a chair or fridge) are provided. Its then our job to grab blocks of varying size 
 and shape and match them together to craft an item. The potential in furniture creation is limited 
 only to the types of blocks provided, which are indeed numerous. Though blueprints are provided, 
 sticking to the exact specification is not necessary. Aside from that, Sims can also have any other 
 furniture crafted for them at any time. The potential for phallic furniture is limitless.
  
  Its fortunate that the construction process allows a lot of creativity and holds no barriers. 
 Aside from that, theres not much to do in MySims. If you enjoy watching obese LEGO tickle each 
 other and blow bubbles, then great! Theres lots of scenery to walk up to and press A on. Unfortunately 
 the core of the game is very repetitive and any interaction, be it social or not, is generally 
 limited to one or few options. Talking to a Sim consists of the choices talk, be nice, or be 
 mean. Nothing like the in depth social potentials of MySims bigger brother titles, but thats 
 not really the point here. The point is to explore, build, manipulate and prospect for Maui totems.
 
  
  The Good -
  
  * A big town is a rewarding town.
  * Itll save you some brain cells.
  * Your kids may learn to look for gold.
  
  The Bad -
 
  
  * Very repetitive goals.
  * Limited world interaction.
  * Your kids may learn to look for spiders. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SleepingAurora
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  The sims games are always a good time. It is a lot different from the normal sims game. You don't 
 have to do any of that silly bathing, cleaning, eating, or mood changing events. The goal to make 
 this beautiful little town a wonderful population filled city is such a great concept. It is such 
 a nice game for kids. By helping others fix up their house, I think it helps kids realize to help 
 their friends. That sounds corny and cheesy I know but that is what I thought of when I first played 
 this game. It is a very fun casual game. It takes away from the stress of some other sims games 
 where you are worried that your character is going to pee their pants or pass out from exhaustion 
 on the floor. It is a cute fun game that everyone should get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link24294
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  For one thing this game is great for kids, and for the teenage gamers (like me) but more for kids 
 as this no bad content at all. Anyway the controls work well, but there are no new controls after 
 the first 5 minutes so building house and furniture gets incredibly repetitive. One of the other 
 main features of the game is collecting essences, this also gets incredibly repetitive as you have 
 to get so much of one most of time and there are so many different ones that you spend most of 
 your time collecting essences even though you don't use most of them, also most essences are under 
 ground so you have to prospect for them and that just takes to long. You may be thinking how i 
 gave it such a high score with all these bad comments well the fact is its so darn addictive that 
 you'll want to stop playing it but you just cant. I should know because i have played for about 
 26 hours in about 5 days. So overall a repetitive and addictive game that the whole family can 
 enjoy and laugh at the funny animations. =] (You may of noticed i haven't said anything about the 
 previous Sims games, the reason is i haven't got any.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: __Gaminator__
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  The idea that you can make everything in your village, from the buildings, to the furniture, to 
 the things you and your neighbors wear is a very ingenious idea. Now don't get me wrong when i 
 say this game has some major flaws, because i have always been a fan of the Sims games. It really 
 just left out what i enjoyed most of the Sims: The actual simulation of real life. You don't have 
 to eat, you don't have to sleep, you can't die, there's no events , you can't get a job, etcetera, 
 etcetera. All you do is build furniture, and you can be friends, with someone, then best friends. 
 that's it. The interaction is very limited, as well. all you can do is copy what they are doing, 
 talk, be nice, or be mean. There is no choice actions that led you to being better friends as in 
 the previous installments.
  
  So what you do, is you basically get essences. These essences help you build things, by either 
 placing it on the object, or painting with it. For example, if you had an apple essence, you could 
 paint one block with an apple pattern, or set an apple itself on the object. Now you can get these 
 essences one of three ways:
  
  Being nice/mean to people
  Shaking it from a tree
  Prospecting, using a metal detector type thing to find them and dig them up.
  
  So once you 
 do enough tasks for your neighbors, you get your star rating to go up. By doing that, you can move 
 more people in, and unlock new places, like the desert, and the forest. Each person has a set star 
 level for them to appear in the inn, which is where you have to ask them to move in, and build 
 them a house.
  
  So it all goes in a cycle:
  
  Find essences
  Build furniture
  get star rating up
  move people in
  repeat
  
  After a while, it starts to get monotonous, 
 which is why i give this game a 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjasock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  First of all My Sims is a great game that anyone can enjoy, the characters look cute and the town 
 looks really nice. It is fun building your own house but i made my massive with loads of windows 
 statues and so on, but when i went inside i found i was living in a 3 room bungalow? But on the 
 outside i had 2 floors? The Socializing option should have been expanded the be Nice Option was 
 a good as they never respond bad to you but you'll find you self making friends with a chef but 
 then end up blowing him a kiss instead of chucking confetti over his head. But its always good 
 to see such a cute person with a Crowbar! This game has really been aimed at Kids or beginners 
 to the Sims games. With little to talk about and no motives. But The Sims with no motives really 
 isn't the Sims! Mind you at least you can get on with what you are doing instead of wasting time 
 taking a bath. Its is great that you can build your own objects but if you want 2 chairs you have 
 to make 1 then the other which gets annoying at the later stages in the game. But the most important 
 essence of the game is the essences. They are really the core of the game, you'll find your self 
 looking all over for these and mainly everything you build for other people will contain an essence 
 or two. But this will get annoying as you progress in the game as you'll need to find essences 
 in weird places and it gets worse if the essence is behind a metal gate or some Rocks. Overall 
 it is a good game if not great but it really is for beginner Sim players or for a child's first 
 Sims game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DutchRoy
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  As sometimes happens, the official reviewers on GameSpot don't get it... It's obviously a game 
 designed with children in mind! Take off your adult view, let the child in you try the game. :-) 
 Better yet, get some children to play it and let them tell you what is good or bad about this game.
 
  
  So I will not comment on this game as an adult but reflect my son thoughts.
  Good: freedom (sandbox style game) , no way of 'losing', appealing graphics and sound
  Bad: hard 
 to position blocks in blueprints, or even worse in freestyle (sculptures) , tips disappear too fast, 
 annoying loading between different parts of the game (switching between atelier/houses and town)
 
  
  In all my son loves the game, despite the annoyances. Sure, he mumbles about the building part, 
 the motions are too sensitive. But with a little help from an adult he still enjoys the game a 
 lot. The social aspect of the game is indeed lacking a bit, but to him it's not even a flaw. You 
 make friends or foes easily and it's not that hard to pull them into the other side (foe or friend 
 that is) .
  
  A few more surprises here and there would have been great, as with some house where you can retrieve 
 hints and suggestions on what to do next if you're not sure who needs you or what you need to do. 
 (Yes, the building assignments do appear in your book, but after completion and delivery you're 
 sometimes lost) . The importance of Essences is not presented clearly unfortunately.
  
  In the end, this game is all about having fun, helping people and being creative. Recommended for 
 you children, adults should pick up titles like Sims 2 Pets or Sims 2 Castaway! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjarat
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  I was really excited about the Sims coming to Nintendo. But the tedious loading screens &amp; repetitive 
 game play ruined it. Meet person, build house, get essence, build furtiture, unlock blueprint. 
 Then the cycle starts again.
  
  Perhaps if the building had been a bit like a tetris mini game it might have added some extra interest. 
 As it was the format was repetative &amp; made me want to hurl my wiimote at the television!
  
  On a whole it feels like a case of great idea, same about the end product. Better luck next 
 time EA. Perhaps someting a little closer to the PC version, without 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Velentina
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  I played this game a few days ago and i immediately took a liking for the game!!! It has a cartoonish 
 sort of structure but it actually makes the game cuter and nice to watch!! Apart from the fact 
 that there is very little social interactions and you cannot choose a gender, the game is still 
 worth to buy!!! I just love collecting essences and building new objects and exploring the town!! 
 If you want, you can replay the game five more times, each time you can create a different sort 
 of town: cute, spooky, fun... The game has become for me a little obsession. I can't stop gathering 
 essences and building new objects!! I hope being a sim fan myself that other gamers will truly 
 appreciate this simple yet fun game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Given the earth-shuddering success of The Sims on PC, it was inevitable that EA would try and launch 
 its little computer people into the fickle console market. But, like every other attempt to bring 
 The Sims into gamers' living rooms, MySims goes a step too far in streamlining the experience and 
 sacrifices the virtual folk management and social interaction that helped make the series a global 
 hit.
  
  Unlike the digital riffraff living on your PC, the Wii Sims don't have to worry about basic tasks 
 such as holding down a job, eating or
  sleeping, the game instead focusing on building a desirable town that will attract new citizens, 
 and interacting with the cutesy community to gather building materials. And while the game is tremendous 
 fun as it allows players to build structures using the Wii's intuitive motion controls, it still 
 lacks the depth of its PC brethren, is limited in its
  options for creating characters, and doesn't encourage players to invest emotionally in their Sim 
 or the colourful friends they make along the way.
  
  For younger players, MySims is a clever and beautifully-presented introduction to the mechanics 
 of the PC hit, and anyone who enjoyed the wholesome charms of Nintendo's Animal Crossing will feel 
 right at home shooting the breeze with the game's impossibly-cute inhabitants. But if you're hoping 
 to recreate the PC experience on your TV, this isn't the Sims game you're looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: looklylindsey
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  i wasnt expect much from this game as i enjoy the usual sims games with the usual charictors but 
 this game swept me off my feet. well i have to say this is the funnest game i own for my wii the 
 charectors are so cute i played this all last night , woke up this early this morning to play the 
 cute charictors are my fav bit of the game but i also enjoy the creating of the houses and stuff 
 as i enjoy designing. woke up this early this morning to play before school and now im off to play 
 on it again, 3 words
  addictive
  fun
  perfect
  bibi x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimybrit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  The game isn't bad though, it's actually really fun. I just don't think it's worth spending $50 
 on. Maybe 20 or 30 dollars. It was much better than the 1 on the DS. I really like the customization 
 options though. It really isn't much like a Sims game at all. It's also a little boring. If you 
 can find a bargain to buy this game for 20 bucks... BUY IT! 20 bucks is a good deal. 50 bucks is 
 not for a game like this. Oh and this game is mostly for small chrilden 10 and under if you ask 
 me.... But really this is only my opinion and if you're a huge Sim fan, go ahead and buy this game. 
 It was good and all but i really don't like games with no action. It was good though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kommando13
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  In MySims, there is a town (of which you name) that was once a great place to live, there were 
 alot of places to go to in the town and many happy sims living in the town. It was all due to a 
 legendary builder that could build with essences . One day this builder vanished and the town died 
 because of this unexplainable phenomenon. Thats where you come in, you are a skilled builder who 
 can also uses essenses and the mayor of the town askes you to come and make her city as great as 
 it used to be, you graciously accept and the adventure begins from here. I first got this game 
 because I am a all around Sims-Fan since the begginning and I thought it would be somewhat like 
 Animal Crossing. It was like nothing else I have ever played, and that is a good and bad thing, 
 which I will explain in more detail. The great thing about this game is that with the building 
 ability and essense use it is very innovative in its creativeness, MySims is only a outline, you 
 create the town around you. I found it quite fun to watch my town grow around me and to do tasks 
 for the other townspeople and get items to decorate my own home with. However this game for some 
 gamers can be VERY boring. Yes I will admit, it can be repeditave, dosent have great graphics and 
 can sometimes seem overwealming with all the tasks. Overall though all the good and the bad I still 
 consider this a great game, and one that I will play for some time, it is a good pick for the casual-mid 
 gamer or family. Perhaps not the right choice for the hardcore gamer. I hope my advice helps.
 
  
  PROS: -Creativity and Innovation
  -Ability to make your town around you.
  -Lots of Opportunity
  -Open ended
  
  CONS:
  -Graphics
  -Boredom
  -Overwealming at times. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  If you were reading the Gamespot review for this game and said, I don't think I should buy this 
 game, then you're totally wrong! MySims is a super awesome game with great graphics. Despite what 
 Gamespot says, there is actually a lot of socializing in this game and you will be able to get 
 over the building and essence collecting. Besides, building houses and objects and collecting essences 
 is actually a whole lot of fun once you get used to it! The game also has great graphics and cool 
 music and sounds. All games still have its downsides, but fortunately, MySims has only two. One, 
 it takes a long time to load and has some lag times. And two, there is still a little more socializing 
 that EA could've included in this game. Overall, I think that you should buy this game and ignore 
 what Gamespot said about the game. Also, if you have both a DS and a Wii, get the Wii version of 
 the game instead of the DS version. It's kind of better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joebongi7
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 8, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  just an absolutely terrible game. hard to control. when buidling your house you can make it as 
 big as you want but when you go inside its the same as small houses. boring after a while. all 
 you do is do tasks for people and they are always the same but u build different objects. for example 
 one person might tell u to build them a stereo and the next person a chair another person a table 
 and thats all you do throughout the game. only thing u achieve by this is that u can now put those 
 in your house. just boring and dull. there is no money and u dont have to take care of yourself. 
 I loved the sims and sims 2 for the pc but i just hate this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordakai
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  I recently bought this game for my Wii, the game was about 66 dollars Canadian, I dont really know 
 how much it is in U. S. anyway. When I got home I played this game for like 5 hours, this game is 
 so much fun! there is lots of customizations for your character, you can build you objects from 
 blueprints and you control a whole city. You start off with 1 star out of 5, thats the quality 
 of your city. You start off helping out the mayor and then your basically able to help anyone in 
 the city, theirs really no money in the game neither moods and stats. typically animal crossing 
 in my opinion. Its a very good game, you might want to just rent it first before spending money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAWR_its_ashley
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  MySims is cute and charming at first, but once you get to some ridiculous tasks like 20 scared 
 essences, it's just plain boring. This game works in the creation factor really well, but there 
 is virtually no other meaningful interaction with the other Sims. The Create-A-Thing is kind of 
 annoying, too, I thought, but some people evidently think that's the best part of the game. Also, 
 EVERYTHING you build is worthless because MySims don't have to eat, pee, sleep, etc. Everyone said 
 this was going to be a cross between Animal Crossing and the Sims, but I say if you were debating 
 between the two, Animal Crossing is the way to go. I would definetley NOT buy this new and waste 
 $50 dollars. Like I said, this game consists of too much work and not enough play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tailscoolio
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Last year, we saw mysims within numerous games magazines that had high hopes for the game before 
 knowing what could go wrong. When we finally got the game, some were overjoyed, others dissapointed 
 and a few whondering whether they'd bought the right game. You see, of all of mysims qualities, 
 it lacks substance. the game has you trapped in you're personal cycle of hell as you first speak 
 to people, they tell you what they want and then you're forced to create their object of choice 
 simply because you can use essences .
  although, the game has much more freedom than previous sims games; allowing you to stop whatever 
 you're doing and relax while choosing to socialize with other townsmembers. For some reason, EA 
 didn't decide to give you're sim parameters, in the sense that you don't need to think about whether 
 you're hungry, tired or uncomfortable as EA has taken out the statistics that makes life restricting.
 
  Although EA could have gone with using this approach in previous games, it doesn't have the same 
 effect in mysims as they forgot to add anything of any real interest to the game so that it wouldn't 
 seem boring after you've visited all the locations and colected plenty of essences.
  
  However, the graphics EA has chosen for their newest installment is much more child friendly and 
 lacks any sharp edges on characters or buildings, which is pretty fun to look at. When creating 
 you're personal sim these graphics help to make you're character look better, trust me after you've 
 created them you'll be proud of them...
  EA could have saved this game had they thought about a multiplayer game, which would have compensated 
 the fact that the most interaction that you could have socially with the other sims is be nice 
 or be naughty , but the chance is gone now, if they were to do a sequel putting that feature in 
 would be a must.
  Occasionally, the game has its little quirks where bits of goodness shine through. Such as Chandra 
 Nair, from Nintendo official magazine having a character based on him, or noticing that you're 
 town looks more beatiful when it gains a star level....
  
  Although EA could have done better, it was a good try and a nice change from the confusion and 
 chaos of other sim games, and would be a memorable game if it had a multiplayer mode... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  this latest game in the sims universe has been made especially for wii and EA did a pretty good 
 job.
  
  the game starts out as you create your character with a great customization system. you then enter 
 the town and have to spruce things up a bit, you know, add some colour and build some things. speaking 
 of building things, the game has you building almost everything in your town, from the buildings 
 themselves to furniture like chairs, tables and beds.
  
  the visuals in the game are nice and they really bring the town to life and all the different things 
 in it. the sound is quite good as well, and it's always funny to listen to them talk in their weird 
 alien language. there isn't much of a story to the game but this isn't particularly important and 
 it feels very well polished overall.
  
  an annoying thing about the game is the loading times, they take to long and this gets a bit frustrating. 
 also the construction isn't a bad thing and the building feature isn't hard to use, but it can 
 get a bit repetitive. whilst playing the i picked up quite a lot of loading and slowdown but it 
 doesn't really hamper the experience of the game.
  
  so anyway, this is a great game and certainly one for the younger audience, but this shouldn't 
 stop other people from checking out too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackenedSky719
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  This game is entertaining as long as you don't let the novelty wear off. The minute you stop playing 
 for more than a day the game loses all its shine and you never want to go back. When you try you 
 find that what once was cute and entertaining is now dull and repeative. The sims that move in 
 are all very interesting but their tasks quickly become dull and unlocking more things to build 
 and create loses it luster long before you get a 4 star town. The game itself is missing some of 
 the key concepts that make the game loveable, including interactions and needs. Another flaw in 
 the game is that you can deck out your house and create custom furniture just for yourself but 
 you never had to use it. You never have to sleep or eat, it just isn't the sims without needs. 
 All in all its a great game is all you like about the Sims is building houses and putting stuff 
 in them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Never_Fear
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 5, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  MySims is not a Sims game. Sure you create your character, build your house, but that is it. If 
 there was no name on the front, and no green diamond in between loading, I'd have no idea. But 
 that is not a bad thing. Here's why:
  
  MySims is basically a very very very very toned down version of The Sims. It is much easier too. 
 In the game, you make your sim, and go name your town. Apparently their builder built all this 
 stuff for them and it was a five star town. Then the builder dissapeared, everyone left, including 
 the stars. Now, you move there as their new builder. The mayor takes you for a tour of the place, 
 makes you build some stuff, and then in the game for a while, your main objective is building all 
 this stuff for the remaining townspeople.
  
  Surprisingly, there are no moods in the game, like getting hungry, tired, or whatever, but you 
 still CAN do all that stuff. For example, you can't HAVE to go to the bathroom, but you can go 
 anyways.
  
  There's a lot more ranging from essences to tools, but you'll just have to play the game to find 
 out.
  
  I'mOut,
  
  Never_Fear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFoogyX
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  For the first 20 hours I spent on this game, I was completely amazed by it. There were levels of 
 customization I really didn't expect to find. After that, I began to notice certain patterns in 
 the game. I'll start with the good things-
  
  Customization: You can build everyone's houses however you like. The more houses you build, the 
 more stars your town earns, the more building materials you recieve. It's a nice little circle 
 of events. Once the house is built, you can go inside and start decorating the interior. You can 
 arrange/ delete/ add whatever furniture you want. It doesn't really cost materials to build furniture, 
 only to paint it. Paint plays a very important role in My Sims. Every paint represents a different 
 emotion, and each emotion plays on the different sims living in your town. Your whole goal is make 
 something that both looks neat AND fits the personality of the sim. Sometimes tough to do.
  Every sim has a list of tasks they'll give you. Once you accomplish one, you'll move on to the 
 next, with the materials required for each task getting harder and harder to find, until you finish 
 building their house/ business, and they give you blueprints as rewards. These blueprints just 
 allow you to make even more extravagant items.
  You pretty much get to build every piece of furniture from the ground up.
  
  Here's the bad 
 things:
  
  You'll keep getting more and more blueprints, but it won't always be enough to keep everything 
 looking new and exciting. Collecting all the different paints/ emotions and building every piece 
 of furniture can be tedious and repetitive. My BIGGEST complaint about My Sims was that how you 
 builty your house on the outside, had absolutely no effect on how it looked on the inside. A two 
 story house was still a single story house on the inside. Every house consisted of a living room, 
 kitchen, bathroom, and bedroom. There wasn't room for anything else.
  It seems like everything in MySims was created with a specific look in mind, despite giving the 
 allusion of creativity and customization. If you're really creative, you'll find ways to work outside 
 the guidelines the game provides, but for the most part, if you play through the game a second 
 time, you'll notice your town comes out nearly identical to the first time you played.
  Once you have everything in the game memorized, you'll get bored with going back and forth between 
 your workshop and the different places where you collect materials. The game should have implemented 
 a fast travel system or just reduced the amount of load times.
  I also noticed some significant slowdown once my town had more people and buildings in it.
  
 
  In conclusion-
  
  this game is great for about 20-30 hours. All things considered, that's a good amount of time to 
 play, but you might be expecting more from a sims game. if you're really really creative and think 
 outside the box, you'll have a fantastic time. if you work within the guidelines of the game, you'll 
 find yourself bored before you've really accomplished anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 1, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  MySims is yet another attempt to bring the The Sims to the console and it's better than their previous 
 attempt. The game begins with you creating your Sim the game's options aren't as big as the PC 
 versions so die hard Sim creators may be dissapointed. Then the actual story begins you visit a 
 run down town and they need your help to rebuild the town. To do this you need to move people in 
 and create pieces of furniture for them. The house creator is easy just pile a bunch of blocks 
 on each other then slap a door on if you're lazy. But you can customize and tweak the building 
 with some decorative things. To build furniture is quite difficult at first but after awhile it's 
 easy. You have to fill in the ghost image with blocks and then paint the object with the Essences 
 that the Sim you are giving it to wants. You can earn Essences in tons of different ways, you can 
 grow, fish them, dig them up and get them from Sims. Altough while creating your own furniture sounds 
 neat MySims relies a little to heavy on this niche. You will end up building countless piles of 
 furniture and usually it's just a case of cramming all the Essences in. But the other things you 
 can do are fun plant some trees mess about with some of the games funnier social interactions. 
 So in the end MySims is a nice idea but was poorly executed and needs to be expanded on, a missed 
 oppurtunity sadly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeezyPoo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  I have MANY of the Sims games, for PC and console (PS2) , and I must say, MySims is nothing like 
 the other games. Even when EA revamped The Sims in The Urbz, the game was still very much like 
 the original (goals based on making friends and gaining popularity, succeeding at work, etc) . MySims 
 is completely different (for the most part) . The sims look different, you don't have a job (technically) , 
 there are no relationship points and there is a LOT more building. There is still a strong essence 
 (pardon my pun) of the Sims here though -- when you become friends with a sim or complete a goal 
 for them, their outfit/furniture/decorative is unlocked. Also, while you need to complete tasks 
 to progress in the game, you also have a sort of free roam, where you can keep inviting townies 
 to your town and just build houses for them and make friends. There also aren't lots in this game, 
 but the areas are clearly defined... the main town, mines, forest, etc. You can find different Essences 
 in each area too, just to make sure you keep advancing in the game. For instance, the pond in town 
 gives you tires, clown fish and rainbow fish, but the one in the forest gives you snakes, crabs 
 and octopus. I really like the Essences in the game and enjoy searching for them, even if some 
 are annoying to obtain -- like, to get wood essences, you need to cut down trees, but clearly you 
 also need what is growing on the trees! I've been playing this game for a few days now and am already 
 on the 3rd star (the max is 5) , but I think the Essence hunt is going to get harder as the game 
 goes on. Like when I needed 20 rose and plum blossoms (each) , just to build a dresser. You're also 
 going to need to be more innovative and go outside the blueprint to fit all the essences in. Overall, 
 this is a really fun/cute game that opens up the Sims to younger players and suckers for cuteness 
 (like me) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GonzoGuy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I Like: Building everything- houses, businesses, and furniture. Don't Like: Simplification. It 
 just needed a little more content for the price. It's been a while since I picked up a game for 
 the Wii. That's why when my wife came home with MySims, I was interested to see the Wii in use 
 again (I've been on a GTA spree lately) but I can't say that I was as interested as I usually am 
 when she returns with a sims expansion pack for the PC. After updating the Wii's firmware (which 
 did little but give us an ugly clock we didn't need) we sat down and watched the intro. I was soon 
 absorbed back into my book but my wife was soon fully engrossed in the game the way she is with 
 the PC version. Well.. that's a bit of an overstatement, but she does enjoy it. I would look up 
 every once in a while, especially at an exclamation of frustration or joy (which were both equally 
 forthcoming) but couldn't watch for more than a couple minuets before finding something else to 
 do. Even though it didn't seem terribly interesting, when the Mrs. and her friends went to get 
 their nails done on Saturday, I took it as my chance to take a crack at the game. While it certainly 
 wasn't anywhere near as detailed or deep as the Sims 2 on the PC, I enjoyed making my character. 
 You get to choose only the basic elements to modify but get a crack at choosing a voice which is 
 a first for the series. I'm still not sure if it was worth the sacrifice of choosing a sex (I guess 
 it's based on clothes, voice, and hair) personality (unnecessary since it's the only character 
 you control) , or physical features beyond mouth, hair &amp; eyes. Where I became absorbed however, 
 was with the building. It was always my favorite part of the PC game but here it's completely different 
 yet much simpler. As an observer I thought it was trifle, unsophisticated, and tedious (as you 
 have to build everyone's house/shop with large blocks) when compared to it's PC parent. However, 
 when you're actually putting together the blocks to build and decorate your new resident's houses', 
 it's allot more fun than you would think. Rather than erecting and decorating segments of walls, 
 you're given blocks to fit together in a square plot. While this is a bit limiting if you're expecting 
 the full sims experience, I still found it very satisfying and enjoyable. You can make the buildings 
 as big or as small, then decorate every square inch or go minimalist. The end product doesn't effect 
 the experience in the building which remains exactly the same weather you use all the space for 
 building blocks or only erect a small shack with a huge lawn. Building furniture is what you'll 
 probably spend most of your time doing. When you interact with the sims in your town you only have 
 the choice of being nice (gets you essence) , mean (also gets you essence and maybe a fight) , joining 
 their activity (which is different for each character and differs from indoor to outdoor I notice) , 
 or talking. Talking to a new character will most likely involve you accepting a mission to build 
 them something they'll need for their shop. At your workshop (situated next to your house) you 
 are able to lay blocks onto a ghost image (or go freestyle) of the item your friend needs. There 
 is some frustration involved when a block just won't settle where you want it to but that's usually 
 remedied by zooming in. When your done building the item, you then need to paint/decorate it with 
 the essences you'll find around the town. Each essence gives you a couple of complementary colors 
 and a couple of designs so even if your friend wants a table that's all apple, you won't be stuck 
 making a completely monotone apple-red table. Some have expressed disdain at collecting the essences 
 but I don't quite understand why. They're quite easy to find and don't require allot of time or 
 effort to collect weather you're shaking them from a tree, fishing for them, or digging them up. 
 Just by exploring and playing around, I found that I usually already had the required essences 
 when it came time to painting people's items with them. The times I was short on an essence, I 
 usually collected it pretty quickly as the character who you're making the item for will point 
 you in the general direction if you talk to her more. All the buildings serve to improve your town 
 and I have to admit that it is satisfying when your town ups a star rating. More areas are opened 
 up and more people will want to move in. While I have enjoyed myself with the game, it does deserve 
 a good share of criticism. Primarily, like almost every new Wii game, it's just too small. I can't 
 say short, because it could go on forever but you can max out the city's star rating pretty quickly 
 and allot of the things which deepen and prolong the Sims 2 experience aren't there. It just doesn't 
 give enough game for a $50 price tag. Once it settles into the $30- range, it will be well worth 
 it but for now, it appears that the best value games are still the wiimakes. The graphics leave 
 a bit to be desired from as well. While I appreciate the graphic style (resembling a strange combo 
 of Mii and Lego style) the jagged and pixilated edges are a little too apparent sometimes. We know 
 from other Wii games that it could've been a bit smoother. So, what am I trying to say here? If 
 you really like the sims (but don't get too wrapped up in cultivating families and their stories) 
 you're going to enjoy this game. Yes it's a Saturday Morning version of the Sims but it still retains 
 enough elements to keep it fun. You may want a Saturday Morning version of the game if you often 
 find yourself in a moment where you want to play Sims but you only have a half hour. Is it ever 
 as satisfying as the PC Sims? No. But it's certainly something that'll put a smile on your face. 
 You just might want to wait until the price drops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  I really like this game!
  It is Waaaay different from the past Sims games!
  The only thing I hate about this game is those stupid GLITHCHES!!
  I HATE when the game starts 
 freezing up!
  It's sooooo annoying!
  But on the bright side!
  This is a good game that I think a young audience would enjoy, also fans of the Sims series really 
 need to check out this game!
  It's one of those kind of games that brings out the kid in all of us!
  This game is really fun!
 
  But I think they over did it a little with collecting essences!
  And it takes a LONG time to get all of the essences to build some furniture!
  They could have 
 made collecting the essences a bit more fun!
  They could have Fixed that Glitch too!
  Why they didn't I'll never know!
  I am sorry to all of you hardcore sims fan who gave this game 
 a rating of 10!
  But I think that they could have made this game better if they spent more time on it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mailtorichard
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that caught my attention to MySims was the colorful and cheery characters. Prior 
 to the launch of the game, I read many previews and my anticipation and excitement grew. Many previews 
 gave a not-too-bad ratings and even suggested that it's going to be in the same vein as Animal 
 Crossing. Well, if a game is going to be similar to Animal Crossing, and also part of the Sims 
 franchise, I would seriously expect MySims to be as good, or even better than AC or The Sims 2 
 etc....
  
  Lo and behold, one of the issue I have with MySims is that the loading time is longer than expected, 
 and it's also quite frequent. This might not bother some guys out there, but I'm not the very patient 
 kinda person, so I'm not too happy with this. Every house you enter and leave, there will be a 
 need to load. When you communicate with other Sims characters, it takes some time before the text 
 is displayed. There seems to be a lag in the text display. I'm not sure if this designed in this 
 manner, but it can be better. I mean, you hear the conversation without knowing what's it about, 
 and a few seconds later, the text appears....
  
  Another issue is that, like what Gamespot reviewed, there is not much interaction with the Sims 
 characters. In the case of AC, conversation was fun. But in the case of MySims, it was more of 
 talking to the Sims characters to know what's the next game objective is. You can either talk to 
 them, be nice or be mean. Interaction is kept to a minimum and makes the game kinda boring.
  
  The third issue is that the main focus of the game seems to lie with construction of items. 
 The fun of it soon wears off after a while. I mean, how much creativity can you put into them? 
 Apart from using different colors of paint or essences, it gets pretty dull. Moreover, it's not 
 that user-friendly when constructing the items. Many times when I thought that I have correctly 
 put the planks at the right place, it ends up actually on the floor away from the transparent figure. 
 For those who had played this game will know what I mean. This game should be called MySims Construction 
 instead.
  
  Fishing is also included. But it's far too easy to catch them. I mean, where's the challenge?
 
  
  One positive thing about MySims is the creation of your own character. Although it is very similar 
 to the creation process of Mii, nevertheless, it's still fun. So far this is the only thing I find 
 fun....
  
  In my opinion, it seems that EA rushed through this production which is a pity as it could have 
 been one of THE games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryang08
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  my sims is a whole new step into the sims including new graphics, new gameplay and a huge cast of 
 characters.
  
  im absolutly amazed by what gamespot have given my sims 6.5 is way harsh as you can tell not just 
 me but other reviews havin given it 8.0 or higher so if your put down by gamspots review dont be.
 
  
  my sims starts off same old making a sim and this is what i love just clicking on the sims and 
 seeing what comes up its fun and funny.
  
  so after you made your sim your droped into your new town which at the time only has 4 residents 
 which you have to improve, this is what is amazing about the game its your town you can choose if 
 you want fun people or people how love food or a real girly town or even an entire goth town you 
 choose its all up to you. you make the houses, you make the furniture its your world.
  
  theres not to many down sides only that sometimes you may be feed up with desinging furniture and 
 doing tasks but a nights sleep and your ready to make more xD
  
  my sims adds a whole new version to the sims and hopefully they can continue this new breed of 
 fun sims with new amazing features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonboyohyeah
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  What a combination of Animal Crossing and the Sims this game is.
  Highly addictive when finding essences and working in your workshop.
  its great to have a sims 
 game when you can actually make the hole town
  while enjoying splashing in the fountain .one bad thing about the game is there's no on line feature 
 where you can share your items with friends also,
  the beginning is a boar.
  
  overall i think this game is money well spent and disk full of fun.
  if you like the sims and 
 animal crossing you'll love this.
  
  please let me know what you think .
  jonboyohyeah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Video_Tycoon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to kick off this review with a little problem. I don't see why this game got a 6.5 for 
 the official review, it's probably because the GameSpot Editors are all hardcore and stuff like 
 that, but this game has more than the eye can see.
  
  Next, I'd like to say that I enjoy this game deeply. It's fun, it's wacky, it's zany, it's fun. 
 Not much else to say except this is a game for people who don't enjoy button mashing and don't 
 enjoy action games where you are on your feet every minute of every hour you play this game.
  
  That aside, the game is good. But let me get to the review...
  
  The story is simple, you 
 move to a run down city with the mysterious power to use essences to build things. Building houses 
 and building furniture. As you progress in the game, the city earns stars, sometimes giving you 
 a tool to open a new part of the city.
  
  Building is a breeze and a blast. You have almost 100% freedom in the way you build stuff. It's 
 fun to build houses and even funner to customize your own furniture.
  
  This game is in no way like Animal Crossing, and I don't see how it is comparable, but if it is, 
 this game tops Animal Crossing hands down.
  
  But still, we may see some flaws, the only one I've found is the loading times, but they take less 
 than half the time of PC Sims loading times.
  
  This game is a buy, no discussion. If anyone doesn't like this game, they need brain surgery. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidRswii
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Hey everyone how's it going? Well this is a new Sim game for the Wii and DS exclusively. Well let's 
 the story begins as u a builder come to this town to rebuild there empety town with residents and 
 make it better. So u move in Sims and build there houses etc. u could even redesign the inside of 
 there house. The ending of this game isn't very exciting but wait there is no end to this game ha. Well 
 the graphic are... let's face it, it's like preschool but it has a charm to it. The gameplay isn't 
 very fun but it is addictive and u could spread ur creative skillz. Sound is... pathetic there is 
 no music when ur not near a house and when its near a house it makes me want to just mute my TV 
 and put on Soulja boy. Theres no motion controls except the cursor. The loding times are crazy theres 
 like loading times every where itgets frustrating but some plp won't care and others will. Is 50 
 bucks worth this game its simple no if u like it then yea but rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkDSpro63
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  EA's latest Wii installment for the Sims franchise has recently released. MySims offers a whole 
 new makeover on the franchise and gives a refreshing experience to those, such as myself, who have 
 never played a traditional Sims game. Needless to say, I wouldn't call this a substitute for Animal 
 Crossing, but it's finally great to see a new virtual simulation game on the Wii.
  
  What was really fun about this game was when you create your Sim. This is one of the aspects where 
 the Sims infamous customization comes to place. Create-A-Sim allows you to make all the changes 
 from colors, hair, eyes, mouth clothes, and even the voice. What really surprised me was the extreme 
 simplistic controls that allows to let me build wonderful houses. And that is coming from someone 
 who never EVER played Sims before. Overall, socializing and exploring extends the experience of 
 MySims even more, and the cartoonic references and looks are what attracted me to the series. MySims 
 could've been better though. The variety of errands and collecting certain essences can be a pain 
 in the ass once you've had the game for days and have been playing nonstop. To summarize, this 
 is game good enough to at least check out if your Wii has been collecting the dust lately. BRING 
 ON ANIMAL CROSSING NEXT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigfish2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Mysims is one of those games that doesn't compel you to play it but when you do you always have 
 fun. There's no reason to come back straight away because you know what's going to happen. Your 
 going to build some stuff and help the towns residents but is that a good or a bad thing.
  
  The premise of Mysims is that you are coming to live in a town that used to be beautiful and 
 prosperous but is now dire and failing. This is all because a man who could use essences to build 
 and create things used to live there but he left and after that everything went down hill but now 
 your moving in and you have the power to use essences as well and must rejuvinate the town by building 
 houses and itens for people. I guess you want to know what essences are, well let me explain. Essences 
 are collectables in a way. You get them by prospecting them or finding them from treess or making 
 people feel happy etc. There are may types of essences and you use them to paint what you build 
 really. If someone wants a fun item then once you've made it you paint it with fun essences like 
 purple crayons for example. Or if someone wants a tasty looking item then you might paint it with 
 rainbow trout essences or red apple essences.
  
  At the start of the game you have to create your character. One critiscism is that the character 
 creation could be a little more detailed. You can only change the hair, facial style and clothes. 
 Characters like the rest of the game are in a cartoony graphically style. You can also choose a 
 voice for your sim as it's called. All sims speak in simish which is a variety of mumbles, groans 
 and other noises. Occasionally you can tell what they're saying but that's rare. Once your character 
 has been created then you meet Mayor Rosalyn. She tasks you with designing your house and then 
 workshop which is where you build things. After this you can go and explore.
  
  The world isn't bland, it's colourful but isn't incredibly detailed. The music playing in the background 
 could be better as well because it's always the same upbeat tone. One very annoying bug is slowdown. 
 You often get slowdown when walking around for no reason at all. Loading times are also a nuisance. 
 They occur whenever you enter or exit a building. Building houses and items takes up practically 
 all of the game. There could be more diversity and more social interaction but at least the construction 
 element is fun and easy to use. You can create items however you like as long as you make sure 
 it can be use dfor what it is meant to be used as. Overall Mysims is a fun if a little streamlined 
 experience. It's not a must buy and won't be to everyones tastes but if you like this style of 
 gameplay then you will have some limited fun while playing it. It won't last you very long either 
 and grows old very quickly but you can drain some fun out of it for a little while. SCORE=66% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This is my 2nd Sims game I've ever played! And I don't regret buying this!
  
  Gameplay (9/10) -
  Really great and ALL~! A little similiar to our little Animal Crossing, but 
 there is tasks, and they are usually fun. =) You don't have to run around as much as you did in 
 Animal Crossing, because when you go to the guy's house, they'll enter too after a while and you 
 can immediately give teh stuff. ^^ But there should still be more things to talk about and social, 
 like Animal Crossing, so that's just one flaw.
  
  Graphics (9/10) -
  Graphics are better now! Much, much, better I have to say than the other Sims games, but I just 
 like Chibi, ya know! I dunno about you other guys out there! These graphics are similiar to the 
 Miis and Animal Crossing humans.
  
  Sound (7/10) -
  The sound is not too great, pretty kiddy, LOL! =P But I'll give it an 7/10 cuz at least it's not 
 too bad.
  
  Value (9/10) -
  Great satisfaction for ya'll for a while! =)
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (9/10) -
  The greatest Sim game I've played so far! EA should make Sims like this 
 from now on, honestly.
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (8.5/10) -
  A pretty cool Sims game, and I think this game will be much more popular than the others (can't 
 be too sure though) . So far, the time I've written this review, there's no bad ratings YET... but 
 we'll see haters probably sometime. But anyways, I'd gurantee this will satisfy you if you like 
 games like Animal Crossing and constructing. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariamunchkin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  I used to have the original Sims, and all the expansions on my Mac. I spent 95% of the time I played 
 that game building the worlds. I didn't care much about keeping my Sims happy, that's what hacks 
 were for. Give me tons of cash (rosebud! Rosebud!) and I would just go to town.
  
  So for me, MySims is the Sims without all that pain-in-the-behind work of keeping your Sims happy 
 and healthy. For the first... ten or twelve hours, it was awesome. Funny characters, the level of 
 customization in building (once I figured it all out) is fantastic, the world itself is interesting 
 and catchy.
  
  The furniture customization is brilliant, but the control of it is awkward. This is one time where 
 I think i might have preferred a more traditional D-pad placement process rather than having to 
 point-and-click, because it is sometimes really hard to place a piece where you want it. That being 
 said, however, you feel like a kid with a set of endless Legos. Ok, you need a bed. Well, I COULD 
 just use those five pieces, but it will look so much cooler if i use twenty of THESE! The tasks 
 you are asked to do by each shop owner and resident are interesting and appropriate, and allow 
 you to stylize each location to your own fashion. The arcade goes totally retro, with tubes and 
 stripes, while the boutique across the street gets everything rounded and soft, and that creepy 
 museum owner wants everything made out of deadwood and stone. In the original building phase, your 
 selection is limited severely compared to past Sims titles, but however you design the outside 
 doesn't seem to affect the setup of the inside.
  
  I do wish that some of the Essence paint patterns had a little more variety, and a more subtle 
 variety. Yes, I know I have to paint that sofa using Action Figures, but that doesn't mean a sofa 
 covered in giant Lightning Bolts looks good. However, all that is coming from someone who would 
 spend hours creating the most ridiculously furnished/decorated Sim houses ever imagined, so my 
 frustrations at the lack of non-cartoony wall paint may not be shared by the masses. I also wish 
 that after you have created a piece of furniture, it would be possible to simply recreate it without 
 going through the whole building process. Or that some other stock furnishings would be available 
 so that you con't have to start from scratch every time. Collecting essences was fairly easy at 
 first, and then it got more difficult, and then it just got kinda monotonous. Once you reach two 
 and three star levels, you're customizing furniture like mad, using up entire stores of essences. 
 The ones that have to be prospected are the most annoying, the planted ones you can just chop down 
 (for wood essence!) then plant again. ated, the essence collection process gets old after you reach 
 three stars. Prospecting gets really old after about five minutes, but when you're trying to get 
 thirty Gingerbread, it takes at least that. Overall, MySims is one of those games where you start 
 playing, and four hours later you have no idea how you managed to lose track of time, but you have 
 two stars and you just built the world's coolest Disco Club. A great game for all ages, and both 
 genders. I think it is a great foundation for EA to build on, and that we'll see more titles to 
 come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solaris72
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 22, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I love the Wii characterization, and the graphics. Hunting around and getting essence is actually 
 more fun than I think the review gives credit. I wish the map system were a bit better. I found 
 it easy to get turned around and lost. The map will sort of help you get out of the area you're 
 in, but there is some frustration. Controls have a severe difficulty when you're sitting low and 
 close the the Wii (gaming chair) . Scooting back further away helps. When you start to work with 
 the building creator, you begin to see slow downs when attempting to get your roof on just right. 
 Difficulties occur especially when you use blocks other than what's presented in the first screen. 
 I tried to use the bridge to have some fun creating a different house, and found I could not get 
 the roof on square no matter what I tried (and the indicators showed I should be able to get it 
 on with no problem) . To give them credit, the load times are not nearly as bad on the Wii as they 
 were on the PSP or the PS2 game systems in previous version of the The Sims. You still see some 
 slowdown's but it's tolerable. I love the themes of the different characters in order to create 
 their houses. I found that I was really itching for new people to come to the town sooner than 
 the game thought I should. I got frustrated that I wasn't allowed to multi-task like I have enjoyed 
 doing with previous Sims games. This could be in order to make things better for beginning Sim's 
 players. Overall, I do enjoy this game and will continue to play, but it's easy to put away and 
 not come back to for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: divve
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  MY SIMS (WII)
  
  By Far The Most Awesome Game I Have Ever Played Yet! It Has Great Graphics And Even Better Interactivity 
 Beats All Of Sony's Attempts At The Sims Series Of Games!
  
  THE GOOD POINTS :-) :
  The Good Points Are The Interactive And The Graphics And Also By Far The Best Point The Little 
 Cute Dudes And Dud-ets!
  
  THE BAD POINTS :- ( :
  They Don't Have The Option To Migrate MII's And Mini-size Them That Way You Don't Have To Start 
 From Scratch!
  
  THE POINTS TO IMPROVE :-} :
  They Really Need WII Wireless Because It Could Be Really Good, Other People Could Live In Other 
 People's Towns.
  
  I Have One Last Thing To Say... LOOK AT MY RATING FOR IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emokid830
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game is not The Sims. It is not meant to be played like the sims. It has more 
 story and task-oriented gameplay. You go around performing mundane tasks for other sims, and building 
 them things, or houses. You can collect essences, such as apples, flowers, stone, thorns, or others 
 which are meant to have different effects on sims. Making your sims happy is your primary goal. 
 The more happy sims you have, the higher your star rating for your city goes. When the star rating 
 goes up, you can unlock new items or areas. This game is very fun, and the level of customization 
 is awesome. Your town can look totally different than someone else's town. This game could have 
 had a little more social interactions, but again this game is not based on that like The Sims. 
 It reminds me of Animal Crossing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mister_mister
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  At first, I thought the game would look a little too childish for me. But I decided to pick it 
 up just for kicks, and I couldn't put it down.
  
  The graphics are pretty smooth, except when it has to load lots of information. Which in my case, 
 happened a lot for 30+ minutes. Anyways, the graphics are clean and smooth.
  
  The sound and music is pretty cheerful, and everyone speaks simlish. It's a sims game, what do 
 you expect?
  
  The controls are easy and isn't time consuming.
  
  Building objects can be a bit of a challenge and somewhat time consuming, but with blueprints laid 
 out, it's not that hard once you've figured out the controls.
  
  Overall, fantastic game, and loads of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Though your residents may have different opinions and taste, its really up to you what you build. 
 This is one of the few games that let you customize on a larger scale, this time for the wii! The 
 sims in this game sport a new lego-ish look and lets you build buildings, your characters and even 
 your furniture, then paint it with collected paints or plenty of default options as well. Though 
 its an awsome game, it features little use of control scheme and when building furniture or trying 
 to delete small things such as windows, its very hard to pinpoit the area or object you want to 
 take out or put in since it's really hard to stay still without accidently moving the wiimote. 
 These are the few cons that MySims presents to players. Aside from that, everything in MySims runs 
 smooth. For similair refrences, Animal Crossing is nearest to it. MySims is a great game although 
 its not interactive with multiplayer seing as it does'nt have one. The game starts out a little 
 confusing at first but once you get the hang of it (about an hour or so) then it becomes a really 
 fun enviornment. Tossing cons aside, the game is fun, smooth and completely customzable, I love 
 it! An excellent addition to any wii owners gaming library! An easy 9.5 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CapAmerica2099
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  This is just a quick review since I feel I have only just scratched the surface of this game.
 
  
  I wound up playing MySims last night for Seven and a half hours striate and I loved every min of 
 this game! ^_^ I finally had to stop when 4:00am rolled around.
  
  I would like to say that I've never been much of a fan of the other Sims game, so when I went into 
 MySims I was a little worried that it wasn't going to be that great, But none the less I wanted 
 to give it a try.
  
  It's like they took the best parts of Animal Crossing and The Sims and put them together into one 
 game.
  
  I would say my only complaint about it is that there is no multiplayer or online mode.
  
  There 
 are a few other things that it lacks that Animal Crossing has that I would have like to have seen. 
 You can't make your own patterns for paint. No real time clock, sure the game moves faster but 
 I like Animal Crossings real time more. Not sure about the holidays yet, have to wait and see but 
 since their is no clock in the game I'm willing to bet there isn't. Thats really about it. Other 
 then that MySims is a GREAT Animal Crossing clone. Infact I'm finding myself enjoying it more then 
 Animal Crossing. And its giving me higher expectations for when Animal Crossing does come out.
 
  
  If you liked Animal Crossing, MySims is a must. =D 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
