-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Nancy Drew: The White Wolf of Icicle Creek
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/adventure/nancydrewthewhitewolfoficiclecreek/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great attention to detail.
 Strong characterization and story.
 Variety of puzzles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Wii Remote minigames are annoying and unnecessary.
 PC port that doesn't feel like a Wii game.
 Constant load interruptions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 30, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 23 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Her Interactive
Genre: Adventure
Date: Dec 2, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Nancy Drew makes her debut on the Wii with this PC port that adds some irritating Wii Remote minigames 
 to the usual adventure-game sleuthing. 

  As fiction's foremost girl detective, Nancy Drew has found herself in the midst of some pretty 
 strange cases. The White Wolf of Icicle Creek is certainly one of her most puzzling escapades, 
 although the biggest mystery to be solved here is why it is taking place on the Nintendo Wii. While 
 there isn't anything horribly wrong with this first-person point-and-click adventure, it fails 
 to take advantage of the system's innovative controls in any meaningful ways. This is essentially 
 the same game that was released on the PC well over a year ago, albeit with a few annoying minigames 
 tacked on to remind you that you're swinging a remote instead of scrolling a mouse.  

  The plot remains the same as in the 2007 game. Nancy has been asked to visit the remote Icicle 
 Creek lodge in the Canadian Rockies to investigate a series of suspicious accidents apparently 
 related to a curse put on the area by, you guessed it, a supernatural white wolf. If Nancy doesn't 
 figure out what's going on soon, these occurrences might drive the resort out of business. The 
 story is exactly what you would expect from a Nancy Drew mystery; you get a setting in the snowy 
 northern wilderness and lots of weirdness to unravel while dumb older people wander around without 
 a clue.  

           Cook first, solve bizarre, potentially supernatural crimes later.      

  You probably 
 won't be able to get through The White Wolf of Icicle Creek without being annoyed, though. As in 
 previous games in the Nancy Drew series, the spunky sleuth mixes a lot of chores in with her mystery 
 solving. Nancy is at the lodge undercover, working as a member of the housekeeping staff so she 
 can spy on the guests and see if any of them are involved in the skulduggery. Yet while this role 
 lets Nance hide her status as one of the world's greatest detectives, it also saddles her with 
 a lot of dreary tasks. You have to start off each day by making beds, gathering up towels, and 
 cooking meals. There are also arcade challenges, such as dueling a local brat in snowball fights, 
 racing a snowmobile across the frozen wastes to check avalanche conditions, and full-contact ice 
 fishing. All of these activities are handled with the Wii Remote. So when called upon to whip up 
 lunch for lodge guests, you mime creating the goodies, like quesadillas, by jerking the remote 
 around. To grate cheese, for instance, you shake the remote from side to side, while chopping tomatoes 
 is done by pulling the controller up and down to mimic wielding a kitchen knife.  

  These odd jobs were also present in the PC version of the game, but they were handled with mouse 
 scrolling, and you could coast through them on autopilot. Here, you have to spend time getting 
 the remote motions down pat as well as deal with erratic controller sensitivity. Everything feels 
 off, either requiring overly intense movements (cheese grating demands a frenzied remote shaking 
 that would be more apt if you were playing maracas) or a really light touch. The same goes for 
 actions such as snowmobiling, which is little more than a demolition derby ride. If you go fast 
 enough to have a little fun, you inevitably go boom against snowy rocks. If you go slow enough 
 to make it to your destination intact, you might fall asleep on the way.  

  The payoff for such activities is minimal, and even the snowmobiling and fishing competitions seem 
 like pointless busywork that barely relates to the mystery you're trying to solve. The motion-sensing 
 functionality seems to have been tossed in solely to justify the game's release on the Wii. You're 
 constantly wondering what such dull chores have to do with uncovering a white wolf's curse. The 
 only plus here is how Nancy's maid duties immerse you in the tedious reality of detective work. 
 She at least manages to scrounge up clues while trudging through the daily chores of making beds 
 and stuffing towels into laundry bags. Expect to do a lot of yawning and empathizing.  

           Meet Bill. He's a local Canadian ice fisherman, eh.      

  The White Wolf of Icicle 
 Creek is marginally more fulfilling when it sticks to traditional adventure gaming. There is a 
 tremendous amount of detail here, and you feel as though you're involved in an actual investigation, 
 since you spend a lot of time checking out your surroundings and chatting up the locals to get 
 a handle on what's going down. The game favors detective deduction over the mechanical "pick up 
 everything that isn't nailed down" approach so common in adventure games. Set-piece puzzles are 
 reasonably diverting, too. There are a number of locks to figure out, codes to decipher, and so 
 forth. Some are a little less engaging, such as the Minesweeper variant where you try to shovel 
 snow off a skating pond without going through the ice, and another where you balance on ice floes 
 to make it back to terra firma.  

  The visuals aren't nearly as good as those in the PC game, but the graphics do bring the cozy lodge 
 and the frigid environs to life. A great sense of characterization in the dialogue adds to this 
 lived-in feel. Nancy is as plucky as always, and the supporting cast is well developed and ably 
 voicedwith the exception of Canadian stereotypes such as a lumberjack called Trapper Dan 
 and a doofus ice fisherman named Bill who speaks with a stereotypical Canadian accent and tacks 
 "eh" onto the end of sentences. Load times present the only real problem with the presentation. 
 The game constantly goes to the disc for data, pausing briefly for loads every time you take a 
 couple of steps. This gives the whole game a choppy feel, since you generally can't turn a corner 
 or walk down a few stairs without triggering a "Loading" delay.  

  Even with its flaws, Nancy Drew: The White Wolf of Icicle Creek is an acceptable first effort on 
 the Wii for this long-running series. There's enough charm, great attention to detail, and realistic 
 investigation to minimize the irritation caused by the unneeded Wii Remote jobs. More development 
 will be needed with the next port, however, because not enough has been done to ensure that The 
 White Wolf of Icicle Creek takes advantage of what the Wii has to offer.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
