-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/narutoclashofninjarevolution2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Combat is simple yet deep.
 The story mode is surprisingly involved.
 There's a ton of stuff to unlock.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 There's no online play.
 The cutscenes look terrible.
 Mission modes become tedious.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.4, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 478 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tomy
Developer: Eighting
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Oct 21, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Theres much to do in this fun, but strictly offline fighting game. 

  Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution 2 has a telling title. For instance, nearly every part is a piece 
 of the series' history. It began as Naruto: Clash of Ninja on the GameCube. When it moved to the 
 Wii, it gained the "Revolution." And now, the sequel is Clash of Ninja Revolution 2. You can also 
 tell a lot about the way the games themselves have progressed; instead of revamping, developer 
 Tomy has been adding on to the unchanged core of the game for the last four years. The result is 
 as big and disorganized as its title. The only missing piece, both in game and in name, is the 
 word "Online." Online features might have made a good game great, but as it stands, Naruto: Clash 
 of Ninja Revolution 2 is ready to rumble in your living room.  

  The most significant mode is the story campaign, which takes place outside of the Naruto canon, 
 and tells the story of an evil ex-ANBU member (ANBU being the ninja FBI) who wants to destroy the 
 Hidden Leaf Village by turning its inhabitants against each other. Although this predictably allows 
 the game to set up confrontations that wouldn't normally occur, the tale is more than just a pretext 
 for battle. It's an actual story complete with colorful villains, crazy schemes, and old rivalries. 

  And the campaign is a real-deal campaign, not just 10 fights in a row. You'll fight your fair share 
 of straight one-on-one matches, but you'll also find yourself up against 15 ninjas in a row, or 
 battling two ANBU agents at once as a bad guy. In one particularly memorable fight, Naruto, Rock 
 Lee, and Sakura must fight a brainwashed Might Guy, and you can defeat him only by finishing him 
 off with Lee's special move. The thing is, Guy is all amped up and loco; his attacks are devastating, 
 and your special move removes only a sliver of his life. So the challenge isn't just kicking his 
 butt, but figuring out how to keep your teammates alive long enough to whittle down his health, 
 and then setting him up for a special attack at just the right time. You aren't just winning a 
 fight; you're solving a problem.  

           The character models are a little washed-out.      

  There are three problems with 
 the campaign. First, the cutscenes are terrible. Much of the plot is conveyed through slowly scrolling 
 text, and several conversations are between paper cutouts of the characters who bounce up and down 
 when they talk. Second, the AI is easy to exploit. Certain characters such as Kakashi and Jiraiya 
 have special moves that the computer never figures out, such as Jiraiya's "Now I'm Covered in Spikes-Jutsu!" 
 This makes several fights in the campaign super easy. Third, the tutorial content is all contained 
 within a separate mode, so if you begin the campaign straight away, you'll get your butt kicked 
 while you figure out how the controls work. None of these are big problems (the story is still 
 interesting, the game compensates for the weak AI, and the external tutorial mode is great) ; they 
 just keep a decent campaign from being really good.  

  The core strength of the Clash of Ninja games has always been its fighting engine, and it's as 
 strong as ever in Clash of Ninja Revolution 2. The game is a 3D fighter that takes place mostly 
 on a 2D plane, like with Tekken. Though there are about a half-dozen control permutations that 
 cover everything from the GameCube controller to just a remote, the default mode has you move with 
 the Nunchuk and attack by wiggling the remote. You can also execute four special moves by pressing 
 a direction on the Nunchuk plus the A button, throw kunai by pressing A alone, and execute super 
 moves by pressing down on the remote's D pad. The basics are very easy to pick up.  

  Clash of Ninja 2 provides a surprisingly deep combat experience due to chakra. As you fight, chakra 
 builds up in a meter. If you store enough, you can unleash a devastating super-jutsu (big special 
 move, sometimes with an interactive cutscene) . On the other hand, it can also be used to break 
 yourself out of a combo; if you're getting wailed on, a single button press will teleport you away 
 and drain a large amount of chakra. This interplay leads to tough decisions: Do you eat a big combo 
 to save your special attack, or teleport away to fight another day? The paper bombs are another 
 tactical wrinkle. You can throw these, but the best use is to plant one in the ground and trap 
 your enemy between it and you. It's tactics like these that make Clash of Ninja Revolution 2 so 
 fun to play.  

           The super moves look great.      

  However, the combat isn't without a couple of niggling flaws. For one, the game uses nearly every 
 button between your remote and Nunchuk, and a couple of them do double duty. As a result, it's 
 really hard to figure out how to do things on your own. The biggest issue, though, is getting turned 
 around. For instance, if the enemy teleports behind you and you hit 'back' to block, you'll just 
 walk forward because for you, that's the direction in which you're pressing. To turn yourself around, 
 you have to press toward your enemy and then quickly block. Either way, you're probably going to 
 eat a big combo if the enemy gets behind you. In theory, this makes a lot of sense. In reality, 
 helplessly walking forward as you try to block is too frustrating for words.  

  Once you've gotten the hang of the combat and have played through the story mode, there's still 
 quite a bit of content to play through. There are 36 characters total, and every single one has 
 10 playable missions, which are single battles of increasingly difficult circumstances. By playing 
 through these, you'll unlock characters, bonuses, and even modes. There's also a score attack (beat 
 10 enemies as badly as you can) and a time attack (beat enemies as fast as you can) . Altogether, 
 Clash of Ninja Revolution 2 could keep you busy for well beyond 10 hours. There are just two problems: 
 All of this single-player collectible content (the tutorials, the missions, even the time attacks) 
 should have been integrated into the single-player campaign. Secondly, the missions you play through 
 with each character are really uninteresting. The mission list is always the same, and there's 
 never any context - just fight after fight. You'll want to grind through as many of these as you 
 can to unlock things, but Tomy certainly could have made the process more appealing.  

  Finally, the production values are mixed. The game looks shabby during every cutscene, but it looks 
 fine during combat and even better during super moves. The music is perfect for this sort of high-energy 
 fighting game, and the voice work is fine, though you can tell that the actors weren't exactly 
 pouring their souls into the lines. Well, except for one: Every time you start the game, Naruto 
 screams "I'm all fired up and ready to go!" That may make certain parents and players want to throw 
 themselves under the straight-talk express.  

  Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution 2 is a fine fighting game. Its story campaign is good considering 
 the genre, and there's plenty to do once you finish there. It is a shame, though, that the mission 
 content isn't better, and you can't take your newly honed ninja skills online. But those issues 
 aside, this ninja star is worth a fling.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (22 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Rinnegan_Fan3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2009 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is a large improvement over Clash of Ninja Revolution. I hope they continue to improve 
 in this game's sequel.
  
  Time Value: This game has a great time value if you stick to it, it has loads of content, including 
 loads of modes and other content. They really have done a great job in fixing their mistake with 
 Revolution. {5/5}
  
  Music: This game's music is awesome, there is so much exclusive music that is so good. One of my 
 favorite of the exclusive music is the Results theme for the game. {5/5}
  
  Graphics: The graphics haven't changed much since the last game, so they're still {5/5}
  
  
 Story: An exclusive story featuring ANBU as the main characters, they have even made 3 game exclusive 
 ANBU. I enjoyed the story, it's easy in the beginning but builds in difficulty toward the last 
 few episodes. They could have done a much better job with the character animation, seeing they 
 did go 3D with this game's story. {4/5}
  
  Balance: A little more balanced, to me it appears that some of the unbalanced characters move slower. 
 They also add in hand signs and paper bombs, but there is a catch to using them. {4/5}
  
  Character Rosrer: 35 characters, including exclusives. The exclusives aren't all that bad except 
 for Bando and Kurenai in my opinion, but I think that is just my skill level with those 2. {5/5}
 
  
  Overall: {4.5/5, 90%} This is an excellent improvement, and I hope they continue to do so with 
 it's sequel. You should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juniorpower
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2009 1:18 pm PT
Review:  The very good part is that you barely need to know anything about naruto to play this game, because 
 it has a brand new never before seen original story. The game has 35 characters, and out of the 
 35 characters the game mainly focuses on 2 characters very deeply, UNT Naruto, and SS Sasuke. Many 
 think this game is a button smasher, but I disagree with that. This game is not supposed to be 
 or meant to be a button smasher. Although, I admit the first game was clearly a button smasher, 
 this game involves more techneques and new moves. Overall, this game can satisfy a gamer who loves 
 fighting games. This game is worth having because of the Squad mode like with Naruto and Jariaya 
 doing the double rasengan is just awesome. If you get it most of the characters are unlocked by 
 completing so many battle and i say that it was hard to do all of them but it was so fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjunkool
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:14 am PT
Review:  The story, multiplayer, and single player modes are great and realy fun to play. This is a great 
 fighting game worth playing. Though there is no wi-fi, the 4 player battles are fun, also with 
 the new tag-team mode. The very good part is that you barely need to know anything about naruto 
 to play this game, because it has a brand new never before seen original story. The game has 35 
 characters, and out of the 35 characters the game mainly focuses on 2 characters very deeply, UNT 
 Naruto, and SS Sasuke. Many think this game is a button smasher, but I disagree with that. This 
 game is not supposed to be or meant to be a button smasher. Although, I admit the first game was 
 clearly a button smasher, this game involves more techneques and new moves. Overall, this game 
 can satisfy a gamer who loves fighting games. This game is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowpivot
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 10:32 am PT
Review:  with over 30 characters and a all new story Revolution 2 cleans up after the first game in many 
 categories but one of the best features is the addition of Awakened Hinata Cs2 Sasuke and u. n. t 
 Naruto you must do 800 battles to unlock characters 
  this isn't a great game but its addictive if you have a friend over the addition of combo Justsu's 
 makes it seem like the other games for x-box 360 and ps3 (not really) they removed ino's jutsu 
 and made a new one because the old one sucked... and thats all i can think about at the moment.. so 
 im just going to give a SPOILER!!!!!
  in the last naruto chapters.. (really dont read this ) the leaf village is
  DESTROYED EVERY ONE 
 IS DEAD MUHAHAHAHA exept for sakura naruto looks awesome! konahamuru knows rasengan 
  orochimaru is still dead sasuke joined akatsuki tobi is madara uchiha!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strikerfan116
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Some people think this game sucks. Some people think it's awesome. I think its THE BEST NARUTO 
 GAME EVER MADE! Here's why.
  
  Gameplay: You will be happy to know that Revolution 2 does not skimp on the gameplay. It's extreamly 
 fun, and you get to brawl with all your favorite Naruto characters! Sound: A little fuzzy, but 
 who cares? The game is awesome!
  
  Difficulty: The game is pretty hard, but you'll being playing alot to unlock new characters.
 
  
  Replayability: This has to be the place this game is awesome at. You'll be busy playing with friends 
 and unlocking characters, and finding cheap characters.
  
  
  Overall: This game is awesome, its a steal for only $49.00. If you wanna get a good Naruto fighting 
 game that you'll be playing for years, look no further. This is the game you need to buy. Buy it 
 now. You'd better, cause its awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NINJASMOKER
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Better than the first game. Nothing else to be said the graphics were on point, the game play was 
 more intense and the new missions and character battles were very well put together. The addition 
 of new characters added to the ones from the first game was a excellent judgement call by the creators. 
 In a nutshell this game is very nice and cool. Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah. I don't have 
 anythingvrt hyf else to say but blah blah gfrxgfcf gdchjytvjhc gyyuftfu yrftyfyf yfyuuiyfu yfyugbuyf 
 hyfyvyu hyfyugbuy yhfyhuv fujguhj yguygi jug hgijkn hfdtrfgv hftyglok ugiuojoi giu; lojg giuf6tygu 
 ugtiuhjoi ujgiujoihoijoihi kihuihnio ujhiohoi hijjoijiuht5dtf ugyuihokn jugiukn; kl ujgigiunm jugiuh 
 hfguih nuyfufdyuih ugikonoi ugi jugoijpolo iuhgoijoik ml iooijmpo jugiukm uu iu giuiughiuhoih. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagax03
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  SO lets get this straight i havent been a fan of the clash of ninja series i prefer ultimate ninja 
 more and still do but hey i thought this would suck but boy was i wrong my order is for the next 
 gen naruto exclusives are (1. naruto ultimate ninja storm,2. this one oh my god! 3. naruto broken bonds (i 
 hate that one) . anyway lets see why this is my second favorite and why its great or as i say an 
 instant classic?
  
  Story-A new story as the anbu trie to take over an evil one anyway and it covers the whole histroy 
 of naruto but this is my take on the 2:
  Histroy-perfect-10.0
  anbu (campain) -Superb-9.0.
  The reason why i gave the camppain a A is because i never got why the evil anubu guy wanted to 
 turn everything evil and crap lol.
  A-9.5-Superb.
  
  Gameplay-its a classic stylle of 2d fighting style simple let somewhat loose double conrols i hated 
 using the same button by acident twice because i thought of it as that action but it works not 
 to mention in campain youll be forced challenges like one facing 2 anbus or facing invincle might 
 guy (brainwashed) which is like a puzzle because you cant get your charecters killed which is fun 
 actually. its awsome.
  A-Superb-9.5.
  
  Graphics/design-yes i hate the graphics are wahshed out as well as lifeless and like sketched or 
 cut out from paper i could barely take but the specials and ultimates look GREAT .
  C-Fair-6.10.
  
  Voice acting-its cool but its sometimes to high pitched and screechy.
  A-Superb-9.0 
 
  
  Sound-cool music.
  S-10/10-perfect.
  
  Multiplayer-NO ONLINE WHY THE **** WHY I WAS HOPING SO MUCH NO PLEASE NO NO NO, oh well at least 
 you can fight at home.
  C-good-7/10.
  
  Overall-A-Superb-9.5. its good for fans or for people who played at least to clash of ninjas or 
 ultimate ninjas (not for people who love 3d style fighting only)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destiny_Hero
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  This game is a piece of trash. Now, all you fanboys are going to say this review sucks, but sadly, 
 I'm also a huge Naruto fan (I even have my deck everywhere I go) , and I loved the first Revolution.
 
  
  First off, I'd like to start by saying that the characters are horribly unbalanced. There are pathetic 
 ones like Kurenai, Hinata, Shino, etc. and then there are complete beasts named Guy and Asuma and 
 Shikamaru and Kabuto (who automatically restores his health quickly without chakra) .
  
  Next, the Story mode. Don't be fooled: There are no cutscenes. "3D cutscenes" are just characters 
 on a level standing and talking. The only movement is the camera angle. Voice actors suck, too. 
 Naruto games usually have GREAT voices, but this one is just bland and unemotional. 
  The story objectives are tedious when they're easy, and FRUSTRATING when they're not. The storyline 
 isn't that good either, but I give it props for having ANBU and new characters. But hell, three 
 of them just disappear from the story!
  
  
  Next. Sure there are a lot of characters, but choosing them is a pain in the ass because of the 
 selection screen. As you choose your mode, Sakura will kill you with obnoxious, repitive explanations 
 for everything. It's like watching the Direct TV help channel on your Wii.
  
  There are not, like most people say, 350 missions. There are 10. Each mission (barring three of 
 them) is a repetitive, extremely frustrating thing, such as 10 consecutive battles, and you never 
 regain your health.
  
  Furthermore, new additions like Hand Signs and Paper Bombs were completely unnecessary. Hand Signs 
 don't even work the right way.
  
  
  My biggest complaint about this game is the trash AI. The game's excuse for a challenge is making 
 an AI opponent with extra Health, stronger and faster attacks, and they won't even move when you 
 hit them, making it near-impossible to win. 
  
  
  My biggest compliment to the game is its fun multiplayer. If you have more friends than you do 
 brain cells, you'll have a blast playing this with them. But the complete lack of balanced characters 
 will certainly piss you off --- Itachi's auto-kill combo hasn't even been removed from the last 
 game, too.
  
  
  
  Overall, I would have loved this game if it didn't fall short on everything. The lazy, unresponsive 
 controls and frustrating "missions" take a lot out of the game as well. Also, you need tons of 
 friends that can come over your house a lot, or you can't have any fun at all. 
  So, have fun, fanboys. Dare to give my review a bad rating just because a dissed a game you liked. 
 Rating reviews is about whether or not they did a good job, not what they rated the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 10:47 am PT
Review:  yeah, sakura will anger you in this game... she will say "ENJOY AN EXCITING STORY!"
  LIES! the story is filler that isnt really that great, and playing it can get really frustrating! 
 the bots wont recieve recoil from your attacks on some of the levels, and all you can do is spam 
 one move until you win! eliminating skill and replacing it with timing and patience. THIS ISNT 
 FISHING! ITS A 3D FIGHTER!
  
  and boy is it a great one! 35 characters ^_^' not bad! combos aren't a pain in the neck to do and 
 are easy to adjust to! and no items to unbalance the gameplay! thank god! and a nice stage transition! 
 and the damage feels evenly scaled to a real fist fight! without all the special stuff and the 
 high jumping of course, or logging people T_T and it feels so good when you make melee contact 
 to your opponent.... it will make them flinch! except in the story mode.
  and it's got amazing multiplayer! give it a shot with your buddies in 2P stuff like PvP and PvB 
 stuff! and unlock other nice things like two player survival!
  
  and the singleplayer will last it's enjoyment until you unlock everything! which takes a while, 
 since theres so much to unlock!
  the character selection roster may get on your nerves though, the controls there are a little bit 
 odd. but the characters are great! each with over 2 easy-to-use special attacks!
  
  the game has a perfectly balanced combat system! you'll enjoy it for sure!
  
  and yeah, sakura 
 will lie to you about the menu screens!
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocklee_112713
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution 2 is a huge improvement from Revo., which was somewhat disappointing 
 to fans who played CoN 2. Now we get everything we wanted and more back from this game. 
  
  First off, the gameplay is mostly the same, but there have been some adjustments. First, there 
 is a new Tag Team mode, allowing people to do 2 VS 2 battles, and special teams have their own 
 special techniques made for the game. Second, there is now an option to use Paper Bombs, which 
 are unblockable projectiles that use one bar of chakra. However, certain characters do not use 
 paper bombs, but rather, an unblockable chakra consuming version of one of the character's attacks. 
 Last, are the hand signs. These may boost a character's strength or chakra, and can be used for 
 transformations. However, these cannot be used on GC controllers. 
  
  On this game, you start out with 19 characters (Naruto, Sasuke, Sakura, Kakashi, Neji, Lee, Tenten, 
 Guy, Shikamaru, Choji, Ino, Shino, Kiba Hinata, Gaara, Temari, Kankuro, Jiraiya, and Tsunade) , 
 but there are 35 characters total. 
  
  There's an exclusive story made just for the game, but it's not as good as Tomy's been making it 
 seem like it is. Basically, 2 Anbu discover a village that was destroyed, and Naruto and friends 
 learn about a group of people trying to destroy the Leaf Village. It may sound interesting at first, 
 but gets old fast. Still, the match-ups are nice. 
  
  The music is also pretty good, and since there are new stages you will get to hear some new tracks. 
 The dub VAs are the only VAs you'll get on this game, but if you actually consider listening to 
 them and not whine about how subs are better than dubs, they're not all that bad. Plus anyone who 
 is grateful for there games could live with them. 
  
  The graphics are still the same, but if you could live with the graphics before, then you'll be 
 fine with them now. Some stages look very similar to the show and were made nicely. 
  
  If you are a Naruto fan, this is a must buy. If you have any doubts, you could easily rent the 
 game and try it out before you buy it, but it will end up being a waste in the case you do like 
 it (which will be very likely) . If you enjoyed the previous CoN games, then you should buy this, 
 as it is the best CoN game (equal to GNT 4 imo, and the best of the American games) . Looking for 
 a great Naruto fighting game on a Nintendo system? This is the best choice for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ult_Kakuzu
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  Although I haven't seen anywhere near enough videos on EX 2, I believe this game is the second 
 best game to be released in the GNT/Clash of Ninja series. Let me shortly go into GNT4. GNT4 wins 
 over this game in: stages=stage music ( 32 different stages= 32 different stage music, many of which 
 are awesome or very good) , 3-man cell, character roster is highly controversial, and maybe some 
 other things you'll find out somehow. Revolution 2 has better graphics, wonderful exclusive stage 
 music, wonderful exclusive menu music (when I saw one of the game's first BETA videos released 
 I was upset, the GNT4 VS theme hadn't been added, they released a video with that theme the next 
 month (July) , I love the GNT4 VS theme) , Kumite Mode (way better than Oboro Mode) , wonderful exclusive 
 characters ( 3 of which Japan imported into GNT EX 3 according to rumors) , and more. Music is one 
 of the best things that my 2 favorite series (Naruto and Sonic) both have and they probably top 
 a whole lot of other series. I love the Results theme and the ending movie and music of the game. 
 This game tops all of Japan's other games ,besides GNT4, from EX 2 back. America did well. I enjoy 
 the new modes and they increased CPU difficulty. S-rank missions are extremely aggravating, which 
 gives you the biggest challenge in the game probably. I've only been able to beat Neji's with Hokage 
 rank and have attempted few others. There's alot more I'll leave for you readers to discover. Time 
 value is great. Disappointments include no Kimimaro, Third Hokage, and quite a few missing tag 
 team specials. Hope you enjoy the game if you get it. I'm far from beating it, but now that I've 
 figured out how to unlock Awakened Hinata a little over a wekk ago, I'm starting a new, permanent 
 file on this game, and discover everything else I haven't discovered and unlocked, considering 
 I hadn't done too much I'd have trouble with doing again in the files I've deleted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution 2 is a Naruto game that has a different story from the manga 
 and anime series, but the game also features some moments from the show and manga. The story starts 
 as two Anbu BlackOps agents get attacked on their secret mission and see that a little village 
 was destroyed by unknown purposes. Tsunade of the three Sannin gets word of this mystery, but Jiraiya 
 knows its a forbidden Jutsu that ruined the village. Tsunade sends a squad composed of Naruto, 
 Kakashi, and Gaara to scout the Leaf Village for any word of what this might be. But they get attacked 
 by Choji Akimichi, they win the fight and now they know what this forbidden Jutsu does.
  
  What I liked about this game is that the fighting gameplay is still great. Ability to play as Anbu 
 BlackOps agents is pretty nice. Good new characters. Stupendous anime graphics. Computer animated 
 cutscenes are pretty nice too. Beautiful classic, returning, and new arenas, some are modified 
 with environment change. Loads of extra fighting modes, such as character exclusive missions. Over 
 thirty playable characters.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that the story is all non canon. Not enough canon monents 
 from the character exclusive missions. One character I could not stand at all in the game. A glitchy 
 moment.
  
  Overall, Naruto's second Wii game in the US is just as superb as his previous game. Especially 
 since there are thirty plus playable characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hayden10Noah
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is obviously good. 35 characters and an original storyline. But the exclusive characters 
 have to go. The story will take you about 5-15 hours. Sasuke 2nd State was the best addition to 
 the roster of characters. 15 stages and transitions for each stage. Making 30 total stages. The 
 jutsu for the characters are good, but what the heck is with Hinata's Spirit Palm crap. She never 
 used that!!! Anko and Baki also should not have been there, even though Baki is cool. Anko is just 
 plain weird. They did a good job with the story line, especially now that they don't have those 
 little talking blurbs. The missions are good, but can be hard. Kumite Mode is really fun, it's 
 like an all out fight with your favorite character, use Temari to get a good high score. Temari 
 in general is really cheap but is very fun to use her in battle. Your opponent can almost never 
 touch you. My favorite character is Choji, he represents the world of chubbies. His attacks are 
 really strong and can deal some damage. Though Kabuto is really the cheapest of them all. He constantly 
 heals hinself. For an example, if Yugao does a jutsu that wipes out half of Kabuto's life, he will 
 heal about half of his life back!!!!!!! CHEAP WAD.
  But still, this game is great buy for any fan of anime or manga, it deserves a 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g1rldraco7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised that they made a sequel to the first one. I never figured that they would have 
 all these cool characters to unlock. I just finished the game today and I say this is a must buy. 
 Sure most of the controls are the same, but with the hand signs, paper bombs and new Justsus to 
 each character no wonder this game is very addicting. Although some of the challenges may tick 
 you, it's worth it when you did something yourself. There are some characters you have to watch 
 out for like Kabuto, Asuma, Baki and the second state of Naruto and Sasuke. The only down side 
 is that the tutorials only show the paper bombs and the hand signs. It was confusing at first, 
 but once you practice you'll be a pro in no time. Of course trying to dothe hand signs while fighting 
 is hard, but it
  'll work you have to be quick about it. It took me so long to unlock the second frm of Naruto, 
 but it was worth the stress. I hope the Naruto GNT EX2 comes to america soon. I know shipudden 
 comes to america in January in English, but I have to check my sources. I hope you don't judge 
 me for praising this game so much I just love Naruto so much ever since the show and games arrived. 
 My fav. character to use is Naruto and the second stat Naruto. NARUTO RULES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grorusso
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  Naruto Clash Of Ninja Revolution 2 is definatly worth the wait much better than the first game 
 there are a total of 35 characters and 365 mission's
  
  here are all the character's:
  
  1-Naruto
  
  2-Sasuke
  
  3-Sakura
  
  4Kakashi
  
  5-Gaara
  
  6-Kankuro
 
  
  7-Temari
  
  8-Baki
  
  9-Kiba
  
  10-Shino
  
  11-Hinata
  
  12-Kurenai
  
  13-Shikamaru
  
  14-Chouji
  
  15-Ino
  
  16-Asuma
  
  17-Orochimaru
  
  18-Kabuto
 
  
  19-Itachi
  
  20-Kisame
  
  21-Kagura
  
  22-Bando
  
  23-Komachi
  
  24-Towa
  
  25-Yugao
  
  26-Jiraiya
  
  27-Tsunade
  
  28-Awakened Hinata
  
  29-One 
 Tailed Demon Naruto
  
  30Curse Mark State 2 Sasuke
  
  31-Anko
  
  32-Might Guy
  
  33-Rock Lee
  
  34-Neji
  
  35-Ten-Ten
  
  well that is all of them
  
  gameplay: very 
 fun and addictive like the other games
  
  sound: good but not great
  
  graphics: they really improved the graphic's
  
  Stroy-the story is new and original wich i like 
 because i'm tired of hearing the same story in every game!
  
  i forgot this stages:
  
  1-Final Valley
  
  2-Ichiraku at night
  
  3-Hidde Leaf Village Rooftop
  
  4-Chunin Exams 
 Finals
  
  5-Nine Taild Fox Room
  
  6-Leaf Forest
  
  7-Leaf Bridge
  
  8-Tansuki Castle
  
  9-Hidden Leaf Pillar Chamber
  
  10-Hideot
  
  11-Hidden Leaf Entrance
 
  
  that's all of them
  
  
 
  
  
  
  final thoughts:
  
  much much much! better than the first game and now you can do tag team specials and throw paper 
 bombs and hand sings i reccomend this to everyone go get it right now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCyberForceX
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  Opinion - The is my second Naruto game I purchased within the past year. An XBOX version in 2007 
 and this version in 2008. So far I haven't been disappointed in either of them. The gameplay and 
 storyline in this version flows well and has no major flaws. If you are a fan of the anime its 
 well worth the money to buy.
  
  Positive - Hey It's Naruto, what more positive do you need?
  
  Negative - Just got my Wii a 
 couple of months ago so using the Nunchuck with this type of game took some getting use to. I eventually 
 gave up and used the controller. The graphics is nothing spectacular when comparing previous versions 
 but looks great anyway. It takes time to unlock all of the characters and would be nice to have 
 all of them available upon opening the box.
  
  Overall - This is a good game to add to your collection or maybe to put on your Christmas wish 
 list. I Gave it a B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orochick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Well this game has a really good story line but the begining is miss leading like the fights are 
 really easy then you hit the one against asuma and i havent gotten past that point cause i cant 
 win. The anbu are one of the best parts of the game and the fact that Orochimaru is in it made 
 it worth the money to me however i wish the sound ninja where in it but these villans are just 
 as good. I like the fact that you can switch characters in the middle of some of the fighs. Gaara 
 is really cool in this game! Other then that i cant get past of of the fights but i have been informed 
 that other than Orochimaru and kabuto no other sound ninja come in and frankly it has nothing to 
 do with the shows story line so if you are into the almost filler type game this one is a really 
 good one! Some of the fight objections are really annoying though like beat a group in a certain 
 time limit or the worst is the fight against guy where your final move has to be the primary lotus 
 so it has its good and bads 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffinboy846
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  If you choose to play the story mode, you'll see a brand new, exclusive story of for the game. 
 It's pretty predictable.
  Now there are real cutscenes in the game, but there are still some stiff images from the first 
 Revolution game.
  The core gameplay remains the same, but with some new tweaks. First, you can preform handsigns 
 to increase chakra and defense and offense. Even though it's taken from Naruto Shippuuden: Clash 
 of Ninja EX 2 (or something like that) , it's a welcome addition to the game.
  If you choose to play VS. modes or score attack (single player, except for score attack 2p) , you 
 can choose squad mode. Here, you pick two characters, and fight against two characters. If you 
 and your partner's chakra is full, and you have the right combination of characters (such as, Asuma 
 and Kureni, Itachi and Kisame, Kakashi and Sasuke, etc) , you'll perform a specific jutsu. If you 
 don't, you'll use a generic jutsu.
  There is also Mission Mode, where you take one of the 35 characters and preform missions. The missions 
 are the same for each character (except for who you fight) .
  It's pretty bad the missions are generic.
  One problem is that there is no online play. The develpoers 
 said that they wanted to rebalance the characters instead. Why? They at least should of delayed 
 it about a month later for online play.
  Another problem is that unlocking characters is annyoing. In Revolution 1, you unlocked characters 
 in score attack with specific characters. Now, you have to preform different critera in missions, 
 such as getting a certain mission completion percentage, or getting a combined mission completion 
 percentage with different characters. It does not tell you how much percentage you need to unlock 
 a character, or HOW to unlock a character, so you'll probably be online finding out how to unlock 
 them. 
  The graphics are the same. the added a exclusive FMV for the new story, but you probably won't 
 watch it and get right to the fighting.
  The AI is good, but in the final battles of story mode, it will be hard. You can choose between 
 4 different difficulty settings (the 4th setting you need to unlock) . 
  Overall, the game is good.
  (Sorry for the spelling errors.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pnero_1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I find the game enjoyable, much like every other one in the series, HOWEVER (yes that's right, 
 I'm staring on a negative note) they completely omitted Sasuke and the sound four from the story... 
 doesn't that seem a bit wrong to anyone else??? wouldn't you want to deal with the story in a chronological 
 order? so instead of dealing with the whole Sasuke crying and whining and running off to Guccimaru 
 for power and the Sound four taking him away from the village and giving him the pill thingy to 
 strengthen the cursed seal, and Naruto and everyone else going after them and killing the sound 
 four.... they decided to go with a filler story.... about a former Anbu chick who didn't get to 
 be Hokage and wants someone to whine to.
  If you ignore all of that, then it's a decent game, despite being the fourth in the series and 
 virtually indeterminable from the last two, the characters are well balanced (I personally can't 
 get enough of Asuma, he rocks everyone's head into the ground man) and the long awaited addition 
 of Chouji, Anko, Kurenai, it provides for many ways of knocking each other's heads in..... or knocking 
 the computer's head in.... or watching two computers do it. Either way it's buy worthy, because 
 trust me, you're not going to be unlocking the best two characters within the week you take off 
 of work as sick leave. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OracleRadex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  I'm going to get straight to the point with this review. Naruto Clash of Ninja Revolution 2 offers 
 a wide array of characters, ranging from the 5 genin squads to their jonin leaders and others that 
 were never featured in any of the clash of ninja games. There are new modes which allows the player 
 to select 2 characters on a team and switch out during the fighting, along with team specials.
 
  
  However, I personally feel there were a few things left out and some promises that weren't kept. 
 The creators said the characters would be more evened out since Temari and Itachi were too powerful. 
 This however wasn't done. Bando, Kagura, Komachi, and a few others are still more powerful than 
 ever.
  
  There are also no handicaps : ( Which is a disapointment to the elite naruto players who like to 
 challenge themselves even more. Sometimes level 4 computers still don't cut it. I also personally 
 feel that 2 human players should have been allowed to team up during the 2 man squad mode.
  
  All in all naruto clash of ninja revolution 2 is a very solid game and fun to play! I would 
 definitely recommend purchasing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosisover
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 8:01 am PT
Review:  Ah Naruto, one of the most overrated Animes of all time. It's a good show, but people give it to 
 much credit. Spoiler Alert! Bleach is better! =P 
  
  Anyways time for the review. If you are a fan of Naruto or the Clash of Ninja Series, then you'll 
 love this game. The core gameplay stays the same along with just about everyone's moves. They added 
 a few new features, and made the menu design pretty nice. They also added new "American Exclusive" 
 characters, and some minor characters like Anko and Asuma to the cast. 
  
  The story mode is pretty challenging, and isn't a cake walk like the other games, and the characters 
 like CS2 Sasuke and UNT Naruto take for a lot of work and effort to unlock.
  
  If you have a Wii and friends to play this with, I highly recommend buying this game, but if your 
 only gonna get one Naruto game this year, I suggest waiting for Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm if 
 you have a PS3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthew137
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  Revolution 2 features destructible stages, four-player multiplayer battles, and gameplay modes 
 and characters not yet seen on the Clash of Ninja series.
  
  Revolution 2 features destructible stages, four-player multiplayer battles, and gameplay modes 
 and characters not yet seen on the Clash of Ninja series.
  
  Revolution 2 features destructible stages, four-player multiplayer battles, and gameplay modes 
 and characters not yet seen on the Clash of Ninja series.
  
  Revolution 2 features destructible stages, four-player multiplayer battles, and gameplay modes 
 and characters not yet seen on the Clash of Ninja series.
  
  Revolution 2 features destructible stages, four-player multiplayer battles, and gameplay modes 
 and characters not yet seen on the Clash of Ninja series.
  
  Revolution 2 features destructible stages, four-player multiplayer battles, and gameplay modes 
 and characters not yet seen on the Clash of Ninja series.
  Revolution 2 features destructible stages, four-player multiplayer battles, and gameplay modes 
 and characters not yet seen on the Clash of Ninja series. Revolution 2 features destructible stages, 
 four-player multiplayer battles, and gameplay modes and characters not yeRevolution 2 features 
 destructible stages, four-player multiplayer battles, and gameplay modes anRevolution 2 features 
 destructible stages, four-player multiplayer battles, and gameplay modes and characters not yet 
 seen on the Clash of Ninja series.
  
  d characters not yet seen on the Clash of NinjRevolution 2 features destructible stages, four-player 
 multiplayer battles, and gameplay modes and characters not yet seen on the Clash of Ninja series.
 
  
  a series.
  
  t seen on the Clash of Ninja series.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
