-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/narutoclashofninjamvz/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Easy to pick up.
 Plenty of recognizable Naruto characters.
 Loads of control options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Aggressively reuses old Clash of Ninja content.
 Most control options are kind of clunky.
 Gameplay options are lazy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  9, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.5, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 978 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tomy
Developer: 8ing/Raizing
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Oct 23, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Clash of Ninja games haven't been great, and Revolution isn't much more than a thin coat of 
 paint on the same old game. 

  Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution is an anime-based fighting game with a backstory that's more 
 interesting than the game itself. The game was released earlier this year in Japan as Naruto Shippden: 
 Gekitou Ninja Taisen EX, which featured the teenage versions of the Naruto characters, as seen 
 in the Naruto Shippden anime series currently running in Japan. Since Shippden hasn't 
 made it to the US yet, publisher D3 chose to gut all of the older characters, along with the main 
 storyline, and replace them with the younger versions that American audiences would be familiar 
 with, and a story to go along with it. It's a move that makes a certain amount of sense, except 
 that the result is a game that, aside from some remote-waggling control options, is nearly identical 
 to the Clash of Ninja games that previously appeared on the GameCube. Those games were already 
 fluffy pieces of fan service that were liberal about recycling content, and Clash of Ninja Revolution 
 ends up all the more inessential for it.  

           Ninjas! Clashing! Again!      

  Keeping with series standards, the action in Revolution is fast and simple, though still fairly 
 evocative of the confrontations you might actually see in Naruto. You've got a strong and a weak 
 attack that you can mix up for attack combos, and you can perform a basic throw. Incoming attacks 
 can be blocked or dodged, and a well-timed dodge will trigger your substitution jutsu, which causes 
 you to immediately appear on the other side of your opponent, giving you the drop on them. You'll 
 build up chakra -- the magical ninja energy that powers the fighters in the world of Naruto -- as you 
 both give and receive damage, and once you build up enough chakra, you can unleash one of your 
 character's special jutsu attacks -- big, cinematic attacks that usually shave off a good portion 
 of your opponent's health.  

  This is how the other Clash of Ninja games handled, though Revolution tweaks the formula in a few 
 ways. You'll find that there are objects like rocks and wooden crates in the arenas that you can 
 hide behind, though their refuge is temporary, as they only take a few hits to demolish. The arenas 
 are multilevel, kind of like in the Dead or Alive games, where you can knock a player out of the 
 starting arena and into a new one. As you travel between arenas, the attacker can choose to squeeze 
 in a quick attack during the transition, or move ahead of the other player. But, if the other player 
 can predict which choice the attacker is going to make, they can cancel out the attacker's move. 
 With only two options it's about as strategic as a coin flip, but it does help make the fights 
 more dynamic.  

  There are 20 different characters in Clash of Ninja Revolution that you can unlock and play with, 
 which is coincidental, as that's how many different control schemes there are to choose from. OK, 
 that's a bit of hyperbole, but with five different control schemes, there are still a lot to choose 
 from. The default controls use the Wii Remote and the Nunchuk and have you waggling the control 
 to perform weak attacks, and pressing the A button for strong attacks. There's also an alternate 
 control scheme for the remote-and-nunchuk setup. The big difference is that rather than waggling 
 the remote, you press down on the D pad to perform weak attacks. When you're playing with either 
 of these control schemes, there's a little interactivity during your jutsu attacks. You'll be prompted 
 at specific points to move the nunchuk and/or the remote in a specific fashion, and if done correctly 
 your jutsu attack will do more damage. That the defending player can't do anything here to mitigate 
 damage makes this system unbalanced, and with the little diagrams it's not always clear what kind 
 of gesture you're being prompted for.  

  If you're short on Nunchuks, the game can be played with just the Wii Remote held sideways, which 
 works surprisingly well, and the game also supports the Classic Controller and the GameCube controller. 
 Giving all of these control options seems like a friendly gesture, but the fact of the matter is 
 that most of them feel awkward and compromised, requiring you to do some odd finger-wrangling at 
 one point or another. That the GameCube controller is probably the ideal way to play Clash of Ninja 
 Revolution is telling.  

           A bunch of funky control options don't really help this game's case.      

  The gameplay 
 modes offered in Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution cover the basics, and not much more. There are 
 training, time attack, survival, and versus modes, none of which have any real surprises to offer. 
 There's a mission mode that starts off right around the time the Chunin Exams end in the standard 
 Naruto storyline. The story hits the ground running, though Naruto fans will pick up the plot pretty 
 quick. Not that the game puts much care into the story, which is relayed through quick bits of 
 dialogue and still images between fights. You'll actually spend a good deal of time in the story 
 mode playing as characters other than Naruto, and your objectives are often more specific than 
 just beating your opponent, providing a little bit of variety. Unfortunately, your objectives can 
 be rather ambiguous, leaving you to try to interpret just what you're supposed to be doing. Having 
 to play the same fight repeatedly because you didn't beat your opponent  the right way --a way 
 that the game is unclear about -- can be extremely frustrating.  

  In its translation from Japan to the US, Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution has had all of its potentially 
 unique characteristics sanded down smooth, leaving a game that is more reminiscent of its predecessors 
 than it should be. The Wii controls are sloppy and awkward, the gameplay modes are determinedly 
 pedestrian, and it doesn't look markedly better than its GameCube predecessors. Simply put, the 
 only way to really enjoy Clash of Ninja Revolution is with low expectations.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (78 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Akriloth_2160
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2009 1:19 am PT
Review:  You may remember I reviewed the original Naruto Ultimate Ninja for the PS2 some time ago, which 
 turned out to be a surprisingly well-done Smash Bros clone with fantastic cinematic special moves 
 thrown in! Mind you, I haven't played a Naruto game in ages. I think one reason was that the death 
 of my PS2 meant that I couldn't play Ultimate Ninja 3, the best-looking game in the series so far, 
 but another reason could be that the last Naruto game I played, Uzumaki Chronicles was absolute 
 tat. Good news, Clash of Ninja Revolution is by no means tat! It's a 2D fighter on a changing 3D 
 plane in the same vein as Tekken, the original Soul Calibur, or to be more accurate, the DragonBall 
 Z Budokai games. This is basically the same as Budokai except with easier controls, you can't fly 
 (Not that that matters!) , and there's none of that cheap gameplay-lengthening slog involving having 
 to grind up enough money to unlock the special moves. Just you, up to three opponents and pure 
 ninja goodness on your side! The whole thing just feels smooth and well-done, with the only major 
 flaws (the rather short length, the rubbish rasengan minigame, and evidence of duplicated game 
 modes) only serving as a minor deterrence from the 9.0 region. If you love Naruto, definitely pick 
 this one up, but make sure you dust off your cube controller or classic controller, because the 
 wii controls aren't worth it. If you're new to Naruto, I'd suggest getting any of the Ultimate 
 Ninja games instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rinnegan_Fan3
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 15, 2009 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I would put this and Naruto Clash of Ninja 2 as rivals because each game has some key good differences. 
 If you are interested in the Clash of Ninja series, I recommend that you take a look at Clash of 
 Ninja 2, Clash of Ninja Revolution 2, and the next Clash of Ninja game that is expected to come 
 out some time this year.
  
  Time Value: The time value isn't as great as that of Clash of Ninja 2, you can beat the game in 
 one day, depending on how long you played. When it comes to having fun and playing with friends 
 then the time value becomes greater. {3/5}
  
  Music: The music in this game isn't that much, it was lacking what it's Japan counterpart had. 
 The music easily gets repetitive. {2/5}
  
  Graphics: The graphics in the game have been significantly improved from the GC series games. {5/5}
 
  
  Story: Follows the anime for these arcs, and leaves out a few details. They also decided to do 
 a little censoring, thus the language is dumbed down a bit. {4/5}
  
  Balance: The balance in the game is difficult for me to decide, though it is more balanced than 
 what I've seen in GNT series. {3/5}
  
  Character Roster: Has the same amount of characters as its predecessor, it replaces some of the 
 Clash of Ninja 2 characters. Some for the better, some for the worse. {3/5}
  
  Overall: {3/5. 60%} I really enjoyed the game for a few months, you might want to try it out yourself. 
 Though, if you really enjoy the game, then you should get Naruto Clash of Ninja Revolution 2 which 
 has 15 more characters than this game. Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juniorpower
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2009 9:15 am PT
Review:  As you probably know from reading my review deck, I think gamespot is to under appreciative of 
 their games. I think that this game is awesome, and this is why.
  
  Gameplay : Addicting and very, very fun. Very big update over CON 2.
  
  Design : Kinda like 
 an arcade fighter, except way better graphics, and better everything.
  
  Replayability : If you want replayabilitiy, look no further. You'll be working your butt off trying 
 to get all the costumes, characters, and secret scrolls.
  
  Overall, CONR Is a great game, and deserves to be bought. Go out and buy it, NOW. Please get this 
 game, it's awesome. Also one more thing, use Itachi, he's really, Really, Really, Really, Awesome. 
 Also, Sasuke is awesome too. So is Kakashi. Naruto isn't that great though. He might look great, 
 but he's not, don't use him. Use Kisame. He's good too. Sakura sucks though, dont use her. Ino's 
 good though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Werd_Chao
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  As a former Naruto fan, this was the first game I bought. My friend and I unlocked all the characters 
 and beat most of the modes in less than 3 hours. After that we went over to play something else. 
 I played it about an hour after that and never touched it again. Later, after jumping off the Naruto 
 manure bandwagon, I dusted off this game and popped it into my wii. Low and behold, it was absolute 
 garbage. The controls are horrible for a fighter and it is a near exact repeat of the other games. 
 The graphics are really lazy, you can see the shadow is blocky and pixely. The characters are horribly 
 unbalanced. You can spam tornadoes with Temari on any difficuly and win with minimum damage. This 
 series should of died at 2, and possibly let it continue in Japan. I still play CoN2 when I have 
 nothing else to do, and since then, I traded this game in. There is nothing revolutionary about 
 this game. If you want a good Naruto game, if your still part of the fanbase, go for CoN2 or import 
 CoN4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strikerfan116
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  As you probably know from reading my review deck, I think gamespot is to under appreciative of 
 their games. I think that this game is awesome, and this is why.
  
  Gameplay : Addicting and very, very fun. Very big update over CON 2.
  
  Design : Kinda like 
 an arcade fighter, except way better graphics, and better everything.
  
  Replayability : If you want replayabilitiy, look no further. You'll be working your butt off trying 
 to get all the costumes, characters, and secret scrolls.
  
  Overall, CONR Is a great game, and deserves to be bought. Go out and buy it, NOW. Please get this 
 game, it's awesome. Also one more thing, use Itachi, he's really, Really, Really, Really, Awesome. 
 Also, Sasuke is awesome too. So is Kakashi. Naruto isn't that great though. He might look great, 
 but he's not, don't use him. Use Kisame. He's good too. Sakura sucks though, dont use her. Ino's 
 good though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ult_Kakuzu
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Do not get this game! If you're reading this review with interest in this game ,read the rest of 
 the review. When I used to play the game before I got Revolution 2, it was alright the first time 
 or so that I played it. It only has 8 stages which get repetitive very fast. It is lacking in gameplay 
 mode quantity, and the character number is the same in a special way. It takes less than 5 hours 
 to unlock all the characters and stages, if you know what you're doing. There is a cheats section 
 on this site of the game anyway. When I had the game, what kept it interesting was being able to 
 play the game with my friends. GNT3 makes this game look silly with its 3 man cells with team specials, 
 and all other modes from Clash of Ninja 2, roster with several more characters than Revolution 
 because characters were added instead of replaced. GNT3 also retains Clash of Ninja 2 music but 
 adds some more. Revolution isn't worth buying if you haven't bought it yet. Clash of Ninja Revolution 
 2 is the game worth buying because it retains Revolution's character roster and adds 15 more ( 
 including 3 missing Revolution characters) , a few more gameplay modes with one of interest being 
 Kumite mode which is the tweaked Oboro Mode and is much better than Oboro Mode, exclusive stages 
 with very good music and the Final Valley stage from GNT4, GNT4 VS theme ( I love that theme) , 
 exclusive menu music ( I love the results/records music) , physics change, and more, which I'll 
 go into on my Revolution 2 review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffinboy846
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Naruto Clash of Ninja Revolution is Naruto's first game on the Wii. Is this game good?
  The story follows the Leaf Destruction Arc, and the Search for Tsunade Arc. The story, is in, like, 
 every other Naruto game out right now, meaning the story isn't that good.
  The gameplay involves shaking the Wii-mote to attack, and using the Nunchuck to move and use dash 
 moves. When you press a button on the Wii remote, you'll activate a Ougi (justu) , in which you 
 can follow the Wii-mote motions to preform a lot of damage. Now for the characters. Temari can 
 be considered the cheapest character, since her fan-blade does a lot of damage, and if you press 
 the A button, and the enemy blocks, or get's hit, you'll get, like, a lot of chakra. and Rock Lee, 
 in his 8 Inner Gates mode, can kill you in 1 combo, if you know the combo. The characters arn't 
 really balanced.
  The graphics are the same as the other past 2 Clash of Ninja games, so nothing new here.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreatSlayer980
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 29, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Well all I can say to start that this game is a great naruto game on the wii. Though really no 
 different from Naruto Clash Of Ninja 2, this game can still be one that can be enjoyed. With the 
 removal of some characters and adding of new ones this game can be a bit confusing. Some main cast 
 such as kiba have been removed and replaced with shino. The game had so much more room for a bigger 
 roster that this game only seems like CON2. The missions arent even that great when following the 
 storyline, and the game doesn't even offer online play. Hopefully part two will feature a bigger 
 character roster as well as some more interesting game modes. If you are a hardcore Naruto fan 
 you will absolutely love this game but if your looking for something new just rent this game first 
 and see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocklee_112713
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution is a good game, but in my opinion, not as good as Clash of Ninja 
 2. 
  
  There are now only 20 characters, but it is partially because some previous characters are now 
 transformations (Nine-Tailed Naruto, Sharingan Kakashi, etc.) You start with Naruto, Sasuke, Sakura, 
 Kakashi, Lee, Neji, Shikamaru, and Jiraiya. You have to unlock 12 other characters. 
  
  Obviously, the gameplay is still mostly the same, but 2 things are different. First, different 
 controllers such as the wiimote can be used. Second, now each character has 2 or more specials. 
 
  
  The Story Mode of the last game went from the beginning of the series to the end of the Konoha 
 Invasion Arc. This game begins right before the Chunin Exam Finals and ends at the end of the Search 
 for Tsunade arc. Some matches don't completely follow the story however, such as Naruto VS Kabuto 
 is Naruto VS Orochimaru in this game, as Kabuto wasn't put in the game. Choji, the Third Hokage, 
 and Anko also weren't included in this game even though they were all in the Japanese 3rd version 
 of the game. Also, Iruka, Haku, Zabuza, Kiba, Mizuki, Akamaru, and Crow were taken out of the game. 
 
  
  The graphics are mostly the same. Some stages have been taken away and some other ones have been 
 added. Instead of just one section, there are now 2 tiers in a stage. There are some stages exclusive 
 for this and the Japanese Shippuden Wii games. 
  
  There are also mini-games that require the use of the Wiimote. They're not the best part of the 
 game, but the mini-games are the only things exclusive to this game that couldn't be found in Revo. 
 2. This game could have been better, but it is still fun. It would be very good if it included 
 all of the above characters that couldn't be included (maybe with the exception of Mizuki, Akamaru, 
 and Crow) . When it first came out, it was a reasonable buy. Now that Revo 2 came out, this game 
 has become obsolete, and I don't recommend that you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tavares17
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  The game is almost the same thing as Naruto clash of ninja 1 and 2. Just with differn't stages, 
 characters and fighting combos. But do the Naruto fans like it? Well I am a Naruto fan and I was 
 okay with the game wasn't impressed when I rented it. Story mode was short as always it never was 
 long like let's say a Zelda game. There were some bonus missions for your story mode to unlock 
 It hardly made the game longer in any way.. So if your a Naruto to fan you might want to try it 
 not the greatest naruto game.
  
  Reasoning For giving it a 6.5
  
  It was Way too short.
  Great for Naruto fans.
  Pretty cool charcters in the game.
  Story 
 connects with the t. v show itself which is good.
  Pretty cool chakra moves That help you defeat your opponents.
  If your a Naruto fan go out and 
 rent it you might like it but, I'll warn you it's not the greatest naruto game out there. But this 
 is the only wii version so if you do own a wii you should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KJsmashdude
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 12, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Really good in ways and not so good in ways. When you start playing it will have you jumping and 
 screaming Na-ru-to! Uzumaki Barage! Or Rasengan! And before you beat and unlock everything i'ts 
 a blast figuring out all other players jutsu and beating the heck out of the ninja you hate (if 
 there on the game.) Most likely the best thing about it is great multi-player! Just get 1,2, or 
 3 of you friends to do an all out battle royale, or split in to teams of 2 vs 2, or 1 vs 3. The 
 things that lack are that story is short and stinks. Only about 20 charactors and after you unlock 
 everything it's not to fun anymore. Plus it really helps to be a naruto fan to enjoy the game. 
 When you have nothing to do you just put in and play a few to use your spare time. This is a great 
 game but may get old to you so you might want to rent it first to see if you like it, and if you 
 do it is very worth it, and if you don't you shoulden't even really bother getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grorusso
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  I am so addicted to this game!
  
  Like always i start my review by telling what character's are in the game:
  
  Naruto & Demond 
 Naruto
  
  Sasuke & Sharingan Sasuke
  
  Kakashi & Sharingan Kakashi
  
  Orochimaru
  
  Tsunade
  
  Jiraiya
  
  Shino
  
  Ino
  
  Shikamaru
  
  Ten-Ten
  
  Rock 
 Lee
  
  Neji
  
  Hinata
  
  Itachi
  
  Kisame
  
  Migth Guy
  
  Garaa
  
  Kankuro
  
  Sakura
  
  Temari
  
  that's all of em
  
  pros: new addition to stages, much 
 better than CON2, every character has 2 to 3 specials
  
   are not in the game, still no chouji & Kabuto, less 
 stages, no oroboro mode, no team battle mode.
  
  Graphics: the same with a little inovation
  
  gameplay: fun fun fun!
  
  Sound: good but not great, Voices from cartoonnetwork!
  
  Controls: the 
 same as CON & CON2
  
  
 
  
  conclusion:
  
  a very addictive and fun game recomended to anyone Go and buy it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 66swing
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  When I boot up my system and it says a name other than Nintendo, Konami, Capcom, or Ubisoft, I 
 get worried. I don't often find worthwhile games by anyone else. However, I liked Naruto, so I 
 rented this. Believe me, I'm very glad I did. 
  
  The gameplay is good, with 4 difficulty settings (after you've unlocked level 4) and other ways 
 to customize gameplay, such as match length and attack power. The only thing they missed in that 
 department was controlling how fast chakra regenerates. I'd like it to go a bit slower. The graphics 
 are a good style for an anime-based video game, but they could use some refining; the pixelated 
 shadows are a huge graphical letdown.
  
  A few missing characters, such as Kiba and Choji, leave something to be desired, though this is 
 being corrected in the sequel. Nevertheless, 20 characters leaves a lot of options.
  
  The Mission mode: Essentially screnario fights, mostly taken from the anime. Fun, with 3 difficulty 
 levels, but it could stand some improvement. No cutscenes, just text and images. This isn't necessarily 
 bad: Fire Emblem fans like myself will feel right at home.
  
  Single player: 10 1-on-1 battles. Each battles is best 2 of 3 rounds. Each round is 60 seconds. 
 Opponents and stages are random. Fun if you've grown addicted to a certain character, or if you 
 need to practice with someone for mission or multiplayer modes. 
  
  Multiplayer: Your basic fighting game. As previously stated, you have a lot of control about things 
 like # of rounds and attack power. Very fun. Wii-mote is used for weak attacks.
  
  Vs. Mode: The same as multiplayer, but against a computer. Still a great way to have some fun, 
 but you're limited to 1-on-1 matches. It would be nice to have a 4 player free for all mode, like 
 the multiplayer has.
  
  If you like Naruto, definitly check it out. And if you like the game, consider that I found it 
 new for $20. Even if you don't have friends to play with, Vs. Mode and Mission mode may be worth 
 the money alone, so I recommend trying it once to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazerman345
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Characters::: Loads of characters from the old game plus a few new ones. All the techniques are 
 different for EVERY SINGLE character. There are also loads of combos.
  
  Graphics::: Are perfect in single player mode, but slow down a little in multiplayer. Dont worry 
 however. You brain will get used to speed and you might actually like it because it helps plan 
 and block attacks.
  
  Extra stuff::: There are mini- games to unlock and other stuff too
  
  
  The bad part about this game is that single player can get boring after fighting battle 
 after battle continously, so you might need to call a couple of buddies over......
  
  All in all I say you should get this game, but since clash of ninja revolution 2 is coming out 
 in about 3 months, I would suggest waiting for that. (Unless of course you just MUST have this) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  I hate this game so much! PLaying this at my friends house was the biggest mistake ever!
  
  THE GOOD: 4 battles can be kinda cool, mini-games are sorta challanging
  
  THE BAD: Digusting 
 graphics, controls are stupid, Playing the same story line like the previous game are OLD! stupid 
 lame cutscenes, missions are dum!
  
  Like all the CoN Series, you play the same old stupid story line, graphics are disgusting ,this game 
 gave me the headache playing it, And im naruto fan, playing this piece of boring game at my friends 
 house was a mistake, im bored to hell playing this, if your a Hardcore Naruto fan you might enjoy 
 this, but if you arent, you'd probably puke 
  
  i dont like this game at all, i reccomend this to any naruto CoN or just fans to play it, but you 
 wont enjoy this Game ,its disgustijg
  
  AND DONT DISAGREE WITH ME JUST BECAUSE I RATED IT LOW!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: opalpikachu13
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  Clash of Ninja Revolution. Basically an American version of Gekitou Ninja Taisen 3, with features 
 more and less than the original. For starters, this has used the engine of the Japanese Shippuuden 
 EX import, and has the mini games straight out of it. It also has the story/mission mode of GNT3 
 (but a little shorter) , the single player and multiplayer modes, and characters are unlocked by 
 completing the single player "arcade mode" and the mission mode other than earning the ingame money 
 to buy characters.
  
  The story mode in here is alot shorter than the one in the original GNT3, for it takes place starting 
 from the fight between Naruto and Neji in the Chuunin exams and ends with a filler mission that 
 is based on the episode where Naruto, Sasuke and Sakura wanting to see Kakashi's face under his 
 mask. What really had let others who played the original down though, is the lack of most of the 
 characters that were on the original. 
  
  There are only 20 characters on here. Several characters that were on 3 have made it, while others 
 like Kiba, Choji, the Third Hokage, Anko, and others that were on the previous Clash of Ninja/ 
 GNT games have not. This didn't bother me much though, in some ways to me, this was better than 
 the latest Shippuuden GNT EX games on the Japanese import Wii for many reasons (such as faster 
 speed and less lag and the actual ability to select the alternate colors of the characters) . I 
 have enjoyed the multiplayer mode and all the modes on this game, it's pretty easy to complete 
 as well.
  
  While there is mixed feelings about this game, if you hadn't already, try this game out if you 
 hadn't played the original GNT3, if you had played the original and heard about the complaints 
 of this, wait for Clash of Ninja Revolution 2 to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somanshreddy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  The first Naruto game for Wii. there are not many characters but the game is awsome. this game 
 is a lot of fun. this game it has a total of 20 characters. Naruto clash of ninja revolution its 
 different from naruto ultimate ninja series. the story mode has 19 missons. you have to unlock 20,21,22 
 and 23. There are training, time attack, survival, and versus modes also. All the characters are 
  Lee/Bushy Brows (just kidding about 
 Bushy 
  Orochimaru, Kisame and Itachi. Awsome game believe it. Rent it first if you are confused. hope you 
 like the game.
  
  P. S I cant wait wait for the next game. I think it is called Naruto Clash Of Ninja Revolution 2. I 
 wish the 2nd game has till Naruto Vs Sasuke.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: omaranty
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  naruto has been very popular in the past few years but in this game its really easy to pick up 
 and in the last few games it took me like forever to master the contols.
  and in this game most of my favorite characters are here kisame, itachi, tenten and shino.
  remember 
 what I said and message me if you agree or disagree.
  and its the best multi player after super smash bros. brawl and mario kart wii.
  score:8.0
 
  the only bad thing about this game is that they removed most of the old characters like zabuza 
 and haku ,and it dosent have online capabilities I mean ps3 and xbox 360 games all have wi-fi capibilities. 
 reviewer: omaranty.
  my next review is about pokemon diamond and pearl versoin, so be sure to check it out, and if you 
 have any questions at all just send a message.
  
  till next time gamer fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViralPlayer
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Since the Wii's debut, some game developers couldn't resist making fighting games; utilizing the 
 Wii's control to the max. Unfortunetly, many of these games have failed to do so. However, everyone's 
 favorite ninja, Naruto, looks to overcome what many others have failed to do. Can this hyperactive 
 ninja accomplish this feet? Or will he fail like the rest?
  
  Story: The story is based on the anime of the series. Naruto and the rest of the other finalists 
 is preparing for the Chunnin Exams finals. Before the exams starts, it shows us how each individuals 
 have trained. However, some of them is planning to destroy the village, which hosts the Chunnin 
 Exams. Later on in the story, Naruto and his trainer, Jiraiya, sets out on a journey to find Tsunade, 
 who has amazing medical abilities. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is easy to learn. While fighting, your chakara gauge fills up. When enough 
 chakara is filled, you can perform a substitution jutsu, which you can attack or appear behind 
 your opponent. Also, once the gauge is full, you can unleashed your special attack. There is also 
 a technique called "Stance Break", which after a certain attack is successfully landed on a opponent 
 and sends them in the air, they can continuesly used the same attack on them. However, using this 
 will drain your chakara. Another addition is the ability to knock your opponents off the primary 
 stage into another part of the stage; quite similar to the Dead Or Alive series. During this, you 
 can either attack, appear behind them, or just let them go. However, your opponents can also counter 
 your moves. The controls can sometimes won't respond immediatly despite heavy movements with the 
 control. If you're having trouble with the standard controls, you can play the game with a Nintendo 
 Gamecube controller or a classic controller instead.
  
  Graphics: The graphics is painfully the same as the Gamecube. While it is nice, it's still not 
 good enough to fit the next generation.
  
  Sound: The music is pretty decent. The sound effects is also decent. The voice acting, however, 
 is pleasing. Many fans of the series will recognize the voices.
  
  Overall: The game is very good. However, like many anime games, some gamers will be "turned off", 
 and only fans of the series will enjoy this. Though, if you look past that, this game has a lot 
 to offer. It has many features and unlockable contents, so expect it to keep you busy for a while. 
 The game is even better with friends, so you don't have to worry about being bored. While it doesn't 
 bring many attentions like Brawl, it can still claim as one the best Wii fighter to date.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution is a Naruto game that takes place during seasons 2 and 3 of the 
 show. The story starts as Naruto trains with the perverted Sannin named Jiraiya, also explaining 
 to the player on how to play the game. It also proceeds on to more training with other characters 
 such as Tenten and Neji Hyuga. The game also features some more options the the Gamecube Naruto's 
 don't have, such as ninja star throwing mini games.
  
  What I liked about this game is that the graphics have improved making it one of the most beautiful 
 Wii titles. More controller options. The player can play as all of the three Sannin. (Tsunade, 
 Jiraiya, and Orochimaru) Tsunade makes Sasuke a total wimp. Better multi player. New sweet stages.
 
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that, unlike Brawl, no wi fi play. Pixely shadows from the 
 characters. Cut characters from the last game. (Mizuki, Iruka, Haku, Zabuza, Kiba and Akamaru)
 
  
  Overall, the third Clash of Ninja is one of the most brilliant Wii fighters. In the anime game 
 department, it's even with Zatch Bell: Mamodo Battles on the Gamecube. In the Wii fighter department, 
 it's right there with Brawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuaibh
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  I'm sorry but when i first played clash of ninja 2, it was awesome, and the handicap feuture and 
 shop kept me soming back. This game took out these feutures, wich i do not like.
  
  Is 4-player still good?: I say it is fine but you can notice that the framerate drops when you 
 do 4-player. Well other than that it is excactly like CON2. But the thing is.. if you knock a person 
 to another stage while somone is in a middle of a combo. That person combo will break wich really 
 messes me up when i play with friends.
  
  Controls?: 4 types of controls, 3 out of the 4 are good. The wiimote and nunchuck require returning 
 fans of the series some practice to master, but you get and added bonus for doing so, for the fact 
 that you can use the wiimote and nunchucks motion controls to get extra damage on an oppent while 
 using a jutsu. The classic and gamecube controls are identical but using this control scheme means 
 that you can activate certain combos without much of a problem. The wiimote control, in my opinion 
 bad. There is a learning curve to this control scheme without much reward for learning it. Jutsu 
 are hard to activate due the fact that you have to press 1 and 2 at the same time while 1 and 2 
 are the buttons you press to attack so you may want avpid doing jutsu. I have ecountered this weird 
 thing for the wiimote. If you land a jutsu you get the same powerup as the wiimote and nunchuck 
 conrols where if you do the motion you can do mnore damage. But the problem is, you have no nunchuck, 
 so you can only do the wiimote motion control, so good luck :D.
  
  Unlockables: Almost all the characters are unlocked in single player mode (not story mode, even 
 though you ecountered the unlockable characters) wich is strange and tedious way to unlock characters. 
 Since they took away shop mode, you have to unlock other options (like attack power 4) in single 
 and multiplayer mode, but it is still tedious what you have to do to get them.
  
  Story: Not much to say, been improved not by much. Not much of a point to go through story mode 
 except to get the 2 unlockable characters ( wich i wont spoil who) .
  
  Characters: Most of them taken out, but all the other characters have 2 or more jutsu, sorta... 
 But there is a new feature for certain characters to change modes (Like susukes sharingan) Wich 
 may boost their power and change their jutsu. Theres also another new feuture called crisis mode. 
 Wich you become more powerful and also activate either a diffrent jutsu, or a more powerful version 
 of their old jutsu.
  
  AI: Easily exploited, and not hard at all. Even on the highest difficulty. Making this game a more 
 multiplayer focused game. Bring some friends over, duke it out, have a good time :D.
  
  All in all, it is a more in depth fighter version of clash of ninja 2, but falls short on the gameplay 
 options, wich in my opinon sucks out some of the fun making CON2 superior to CONR. When this game 
 price goes down it may be worth it. But 50$ price tag is not worth it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_Rebel
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This even for a Naruto fan is hard to play and enjoy, I am a huge fan of Naruto and yet when I 
 got this game, it left me with an empty feeling and a feeling as if I had already done all of this 
 before. It was almost a complete waste of money. I don't know why, but something just told me, 
 I hate this, I did this last year and now I get to do it again at an even higher price! :D It was 
 the same thing, but with two more characters. (Itachi and Kisame) This just did not fill my Naruto 
 craving and won't. I would stick to the Ultimate Ninja serious, for some reason it keeps me thrilled 
 and I never get bored with it. This for some reason didn't do what I think it was supposed it, 
 entertain me. This unless you will kill yourself over getting a Naruto game should probably be 
 one that should stay on the shelves and not in your Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucario-kid
Rating: 8
Date: May 25, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Naruto clash of ninja revolution is a great fun game with loads of replay value, but in all respects 
 it's just an extra coat of paint on a good but old game.
  
  But at the moment we'll focus on the good points, first of the graphical detail is amazing, especially 
 on the stage 3 sannin showdown. The 2 part stages are a nice idea and make the area feel larger 
 and because of this you are able to use the enviroment to your advantage. Unlike most fighters 
 based on hit TV shows the special moves are amazing, Narutos Rasengan is just one of the great 
 specials available. On top of this there are 9 gameplay modes! And your able to play with the wii 
 remote and nunchuk, gamecupe pad, or classic controller! The mini games are a nice add on also.
 
  
  As an enourmous fan of the series i'd like to say it went without problems but that was just never 
 going to happen. Firstly there is no way nere as much characters and stages as there should be, 
 compared to its ps2's cousins 120. And no wi-fi is a real letdown, never did i doubt it was going 
 to have wi-fi but there i was, jaw dropped on the bed.
  
  Overall however, Naruto clash of ninja revolution may just be the same game as its predecessors, 
 but with all these extras and bonus content it's still a must have for fans of the series, 8/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLuFAlc0n
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution is the first englished version naruto game in the Wii, presentation 
 is quite cool, and stylish, the game itself, it has lots of stuff to do, and quite good for a multiplayer, 
 the game is set of from the chunin exam arc. to the search for Tsuade arc. Well first of all, 
 
  gameplay, I have to say the game is easy to play, and feels good to play on this game especially 
 the unexpected 4-player multiplayer, you have 2 player co-op battle and a 1 on 1 battle. You get 
 a few characters, with Naruto, Sakura, Jiraya, Lee, Neji, Shikamaru and Kakashi, then you unlock 
 a few more. When you actually play the game, depending of what type pf person you are, you can 
 change the control scheme, to wii remote only, nunchuck style, classic style or gamecube style, 
 well for the lazy people who rated this game of 6 or below coz of it's gameplay, well they're lost, 
 gameplay, is one of the best parts in the game and it's way better if you act the moves, like Neji's 
 8 Trigram 64 Palm, just rapidly charge the wii and nunchuck rapidly 64 times to make great damage, 
 an easy move to do, and the chidori and lightning blade and the rasengan, just charge of and BOOM! 
 For graphics, a sharp cel-shaded graphics game with a decent anime game, you get the konoha- (hidden 
 leaf village) with the hokage's faces 1-4 and you can change the background, at shippuden EX 2, 
 you get 5 hokage faces, and pretty colorful. I have to admit though the shadows got a few problems, 
 but Shikamaru's shadow possesion jutsu is just straight fine with no problem. For sounds, it's 
 has some familiar tunes, and the voice acting sonds like they are from the english version on tv 
 even on story modes, I can remember most of their talking from episodes as it really connects if 
 you seen the episodes, on my opinion, the sound isn't perfectly cool, well the good thing is that 
 there isn't any sound problems, it's not that, my problem is that you can't change their english 
 voices to japanese voices, and the opening clip, could have been awesome if they use one of the 
 naruto openings in tv but I can understand that so my problem was solved when I bought Naruto Shippuden: 
 Gekitou Ninja Taisen EX 2
  but it's japanese only. but anyway it's a great game, value, you get minigames with the 20 characters, 
 could have been better if theres more but it was only set in those episodes, only Kakashi's team 
 and Guy/Gai's team has all their members and Gaara's team, you get the 3 legendary Sanin in the 
 game and the 5th Hokage and Kazekage, the Third Hokage got some clips on it as well and extra missions 
 that some of them aren't in the show and most of them are funny. Overall a great game with not 
 much of a problem for a game, and a game woth to play and buy.
  
  Goods /+
  Awesome gameplay
  Good sounds
  Sharp graphics
  4 - man multiplayer
  Good way of exercising
 
  You can act their special Justu
  Easy to play
  Good for everyone
  Has a lot to keep you playing
  Cool moves
  
  Bads /-
  No online
  No Japanese voice acting
 
  
  Gameplay/Innovation - 10/10
  Graphics - 8/10
  Sounds - 9/10
  Value - 9/10
  Presentation/ 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1supersmash1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  i say that this game is awesomely fun! but if you have also played the past clash of ninja games 
 you might think its not much more but i say its wayyy more this game is awesome!! most people rate 
 this game based off the two past clash of ninja games but im basing it off here and now this game 
 is one awesome game! i say check it out if you know whats good for you NARUTO RULES!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spinostiles
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  im with narutodude, it is an awesome game, i like narutos rasengan and kyubi form. i dont know how 
 to spell kyubi, or is this right. but still this game is awesome. like the wii remote motions and 
 the powerful jutsus that can be seen. but sometimes the motions wont work. so i gave it a 9.5. I give 
 it a thumbs up. this is one of my favoriote wii games ive ever played. i got it after christmas with 
 my gift money. it took me a few weeks to do, because i was busy. i had my party at my dads house and 
 he has no wii. so it took a while to do.  
 NARUTO  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narutodude715
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  my favorite guy in the game that you don't start out with is so itachi he can put people in a nother 
 demintion. a person that you start out with that i like is sauke becuase he can activate sharingan 
 and use his chidori. w ho i s w i t h m e. !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
 !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!  
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
 !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! 
 !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianack96
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  OH MY GOD THIS GAME IS AMZAZING. IF YOU DONT LIKE IT I WILL CHOP YOUR TOUNGE OFF.
  The game's story is brilliant and it I like the part wen the Chinese guy is forced to eat the lima 
 bean. This game is action packed and funny. Adam Sandler plays Bob. He even makes you throw up. 
 The game is as fun as Tombob for the PS3. Bruce Willis plays Tom Hanks and they have to find the 
 truth about Micheal Jackson. The story is a lie. I repeat. My theory is Micheal Jackson ate the 
 cantolope and even picked his nose and butt. Wat a beutiful ending. This game reminds me of playing 
 with whales. The story is nice, big, and fat and noone will ever eat that silly shark/whale/manpie. 
 This game is a disgrace. Nah... Change that... Its freakin amazin. I played it for 999999999 99999999999 
 999999 999 9999999 9999 999999999 999999 999999999999999 999999999999999 99 9999999999999999 9 
 9999999999 9999999 9999 99999999 9999999999999999 9999 999999999999 9999999999 9999999 999999999 
 999999 9999999999999999999 9999999999999999 9999999999999 hours. People call me hardcore tom cruise. 
 And the best part is Guetamala. This is the best game ever. The graphics are lifelike. Yes more 
 good news. I got a job as Kobe Bryants butler.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superzero14
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  this game was so fun i loved how u did the specials and the wii controls they were easy and fun. 
 this game has tons of characters to chose from fun levels lots of different modes like mini games 
 and multiplayer. this game is uber fun when it comes to multiplayer and i cant wait wat they have 
 in store for us next . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . 
 .. . .. .. .. .... . .. . ... ... .... ........ .. .. .... . . . . .. . ... .. .. . . . . .. n. 
 . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . ... ... .. ... .. .. ... ... .. . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. ... . . . . .. . . . .. .. . .. 
 . . . . .. . . .. .. .. . . . . . . . . .. .. .. ... ... ... .. ... ... .... . . . .. . . . . .. 
 . . . . .. . . ... . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamezRmiilife
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This Naruto game was pretty good considering the graphics could of been better and i should of 
 add free roam as a story mode. The characters were way to easy to obtain. I think I beat the game 
 in less than 10 hours. I was way to short the best part about this game was that you can use multiplayer 
 but the game will be very messed up because of all the confusion. The good thing for me i didnt 
 buy it i borrowed it off my friend so i didnt waste a cent . This game could of be way more than 
 it is now if they went and fixed all of its flaws. I might buy the sequel but ill borrow it off 
 my friend first:) . The minigames were pretty good i guess. I really must say you have to rent it 
 or borrow it. If your a hard core Naruto fan you might like it but im not im a moderate fan. I do 
 hope they make the sequel that much better. I have to say the wii controls made it fun especially 
 when your doing the secret techniques 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tpkfreak
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 26, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  This game isnt bad in fact it isnt bad at all!
  
  Clash of ninja players will love this game it has a total of 20 characters each with there own 
 fighting style and special jutsus.
  
  when you activate a jutsu you must move the wii mote and nunchuck depending on what the guide tells 
 you its actually pretty fun! because the more you do it correctly the more damage you give your 
 opponent. (and besides it really brings you into the gameplay)
  
  The storyline consists of the chunin exams arc up until the tsunade arc.
  It could have been 
 better but hey....
  
  The most funnest part of this game is the multplayer. there can be up to fore people and the conditions 
 can either be a team battle, or free for all and just sitting and watching yourself beat the crap 
 out of the com is entertaining.
  
  the graphics have been polished compared to other clash of ninja games and there are a multiple 
 of 9 gameplay modes including mini games, extras, and much more.
  
  So in a nutshell I suggest that you give this game a chance.
  
  the olny downside that I would 
 give this game is that the guide to when you do your specials dosnt really help sometimes and half 
 the time you dont even know if your doing it right or not. Also it seems that there are less characters 
 than the previous installement and that might tick you off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xshadowolf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. The Bad- It doesnt have at least most of the characters. I didn't like that. 
 The graphics were pretty bad, and they have messed up some voices. Also they either give too much 
 jutsus, or take away some. The Good-I like the bar ideas, and the defense stuff. Another good thing 
 is how you you can change the diffuculty, change the hit level, and all the others. The missions 
 are good because you can choose all the ranks. This game did not fit the story that well, because 
 it asked you to do things on different ranks that didn't happen. But that is what makes it interesting. 
 It does have many jutsus in the show, but they add or delete some. Overall a good game, intense 
 battles, can be very easy, very hard, or middle. Many characters, but not all of them. I give it 
 an 8.5 for all of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack-shinobi
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  Naruto Ninja Revolution is a fighting game just like the other Clash of ninja games except this 
 time you get to use the qii's motion contorls to attack and perfect jutsu's. As far as I can tell 
 this game adds a few new characters one of them being Sasuke's evil brother Itachi Uchiha.
  
  I thik instead of having to use motion to punch maybe they could have used the A button or 
 just a button for attacks and then the motion control for dodging enemy attacks. I enjoy this game 
 and in my opinion so will any Naruto fan out there. But to me they could have made it a bit different 
 from the previous clash of ninja games... But any hardcore or just a fan of the series Naruto, 
 shold look at this game.
  
  Although in some ways there's some flaws but these flaws are minor and don't really interfere that 
 much.
  
  If you played a clash of ninja game and thought it needed a bit more, well than you might want 
 to try out this game; Naruto Clash of Ninja Revolution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HatakeKakashi-
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best Naruto gams ever!! Great grafics and everything!!! The fights are great 
 and well EVERYTHING!!!!! So if you and your buddies are looking for a great game to play... this 
 is the game for you!! But anyway this game is just so much fun! I hurried up and played it right 
 when i got it and loved it!! Whats even cooler is that since i only have one Wii remote i could 
 use gamecube controllers to play with my friends!!! Well whats even cooler than all of that is 
 that you get to be a lot more diffrent characters . My favorates are Kisame and Itachi!! They are 
 so cool and they fight soo well actually it depends on the person who is playing but..... So i 
 have one last thing to say... THIS GAME ROCKS!!!!! AND YOU HAVE TO LOVE IT!!!!!!!! Oh ya and PS: 
 Masashi Kishimoto is the best!!^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  When I first found out about Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution, I had great feelings about it... 
 until I found out it was just a pre-timeskip version of the biggest disgrace ever to the Clash 
 of Ninja series: Naruto: Gekitou Ninja Taisen! Ex. Turns out I was half-right.
  
  First off, the graphics are beautilful in almost every way. The specials have all been redone, 
 even though most were just displayed at different angles. The cell shaded figurines look as beautiful 
 as ever, and the stages looks fantastic. My only problem with the graphics are the shadows. They 
 look like an 8-bit Sonic out of a Genesis game!
  
  Gameplay is very similar to the last installment. Added from its counterpart in Japan, Y-cancelling, 
 sidestepping while running, two specials, stage obstacles and two-arena stages have all been added, 
 but don't affect gameplay as much as it should. Gameplay modes have actually been removed, however. 
 Oboro (shadow mode) , Team Battle (3-man cell) , and many of the extras packed in each installment 
 of the series (ninja cards) have been removed rather then being added upon like in Gekitou Ninja 
 Taisen! 3.
  
  The story mode took a turn for the worse. Unlike Clash of Ninja 2 and Gekitou Ninja Taisen! 3, 
 the story mode starts with the finals of the Chunin Exams, so new players unfamiliar to Naruto 
 itself will have trouble understanding the story, such as Naruto's hatred towards Neji and how 
 Rock Lee was seriously injured in the Chunin Exam Preliminaries, all of which were referenced but 
 not throughly explained. New to the series, each missions have certain objectives that must be 
 completed, all of which get harder as you take them on in either Genin, Chunin, or Jounin levels. 
 Its all too short, while Gekitou Ninja Taisen! 3 has 32 missions, Revolution only offers 23.
  
  The character roster isn't as improved as it should've been, either. Pretty unexected for a 
 sequel, Revolution's character roster hasn't grew any larger than Clash of Ninja 2's. While the 
 game adds 7 new characters, they remove 7 favorites (Iruka, Kiba, Zabuza, Haku) for no true reason. 
 Among that, they also don't add characters that should have been in the game, and because of that 
 it also ruins the story mode (Sarutobi, Kabuto, Chouji) .
  
  Sound is everything its supposed to be. Nothing more, nothing less. Like the gameplay itself, it 
 ends up getting repetitive, and most of the sounds are just carried over from Clash of Ninja 2, 
 which borrowed almost everything in terms of sound effects from the first Clash of Ninja.
  
  Dispite these negative comments, however, the game has its strong points. Its addicting at 
 first, adds three minigames to the spectrum, and its just never-ending fun in multiplayer. It ultimately 
 is better than its predessor. However, I do recommend you rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silver096
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This was Better then all then the 2 before except the fact they took out Kiba, Zabuza, Haku, Iruka 
 and Mizuki and didnt add the third Hokage, Choji, Dosu and shizune and why the heck did they just 
 have regular orochimaru they should of had sealed arms although i was Glad they had add Itachi 
 he is the best ..... Naruto fans this is a must have game if you have at least the second Clash 
 of ninja you dont really need the first one. I rated it 9.0 out of 10 because they needed more 
 characters especially for a third in a series but the game play was very nice but needed more of 
 a Variety instead of just shaking the wii remote.. The Multiplayer mode was ok better if you have 
 friends over though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danny_uzumaki
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Naruto clash of ninja revolution its tottaly diferent from naruto ultimate ninja series. its 
 very good if u r a fan of naruto. I only think that could have more characters like kiba and chouji 
 more special techniques. if you want tohave a good fun you should buy this games i dont know why 
 the grade on gamespot isnt good at all. dont miss this game its the better gamefor wii hands 
 off and bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manhunt92
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I don't regret buying this game at all, but it really was dissapointed. It' s like the series is 
 not growing at all. They didn't put some characters that were avaliable on Clash of Ninja 2 and 
 CoN1 like Iruka, Zabuza, and some others,
  The gameplay it's basically the same if you play it with the gamecube or classic control. It only 
 has new "extras" that make the game a little more interesting that the others but not that much. 
 On the other hand when playing with the Wiimote an Nunchuck it' s not that fun (for me) and it's 
 a little hard to get used to, something bad 'couse I think the best thing the Clash of Ninja series 
 has is the easy-master controls.
  By it's own the game it's really good, but is you put it as the third part of a videogames series 
 it's somewhat lame.
  But at the end it's fun and it's totally recomendable for any Naruto fan or for any player that 
 likes fight games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shiosuke
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Ok, so some of you may have heard that its not the greatest game, and it isnt. But it certainly 
 is not the worst! Naruto Clash of Ninja Revolution is a really fun game. It may have a short story, 
 and the shadows are a bit low grade, but honestly, who plays a fighting game to stare at the shadows 
 of the characters? This game has 15+ more characters than the original game and also features 4 
 player fights! Although the camera angles can get confusing it's still a lot more fun than standard 
 1 on 1. The game also features different ways of playing. Don't like using the wii-mote and nunchuck, 
 dont like holding the wii-mote sideways? Then use the good old fashioned GC controller! The game 
 also offers a few mini-games, none of which are anything really special but just something more 
 to do. In the end, the game is worth a few sit downs playing and is a great game for any fan of 
 the anime series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bitnick
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is a waste of my time and money.... slow paced action sloppy controls, boring gameplay, 
 easy cpus, and the same storyline over and over. Once my friend bought this game he gave it to 
 me saying it was boring... guess what it is. Its slow paced and the controlls need really work 
 on it. About the same character selection all throughout the game again. No so cool stages too. 
 I cant stress this much but Naruto fans DO TEND TO FORGET THE BAD QUILITIES OF THE GAME... they 
 only remember the good qualities of the game. There is no good qualities in this game. People tend 
 to buy this game but sooner or not that much later they get tired of it just like my friend. I 
 did find myself fighting in the hardest difficulty in this game in 1player i found out to just 
 do one move throughout the game... Trust me do not waste money and time on this game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  if you like naruto then this is the game for you! this gmae brings forth another set of amazing 
 characters to fight with. it maintains some characters and gets rid of some too. but it adds new 
 features to all the characters that remained (except for rock lee) . the removed characters include 
 kiba, haku and zabuza.. and crow and akamaru.. and sharingan sasuke and nine tailed naruto.
  
  (btw you can use gamecube contrllers in this *thumbs up*
  
  but sharingan sasuke and nine 
 tailed naruto werent removed completely!! you just have to turn into them from thier original character 
 (meaning sasuke and kakashi can change back and forth with thier sharingan anytime during the fight 
 as long as they have enough chakra) . its similar with nine tailed naruto but he has to have lost 
 660% of his health before he can change into teh kyuubi kid! naruto can use his rasengan too oncee 
 he lsoes 60% of his health.. so choose wisely (changing to nin tails heals part of his health) 
 but naruto cant change back until the end of the round, where he automatically doees. nine taield 
 anruto remains the same.
  
  
  now ill explain all the characters and the changes made to them
  
  naruto: he has had 3 changes 
 from clahs of ninja 2 1. his "sexy harem jutsu" was replaced with shadow jutsu were he summons 1 
 clone.. while the clone is active his chakra will drain iuntil he has none left. the clone con 
 not be controlled and it isnt too good at fighting.
  
  
  2. he now can use the rasengan! it is very cool but it can only be used once his health has been 
 60% depleted.
  
  3. nine tailed transformation-he turns into nine tailed naruto who can rip apart stuff like crazy!!! 
 but like rasengan he must have lost 60% of his health (upon the transformation he is partially 
 healed)
  
  other than that he remains the same.
  
  when you lose 60% of your health thats called crisis. during crisis your attacks do more damage 
 and allows unique special attacks for characters that have them.
  
  sasuke- his only changes are he can change back and forth with the charingan and his fireball jutsu 
 looks WAY cooler.
  
  ill edit more later ebcause for now i gtg!
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidRswii
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Lets begin with the story or the mission mode which is what they call it on this... well it begins 
 right after the 3rd part of the Chunin exams when Naruto fights Kiba, Rock Lee fights Garra ya know 
 that part. And well it ends when Tsunade and Jirayia (or however u spell his name) defeat Orichimaro. So 
 theres not much of story.
  Now for the characters well theres 2 missing from this game Kiba and Akamaru but everyone else 
 is in it even Itachi (Hell yea) . Probobly the strongest characters in my opinion is Itachi and Sasuke 
 oh yea and Kikashi.
  
  PRESENTATION: The anime look is retained from two previous games, but nothing major has changed 
 either. Just as good, but the interface and storytelling remains as it always has been, so Naruto 
 fans will be right at home
  
  GRAPHICS: Well they are pretty much the same from the GameCube games so nothing has really changed 
 and its missing 16:9 which is essential on the Wii
  
  SOUND: Tons of voice over work and the sounds and music are taken from the show. The sound still 
 keeps the clash of Ninja tradtion
  
  GAMEPLAY: Characters have been improved and the new characters are fun to play with, also incuded 
 is some mini-games but there not the games that you would want to play. This is a game you'll be 
 coming back too just to beat up other characters that u dislike
  
  LASTING APPEAL: New fighters, loads of game modes, Muti-tier levels, and some fan extras. If only this 
 game had online it would be a really good game but this is by far the best fighter on the Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kisameboyz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  this game, naruto clash of ninja revolution, is very fun to play. i had a blast with friends but 
 by my self its only ok and gets boring in about 30-60 minutes.
  
  the graphics are good because they use the EX engine. the special cinematics when you use your 
 extreme/ultimeate move are cool but not nearly as good as ultimate ninja's. the shadows could be 
 way way way way way better. graphics overall get a 7.5 out of 10.
  
  sound is good, nothing wrong with it, voice acting is good, and the sound effects are good too. 
 the sound is over all decent and gets a 7.5 out of 10.
  
  the gameplay is very fun to play. i had a really super fun time playing it with my friends, played 
 it for hours, all night long. but then the next morning when my friends weren't here, i put in 
 naruto CONR in my wii. i played it for about 30 minutes and i had a ok time. then about 45 minutes 
 i was thinking when am i going to stop play this game. then about 60 mins was done playing. there 
 isnt much to do by your self, mission mode, single player, survival, and other things but its a 
 little on the easy side. over all gameplay gets a 9 out of 10
  
  this game is very fun if you have friends to play with. like even if you only have people to play 
 with 1 time a week its still worth the buy but if you dont have anyone to play with at all then 
 rent it because you will beat it and become bored about 2 days worth of playing it. over all: 24 
 out of 30 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justin2009
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  My favorite part in this game is the 4-player deal, very fun if you have someone to come over and 
 play this game with you, as far as gameplay is.
  The gameplay modes offered in Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution cover the basics, and not much 
 more. There are training, time attack, survival, and versus modes, none of which have any real 
 surprises to offer. There's a mission mode that starts off right around the time the Chunin Exams 
 end in the standard Naruto storyline. The story hits the ground running, though Naruto fans will 
 pick up the plot pretty quick. Not that the game puts much care into the story, which is relayed 
 through quick bits of dialogue and still images between fights. You'll actually spend a good deal 
 of time in the story mode playing as characters other than Naruto, and your objectives are often 
 more specific than just beating your opponent, providing a little bit of variety. Unfortunately, 
 your objectives can be rather ambiguous, leaving you to try to interpret just what you're supposed 
 to be doing. Having to play the same fight repeatedly because you didn't beat your opponent the 
 right way -- a way that the game is unclear about -- can be extremely frustrating.
  Haven't played it much though, but i don't think im going to be tired of this game for a while!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemesis_993
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Its a good game , good multiplayer system and addictive , but it could be better cause it a reuses 
 some things of other clash of ninja but this have more jutsus and a plenty of characters like : 
 naruto , sasuke , sakura , lee, guy , kakashi , orochimaru , tsunade , gaara , tenten , neji , 
 itachi , kisame , temari , kankuro, jiraiya, and more... the wii controls are more interactive 
 and that makes the game funnier , there are good combos and jutsus , every character has his own 
 combos and jutsus like : naruto can do the rasengan , sasuke the chidori , lee the chakra gates 
 , generally is a good game with good characters , good graphics and good gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This game has mostly has every character from the naruto series so far. The story mode is pretty 
 good and so are the graphics . In multiplayer it goes from 1 to 4 players. The gameplay is fun 
 because when using the wii mote you can slash and sling like your a real Ninja. So because of the 
 Gaphices controls Multi player and story mode . I give this game a, let me repeat myself , I give 
 this game a 9. So I hope you enjoy this game of Naruto Clash of Ninja Revalution as I do so much 
 that I absalutly love it dearly , Ok See you around!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krabool
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  The game as alot of cool attacks, various combos, different special attacks for almost each character 
 (there is some exceptions like Lee and Guy) , and 2-3 jutsus per character wich is pretty good. 
 
  
  
  Besides that, there is alot of characters in the game, (22) , wich is pretty good for the first 
 season (almost all important characters --- all but Kiba Haku and Zabuza)
  
  ---Naruto, Sasuke, Kakashi, Lee, Guy, Neji, Tenten, Sakura, Hinata, Ino, Shikamaru, Orochimaru, 
 Jiraya, Tsunade, Shino, Temari, Kankuro, Gaara, Itachi, Deidara, Kisame and Sasori ---
  
  and that's it --- not to shavy graphics --- naruto songs --- good gameplay --- the only thing that 
 I would have liked to have is a story mode with more substance... They reproduced it pretty well, 
 but without putin any videos or anything it's series of fights... 
  
  Per example the chunin exams, they'll make you read stuff, then the picture of Neji or Naruto or 
 wathever speaking then there's your fight...
  
  Besides, that you'll have a great time playing the game with friends and stuff but I'd recommend 
 it only to fans of the anime... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hebri
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-9.0- this is the best part of this game. It feels really nice when you perform long combo 
 attacks (especailly with neji and sasuke) . Other than that, your opponent can perfrom the subtitution 
 (kwarimi) jutsu and then he will start performing the combos on you.. all of this make the game 
 really fun and very fast-paced. The only thing missing is the depth, but you can stll enjoy the 
 game.
  
  Graphics-7.5- really not impressed by the graphics. The characters look OK and so does the environment 
 but they shouldve been improved.
  
  Sound-8.0- voice acting is good, especially with characters like gaara. Sound effects are good 
 too. Soundtracks are good too but it wouldve been better if they picked soundtrakcs from the anime 
 itself
  
  Value-8.5- you defenitely wont regret buying it, only if you someone to play with. 
  
  Lasting 
 appeal-9.0- if you someone to play with, the game will addict you, especially if youre a naruto 
 fan. The game has 20 characters with 9 different gameplay modes and a plenty of stages so you can 
 enjoy the game for a longer time.
  
  Overall score= 8.5: if youre looking for a good fighter game so you can spend your time with till 
 SSBB is out, Naruto CoNR is defenitely woth buying, not renting, buying. You could wait for Dragon 
 ball tenkaichi 3 to come out and see, but Naruto is a game to own by fans of fighting games and 
 naruto fans.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmerlo72
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Games for the Wii are not the best thing yet, since developers have not really caught the best 
 way to use the Wii remote. Naruto Clash of ninja revolution is not the exception. The game is still 
 great though, especially for Naruto fans. The story is way behind the point it is now, but that 
 is so it can appeal to a broader audience, but still, it has some really neat characters. Controls 
 are somewhat basic: you can attack by shaking the wiimote and use different joystick positions 
 to create different combos. What is really neat about the game though, are the Jutsus. Most characters 
 have two special jutsus that really capture the essence of the series. The game also comes with 
 a set of minigames that are fun for a while but get old soon. The bad part is that it is basically 
 a recycled game from the last GC version and graphics are not that good. I highly recommend this 
 game to fans and everyone who enjoys a good fighting game. If you are not a fan or are doubting 
 weather to buy it or not, then you should rent it first, but you ought to at least give it a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterman2121
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  this is realy a good game i think its one of the best naruto is one of the best series ever all 
 its games are  rocks and it will rock for ever and ever and 
 realy if you dont buy it you really are a fool
  the best gamesd on naruto are on wii and xbox360 if they make a better game ill buy it the day 
 its released and graphics are the best of all i could use it all the day so buy it now if you want 
 to have a good game to enjoy with your friends 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasuke-kun0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  this game isnt what i thought it would be. it was a little better than i imagined. but i think 
 if u played for the 1st time it would be good. but the story is extremly short. the cut off from 
 when naruto becomes a ninja to the preliminaries. i think they cut off one of the best parts in 
 the show. "the forest of death". well i think you should at least rent play it. if u like buy it 
 if u dont then dont bother even looking at it. if you really like naruto the you were really excited 
 when this came out. i was because i wanted to see what they have done with charcter selection and 
 fighting. well at least give this game a try. i hope they make a 4th one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shuojinz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Excellent gaming in general BUT THE GOD DAMN CHARACTERS AREN'T SHIPUDDEN!! and the language of 
 the game is unbearable! I mean if your American you probability can fit in since you watch the 
 American series they should never released this because it a waste of time and Shippuden should 
 out in America soon which they are playing the filler the author being creating for half a year..
 
  Basically Great game terrible sound too many crappy old content and worst of all NO SHIPPUDDEN 
 CHARACTERS!! and wayyyyyyy to easy and a question is there a way to make the American wii legally 
 to play japanese games? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  The big knock on the "Naruto" video games has been their shallowness, as if thrown together lazily 
 to cash in on the anime's popularity.
  
  But aside from an annoying controller glitch, "Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution" breaks that pattern 
 with a swift karate kick.
  
  It's an extremely deep game that will enthrall "Naruto" followers and keep Wii fighting-game fans 
 busy for a long time -- well, at least until Feb. 10, when "Smash Bros. Brawl" finally is released.
 
  
  "Revolution" stands atop the short list of Wii fighting games because of its engaging solo and 
 multiplayer campaigns for up to four people, as well as enjoyable minigames like the point-and-shoot 
 Shuriken Toss. There also are new playable characters to unlock and a co-op survival mode that 
 lets you and a friend team up to win as many consecutive fights as possible. Sadly, "Revolution" 
 lacks online multiplayer, but the co-op supports up to four plugged-in players.
  
  Two new wrinkles enhance the kid-friendly, bloodless gameplay: Your ninja can hide and attack from 
 behind crates and rocks, and you can knock foes (or be knocked) into a new battle arena in the 
 middle of a fight.
  
  The game's biggest drawback is the controller glitch. It won't recognize the Wiimote when a GameCube 
 controller -- a standard wired controller or a wireless Wavebird -- is connected. Until I found 
 the solution in an online forum, I couldn't even get past the start screen.
  
  "Revolution" can be played with Wiimote turned sideways like an NES pad, as well as with GameCube 
 or Classic controllers. But the Wiimote-nunchuk combination is by far the most fun -- and a strenuous 
 workout. Stringing together combos will make your biceps burn.
  
  It's easy just to do a lot of arm-flailing and button-mashing to win fights, but that gets repetitive. 
 I'm usually not one for tutorials, but it's a good idea to sample the training and mission modes 
 to hone your fighting skills -- it makes the enjoyable "Revolution" more rewarding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anzooo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Estoy seguro que todos conocen naruto, una gran serie pero que hace que este juego no sea como 
 la serie, la verdad su modo historia es muy fcil y no explican el trama, aparte de que tiene pocos 
 personajes y escenarios, y el modo de juego con el Wii le hace falta mucha imaginacin, las tcnicas 
 especiales carecen de importancia y puedes realizarlas facilmente, en conclusin naruto es una 
 gran serie pero Naruto Clash Of Ninja Revolution no es un buen juego y denle una oportunidad ya 
 que si te entretiene aunque sea muy fcil de terminar si eres fan de este ninja brindale apoyo 
 aunque me quedo yo con los ultimate ninja (PS2) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vomalities
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This game reminded me how 1337 Clash of Ninja 2 is... sure, they added some new mechanics, and 
 Y-cancel -- but this is minuscule to the terrible qualities of the game. Here's a breakdown:
  
  Good Spots:
  Many characters now have a second form, and 2/3 specials.
  Y-Cancel
  Stage 
 Transitions
  5 controller configurations
  Easier to unlock characters
  
  Bad:
  Anybody with a Wiimote & Nunchuk will have an obvious advantage over other players
  They took 
 out Kiba, Haku, Iruka, and Zabuza
  There isn't a single stage with no obstacles... the stages with obstacles make the stage feel cluttery 
 and smaller
  Story mode still looks and feels terrible
  No handicaps are in this game
  And last, but DEFINITELY not least, the AI needs some Viagra to get harder -- seriously, it's TERRIBLE. 
 With just very little effort, any previous CoN player can destroy the highest level cpus. Same 
 for any experienced newbie. If only they had wi-fi, it would alleviate this terrible quality.
 
  
  Basically, it's a game that can only be enjoyed by four players, unless you're facing a friend 
 one-on-one.
  
  If you're unable to have four people on a decent basis, go back to CoN 2 to enjoy the challenge 
 that the AI will give you. This one just isn't worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigamouse510
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Naruto clash of ninja games have been very weak and not a strong story but in this one it been 
 a bit better, the game has thing to do after u beat the game like unlock new character that were 
 not in other game and it has a new feature that calleed mission mode were u can beat the story 
 but in different mode that are harder there the soundtrack to unlock voices (wicth a lot of game 
 have those days) the a few thing that i dont not like is that they have some charater not there 
 anymore witn is a bad thing i think if this game had online then this game would of been a big 
 hit.
  
  That why i give this game 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjakid12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  
  the gameplay is the best out of all the naruto games u get to feel the action right from the start 
 especially when being shika and naruto xD u get to her and feel the vibrations in th wii remote 
 telling you you hit the spot 
  
  STORY
  
  kinda quick some parts are hard but this game is very easy and kinda confusing when you get characters 
 you play the story line basically to the time when sasuke fights itachi ( idk y but a second time 
 -___-)
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  OMG OMG play this with a friend and youll have LIKE A GREAT TIME TURST ME!!!!!
  
  Graphics 
 
  
  havent improved form last game
  
  CHARACTERS
  
  not enough  :3 trust me only like 7 more and plus clash of ninja 2 had more WTF?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DriftBoy186
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Reason why I rate this game 6.0
  
  Pros:
  +smooth animation
  +
  +Follow Naruto Series episode 1 - 90 Story Line
  
  
  Cons:
  -Game play is short
  -Button 
 Smash Game
  
  
  
  This game could make it to the top. But the let down of character selection along with short storyline. 
 I was hoping the Wii will add some addtional fun with the game play, but the control are soo lose, 
 the game play is worse than bleach.. Hope the next one could be better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ken1311
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I actually thought this game was goinna be cool. But I guess its not. The game play is ok but they 
 dont even have kiba and most characters. And the story mode sucks hard. Im sorry but this was a 
 huge disappointment to me. its not the worst naruto game..... its still worth playing but the left 
 out a lot of characters, and the controls were easier than I thought. I thought the controls were 
 going to be easy because it was on the Wii. but there real easy so there was no problem learning 
 anything new, just guess and u'll do fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chewygun
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets get straight to how this game is. The fighting is pretty cool with the addition of a few 
 new characters and merging characters (if you played the previous games, you will realize that 
 they put Kakashi and sharingan Kakashi into just Kakashi) . The merged characters basically use 
 the down+special move button to swap their moveset. Graphics are alright.. but not too different 
 from what you've seen on the gamecube. If you played the games on the gamecube, then you would 
 also realize that they did little to nothing to the movesets of the characters. In other words, 
 you are still using the same old combos that you've always been using. This is good and bad. The 
 good is that it will be very easy to pick up and play. The bad is that it will add to the repetitiveness. 
 Again, if this is you first naruto game on a console from nintendo, then get it. You will love 
 it. However, if not, you may want to reconsider spending the 50 bucks for just a character update. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  http://www. projectcoe. com/nintendo/games/naruto_clash. html? var1=sc3
  
  If there's any genre that's extremely tough to pull off correctly on Wii, it's fighters. MK: Armageddon 
 didn't feel quite right when using the main brawling controls. Soul Calibur IV isn't coming to 
 Wii due to the lack of high-end graphical horsepower, in addition to what I believe to be Namco's 
 less-than-noticeable desire to try to map the franchise to the remote and nunchuk. Even Bleach: 
 Shattered Blade, reviewed courtesy of COE's Mr. MacKenzie, turned out a waggle fest, lacking serious 
 depth. Well, Wii owners that love fighters can finally be happy, because even if you aren't a fan 
 of anime, Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution deserves to be the newest addition to your library.
 
  
  It's not just the $39.99 price that should appeal to you and your wallet, the first Naruto fighter 
 on Wii proves to be as fun as the GameCube's Clash of Ninja 2, while providing enough new content 
 to satisfy. The mission mode, which are the games' way of letting you experience the actual series' 
 plot, follows Naruto as he's just beginning to train with legendary Sannin Jiraiya (Sannin is the 
 most prestigious title under Hokage, a village's head ninja) . It progresses to when Tsnuade, the 
 fifth Hokage of Konoha, and Jiraiya join forces to whup Orochimaru's ass. The cool thing is, while 
 I was initially shocked at having completed the 19 scenarios in the matter of a couple hours, you 
 gain access to two more difficulties (Genin, Chuunin, and Jonin) that ups the difficulty of each, 
 and sometimes slightly alters the completion requirement (s) . I especially like that because it 
 offers more variety than previous CoN's that just had more missions and a harsher progression of 
 challenge. Plus you also fight with quite a few characters throughout, which makes things less 
 repetitive.
  
  It's extremely disappointing though that the developers did virtually nothing to differentiate 
 between the GameCube fighters and Revolution in the visual department. That doesn't mean this game 
 doesn't look good, but we're in a new generation and the Wii is more capable graphically. Seeing 
 battle arenas and characters that look ripped directly from Clash of Ninja 2 just doesn't sit well 
 with me. On the flipside, the animations are a little smoother and the special move effects have 
 been upgraded, which definitely helps, just not enough to impress me overall. Still, it's a good 
 looking game in the very least.
  
  What pleases me most about Clash of Ninja Revolution is the accessibility. Similar to the upcoming 
 Smash Bros. Brawl, this game supports five different control schemes. The Classic and GameCube 
 controllers, two setups for the Wii-mote/nunchuk combo, and just the remote by itself are possible. 
 I'm easily the biggest fan of the combo motion configuration, as the gesturing is just plain fun. 
 I recommend staying away from just the remote or the combo button options though, because the battle 
 functions are mapped too awkwardly in what is a very intense, fast-paced fighter. If you play, 
 use one of the other three possibilities, and you should enjoy yourself. If motion isn't your thing 
 and you enjoyed the GameCube CoN games, you'll feel right at home with the GCN or Classic controllers. 
 If you want a little more immersion, take advantage of the remote and nunchuk. Reason being, when 
 you initiate a fighter's special (everyone has at least two) , you can add some more damage upon 
 finishing by appropriately gesturing according to the prompts that appear at the bottom of the 
 screen. It's a little tough to follow at first, but once you memorize what you're supposed to do, 
 the motions feel quite rewarding. I simply can't get enough of doing Naruto's Rasengan. The combo 
 setup isn't perfect though. While it's a rare occurrence, waggling the remote to do light attacks 
 does at times stall on you. Meaning, you may be shaking the controller, but your character stops 
 in mid-combo all of a sudden, or doesn't do anything altogether. It can prove disastrous, especially 
 when battling human opponents, if it happens at the absolute worst time, but it's usually not much 
 of a problem.
  
  Speaking of human adversaries, the CoN series has always thrived on promoting multiplayer brawls, 
 and CoN Revolution is no different. It's easily the best in this game for a number of reasons. 
 The first of which is that every player can choose what controller setup makes them the most comfortable. 
 Second, two players can now team up in Survival mode to exact some ninja domination on the poor 
 foes that the game forces in your way. Then of course, you have two player and four player versus. 
 In pure concept, these modes are no different than in the previous games. However, the arenas now 
 have a bit of an influence on battles. Not only are there physical obstacles such as tree stumps 
 and crates that can be used for cover, or be destroyed, but every fighting area is now double-tiered. 
 In other words, if you strike an opponent appropriately, you will send them to a completely different 
 part. When that happens, you can also try to exact a little more hurt in mid-air or teleport behind 
 them for when you eventually arrive at your destination, leaving them open for a nasty combo if 
 you time it well. What this entails is simply more action and less defending, even though there're 
 still plenty of moments where you can block any attacks that come your way, with the exception 
 of specials of course. My only complaint is the lack of online support for the game, but the developers 
 have seemingly promised it for the next time.
  
  If you're not in the mood for pure fighting though, CoNR features the series' first ever set of 
 mini-games. Bear in mind that they serve merely as pleasant distractions and aren't deep whatsoever, 
 but they can put your mind at ease if you're frustrated about something in the game or whatever. 
 Shuriken Training has you use the Wii remote's IR to point at cutouts of Naruto, Sasuke, Kakashi 
 and Sakura, pressing A to toss your spiky metal thingy. Everyone Sakura scores you points (she 
 makes you lose some) , and the objective is to aim for a high score. Shadow Clone is similar to 
 The Price Is Right's Shell Game. Yes, weird reference I know, but it's the first thing I could 
 think of, leave me alone. Anyway, Naruto summons a number of clones, and after his movement stops 
 on screen, you have to use the nunchuk's analog to focus on the one you believe is the real yellow-haired 
 troublemaker, and toss a kunai at him. Again, a high score is your objective. Finally, Rasengan 
 Training is self-describing. You gesture with the Wii controllers to form a blue ball of chakra 
 in the real Naruto's right hand, and you then have to pay careful attention to a Konoha leaf prompt 
 above the skill's power meter in order to demolish a set of dummies. Unfortunately I've yet to 
 figure out how to do it, but I'd imagine that's just because I'm stupid, as I'm sure any of you 
 could accomplish it without problem.
  
  When it comes to how Revolution sounds, it's pretty good. While I do miss Clash of Ninja 2's menu 
 music [as CoNR's just doesn't feel the same, and not to mention Sakura voices the selections this 
 time] , the rock riffs in the Mission mode selection screen is something I could easily listen to 
 at any time and enjoy it. A few of the battle arenas also output some very appropriate themes, 
 especially the one that takes place on the streets of Konoha (outside the Chuunin exam arena) which 
 also happens to be set in the night. This is where you actually face off with Itachi Uchiha, Sasuke's 
 evil older brother, a couple times, which makes the setting that much more fitting. The rest of 
 the music is pretty forgettable, but at least it's helped a bit by the satisfying battle effects, 
 especially with the special jutsus. The voice acting reflects the English series perfectly, but 
 being so used to the Japanese line at this point, I simply can't stand Jiraiya's voice. Although 
 Gaara's is just awesome, with his raspy, adult-sounding vocals that definitely put his Japanese 
 counterpart's to shame.
  
  If you happen to enjoy the tv series and Clash of Ninja games as much as I do, then I see no reason 
 why you wouldn't have room in your heart for CoN Revolution. I already know it's guaranteed that 
 we see this game featured in anime convention tournaments across the country, which definitely 
 says something about how special it is, along with its predecessors. While it does somewhat suck 
 that unlocking new characters, of which there are 20 total (but why is Kiba missing?!) , is a bit 
 of a pain since there's no shop to buy things in this time, it gives you unique incentive to complete 
 everything the game has to offer. Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution isn't without its flaws, but 
 it's easily the best Wii fighter, and with such fulfilling single and multiplayer modes to participate 
 in, why pass it up, especially for $39.99? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimybrit
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Another Clash of Ninja game.... Some people may start to get tired of these games but this is my 
 favorite Naruto game so far. ( Except for lack of characters.)
  
  Story Mode ( Mission Mode in the game) - 7.5 - Mission mode was only fun for the first few battles, 
 you could probally beat it in 2 or 3 hours. But it was likeable. It had very nice voice acting 
 all throught. It was easy but on the hardest difficulty ( Jonin ) it's pretty hard. All in all, 
 it was good.
  
  Single Player ( V. S. CPU, Time Attack, etc.) - 8.0 - Now single player is much more different from 
 Mission Mode/Story Mode. V. S. CPU is pretty fun. You fight battles ( 2 player only ) against CPU 
 opponents. There are usually 10 to 12 battles. The battles get harder as they go. I didn't play 
 much Time Attack, but basically you just try to see how fast you can beat a bunch of characters.
 
  
  Multiplayer - 8.3 - 1 to 4 players is pretty fun, although there is no online, it is pretty fun. 
 There are 20 characters in all and I think 6 or 5 or 7 stages. It's pretty fun, but it gets kind 
 of boring after a while.
  
  Sound - 8.2 - Finally!!! Cool sound actually coming from the Wii Mote. This game by far has the 
 best sound effects to ever come from the Wii Mote!!
  The music was great too.
  
  Gameplay / Controls - 7.7 - Controls are okay. Gameplay is basically the exact same thing as the 
 last games.
  
  Overall - 8.0 - Overall this game was fun and totally worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zallo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This game was actually better than i expected i was worried about the short charecter list but 
 there are some good people on it to bad they took kiba haku zabuza and iruka off though they were 
 great but i love the stage transition and hiding behind objects thing they added in. its also a 
 great multiplayer game storyline poorly told though and the single player to short if your dissapointed 
 in it at first dont worry i was to but after awhile i loved it it really well grows on you very 
 fun and if your not a naruto fan this game may seem allitle to easy for you but if your a fan its 
 awsome. well anyway highly recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NarutoGNT4rocks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Clash of Ninja: Revolution was a great addition to the Clash of Ninja series. But it did have some 
 problems. One was the lack of certain characters like Kiba and some of the other characters in 
 Clash of Ninja 2. It also was too easy to get they characters. It took me 2 days to get all the 
 characters. And the mini-games weren't that great. And some of the fighting hurt my arms. But lets 
 look at the positive things about it. The game play is fun and the characters and special moves 
 were fantastic too. My favorite character is Itachi because he had the best combos and tai-jutsu. 
 Overall a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLACK_ROSE_WAR
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  If you like Anime, or fighting games, or are just a hardcore fan of Naruto, then I do recommend 
 at least trying it. I myself love the game, with a nice cast of playable characters and cool level 
 effects it makes for a pretty good fighter. Personally I prefer Clash Of Ninja over Ultimate Ninja.
 
  There are a few things I can say are lacking in the game, First, Zabuza and Haku have disappeared, 
 along with Kiba, Iruka, and Mizuki.
  Since graphically the game has not improved from it's predecessor, the models could have been ported 
 over.
  Also, Clash of Ninja's Jutsus are not even close to as cinematic as Ultimate Ninja, nor is the 
 cast as large.
  However Clash has a more standard fighting system witch is easy to learn and fun use.
  Some added 
 bonuses are the Including of two of my favorite characters, Itachi, and Kisame, also the choice 
 of Wii Controls or Gamecube controls is a plus.
  As always the story mode is lacking, but the game has some nice mini games in it that are pretty 
 fun, I still don't get the Rasengan one though.
  So in the end, Rent it, if you like it, Buy it, if not then don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perurocks914
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This came has kick *** controls worth every penny and more
  A must buy i got it the first day the game came out and its worth it
  The game could use a few 
 more characters though.
  The greatest thing is that the controls for the special attacks rock. Keep in mind though you have 
 to make sure the strap is on or you will end up like my friend. Cant wait for aother game like 
 this comes out it will be the first on a must get list
  
  This game is so awsome that i beat the story on all difficulty and the combos are easy enough to 
 use. This game is like no other in other games you have to press buttons reapitidly and hope to 
 get a combo
  This game brings a whole new meaning to fighting games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1nick
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  A really good game, everything I wanted and more from the sequel of a great game. multiplayer, fun 
 for hours on end with a couple of friends. Same fighting style as the old one, new characters, 
 many new things like mini-specials, different modes and wii/gc controls. Its a lot of fun,
  however there are some bad things: The shadows are terribly done (not a big deal though) , you cant 
 buy items. Great multiplayer mode. OBstacles in the arenas, This is a bad review im just writing 
 random things to make it enough words. Still not enough I wonder how much more I need. Omg this is 
 getting annoying, I just needed to write this review to lvl up my file, however it really is a 
 good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Starpower87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Naruto Clash of Ninja Revolution. For real this so good for anyone who not a Naruto fan , and for 
 those who are. I really enjoy this game I love the new stage.
  
  While playing thought the game some of the mission in Mission mode can be real frustation if you 
 don't know what your doing. Overall it this really good. It could have more characters, but I expect 
 that in the next Naurto Clash of Ninja Revolution 2. Knowing the next one will the ulimate one 
 like DBZ Budokai 3.
  
  Overall I give this game a good 4/5 stars.
  
  It would have gotten a 5 stars if i saw a more stages (old and new) , more characters ( Including 
 Kabuto) , and that 3 man call triple special justu! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrutoz
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 2, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  this is a big old dissapointment, for many reasones. 1. Kiba Inuzuka isnt in it. 2. the graphics 
 suck. 3. the gameplay is so weak and it dont make sense. 4. what kind of stupid Wii game is this 
 nintendo sure did waste a lot of money with this game. But truthfully the only reason I dont find 
 this game appealing is because you cant play as kiba (ohh but you can play as hinata and shino 
 though) . Thats why i didnt like naruto ultamate ninja 1 and if you cant play as kiba even once 
 in rise of a ninja for 360 im not even gonna waste my time or my $60.00 on it. So if you hate kiba 
 (then u are lame and suck) then get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horror_Fanatic
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  even though they removed charecters they were replaced by better charecters for the most part. 
 in addition to cool new levels, specials and minigames. i know you may miss some classic charecters 
 like haku, kiba, iruka and zabuza. but their retirment gave way to grest newcomers like tsunade, 
 tenten and the highly anticipated itachi, as well as several others. it may some to go fast but 
 of you have some friends to play with, the replay value is great. this game plays similar to mortal 
 kombat and soul caliber so even if your not a huge naruto fan, you should give this game a whirl, 
 i promise you'll enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ItachiLightning
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok let's cut the crap and just get to it... this game was not as good as all the importers where 
 hoping it to be. 20 characters is a let down and with some amazing fights that happened in the 
 anime... you would have expected some of those characters who were in those fights to be in this 
 game.
  
  20 characters as I said was a huge let down but on the other hand most of the characters who were 
 left out where not the most important. b For example Kisame was in Naruto Gekitou Ninja Taisen 4... he 
 was not in Naruto Gekitou Ninja Taisen 3 (aka the Japanese version of Naruto Clash of Ninja Revolution) 
 I think most people will agree with me that they would rather have Kisame then Kiba and/or Choji.
 
  
  The controls are fun because it is the Wii.... for some people they will never use them (Wii remote 
 and Nunchuk) and some will only use them. I personally had a blast with the Wii remote Nunchuk... when 
 i did the specials with them I really felt like I was in the game. But I overall play better with 
 GameCube controller but have more fun with the Wii remote and Nunchuk
  
  Graphics are a little better than GNT4 but the shadows of the characters are horrible... If you 
 have played Clash of Ninja 2 or Gekitou Ninja Taisen 4 you will notice it is a little better
  
  Sounds... pretty much the same as the previous installments but some changes here and there. 
 Stages there could have been many more and I am a little tired of fighting in the same place over 
 and over again. I do like the stage shift when someone gets hits out of the stage... it is fun and 
 the little mini game in between when you are in the process of switching.
  
  Replay Value... it is a Naruto fighting game so you will play it over and over again until the next 
 one comes out. You will have fun with the new characters but find yourself disappointed that some 
 characters will not be returning from previous installments. This game is worth the money and if 
 you do not import you will enjoy this.
  
  I hope this review helps you in buying this game or not =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuIgI_MaStR
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is so addictive!! I really like it and I recomend it to anyone who likes Naruto Clash 
 of Ninja. If you haven't played Clash of Ninja 1 or 2 ( just like me) it'll probobly be a long 
 time intill you get used to it. The fighting is so cool. You can fight with up to 4 friends. The 
 graphics are great! A bit better then Clash of Ninja 2 I think. This game reminds me alot of Dragon 
 Ball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 2. If you didn't like that game well I guess I shouldn't have said that. 
 Seriously, I reall recomend this game. If you get it well....... Happy Fighting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OracleRadex
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 13, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  All in all, this game is horrible. A game that you may enjoy for a few days and then it will sit 
 in your game case gathering dust. Lets take a look at the pros and the cons
  
  Pros: Some new characters
  With the addition of TenTen, Temari, Jiraiya, Tsunade, Shino, Kisame, 
 and Itachi, this game helps build a somewhat decent assortment of characters to play with.
  
  Somewhat better graphics
  The graphics from Clash of Ninja 2 to this game has been upgraded. 
 In CON2, Gaara's sand looked like pointy beige construction paper. The shurikens used in the previous 
 clash of ninja games were not proportional to the character (they were rather big.)
  
  New ways to fight! Stage transition, Y-Cancel, Reflect shurikens, shield break, 2 specials! There 
 are new ways to play with your favorite characters. There are boxes to hide behind, new stages 
 to play in, the ability to reflect shurikens thrown at you, and your opponent can no longer block 
 forever. New game modes and mini games
  There are a few mini games for leisure such as the shuriken throw, shadow clone game, and rasengan 
 training. There is also the addition of two player survival mode and 2 player vs CPU which was 
 also fun.
  
  Cons: I can beat the computers with one hand
  The CPU's skill level in this game is watered down. The computers pose no challenge at all. Anyone 
 who can button mash with B would be able yo beat all the computers. In order to have fun in versus 
 mode you need to play against your friends because the computers are complete douche bags.
  
  Where is Kiba, Chouji, Kabuto, and the Third Hokage?! You figured by now they would have at 
 least completed all the 3 man squads. Important characters like Kabuto and the Third Hokage (who 
 actually had something to do with story mode) were taken out. Zabuza and Haku who were also fun 
 characters to use were pulled out of the game because at this point in the story, they were dead. 
 Just because a character died earlier, that is no excuse to pull them out of a game. The number 
 of characters are 20, which is horribly low. Clash of Ninja 3 in japanese has more characters than 
 this game.
  
  What happened to the 3 man cell battle and Oboro mode?
  Seriously, I was looking forward to the 3 man cell battle. I think the creators shouldn't have 
 wasted time with crappy mini games. I play Clash of Ninja to fight, not to swing a wii remote in 
 circles for fun, or spending time trying to find the real Naruto out of clones. Oboro mode was 
 also very fun. With all the new characters in this game, it would have been fun to try them in 
 Oboro mode. Handicaps anyone? If the creators intended on making the computers so damn stupid, 
 they should have at least put the handicaps in this game. The handicaps were a fun way to challenge 
 yourself whenever you felt the computers were too easy. Broken Substitution Jutsu...
  Would it make sense in the T. V show for a ninja to do a substitution jutsu and re-appear right 
 in front of the person? IN THE SAME SPOT?! Of course not! So why would they let that happen in 
 the game. Sometimes when the substitution jutsu is activated, you appear right in front of the 
 person leaving yourself vulnerable for an attack. Sometimes you end up teleporting in front of 
 them with your back facing them which makes the situation worse.
  
  Ahhhh Someone, turn down the shuriken noise!! Seriously, I liked the sound of two shurikens clashing 
 into each other to cancel each other out, but not anymore. That annoying sound is made anytime 
 you jump in the air and throw shurikens at the ground. You also hear it anytime you throw a shuriken 
 period. Whenever TenTen does her special when she jumps in the air and throws a barrage of shurikens 
 at her opponent, I feel like stapling my ears together and jumping out the window.
  
  Balance in characters?! Yeah right. Temari is the cheesiest character of cheesyness. Itachi is 
 also up there with her. On top of that giving people the ability to reflect shurikens makes nejis 
 rotation uesless. It also messes up characters like TenTen and Sakura who's strategy is to chip 
 away the opponents health with shurikens.
  
  Shopping anyone?
  I guarantee you in a few hours you will unlock everything. So why bother playing? The shop feature 
 was important in giving players the motivation to continue playing the game. 8 bit pixelated shadows
 
  Okay, now lets be serious about this. This is the damn wii. We were supposed to upgrade in terms 
 or shadows and graphics. The shadows of the characters look like 8 bit nintendo mario graphics. 
 Ahhh The lagg!! When playing with 4 players, the frame by frame tends to slow down. On top of that 
 all the stages are small. They should have made at least a few stages that had no crates, and some 
 stages where characters can really travel.
  
  Incomplete storymode
  There were a few key fights that were left out. There was Shino's fight with Kankurou, Third Hokages 
 fight with Orochimaru, and Naruto's fight with Kabuto. So characters like Kabuto and the Third 
 Hokage get pulled out for people like Hinata and Ino, who had absolutely nothing to do with the 
 story from here on out. That just doesn't seem fair to me. In conclusion, this game is pretty much 
 garbage. I suggest burning your copy of this game and go back to Clash of Ninja 2. I would recommend 
 buying Gekitou Ninja Taisen 4 which has 40 characters. Honestly, I don't know what America was 
 thinking making this game, and I am definitely not looking forward for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeefy5a
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: Clash of Ninja Revolution is an alright game. Although it is pretty much the same exact 
 thing as Clash of Ninja 2, this game can become addicting if you enjoy multiplayer fighters. One 
 of the few changes that they made was an updated characer roster. They only kept a few of the good 
 characters such as Shikamaru, Neji, and Orochimaru. But there are also bad characters such as Tsunade, 
 Tenten, and yes, they brought Guy back.
  
  Also, you would think there would be better graphics considering that this is the incredible NINTENDO 
 WII! (Yes, I am being sarcastic.) But no, the graphics are actually a smidge worse. I mean, the 
 character shadows look like freaking 8-bit mario. On the plus side, they added obstacles in the 
 course like boxes and rocks that you can hide behind and use a sneak attack. Also, they added an 
 extra jutsu for every character, but for the older characters, the strong jutsus are exactly the 
 same.
  
  All in all, I may have said some bad things about this game, but it is actually not bad. I am just 
 pointing out the pros and cons. If you are thinking of buying this game, just wait a little bit 
 until the price drops because this game is not worth $50. 35, yes. 50, no. Just go to your local 
 Target or Gamestop and pick up Clash of Ninja 2 for Gamecube. It is only $20. And it has more and 
 better characters and the game is fun for a longer amount of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-nosh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  The game is fun and it really makes you feel like you are the person you are playin with, But the 
 game is abit too easy. The characters look like they were dropped on their levels when it comes 
 to special moves and the story mode is really not as catchy as i thought it would have been, it 
 has a really limited amout of fights in it. I am a naruto fan that has seen all the way up to the 
 latest naruto to come out in japan (shippuden 31) and i think this game could had have more people 
 and a better and longer story line. And also all naruto that comes out for the nintendo seems to 
 reach only as far as Gaara vs Naruto and thats to basic for many naruto fans. I think we deserve 
 alot more than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Nintendawg
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I feel like I wasted my fifty bucks after playing this game; it is still lots of fun but it is 
 still lacking especially in delivery, execution, style, and creativity. For one, it lacks online 
 play. This game would make up all its losses if it had wifi but sadly it doesn't. Secondly, these 
 people at 8ing and D3 are cheapos. They basically recycle the same dialogue and menu and music 
 from the past clash of ninjas. I find the mission mode pretty dull with those paper cutouts and 
 dialogue; they could have made it into a cutscene or clips of the show. U should also the crappy 
 manual send with the game. The ugliest looking manual I've ever seen. It basically has like 4 pages 
 and no pictures. It list the characters but it has NO PICTURES!!! and the how to play part is so 
 dull and makes my eyes bleed. It is basically a chart with small print. So the production in this 
 game was pretty much not good. Now let's talk about gameplay. The gameplay is pretty similar to 
 Clash. The wiimote is ok; I think that trailer thing with the wiimote was exaggerated though. The 
 special jutsu with the wiimote isn't as fancy and as u think. There is like no indication of knowing 
 if u are doing it right or not. Not to mention it only adds a small bonus to ur damage. All the 
 characters play the same too. Some of the specials are neat but they said they put two special 
 jutsus for each character; however, that also is pretty much misleading. Usually the second jutsu 
 is the same as the first one but with a minor twist like more damage or oh ur hands are glowing 
 this time ooo. Give me a break. I hate how INo's 2nd special is the same as the first one but at 
 the end she hits the opponent with her head. Overall though the fighting is a blast especially 
 with 4 free for all matches. If u have people to play this game with then u will have lots of fun. 
 Also it seems like Kiba, the third hokage, kabuto, and choji aren't in the (don't know yet) and 
 that is sad. They also took characters out such as iruka, haku, and zabuza. I just don't understand 
 why they had to do that. It's not hard to put in those characters, I don't give a crap if they 
 don't fit in with the mission mode. Also unlocking the characters is pretty frustrating since they 
 don't have the shop system anymore, so its hard to tell what the heck ur suppose to do to unlock 
 say Tsunade. However, I think this game is average but fun. This game is really fun when it comes 
 the fighting brawls and mayhem between ur favorite naruto characters. What lacks in the presentation 
 gains in the fighting experience. Remember, the game is really only about the fighting; however, 
 they kind of make the mission mode too important. If they could deliver what Ultimate ninja could 
 do (more characters) then this game would be a heck lot more awesome. I really had lots of fun 
 the clash of ninja series but this one is just the same as the second but for the wii. If u haven't 
 play one yet then u'll appreciate this game more. And if u liked Clash of Ninja then u might enjoy 
 this game depending if like to play something that hasn't been changed drastically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lineagemaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  some of you might be disapointed for the fact that clash of ninja revolution does not have as many 
 characters as the previous games on the clash of ninja series... well for those of you that think 
 that this broke the game i must say you are wrong... clash of ninja revolution is everything a naruto 
 fan could expect from this type of game... not only because of the revolutionary controls that give 
 the game a bit more of ninja taste, but also because is a fast fighting game good for hardcore 
 gamers, smooth graphics and also a nice sound track that gives it that fun naruto stile... up to 
 four players (without online mode) and been able to use game cube controllers... makes this game 
 an instant multi-player... for those that are not naruto fans, i would say that clash of ninja revolution 
 is a good way to get in the series... a step forward comparing to the rest of clash of ninja games... is 
 by far the best fighting game on the wii, at least until super smash bros brawl comes out...
  BELIEVE IT!!!!... and for those like me that see the series in Japanese... NAN DATTEBAYO!!! note: 
 dattebayo does not mean believe it... -_- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redman1290
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I feel sorry for those who bought clash of ninja 3 cuz they wasted their time. This game updates 
 in move graphics, more characters, couple of new levels plus previous levels, new platforms in 
 previous levels, update to filler characters like sharigan Sasuke, kakashi, and Kyuubi Naruto. 
 Rock lee's primarly lotus looks sick. Controls style is basic and you can use gamecube remote if 
 not interested in the Wii remote. Update to camera angles during characters special. New mini games 
 that provide use of Wii Remote. Every Character now has 2 specials rather then just one. It provides 
 a good Multiplayer Game, just like Naruto Clash of Ninja 2. All i can say is, its a great game. 
 And its Addictive to play while in parties. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
