-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA Live 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/nbalive08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Perfectly harmless if you don't unwrap it.
 Good commentary.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Controls don't really work.
 Gameplay is a mess.
 Graphics are terrible.
 AI is lousy.
 Most everything else.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  5, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 5.6, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 328 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Oct 1, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NBA Live's first appearance on the Wii is a complete disaster. 

  EA proved with Madden that it could tailor a sports game to take advantage of the strengths of 
 the Wii. Unfortunately, it has proved the exact opposite with NBA Live 08. It's ugly, the controls 
 are terrible, and the game is nearly unplayable.  

  Like Madden, NBA Live offers "family style" controls that require only the remote, as well as "advanced 
 play" controls that utilize both the remote and Nunchuk. Both styles are equally bad. If you select 
 family style, the game controls all of your players' movement. All you do on offense is press A 
 or the D pad to pass to whomever is highlighted, then flick the remote sideways for a layup or 
 dunk, or flick it up and then down to take a jump shot. On defense, you move the Wii Remote up 
 and/or down to block and rebound. (We don't understand it either, but that's what the manual says.) 
 You can also move the remote left or right to steal, and press B to pressure the ball. With the 
 advanced controls you still do all of the remote-waving nonsense, but now you have (some) control 
 over where your players go on both offense and defense.  

           No matter what control scheme you pick, you lose.      

  However, it doesn't really 
 matter what control style you pick because the gameplay is a complete wreck. Players slide all 
 over the court, completely disappear and reappear, don't take shots when you want them to, and 
 can't play a lick of defense. It gets worse. Anyone within about eight feet of the hoop can go 
 from standing still with his back to the basket to a flying dunk or layup with a flick of the remote. 
 Steals are so frequent that you can't even tell what's going on sometimes because the camera is 
 changing back and forth so quickly. Seemingly every time you go to pass the ball, the icon switches 
 and the ball goes to someone else -- often to someone who's a foot away. Yeah, that's a great time 
 for a bounce pass. There's more, though. You can make layups from behind the three-point line, 
 and players can pass right through each other. Furthermore, it's pointless to rotate the Nunchuk 
 for different dribble moves, and it doesn't seem to matter when you release your shot -- it's probably 
 going in.  

  But the biggest issue -- the erratic motion-sensing -- is the icing on the cake. You'll spend most 
 of your time flicking the controller around like an insane person and hoping against hope that 
  something  will happen because the Wii recognizes only about half of your controller input. Every 
 once in a while the game will shock you and actually be playable for 30 seconds here and there, 
 but it's not much better than when you were a kid and you used to stand at an arcade machine and 
 pretend you were playing because you didn't have a quarter to actually play the game. You're little 
 more than a spectator to this train wreck.  

  Hopefully you don't want any sort of dynasty mode because the closest thing Live 08 on the Wii 
 has is a single-season option. You can trade players, but that's about it. There are no contracts 
 to sign, no players to scout, and no practices to schedule. Admittedly, some of that isn't really 
 missed, but the dynasty mode appears in every other iteration of the game, so its omission is curious. 
 There's not even a create-a-player option. There is a superstar challenge mode where you try to 
 recreate great player performances from the likes of Vince Carter, Kobe Bryant, and Gilbert Arenas. 
 As a concept it's fine, but it's rendered worthless by the lousy gameplay. Live 08 is also one 
 of the first Wii games to support online play. Considering the omission of dynasty mode, it's not 
 surprising that there is no online league option, and you can play only ranked and unranked games. 
 But the online portion of the game works as advertised -- too bad that the rest of the game doesn't. 

  Rounding out the underwhelming package are the slam-dunk contest and three-point shootout. The 
 three-point shootout is a piece of cake: You flick the remote to the right to pick up a ball, move 
 it up to jump, and move it down to release. It's excruciatingly easy and kind of lame because moving 
 the remote down to release the ball doesn't coincide with what the onscreen player is doing. The 
 slam-dunk contest isn't just kind of lame -- it's  really  lame. You pick a dunk from a list and 
 then move the remote in the direction of the two arrows that appear onscreen. We don't have a monkey 
 in the office to test this theory, but it's reasonable to assume that just about any primate capable 
 of holding the remote could successfully perform a dunk here. Where are all the cool minigames 
 that Madden got? EA could at least hook people up with a few training exercises or something.  
 

  NBA Live's visuals serve only to add insult to injury, and they actually hurt the gameplay. Defense 
 is almost impossible due to all of the warping and clipping that takes place. This problem is compounded 
 by the lack of transition animation, so essentially you're trying to defend a player that can disappear, 
 go through you, and then go from a standstill to full speed in the blink of an eye. There doesn't 
 appear to be any widescreen option; consequently, the picture is stretched to fill the screen if 
 have the Wii set to widescreen and the players all look fat. You can set the Wii to 4:3, but then 
 you get black bars on either side of your screen if you've got a widescreen set. The graphics' 
 problems are further exacerbated by the players' inordinately large heads. The lighting isn't too 
 bad and the game's fairly colorful, but both the players and the court are extremely aliased.  
 

           Nobody's too excited about what's going on here.      

  Once again, the duo of Steve Kerr and Marv Albert is nearly as good in video game form as they 
 are on television. They do a fine job of keeping up with the action, and they mix in a nice bit 
 of analysis and banter in-between. Ernie Johnson and Greg Anthony do a great job calling the All-Star 
 Weekend events. They're always good, but they're at their best when the competitors are at their 
 worst -- they'll really let you hear it if you stink.  

  Live 08 is more a mystery than it is a basketball game. The two biggest questions are "What in 
 the world was EA thinking when it made this game?" and "Is there anyone in the world that would 
 enjoy playing it?" The answer to the first question has yet to be determined, but as for who would 
 enjoy this game, the answer is "nobody."     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: squaredude44
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 6:52 pm PT
Review:  This was a total waste of $40! I bought this game thinking it would be so amazing with the controls 
 and all the hype about it. I brought it home and started to play and, it sucked. The controls didn't 
 even work properly and the graphics were horrible! The faces that you saw all looked the same. 
 This game doesn't even have a franchise or dynasty mode! What; s the point of getting an NBA LIVE 
 game if you cant even have a dynasty! The dunk competition was also a big waste of time. Instead 
 of creating your own dunks, you had to do what the screen showed, and the instructions were pretty 
 bad! Another thing i want to say about this game is that the modes are so watered down. There's 
 the 3 point competition and the dunk competition and that's it! The only good thing about the game 
 is the soundtrack, so i give kudos for that. I hope NBA Live 09 is waaaaaaay better than this game. 
 Whoever wants to get a good basketball game for the Wii, PLEASE DON'T BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bishopphoto
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 27, 2009 7:30 am PT
Review:  Wii is great for a lot of things. Nba live is also great for a lot of things. Unfortunately when 
 you mix them you get a banana and antifreeze sandwich. This collaboration is unholy and awful. 
 
  
  Controls, awful. Graphics, awful. Fun factor awful, everything about this game is awful. It could 
 have been so much better (maybe?)
  
  The first problem is that the Wii translates more to a 360 degree environment then the more linear 
 patterns this game would require. I am not even sure what could be done to fix this train wreck. 
 This series might be unsalvagable on the Wii. It might have to stick with the larger controllers 
 and platforms to have any success the franchise has enjoyed over its lifetime.
  
  AWFUL, TRULY TRULY AWFUL. 
  
  Do NOT RENT, OR BUY, OR TOUCH. it is really that  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jovis14
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  NBA Live 08 has good game play movements but unless you move the Wii remote and nunchuck in every 
 angle you will never find out how to do them as they aren't very clear on some of the controls. 
 The graphics are quite poor and since the Xbox 360 and PS3 graphics are very clear and realistic 
 it makes the Wii version look like a game from the 60's. The moves look quite natural in that they 
 don't look like its just scripted they actually run smoothly unlike the commentators they just 
 sound robotic at some times. Another thing that could be put in it is a practice session. Although 
 you have the 3 point shooting and the slam dunk competitions there isn't anything that helps you 
 with the aspects of it like dribbling or passing. Overall NBA Live 08 is ok and in my opinion only 
 buy this game if you are a big basketball enthusiast, (which I am) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  NBA Live's first appearance on the Wii is a complete and utter disaster. Everything about the game 
 is terrible. The graphics look exactly like NBA Live 2005 for the PS2, except five times as worse. 
 Except it's not 2005, it's 2008!!! Everything from the awful animations to the dreadful presentation 
 is hard to look at because it's just so terrible. And if you think the graphics are terrible, check 
 the gameplay. Wait a second. Did I say gameplay? What I meant was a boring, broken and unresponsive 
 disaster that is nowhere near decent. Despite how you wave the remote, there's about a 90% chance 
 it's going in, even from around half-court. I think it's fun for about a half second before you 
 realize what's wrong with it. The frame rate also takes a beating, and I experienced frequent crashes 
 and bugs. This is a complete failure of a basketball game and shouldn't be on shelves in its current 
 condition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2Pro4Sh0
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  When i heard NBA 08 was coming out I was glad that there was a basketball game for Wii, but after 
 playing it, I'm glad I didn't buy it. NBA 08 for Wii should not deserve the 3.0 rating that Gamespot 
 gave it. I would give it a 6 or so. After my first time playing, I found that shooting was WAY 
 to easy. You could score with technically anyone. Yao Ming and Shaq were dropping 3's like no tomorrow. 
 Otherwise, the game is not so great. The game is lacking depth; minimal controls, no created players 
 and no Dynasty Mode. Also, the Dunk Contest is alright, other than the face that not all the movements 
 register, which gets quite annoying. EA also changed the maximum amount of points that a judge 
 can give for a dunk. Instead of 10 points, a player can only get 8, making the contest out of 40, 
 which I find pretty ridiculous. But, since we're not all the same, if you think it may be good, 
 go rent it and then make a decision from there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: William6058
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Sure, graphics are not that good, but that is not the specialty of the Wii. You got to focus on 
 gameplay. There's some bugs? Well I don't have any problems. Maybe rookie mode is a little too 
 hard, because they dunk so much and execute offensives perfectly. But aside from that, this is 
 very good. Going up to the rim for a slam dunk or a layup, shooting 3 pointers, this pretty much 
 has most of the cool moves and the shots that the real NBA has. Also, the commentary are really 
 good, automatically stating what's going on here, along with the broad range of the options and 
 settings. The players seem to be a little slow, and that effects my rating and the gameplay. Good 
 overall menu, and nice sound, so I would rate it 8.5.
  
  Gamespot, it seems that you don't double check and really take the game into account.
  
  
 
  Conclusion: I think this is a great and fun game to play, so if you haven't I encourage you to 
 try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mg66
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 2, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This should have been an epic event that anyone could hope to see in a lifetime. But to my suprise 
 this turns out to be the biggest piece of crap I've ever played. The controls doesn't really work. 
 Shooting is too easy. Stealing and blocks are rare. I'd say this game is too easy. The gameplay 
 has average graphics. The thing that sucks is there isn't a create a player or dynasty mode. to 
 me dynasty mode is th best part. Now all we have is Season mode. The slam dunk contest is stupid 
 and the 3-point contest is really easy. The only good part is the online mode. After 20 minutes 
 of this game I got so bored i turned the game off. This game is a rip off of the highest caliber. 
 It sucks so bad I rather eat a roadkill skunk drenched in vomit the play this. Overall this game 
 sucks of the highest caliber. But for ea sports to sell this for a whopping 50 bucks is highly 
 robbery. I'm going to cut this review because this is basically it. This game sucks so much!  : ( 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ncxb360
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 18, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  dsbfb dksn gflknr eghioeri rekln fkldwbl nfgerlkngfl; kwrm fkl; wrjtl; rejt
  sjihe sfje nfsi dbg kjs hgo sdi h gpo igjr wop jgpr owg uhoi wryi ktgw giojrop gtn tji ortjpor 
 jtopreu gopre uo prjtop ntui90 uit-0 nrupokjopt --putop rujfr ejgunm 09t4r-jikt 4tipo4j p9jkt904 
 rt84jopt40-3 4rt7842y87ur892u8 ri9ewjrt9eut90 8o to ipw ut09 rju09 u40 9490tu43- 09tu09t ui0- n5ru 
 43t80-4 i9jptrj90 349tu9043u t09t3ru 0t3jt3 09 t09 3ut90 fsughiod hg wefhgu nsidfh fuyhew fo uwhbnf 
 heoi jtoi rihweru wu rweur ruwrj r4owut89 ruweru reioio rwoue fkwriu thhj ntiujn rowieh werhho 
 rijwhri hriwh rui roiwri oiwjreoij qt3whyei rjwurtnm ewjiww dhkjgh wshghw whuhw fodh jkhgvhke fjsdjfi 
 siogfoie gioejg gehrgh hefiwohoi sfhiuw hro ghiorgj greuhbui eguj eiojerhuieh eugio fgst yuyi dgdj 
 rbhgsj fbsj dyhert dhfk djdk gfus fkjey edkrfgh dijgki gjesk gkiroi4r rtyjs ejgy dkdre daj loedjwn 
 bsled wnde; llinlsjrjn rtjjkwsm, and thats how bad it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaesyco
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 12, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  It is obvious from the latest NBA live game that EA hates Nintendo. The game takes so many steps 
 back it seems that your farther back than where you began. Many of the features that make NBA live 
 games so great are missing form this game. There isn't a dynasty mode, you can't create a player, 
 the A. I ignores you roster adjusements in simulation, and that's just the beginning. I feel really 
 bad for anyone who bought this game. EA has a lot to answer for when they make NBA live 09 or else 
 they shouldn't make it for the Wii. If you wan this game and you have a Wii I recommend you by 
 a Xbox or a PS3 and get their version of the game. I understand that the Wii is completely different 
 from other systems but that is no excuse for making such a terrible game. EA needs to get on the 
 ball and understand that even the Wii has hardcore gamers who happen to sports fans. Next time 
 they make any sports for the Wii hopefully it won't be a watered down version of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwmr
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  It sucks and you can't change a thing about it. I didn't think that games could be this bad in 
 the year we live in. 
  1st of all: There aren't enough songs in it if you look at the past NBA games, there you had tons 
 of choices.
  2nd: The controls suck you don't feel like your part of the game look at metroid prime for an example 
 it's like you're Samus herself.
  3th: The game menu options have shrank to the size of only around 5 options.
  You can't even make 
 your own player anymore. Buying clothes for players or seeing your own NBA stats are removed.
  4th: The AI and dribbling and stuff haven't improved if you look at the past NBA games .
  5th: The 
 special moves like reverse and stuff aren't in the game anymore and if they are i haven't seen 
 them they ned to put every little detail in the instuction book if you can even cal it that way 
 
  So in short: EA if you can't even fix the problems in your past game don't release a new one instead 
 they are only making things worse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bunit23
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 31, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  After the Madden series found good use of the Wii controls I thought this title was a shoe in to 
 be one of my favorites... Boy was I wrong. The best thing about this game is that one of the league's 
 greatest players is on the cover (but now he is injured in real life... EA Sports curse anyone?) 
 I guess I will go through the few positive facts about this game before I start telling you the 
 numerous reasons why you should keep you money in your wallets for this one. 
  
  Pros
  
  -Controls: NBA Live 08 makes decent use of the Wii controls. To take a jump shot is as simple 
 as snapping your wrist. This is one of the few things that makes me smile. I will even put my hand 
 up like I was shooting the ball in a real game. This adds to the realism of the experience. When 
 you go for a steal you have to actually use the correct hand or you don't get the steal. Makes 
 you think just like a real defender.
  
  -Family Play
  Like Madden, NBA Live has added family play so that all can enjoy the title. I am not going to 
 argue that this is a cool feature for those who aren't so great at video games. I do have a problem 
 with the game being so easy for those who aren't using family play. 
  
  Cons
  
  I can't think of anything else good, so let me list all of the bad stuff
  
  -Too Easy: I think 
 EA messed up when they made it so a simple wave of the Wii remote to the left or right causes a 
 dunk or a lay up. To top that off, you will hardly ever miss... even with a hand in your face. If 
 a defender is going for the block you might just see your character do a spectacular reverse or 
 up and under. Anyone can beat anyone in online mode.
  
  -Controls: Yeah I said the controls were good, right? While the game makes good use of the controls, 
 good luck actually getting them to work. Expect to go up for a rebound about 5 seconds after you 
 tried to. Also, the crossover moves on this game are horrible. If you can actually get the game 
 to execute a crossover it will only be a short jab step that doesn't help you get by anyone.
  
  -Team/Player Ratings: There is absolutely no separation between the leagues elite players and 
 the scrubs on this game. I had the Washington's Wizards bench completely dismantle some of the 
 elite teams in the league. I have never played a sports game who's rating system meant nothing.
 
  
  -Online Play: Like I said before, anyone can beat anyone on this game. The first two or three games 
 I played I obviously was an inferior opponent yet I was able to keep the games within 2-4 points. 
 Basically all you have to be able to do is make it across half court and you score.
  
  -Graphics: Way to go EA for making the players look so generic. With the exception of some of the 
 arenas, the game already looks horrible for Wii graphics. So why did EA turn around and make all 
 of the players look alike. Sure there are some things that stand out to let you know who a player 
 is (ie... Etan Thomas has dreads, Jason Terry has long socks, etc.) but the average player looks 
 like everyone else. This could be real disappointing when you are trying to play defense because 
 the other team will not have their names showing. Unless you know each team's roster by heart and 
 you can actually recognize the players on the other team, you won't know who to defend.
  
  -Misc: I would like to see created players on this title. It might be nice. Also, how come there 
 is just season play instead of dynasty mode. This game just needed a lot of work. 
  
  Overall
  
  This game is still playable, but it is definitely worth the score that GS gave it. 
 I think EA just tried to throw a game out there on a deadline instead of trying to make a good 
 game that people will enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neiljohn94
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  This is got to be the worst game on the Wii. First, the camera angles are horrible, and you can't 
 tell whats going on. Second, the graphics are the worse ever.
  
  When you shoot, you have a 99% chance of making it, which just makes the game even more unrealistic 
 than it already is. I have played the game for about 15 hours and I have never found it fun, so 
 I just gave it away to someone, who also hates it too. I was wondering what the heck EA must be 
 thinking while creating this, because everyone knows that this game blows on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  NBA Live 08 is the first NBA game on the Wii and it's pretty much the first basketball game on 
 the Wii. Gameplay is alright, you choose a game mode then a team and then start playing, simple 
 as that. Though, from what I've heard, this game lacks quite a few modes unlike the past few modes. 
 Still, NBA Live 08 is fun and I haven't encountered any glitches yet. I did, however, encounter 
 a glitch wherein the ball went through the person. Controls are great. I haven't had a single problem 
 with the controls yet. To jump, you simply flick the wiimote up and at the peak of your jump, you 
 flick the wiimote down to shoot. The rest of the controls feel alright though from what I've heard, 
 this version has less moves than the other versions. Online in this game would've been really fun 
 but unfortunately I've had nothing but problems in this game. I think it's something to do with 
 EA Nation because Mario Strikers works for me. Everytime I connect to an opponent, it says my connection's 
 lost. Really weird and it's a real shame since this would've made the game a lot more enjoyable 
 in my part.
  
  Graphics in this game is just plain terrible. The graphics are like Snes graphics. The players 
 look quite stiff and they look nothing like their real life counterparts. If it wasn't for the 
 gameplay, this game would've been a horrible gaming experience. When you call for timeout, the 
 players move like robots. Really horrible graphics.
  
  Sounds in the game is another good thing about the game. The commentary is really good. They don't 
 just repeat and repeat what they say unlike in some other sports games I've played. EA Trax songs 
 are good and quite catchy. They make the menu and online lobby a little less boring.
  
  To be honest, I wouldn't buy this game for $49.99. I only got this game from a friend who didn't 
 like it. Rent it first to see if you'll like the game and if you do and online works for you, then 
 get it. But please, don't get it at full price. It's just not worth it. Maybe if you're lucky, 
 you can get one cheap.
  
  Overall, I really enjoyed the game. I had a blast playing this and I didn't eject this game from 
 my Wii in quite a while. Online would've made the game much more fun but unfortuantely, EA Nation 
 hates me. Also, I am an NBA noob so I don't know much about the games or the sport but still, I 
 enjoyed it even without the modes and moves the other versions have. Controls was what made me 
 addicted to it. It made playing the game so much easier for me. I recommend NBA Live 08 to those 
 who find it cheap somewhere or if you're desperate for a basketball game and the Wii is your only 
 console. Though even if you do find it cheap, I don't think it's worth getting it since theres 
 going to be so much great games coming out soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimis13oe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  To begin with, the gameplay is PERFECT, and not bad, as you say.... Do you know any other console 
 in which you can play nba in a way like in this one??? Furthermore, i haven't noticed that the game 
 doesn't obey in your moves, but i have noticed that when you do a move, the player which has the 
 ball obey and do that specific move!! The only thing in which i agree, is that the graphics aren't 
 so good, but i don't think that they are so awful, as you refer..
  Generally, i think that this game is the greatest of ALL nba game titles, and that everyone should 
 buy it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-nosh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  The game has its ups and downs like every other but as a new and first time ever Basketball game 
 were you must do everything it is kind of interestin and fun when its you against your friends. 
 The controler sencor may be off by alot in some cases but you will adapt to it if you are a real 
 gamer. The online is also fun but i wish the wii had some mic's and ear phones so we could communicate 
 with our opponents. Other than that its a very interesting sports game that gives you full control 
 on everything you wants to do and there is no way i can see someone complaining about cheating 
 when you play by movements and not by buttens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasgarsha
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  When searching for a new Wii game, I rent it first. For a couple bucks, I can determine for myself 
 if the game is worth spending $50 or if I should thank my lucky stars that I didn't leap before 
 I looked.
  
  This practice has saved me a few times. My wife is a golfer, and together we've logged many hours 
 on the PC version of Tigar Wood's 06. When I rented Wii's Tiger Woods 08, we were completely underwhelmed 
 and will pass on that purchase (though Gamespot gave it a soild recommendation) .
  
  On a whim, I selected NBA Live 08 from the video store and challenged the Mrs. to a match. The 
 menus and so-called family play were a total mess, exactly as the Gamepsot review suggests. The 
 lady of the house dubbed family play mode as watch the computer play mode.
  
  When we figured out how to use the Nunchuk (made more difficult by not having the game manual) , 
 we got into playing the game. The graphics are what you expect from a Wii title, the advanced control 
 is fair, and the voice acting is good.
  
  The motion controls are a bit loose, certainly lacking the precision that Wii Sports boasts; however, 
 they aren't terrible as the Gamespot review suggests. We played several matches as 80's vs. 90's 
 allstars and definitely got our $3 worth from the rental.
  
  I've actually been considering this game for purchase after renting it. The family play is a bust, 
 and my 8 year old daughter wouldn't want to touch NBA Live 08 with its lamer family play controls. 
 Besting my wife was pretty fun though, so my recommendation is that people rent it and give it 
 a test run. You might just find yourself enjoying this basketball title - despite the Gamespot 
 reviewer's tilt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Judah6
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  When I first Started playing this game I had to try to figure out the controls of the game it takes 
 work but if you put time in it will work. Now the Graphics it's not as bad as people where saying 
 I thought it would have been worse but it's not, it alright.
  I love the sound track in the game too
  I Know one thing it's almost like playing basketball 
 but only in your house also there's a few modes. Like Online play Which works well but I have to 
 say if you not ready don't go online thinking your going to just run over people because those 
 players are good and you will get your ass kicked. The Only problem I didn't like was it hard to 
 chase people down in the game because Iam not use to it being without any tubo But other then that 
 it's a good start for the Wii ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c-note16
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 9, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  First let me start off by saying this NBA live game need alot of improvements, mainly more features 
 especially dynasty mode and faster play in the season mode, and more superstar challanges, as well 
 as move offensive moves to use. Now all haters for NBA live 08 on the wii talking bout graphics 
 and gameplay, SHUT UP!!! From the beginning the wii stated graphics is not a primary concern. The 
 graphics are better then gamecube and ps2, and the gameplay is the best on any of the systems. 
 Wit that said enjoy live 08, because i know i do and i will bring you more on what i find out about 
 this game, Oh yeah use the play calling function it works well and makes the game even better, 
 then it already is. The blocks are great, dunks are great, even the go to moves are, there are 
 many improvements needed but over all it is a good game. Not great but good. I love the game and 
 i played it on the other systems, and i think it is much better on the wii. REALLY. I cant lie 
 2k8 is the best this year but wii owners who like balling get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kippesd
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 9, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Utter failure of a game.. EA has finally hit rock-bottom with this title and in my opinion have 
 become nothing more than a shareholder-lead company who want nothing more than a steady stream 
 of cheaply-developed titles to look forward to in future quarters.
  
  It is an absolute violation of the Wii-mote. Nothing works. Everything is broken. Wellllllll, you 
 can shake the controller to either side once you have the ball and are near the basket since it 
 will result in can't-miss dunk or lay-up no matter how many people are clogging the lane. The premise 
 of raising the controller on defense to try and block said dunk-attempt is beyond broken. Games 
 between friends quickly devolve into dunk-fests. I probably make this sound cooler than it actually 
 is so let me point out that the dunks look and feel terrible. As are the rest of the graphics and 
 animations. I wish I could tell you I was joking when I tell you this looks like a PS1 game. You 
 heard me right. Added features such as a dunk contest and a 3-point contest are so laughably easy 
 that I hit 11 3-pointers in a row. Oh, while looking the other way.
  
  Quality Assurance must have tanked this game so bad that they actually implemented an 'easy' control 
 scheme where all you do is shoot and pass. That's right, you watch the guys run around and press 
 a button to pass and another to shoot. YES, IT IS AS AWFUL AS IT SOUNDS!
  
  EA should have scrapped this game in order to develop it the correct way for next season. Instead 
 they decided to insult basketball and Wii fans with absolute garbage that is nigh unplayable.
 
  
  Stay away, not even worth $5.00 in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnitemare8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 12:56 am PT
Review:  Nba Live on the Wii is a fun and great first outing by EA.... the controls are self explanatory, 
 although any player that has played basketball on previous systems will definitely need to take 
 about 10 minutes to adjust... a flick up does what it should.. make your player jump (get it .. 
 up.. jump... it doesnt appear that Gamespot understood that one) a flick left/right works just 
 like you're swiping your hand at the ball for a steal.. the graphics are about the level or maybe 
 a bit higher than those on an Xbox (i literally pulled out my Xbox to compare :-) ) from my experience 
 the online in Live works worlds better than Ea's Madden outing did.. with very little to no lag 
 .... however this game does show the need for some improvements...... the shooting movement has 
 not been mapped to recognize your shooting selection well enough for when you take a quick shot... 
 however, the free throw shooting is great IMO... with a few improvements Live 09 could be an even 
 better game.... I rate it a 7.5 -- good enough to own.. but not great enough to marvel about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ikaros25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I played several EA sport games before and have to say that NBA Live 08 on wii take the cake of 
 fun game play. It is very easy to pick up and play and you don't have to remember complicated controls 
 or special moves. Just simple block-steal when you defend and dunk/layup-shoot when you attack. 
 Yes, the graphics are not that great like most of the wii games but I believe that is not the reason 
 to avoid this game since the game play is revolutionary. The motion when you shoot the ball is 
 fun and give you the feeling that you are part of that game.
  
  If you have $49.99 then go and buy it. Is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superlemons
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I had been expecting more from this game in terms of graphics, controls, and funfactor. However 
 the controls are a bit stiff, the graphics feel like its from NBA 2005 and the game lacks depth. 
 You can barely make out the face of the basketball players as all facial features just seem to 
 blur together. Its not even as good as half of what i had expected.
  
  To be honest, i am quite disapppointed with it and have already stopped playing it after 5 hours.
 
  
  I would not recommend buying this game and i regret buying it. I am a basketball fan.
  
  5.5/ 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blkblade113
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics in this game are okay. But they move really smooth and fluidly.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very easy to learn! The wii-mote and nunchuck movements work well for 
 the most part.
  
  Presentation: I am dissapointed in the menus. The menus were much better last year on all the other 
 systems. Even the NBA Live 06 menu is better.
  
  Sound: The music is great as always. They chose really good songs including a song buy Timbaland.
 
  
  Lasting Appeal: There is no dynasty mode, just the normal season mode. The online mode is very 
 fun and it runs smoothly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingChainz31684
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 3, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  Whenever they need money just pop some garbage on a shelf and people will pay. Its not to say that 
 the game doesn't have its bright spots, but I feel that their are certain standards set by previous 
 sports games and other sports game companies that this game comes no where near meeting.
  
  I will review this game based on game play, graphics, audio, Features, and Lasting ability (replayability) .
 
  
  (Skip this paragraph if you want to get straight to the review) I will make comparisons to 2K basketball 
 not that i am a fan boy of them but they have set the standard to what i expect to see when i start 
 playing a basketball game just like how madden of '07 set the standard in football and tiger of 
 '05 set the standard for golf, and i figure that will make people interested in certain areas how 
 the games compare if lets say like me a couple years ago hadn't played a basketball game for 4 
 years and wanted to know what one i would like more then i buy one and realize i don't like it 
 so i buy the other and then I did like it. Though my comparison's are from 2k6 to live 08 so they 
 are a bit dated but all i have heard for the past 2 years about 2k is they have gotten much better. 
 and as far as Live '08 a couple things got better but several things are just getting worse and 
 worse. I mention the older games as the standards set because on the newer ones i have often been 
 finding more wrong than right when compared to past years.
  
  (Game Play) I played the game almost all day yesterday looking for bright spots. Their were a couple. 
 I got to play 1 online game since their was a lack in players and it was better than Madden 08's 
 online as far as control lag goes. But the game in general feels like it has some major lag issues 
 off line included. Their is no interupting moves in this game so you want to shoot you have to 
 finish your motion and then an extra dribble before you can actually put your shot up and the major 
 issue with that is you raise your controller to shoot and then you swing it down to finish your 
 shot and sometimes your guy with just stand their the whole time then right after he finishes his 
 motion he will put up a wild shot. And then sometimes the controls feel very touchy like the slightest 
 twich will make you chuck the basketball as you cross have court. Now if you are just standing 
 around not moving much and you want to shoot the ball your shots go up how you would hope it just 
 always feels a little at random if you will actually put up a shot how you want. The dunk and layup 
 system is easy to handle. Though their is no way to go from a dunk to a layup or anything but you 
 can pass out of your shots. Passing is controllable but at the same time feels completely at random. 
 You can push A and pass the ball to the nearest person but the D-pad passing seems to always pass 
 to the person with the gray circle under then and i just haven't figured it out to much feels very 
 random though the more i played the more i got the ball where i wanted it. The games controls overall 
 are limited compared to madden. you don't get many ball control options all you can do while dribbling 
 is a basic cross over though than is normally enough to get by the computer on the lower difficulty 
 settings. Play calling is nice and easy though its also not customizable so you get your set 4 
 plays and thats what you get on both Offense and Defense. (around a 6 out of 10)
  
  (Graphics) Now when i do graphics i will make comparisons to the previous gens games and to wii 
 graphics specifically since they are kinda in their own imbetween category. though MP3 proved to 
 be much more current gen same with twilight princess. most of the games are just slightly better 
 than previous gen. As far as the Presentation goes its pretty good. Character models are fairly 
 smooth and look like the person they are supposed to look like but its certainly not going to win 
 even a previous gen graphics contest with games like 2K basketball out their and i would say it 
 actually doesn't quite compare to most of the wii games out their but since i have not basketball 
 games out their its hard to make a comparison but it doesn't look as good as madden of 07. It still 
 has the same NBA Live feel though the spacing on the court is a bit better. Its still kinda like 
 your players at times are like giants which can really muddle up the middle of the lane especially 
 to the point you have no idea where your guy when till the group departs. Overall though graphically 
 and the way the graphics cause it to play is actually one of the better parts of the game. Its 
 much better than past NBA lives in recent years. ( around a 7 out of 10)
  
  (Features) This is where the game takes a nose dive off a 300 hundred foot diving board into a 
 pool with no water. They do have some party mode games which are ok but provided me and my brothers 
 entertainment for about a half hour. It has your basic play now option. Then for game modes its 
 severly lacking. It has Season Mode, All-Star Weekend, Rookie Challenge, Playoffs, and a superstar 
 mode but not like the superstar mode in madden its a superstar mode in which you must accomplish 
 what players accomplished in real games in the NBA in a fashion similar to the way they finished 
 it. Its like the old Madden challeges for Madden 05 Special edition on PS2. I went through a couple 
 of them but the problem is their is no real benefit to playing through them other than to just 
 play through them. Their are no unlockables this year again just like in this years madden which 
 is pretty disappointing especially since their is no dynasty mode. Season mode is awful. Its so 
 very basic it generates an 82 game schedule for you to play then you play it or sim it and then 
 if you want you start all over you can trade whateever player for whatever player and all that 
 fun stuff no strategy at all to it. I mean they did throw in the all star weekend making it just 
 like days of yore back in the 99 NBA live days. just no depth to it. No kind of fantasy drafting 
 even to spice things up a little. Another feature that was disspointing not to have in madden 08 
 but they made it even worse for NBA live 08 is their is no create a character, and what makes it 
 worse their is no character editing option. So players play their postion and only their postion 
 you can still sub people in for what ever position but you can chage attribs at all. Or in my case 
 with madden i took 3 sorry young players and changed their names positons at times and attributes 
 and turned them into me and a couple of my brothers. So thats not available what so ever. Which 
 means their is basically what their is to the game and you as a user have no customizing ability 
 which is pretty sad considering the lack of other features you would of thought they would put 
 that back in to satisfy people. Their are the other features like all star weekend which takes 
 you to the all star game the rookie vs sophmores game, the dunk contest, and 3 point contest. well 
 i mean the first coiuple of things are just games they play normal. the dunk contest is very weak 
 i mean its nice some of the dunks they have but are very limited in the total number of dunks and 
 give the user no way to do any customized dunks of their own. Its basically a rtyhm game you do 
 the controler motion it shows on the screen when it pops up. Some of the motions are fairly un 
 responsive like twisting the wii mote to the left or right most of the time feels like luck or 
 rotating your arm in a full circle. but the basic lob ,up, down, over the shoulder motions feel 
 fine. IT got old fairly quick but it lasted longer than the 3 point contest just cuz their were 
 dunks i wanted to see like off the big screen throw it down windmill jam. The 3 point contest well 
 that lasted about 3 tries for me and my bros cuz on the 3rd attempt we all got 30's i mean its 
 easy to get 30s every time because its all based on the shooting rythym and it was easy not to 
 mess up. They did add fifa teams but with no fantasy draft or tournment set ups its really doesn't 
 matter you can only use them in play now so their wasn't much of a point in adding them. One thing 
 i don't get is the team rating systems either i mean they are innacturate right off the bat which 
 teams like cleveland being an 85 and teams like the Hawks being a 90 which when you look at the 
 line ups their is nothing to merit the hawks being a 90 considering they have no players rated 
 about the mid 80's. The rosters are up to date right off the bat so teams like cleveland who have 
 verajao and Pavolivic not signed are 2 unsigned players.. So thats how all that stuff went making 
 the features entirely underwhelming and certainly lacking a lot compared to the base standards 
 of todays sports games. March maddness will be pointless to pick up also if you want to import 
 draft classes because with their being no drafting well you get the picture. Online is a good feature 
 and 4 users vs 4 users is cool but how often will you have 4 of your friends over at the same time 
 as someone else's 4 user team almost never soo that makes it a bit lacking Online is what Online 
 is though and if its your thing then maybe its enough of a feature for you. (around a 4 out of 10)
 
  
  (Audio) Audio is a high point the Announcers are good. they are loud and yet not to annoying and 
 they say pretty indepth things such as if you score a lot of points with lebron which some covered 
 3's and what not they make a comment on how lebron did this to detriot when he scroed 48 points 
 in game 5 of last seasons playoffs. The song list is long and good. the sound effects are so so 
 but they in no way hinder the game i which i could hear more trash talk on the court though. The 
 players i don't think say anything if they do i couldn't hear them. I don't know if you played 
 the past couple years of 2k basketball but if you have you will understand what i mean when i say 
 the announcing is much better but the court audio is terrible when compared.
  ( around an 8 out of 10)
  
  (Lasting Ability) This game is lacking the depth it would need 
 to really cause it to have the lasting ability you expect out of a sports game. I mean for the 
 most part sports games are different than the majority of games out their in recent standards since 
 normally you accomplish modes by making it through 30 seasons in madden. or 10 seasons and becoming 
 a hall of famer. Not quite cut in dry like a normal game such as you finish the game by beating 
 the main bad guy. This game not only doesn't do sports right it doesn't accomplish what a normal 
 game does either. Their is no start or end to anything i mean you can do a season but that doesn't 
 complish much i mean you can't have a bad season then get a good draft pick and try to improve 
 your team because at the end of the season your team is done and you have to start over. And with 
 no accomplishments to earn like cheats or dancers or anything like that their is no reason to play 
 this game by your self really. I supopse if your in a dorm room and you got it to where you often 
 can get at least one person to play with or against you could get some use out of the game but 
 in a general gamers situation i wouldn't count on it being worth while in that way.. I mean if 
 online is your thing its your thing but as far as online sports go right now Mario Strikers has 
 set the standard and is keeping it until i would say Medal of honor heroes comes out since that 
 game is pushing out 60 fps. ( about 4.5 out of 10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ds_wiirocks
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  It is a very good game for the wii. peop; le say that basketball for the wii would suck. wel, it 
 isnt that bad. you pull the wii remote back like your shooting to shoot and flick the wii remote 
 left or right to steel raise the remote down to reject/bleck and and fast motion to dunk. its awesome. 
 they have accurate rosters, party modes and all fun. they have good music to support the game. 
 go buy it.. its probably thre best sports game for the wii (except wii sports) . go buy it or ask 
 it for christmas.. very good game. buy it 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
