-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed ProStreet
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/driving/needforspeed/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Car damage looks nice and makes totaling your ride fun.
 Solid, albeit unspectacular racing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too many ads.
 Missing much of the stuff that made the last few games fun.
 Races start to feel the same after a while.
 Announcers will make your ears bleed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.4, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 412 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
ProStreet is a solid racing game, but it's missing most of what made the previous games in the series 
 interesting. 

  It can't be easy to be a game developer in charge of releasing a new game in a series every year. 
 People don't want the same game over and over, yet they're unhappy if the game strays too far from 
 the established formula. EA deserves credit for trying something different with Need for Speed 
 ProStreet, but the new direction of the series fails to live up to the level of the previous games. 
 There's still a solid racing experience here, and the online component of the Xbox 360 is quite 
 good; but the game's premise is uninteresting and the in-game advertising is over the top. In the 
 end, ProStreet is just another decent but uninspired racing game.  

           The racing is solid, but it's nothing special.      

  Unlike the last two Need for 
 Speed games, which told the story of an underground street racer through campy yet entertaining 
 cutscenes, ProStreet follows the legal street racing career of Ryan Cooper. The game still uses 
 cutscenes to try to instill some story into the proceedings -- something about Ryan getting dissed 
 by a big-time street racer -- but it's uninteresting thanks to terrible voice acting and unlikable 
 characters. Ignoring the story, it's your goal to head to different events, dominate them, challenge 
 the best of the best, and then take on Ryo, the man who disrespected you after your first race. 

  Thanks to the sheer number of race days you'll need to win, it will take a long time to get to 
 Ryo. Each race day consists of a number of different events. Most of these will be familiar to 
 anyone who's played previous Need for Speed games. Grip races are standard races with eight cars 
 on the track, and your goal is to finish first. Other events have you trying to get the fastest 
 time or highest speed through checkpoints, or the best time out of your class of cars. Drift racing 
 is back, but has been revamped and is actually fun this time around since you don't lose all your 
 points for going off the track. You'll also be doing a lot of drag racing. It's fun for a bit, 
 but gets old quickly thanks in no small part to the preceding minigame in which you have to heat 
 up your tires -- it's lame, and you have to do it before each of the three rounds. While there's 
 no shortage of events, there isn't a whole lot of variety. Many of them feel the same -- you just 
 want to go fast. This makes the game grow old quickly, a problem when there are so many events 
 to slog through before you reach the end.  

  The game also grows tiresome because the action on the track just isn't that exciting. Some of 
 the later cars you unlock, like the Lamborghini and Zonda, are superfast, but for the first 50 
 races you'll be racing some rather pedestrian vehicles. Since you're on a track there are no shortcuts, 
 so many of the courses end up feeling the same, especially since a "new" course is just an old 
 one with a few different turns. Most importantly, there are no cops. Getting chased by the five-0 
 was easily the best part of the last few games, so its omission here is huge. Damage plays a more 
 pronounced role this time around; you'll have to repair damaged cars, but you always have enough 
 damage-repair markers to take care of things. You won't even need these markers on the Wii and 
 PlayStation 2-- you really have to slam into something incredibly hard to register even a slight 
 amount of damage. This is understandable on the Wii because the default controls aren't very good. 
 Holding the Wii Remote flat in your hands and tilting it up and down to steer works OK most of 
 the time, but sometimes, particularly on tight turns, the game doesn't recognize your movement, 
 so your car will straighten out and usually end up in a wall.  

           Now that everything's on the up and up, there are no cops to be found.      

  While 
 you always want to win a race day, that's not your only goal. You'll need to dominate as many race 
 days as possible to unlock new events. After each race you're awarded points based on where you 
 placed, how fast you finished, and how much damage you took. If your combined score for all the 
 events breaks the old record, you've dominated the race day and you're awarded with a prize like 
 cash or parts for your ride. You don't always have to race perfectly, but you'll have to win most 
 of the events to dominate. This is made difficult because you can bring only a few cars into each 
 race day -- one for each event -- so if your car can't hang with the other rides, you're in trouble. 
 All is not lost, though. Like in other NFS games, you can purchase new cars or upgrade your ride 
 to improve performance. And like in the last game, you can sculpt certain aspects of your cars' 
 bodies to make them more aerodynamic. This time you even get to use a wind tunnel. It looks cool, 
 but it's not that useful. Nor are all the visual customization options, because it seems that you 
 can't use your rides online. The tool for putting on decals and vinyls is similar to what is found 
 in Forza 2, but not quite as deep.  

  PlayStation 2 and Wii owners are missing out on ProStreet's best feature: its online component. 
 On the Xbox 360 you can create your own race day by picking a location, race types, and even what 
 cars can participate. You can then play these race days online in ranked and unranked matches. 
 There was some lag and the racing was a bit choppy, but it was still fun -- you can really build 
 up some good rivalries by racing the same people in multiple events during an online race day. 

  Though not everyone gets in on the online fun, all four consoles get a piece of the avalanche of 
 advertising that permeates the game. Sure, races in real life are heavily sponsored, but ProStreet 
 takes it too far -- there's nary a stretch of track where there's not some sort of advertisement 
 for motor oil or car insurance. It doesn't seem possible, but 360 owners get to enjoy even more 
 advertising thanks to dynamic ads that will be downloaded when you start the game up for the first 
 time. Even better, some of the achievements are sponsored by a car insurance company. It's too 
 bad that the cost of the game and the ridiculous amount of advertising isn't making EA enough money -- on 
 the Xbox 360 you can use real cash to unlock cars and upgrades. Every single time you go to buy 
 a car, you're asked if you want to use in-game cash or Microsoft points. You don't even need to 
 have unlocked a car to be able to purchase it with Microsoft points, which is really unfair since 
 you can use that unlocked car to zoom right to the top of the leaderboards on the early courses. 

  It shouldn't be surprising that PlayStation 2 and Wii owners also come up on the short end of the 
 stick with regards to the visuals; it isn't a good-looking game on either system, though the Wii 
 does support progressive scan. The cars look OK, but there's a lot of aliasing, particularly on 
 the tracks, which are so jaggy that it's tough to see where you're going when you're driving at 
 high speeds. The PS3 and 360 versions look very nice -- particularly their cars, which look fantastic. 
 They look great when they're shiny and new, but they look even better when they're all smashed 
 up. It hurts your wallet when you total a car, but it sure is entertaining to watch the windshield 
 shatter, the bumper fall to the ground, and the hood peel away like a sardine can lid. As mentioned 
 earlier, the game doesn't give off a tremendous sense of speed most of the time. This is partially 
 because you'll spend a lot of time driving slower cars, but also because the frame rate isn't very 
 fast and is frequently choppy. Everyone gets in on the terrible career menu, which is ugly and 
 difficult to navigate.  

           Most of the cars here are the same cars from the last few games.      

  ProStreet's 
 audio isn't very good. This is mostly the fault of the game's announcers, who are poorly voiced, 
 have a terrible script, yell into the microphone, insist on calling you by your full name every 
 time they refer to you (which is hundreds of times over the course of the game) , and basically 
 do everything they can to get on your nerves. The cars sound OK, but there's not a whole lot of 
 variety to the engine noise. The music isn't anything exciting, either, and you'll hear the same 
 songs dozens and dozens of times over the course of the fairly lengthy career.  

  What it all boils down to is that without the story, cop chases, and open world of the last two 
 Need for Speed games, ProStreet is just another racing game. Other than a nice online mode on the 
 360 and PS3, its only truly distinguishing feature is its amount of advertising, which makes an 
 already uninspired game feel even more soulless.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Even4life
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 10:53 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Pro Street is probably the worst game in the collection. The average rating is 6.5 
 out of 10. I know why. People who play car-racing games want crash graphics. The damage graphics 
 on here are not good. Some cars are hard to control, some challanges are hard to beat, and worst 
 of all, it sucks. Still, I guess some people can rent it. DO NOT BUY. 5 out of 10 is my rating. 
 Hopefully, you won't make the same mistake I made. $20 for a suckish game, cheap. Again, this is 
 the worst game in Need for Speed history. and again, Please don't buy this or you will suffer from 
 lack of voilence. Listen to me.
  Other Need for Speed games are much better than this. You have to agree with me after playing. 
 If anybody likes this game, they're crazy! Rent, don't buy. Listen to me or you gonna die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: True_gamer0
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Ned for Speed Pro Street on the Wii is not a bad game. It's a solid racer. However, it's not what 
 you want from a need for speed game.
  
  In my favorite need for Speed games you are in an open city, where you must race other street racers 
 and avoid the cops at all costs. This usually entails high speed pursuits, as well as exciting 
 races. In Pro Street, however, the racing is "legalized" and all takes places in enclosed areas. 
 The result is a solid racing game, just not a true Need for Speed game.
  
  The graphics are nice, the soundtrack is decent. The announcer can REALLY get annoying at times, 
 but the car and collision sounds are all great. I like the control scheme used for the Grip races, 
 the Wii Mote works pretty well and is fun to use. 
  
  I just wish it was what a need for speed game should be, and unfortunately it is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellspetrock
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Hello (by the way this is my first review) . NFS Prostreet, letdown, fun, great, what ever you call 
 it it was different. No cops, new features, a cornering guide, almost every car in the NFS street 
 racing series makes this game have its ups and downs but nonetheless fun for us Need For Speed 
 fans. I personally really liked the game (ya i know what you are thinking) other than no police 
 or roaming the city and a storyline that doesn't really fit in with the rest of the series the 
 game for me was actually enjoyable. As always you start with the worst car in the game and gradually 
 work your way to the top never really gets old to me. Also wondering how much money you need for 
 upgrades and the usual stuff. The Wii really got my attention with the steering controls with the 
 Wiimote. Really genius actually. It provided something that no other NFS fans could experience. 
 The verdict: With the battle of good and bad, the good prevailed. 
  
  
  P. S. Tell me how it did. thanks :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luxma
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  If you love all around racing games, and tired of seeing Need For Speed bumped up to the word street 
 then you'll love this. In the beginning it's slow paced and is almost too easy, but after your 
 second showdown its awesome and challenging. Now if you don't want to here the story line stop 
 reading but if you do... In the beginning your a familiar face named Ryan Cooper. You start off 
 in a Nissan Z the old hatch back from the 80's and your use to street racing but you make it through 
 the pro street but the Showdown King Ryo has it out for you. But all the MC event Dj's, even other 
 racers love you. maybe Ryan and Ryo have a past. Maybe you just got to play the game. Anyways the 
 whole goal is to thrash and crash through the game, and to dominate the Grip king, Drag King, Drift 
 King, Sprint King, and Showdown King. Hope you enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 76 % This game is good but it has some problems that the other consoles does not have 
 for example the frame rate is horrible all the the time the screen freeze`s for a sec its not very 
 bad but you can obviously see it in every race. The thing that i like in this game is using the 
 wii wheel because it works perfectly but the car handling is pretty bad for some cars you have 
 to know how to drive in this game especially in top speed challenge because if you turn to quick 
 or you loose control your car totaled and you have to use a marker or pay cash wich is expansive.
 
  
  Graphics 67 % The graphics in this game aren`t good its worse than gamecube games the burnouts 
 and the cars in the game doesn`t look realistic.
  
  Sound 69 % The sound is awesome especialy the music and the car sound it really feels like your 
 driving a real car.
  
  Overall 70 % Overall this game is not what need for speed fans where waiting for now there`s a 
 new nfs undercover game out who is coming and i`ve heard that it looks like nfs most wanted im 
 waiting to see the game.
  
  I think that this game is worth only 10 $ not 29.99.
  
  i reccomend this game for need for speed fans who really like nfs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dainsanereview
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 23, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  need for give my money back i mean prostreet. this game is far one of the worst games in the series 
 in my oppoin i liked the need for speeds 2,3 and porsche unleashed but this game isnt much of a 
 challenge this was got to be one of the most easyest games i have every played in my life. it just 
 scare's my out of my seat just looking at this trash can of a game. the graphics arnt really well 
 designed. the diffuclty of this game is just to easy i did one race facing the opposite direction 
 and i still won the race not kinding. the sound quality is just bad it make's me sad that my favorite 
 game producers ( crys ) now makes the worst racing games of all time ( crys some more makes a river) . they 
 could of at least made the diffuculty better. last question is this game a to buy or rent game no 
 its a destroy single copy in da WORLD yeah i said world. muahahahaha.
  sound 1
  graphics 1
  gameplay 1
  control 1
  bottom line is i am scared mommy can i lock myself in 
 the closet now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack1911
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  The game shows very good potential with its good graphics, gameplay and controls but it is definatly 
 missing something.
  
  I cant really get into the game because it is sooooo easy its boring. I haven't lost a race on 
 it yet! However I like the game for everything else.
  
  If the difficulty was more reasonable i would have gave it a much higher score but it failed my 
 expectations.
  
  I would recomend this game to people with not a lot of expierience of racing games on wii.
  
 
  I am looking foward to the next NFS on the wii as I hope it will be a lot better than this one.
 
  
  So I think it is a good game for graphics, gameplay etc. but not for the difficulty.
  
  I would recomend renting the game before you buy to see if the dificulty is to easy for you 
 as it is for me then you gradually get bored of winning every single race.
  
  Thanks for reading my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carmonster333
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 31, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed pro street doesn't at all hold up the Need for Speed standard, being the worst game 
 for the series so far. The story is no where near in depth enough, and the story that's there doesn't 
 effect you enough. The first time I played it I beat in after about 5 hours of playing. There is 
 no way to keep your assist level up and make your competition harder. As soon as you max out a 
 car's performance, it will last you the whole game. The drag race mini game where you heat up your 
 tires gets boring very quickly, and you will soon take more time heating up your tires than racing. 
 As a good time is around 7 seconds. I have yet to be challenged in the game even after I took off 
 all assists and was facing the boss. The announcer is very repetitive and inaccurate with his announcements. 
 I have seen the Xbox 360 version and will also complain about the graphics being sub par to every 
 racing game of this time period. The only pluses I see are the amount of cars and the customization 
 you can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdup52
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  EA is back with another installment of one of it's many hit series. I thought that ProStreet was 
 good but lacking a lot from previous games. I mean c'mon it's just no fun to play a game where 
 street racing is legal. I missed the police chasing you and the cruel smack talk that Carbon brought 
 to us a year before. Even if Carbon wasn' t the best game ever to some, it's one of mine. That 
 is why I give ProStreet a 5.5 out of 10. Some good points were that they brought back drag racing 
 which I really missed. Another is that they had some new cars to add.
  
  
  
  P. S.: Don't get NBA Live '08, it sucked, so please if you don't want to have a near death experience 
 caused by NBA Live 08... DON'T GET THE  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed has been a very successful series with pretty good scores from critics, but now 
 the series has carried on to all important platforms in Need for Speed Prostreet. Now everyone 
 loves Need for Speed, mainly because of the cop chases. How much fun is it to reck $100,000 worth 
 of stuff and either not get caught or only pay for 1/20 of that? That's just hell of fun. But the 
 makers tried a new formula this time, but it didn't turn out all that good.
  
  The game basically has you a racer, and this guy basically keeps making fun of your driving skills, 
 so you compete in series of races so you can prove he's the slow guy. That story is basically weak, 
 and it doesn't carry anything of previous games. Now we don't want the same as last year, but we 
 want our cop chases and stuff, but this time, they took that all out for an actual race track, 
 which didn't go so well, especially when there isn't any free roam.
  
  This time in this game, we got just what we wanted. We got actual online play. It is pretty neat 
 in it's own way. You can basically create a race day and completly customize it however you want. 
 Then you will race and try to finish as fast as possible, and then if your friend isn't available 
 at the moment, he/she can come back later and do their race and then you can compare scores to 
 figure out who wins.
  
  This is probably their slogan, "Insert ad here." This game seriously has tons and tons of in-game 
 advertising. You can find it anywhere, menus, race tracks, just anywhere. It's too much and a waste 
 of money.
  
  Need for Speed Prostreet would be an ok game for those who liked the previous installments, but 
 with a lack of everything in the formula that makes Need for Speed actually intresting and tons 
 of advertisment, this could just make anyone upset. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerminator7474
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  pro street is awsome it has all sorts of cars the custumization is amazing
  but the best in all this is the carreer mode you need to be the king of evrything and the main 
 objective is to beat Ryo watanabe tipes of races are cool drag, grip, drit, speed you need a car 
 for evry one of them so that makes it harder because you need to spend more money and you need 
 to spend it equily whats cool to is that you have 3 bluprints for each car so it depends on how 
 the curves are and evrything to select diffrent bluprint when you domminate events you can win 
 repair markers to fix you're car even car parts from stage 1 to 4 (yo can't by stage 4) you can 
 also create you're event you're self select laps traks what kind of races cars the grafics are 
 super nices highly reccomended if you like racing games really good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 6, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  ProStreet is as radical change for the NFS series. We've all become used to the tinkering of vehicles 
 and open-plan cities to drive around, finding missions and challenges with some of the other illegal 
 street racers. However it seems the illegal racing is a thing of the past as ProStreet sidles into 
 the legal track racing with a distinct lack of police and instead a crowd of day-trippers and sexy 
 trackside women.
  
  However largely the games traditional feel is in-tact. Progression is on a linear style basis and 
 the usual drift, time-trail and races modes are part of the package. Where EA have splashed out 
 in the game is on the graphics. We all know the Wii isn't designed for HD televisions, but with 
 the correct component cable, the Wii version of ProStreet is possibly one of the best looking games 
 on the consoles.
  
  The vehicles glimmer in the sun-shine and take damage as you battle through the stages, while the 
 tracks themselves feel like the real-deal. However it seems that all the emphasis has been on creating 
 the visuals and therefore the audio isn't the best in an EA game to date; some disappointing riffs 
 and rock songs make up the collection.
  
  Being the Wii version of NFS: ProStreet you fully expect the game to take advantage of the Wii-mote 
 as with the last outing and the system works perfectly again this time around. You hold the remote 
 in a handlebar style and simply tilt the direction you wish for the car to move and it will do 
 so. Obviously braking is the key to taking some of the bends, but drifting can be accomplished 
 quite flawlessly. The control style sounds awkward as initially you feel that sliding off the track 
 could be all-too simple and will provide for some frustrating races, however once you've settled 
 in, it is the greatest control system and with a lack of alternative, you are forced to use this 
 to achieve those all important wins.
  
  Casual players will certainly benefit from this control system and it is designed to be family 
 friendly to fit in with the Wii's varied audience. The controls however aren't quite so friendly 
 with the menus and the drift races which require you to hold the Wii remote in a pointer position 
 and thrust your arm to burn-out and then speed off. It can be confusing and the menus and how you 
 control them is probably one of the biggest annoyances.
  
  The game itself is still all about winning races, collecting money and striving to be the best 
 racer on the grid. Each day there is a different race on offer at a location and then some of these 
 are themed, such as races focussing on Golf GTi's. The issue with the races is that the faster 
 and more desirable vehicles are left until later in the game and it can take a while to progress 
 through to these stages. There is a possibility you'll get bored in the early part of the game 
 and leave the disc to collect dust in the corner.
  
  That said, the game is a distinct change to the series and has allowed itself to be enjoyed by 
 the more casual gamer of which the Wii attracts. The PS3 and Xbox 360 versions of the game may 
 suffer from a lack of interest but this type of racing game is suited perfect for the Wii. Nintendo 
 may have suffered down the years with a complete lack of decent racers, but NFS: ProStreet changes 
 all this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andreww63
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  The new entry into the need for speed franchise is a success. The motion controls are brilliant, 
 fun and best of all they work. There are four race modes in need for speed pro street
  
  Grip: Grip is the race mode you will be doing most and its brilliant fun. The only problem with 
 it is if your going realy fast sometimes its hard to see the upcoming turn.
  
  Drift: Points are awarded for speed how long you can keep up a drift and the angle around a turn.
 
  
  Drag: Drag is the least fun mode. Its fun for a while but then it starts to get boring plus there 
 is a realy annoying mini-game before each round.
  
  Speed Challenge/Top Speed Run: This is my favorite mode you go at nealry the cars top speed while 
 turning slightly.
  
  The Game is magnificent and boasts a realy good control scheme and amazing graphics
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RicardoJr99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Right, I'm going to start by saying this is a fairly large improvement on carbon.
  This game has great cars, great modifying and a great driving mechanic. The things that lack in 
 this game though are the things i would expect to be there in the first place.
  something i raved about in my review of carbon was auto sculpt which has been done alot better 
 this time round, the items you get to sculpt look alot better than they did and it can even be 
 said that the changes are lots more obvious.
  The cars in this version of the game are good but sometimes lacking in high end cars although they 
 make up for it with truly legendary cars, i would of expected to see alot more supercars like the 
 slr or Porsche carrera GT which were in the previous two games but the introduction of the Zonda 
 kinda makes up for it.
  NO ONLINE PLAY?
  correct me if im wrong but the wii does have the capacity to play games online, and the online 
 feature in the XBOX and PS3 were apparently the best parts of the game. WHY DOESN'T EA DO SOMETHING 
 ABOUT IT?
  Something else which had me almost flabbergasted was the lack of a my 
  cars section where like in previous games you could create and customize cars without having to 
 worry about budget. where has it gone? is it there? can i find it or did they forget something?
 
  
  To sum up, this game is an improvement but the things that are lacking in this games are the things 
 i would obviously expect to be there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 6/10
  
  
  Ok, let's start off with GAMEPLAY. I'd give it a 7/10, it really isn't that bad once you get the 
 hang of the wii-mote steering, using the wheel or just the remote by itself, but it is quite frustrating 
 when you thought ---like underground, underground 2, most wanted and carbon, that you could powerslide 
 and not encounter critical damage, as well as turning successfully regardless of crashing. But 
 no, the supposedly 'more realistic' driving forces you to brake within 20 yards of a turn, but 
 once you learn to accelerate, slow down, rinse and repeat at every turn, you will find the gameplay 
 to be pretty decent.
  
  Next, graphics. Marvellous, I didn't think ProStreet's graphics on the Wii would be so awesome. 
 Even when playing on 60hz (480i) you still get a good picture on the game. 10/10. It's nice to 
 look at.
  
  Next, sound. Man.. They were high in the conference room when they were talking about hiring voice 
 actors for ProStreet. And the 'EA TRAX' (music selection) .. half of the songs on the EA TRAX just 
 suck.
  
  Pimpin' cars in a legal racing community just isn't what I had in mind.
  And too much advertisements. God help me.
  
  Overall it's worth playing if you like playing 
 Need For Speed (i do) . Let's just hope EA go back to illegal street racing fun in their next sequel.
 
  
  AND FIX THE MUSIC!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dc456
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed has always been a great series for racing games, up until Carbon came around the 
 series was in a great direction, but with the short length of the game and very bad police chasess 
 compared to Most Wanted the gane just didn't pull its own weight. Unfortunatly Need for Speed Prostreet 
 isn't a step up again.
  
  The producers at EA had alot of great ideas but alot of them they took in the wrong direction. 
 Althugh some improvements were made the series hasn't changed its position on the sales market. 
 
  
  Some of the good things to look forward to if your planning on getting the game are: 
  -Great 
 car cusomization
  -your racing on a professional scale
  -driving and physics are still solid
  
  These things are pretty minute though compared to the 
 bad things though that really draw back the game. These are the things that really don't help the 
 game at all:
  -The annoncer is annoying right from the beggining of the game
  -Terrible voice acting
  -Graphics are ok but at many times are scratchy and busted
  -no online 
 play available
  -No customize feature like in previous games where you can build a car with unlimited buget
  
 -Control is sometimes un-responsive
  
  Even though the game isn't exactly a step ahead it is still worth a try but just rent it instead 
 of buying it. The game is good to try but don't expect it to last for very long, there really is 
 no motivation to finish the game. So if you've got a tradition with Need for Speed then this is 
 a good game to try but seriously don't spend $50 on a game that isn't worth the value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6411
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  he Good:
  Controls work pretty good - Cars look very nice - Plenty of upgrades and ways to tune your car 
 - Solid racing.
  
  The Bad:
  Races can get very repetitive - No online multiplayer - Characters can get kind of annoying and 
 have bad voice acting - Game screen can be confusing and doesn't look to good.
  
  Need For Speed Prostreet is a whole different game compared to its previous releases. In the last 
 few NFS games it has been about underground racing and evading cops in high speed pursuits. But 
 now EA has branched out and gone to something totally new. Now you are a legal racer who's goal 
 is to become the street king. The story isn't to good and the characters have some pretty bad voice 
 acting.
  
  But this game is all about racing. And it sure has a lot of it. There are a bunch of races to choose 
 from and when I first looked at them all, I thought I would be spending hours of fun doing them 
 all. But it turns out the races look extremely similar. In one race day, you might do the same 
 track 3 times; it might just have some little different bends in it. The racing itself is very 
 good though and there are tons of ways to tune your cars, and having those upgrades lets you tune 
 your car for the events you enter in. This can make the game very interesting and lets you put 
 a bit of strategy into the way you race.
  
  One really good thing about this game is the graphics the cars look spectacular and when you damage 
 your car you'll love the way it gets torn up and ripped to shreds. I think the car list good have 
 been a bit better for the Wii. The edition of the Zonda is cool, but I still wish we had a little 
 bit more cars to choose from. Speaking of the way things look lets talk about the main screen. 
 First off, it doesn't look very good. Second, it can be very hard to navigate and understand.
 
  
  Overall Need For Speed Prostreet is a good racing game. Unfortunately it is missing the underground 
 cop chases, which made the other games really good. I think any Need For Speed lovers will be disappointed 
 yes, but I think they can still enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakobjoergensen
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I am not one of those gamers that finds the thrill in finishing a game within 10-15 hours. For 
 me gaming is a sub-hobby that I like to do alone or share with friends. 34 years of age - Juiced 
 is just not... erhm, my 'adult' experience.
  
  Need for Speed Prostreet is Need for Speed back to the roots. No more attitude, style up your car 
 and tons of races thats not really races, but just waist of time.
  
  With Need for Speed Prostreet I have once more found true enjoyment in gaming racing on console 
 again. It's fun, it's clever, it's aesthetic good to look at, menu system operational, controller 
 has a logic lay-out - everything about this game seems worth praising.
  
  If you like racing and didn't find it in Need for Speed Carbon or GT Series this is the game you'd 
 need to pick from the local game dealer.
  
  Jakob 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sknyme
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 7, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  I love the Need For Speed series. Until now. The latest installment has been a complete let down. 
 I am not sure why they decided to bring racing to the tracks - video gaming is the one place where 
 you can get away with racing on the streets and EA should have stuck with what worked in the past.
 
  
  MY +++
  
  Didn't play long enough to find any.
  
  MY - - -
  
  Controls difficult (especially in the drag racing) .
  Menu is difficult to understand.
  
  
 (Again I didn't play this game too long, in fact returned the rental same night - perhaps if I 
 would have played longer and gotten over the difficult controls and menu I would have enjoyed the 
 game a little more, but the controls had me beyond frustrated.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caossbr
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  Its a solid race game, with a good soundtrack, much customizations. But the wii version (and ps2 too) 
 was disappointing. The wii-mote sensitivity is "hard" and can't change, some cars are missing like: Acura 
 Integra, Integra Type R, NSX, RSX; Audi RS4, TT; BMW Z4 Coupe; Chevrolet Camaro Concept, Corvette '67; Ford 
 Mustang GT '03, Honda Civic SI; Lexus IS350; Pontiac Solstice GXP and Porsche 911 GT2.
  The wii and ps2 versions does not have public and starting girls. The smoke isn't very detailed, the 
 car is indestructible, in customization doesn't have the option to test the aero of your car, and 
 in events doenst appear a video of the people and cars, but some photos of the video. its missed 
 body vinyls in the prostreet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFS102
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Controls work pretty good - Cars look very nice - Plenty of upgrades and ways to tune your car 
 - Solid racing.
  
  The Bad:
  Races can get very repetitive - No online multiplayer - Characters can get kind of annoying and 
 have bad voice acting - Game screen can be confusing and doesn't look to good.
  
  Need For Speed Prostreet is a whole different game compared to its previous releases. In the last 
 few NFS games it has been about underground racing and evading cops in high speed pursuits. But 
 now EA has branched out and gone to something totally new. Now you are a legal racer who's goal 
 is to become the street king. The story isn't to good and the characters have some pretty bad voice 
 acting.
  
  But this game is all about racing. And it sure has a lot of it. There are a bunch of races to choose 
 from and when I first looked at them all, I thought I would be spending hours of fun doing them 
 all. But it turns out the races look extremely similar. In one race day, you might do the same 
 track 3 times; it might just have some little different bends in it. The racing itself is very 
 good though and there are tons of ways to tune your cars, and having those upgrades lets you tune 
 your car for the events you enter in. This can make the game very interesting and lets you put 
 a bit of strategy into the way you race.
  
  One really good thing about this game is the graphics the cars look spectacular and when you damage 
 your car you'll love the way it gets torn up and ripped to shreds. I think the car list good have 
 been a bit better for the Wii. The edition of the Zonda is cool, but I still wish we had a little 
 bit more cars to choose from. Speaking of the way things look lets talk about the main screen. 
 First off, it doesn't look very good. Second, it can be very hard to navigate and understand.
 
  
  Overall Need For Speed Prostreet is a good racing game. Unfortunately it is missing the underground 
 cop chases, which made the other games really good. I think any Need For Speed lovers will be disappointed 
 yes, but I think they can still enjoy the game. Overall I give this game a 7.5 out of 10.0.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
