-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed Carbon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/driving/needforspeedcarbon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More enjoyable cheesy FMV sequences.
 loads of customization options.
 plenty of unique control options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frustrating boss battles.
 underutilizes police chases.
 no online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  1, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.7, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,006 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Nov 19, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Need for Speed Carbon contains some unique driving control options, but none of them can escape 
 the sensation that this game simply wasn't built for motion control. 

  After rebooting the franchise with Need for Speed Underground, EA has continued to produce some 
 solid street racers under the Need for Speed banner. Last year's Need for Speed Most Wanted, which 
 featured hilariously over-the-top live-action cutscenes and seriously tense police pursuits, proved 
 to be a high watermark for the franchise. Now it's being followed up by Need for Speed Carbon, 
 which downplays the role of the police chases, introduces some simple team-racing mechanics, and 
 occasionally takes the action off the city streets and into the outlying canyons. Need for Speed 
 Carbon on the Wii contains roughly the same content as it did on the Xbox and looks about as good. 
 Additionally, it adds five different control schemes, each of which makes use of the Wii Remote's 
 motion-sensing capabilities in a different way. Some are more practical than others, but none are 
 as precise as a standard gamepad. You can just tell that this game wasn't originally designed with 
 the Wii in mind, and it suffers for it.  

          Carbon's controls on the Wii can be novel, but at the cost of overall playability.     
 

  Need for Speed Carbon on the Wii defaults to a control scheme where you hold the Wii Remote sideways, 
 using the buttons and the D pad to accelerate, brake, use your nitro boost, and so on. The actual 
 steering is done by tilting the controller to the left or to the right, like a steering wheel. 
 It's the control scheme we've seen in several other driving games for the Wii, and it's most obviously 
 analogous to actual driving. By default, the steering isn't sensitive enough for you to make the 
 game's many hard turns, though you can hold the A button to activate oversteering to compensate. 
 It's an extra step that takes some getting used to, and it makes this scheme feel like a bit of 
 a hack job. The other four control schemes are different from the default, making use of both the 
 Nunchuk and the Wii Remote, though they're pretty similar to each other. There are options for 
 using the analog stick on the Nunchuk to steer, as well as simply tilting the Nunchuk from side 
 to side to steer. While tilting the Nunchuk feels more tactile, it can be hard on your wrist and 
 doesn't offer the same degree of precision as the analog stick. These control schemes use the Wii 
 Remote like it was a gas pedal. To accelerate, you aim the front of the Wii Remote down and aim 
 it up to ease off. There are options to use this tilting to also control braking or to assign braking 
 to the Z button. In these uncertain early days of the Wii, it's smart of EA to provide all of these 
 different options, which, while certainly different from the norm, aren't so alien that they take 
 too much time to learn. Still, as interesting as these controls can be, it doesn't compensate for 
 the familiarity and ease of use of a standard gamepad. It's close, but not quite.  

  Carbon continues the story where Most Wanted left off. For those just tuning in, Most Wanted ended 
 with you recovering your stolen car and bailing out of the city of Rockport while the overzealous, 
 anti-street-racing Sgt. Cross continued his pursuit. At the start of Carbon, you're making your 
 way to Palmont City when Cross, now a bounty hunter, catches up with you and totals your car during 
 the chase. Before he can collect his bounty on you, though, your old friend Darius steps in and 
 pays off Cross. You are then put to work, taking over the turf of the other rival street-racing 
 crews in Palmont City. It seems that you've got a history in this town that predates the events 
 in Most Wanted. And during the course of the game, you'll learn more about that fateful night you 
 skipped town. Different characters will give their takes on the night you supposedly ran off with 
 a big red duffle bag full of cash. And by the end of the game, you'll not only find out what really 
 happened, but you'll have taken over all of the street-racing territory in Palmont City.  

  Outside of the actual gameplay, one of the more endearing aspects of Most Wanted was the way it 
 used live actors in CG environments for its story sequences. These sequences invariably featured 
 plenty of actor/model types, trying a little too hard to talk tough and failing spectacularly at 
 it. The technique remains the same in Carbon, though there are more story sequences now and a slightly 
 more self-aware tone. The heavy use of flashbacks is an interesting idea, but the story ends up 
 being kind of muddled. And none of the villains come off as particularly menacing. Although it's 
 hard to really qualify any of it as sincerely good, it's just over-the-top enough that folks who 
 enjoy stuff like The Fast and the Furious, ironically or otherwise, should get some enjoyment out 
 of it.  

  Most Wanted had you racing to raise your visibility with the police and take on the most notorious 
 street racers in Rockport. In Carbon, it's all about turf. Palmont City is divided into four major 
 territories, each of which is predominantly controlled by a different street-racing crew. Each 
 territory is then further divided into zones, and within each zone, you'll find starting points 
 for a variety of different race events. Winning at least two events in a zone will put it under 
 your control. And once you've taken over all the zones in a given territory, you can take on the 
 head of that crew. As you continue to extend your reach across Palmont City, rival crews will come 
 back and try to retake territory the same way you took it from them, forcing you to accept their 
 challenge if you want to maintain control. Having to go back and rerace events that you've already 
 won is kind of a pain, but the open-world structure is nice and gives you plenty of options to 
 take on races at any given point.  

  However, you won't be taking on all of these crews by yourself, because Carbon lets you bring along 
 a wingman into many of the races. These computer-controlled companions break down into three different 
 behavior types -- blockers, drafters, and scouts. Blockers will run interference for you, spinning 
 out opponents at your command. Drafters let you slipstream behind them, giving you some extra speed 
 from the reduced drag, and from there you can pull aside and slingshot your way past them. Scouts 
 have a knack for finding the many alternate routes and shortcuts that can be found in most races, 
 and they have short neon tracers that follow them, making it easier for you to take advantage. 
 You'll definitely find yourself in races where your wingman's influence is the difference between 
 winning and losing. But often, your wingman's presence is either unnecessary or an actual hindrance. 
 Blockers are only really effective in taking out competitors that are behind you, and even then, 
 they're not very reliable. Drafters work as advertised, but the lengthy straightaway needed to 
 set up a proper draft is rare in Palmont City, which limits their usefulness. Scouts are the least 
 useful of the three because the neon tracers don't seem to get longer as the cars you drive go 
 faster, and eventually, there's just not enough time for you to anticipate an alternate route. 
 If you didn't call on your wingman, you might expect him or her to just hang back. But we found 
 ourselves getting bumped into and boxed in by our wingman on several occasions. It's not ruinous 
 to the experience, but sometimes it makes you wish they would just go away.  

           Canyon duels are challenging, but their repetitious structure can sometimes make them 
 wearying.     

  The game relies on some pretty tried-and-true types of races, but it also throws some curves. You'll 
 find plenty of common stuff, such as lap-based circuit races, point-to-point sprints, and checkpoint 
 races. But there are also some unique races, such as the speed-trap race, where your standing is 
 determined by your cumulative MPH as you race through a series of speed traps. Most races take 
 place on the city streets of Palmont, but there are also drift events, which can take place either 
 on a closed race course or on the winding canyon roads that surround the city. The goal in the 
 drift events is to score points by making clean drifts around corners. The car handling changes 
 completely for the drift events and feels much more slippery than in the rest of the game, which 
 recalls the drift events found in Need for Speed Underground 2.  

  You'll also face off with the different crew bosses in the canyons, and these events may test your 
 patience. Once you've taken enough turf for a crew boss to challenge you, you'll first race against 
 him in a standard city-street event. If you beat him there, you'll advance to one of the game's 
 canyon courses, which are narrow and undulating. Here it's a two-part race, where you'll first 
 have to chase the boss through a point-to-point race, and then reverse roles for the second part. 
 Your score on the first half is based on how close you stay to your rival; then in the second half, 
 your rival tries to outdo you. These events can be quite challenging because the courses are technically 
 complicated, and the crew bosses tend to be better, more aggressive drivers than the average street 
 racers. There are also a number of ways in which you can instantly fail. If, during the second 
 race, your opponent manages to get ahead of you for more than 10 seconds, you automatically lose. 
 But on the flipside, if you can get ahead of your opponent for more than 10 seconds in the first 
 race, you automatically win both races. Also, each course is absolutely rife with cliffs. This 
 means that if you take a corner at the wrong angle or speed, you can launch your car off of a cliff, 
 immediately ending the race. All of these elements can make for a tough but fair race. However, 
 failure takes you back to the first half of the canyon duel, even if you failed during the second 
 half. It's kind of a minor point, but it's one that can turn a canyon duel into a real chore.  
    

  The structure of the canyon duels can be frustrating, but the way Carbon marginalizes the police 
 chases that were so instrumental to the success of Most Wanted is even more disappointing. The 
 cops still play a factor because each zone has its own heat rating that increases the more you 
 race there. The higher the heat, the more likely it is that cops will start coming after you. While 
 Most Wanted had you purposely baiting the cops, as well as attempting to rack up huge property 
 damages and lengthy pursuits to advance the story, there's little reason in Carbon for you to attract 
 the attention of the law. With the ability to hop directly to any race event through the world 
 map, it's possible and quite easy for you to go through the entire story mode where you can count 
 the number of police encounters on one hand.  

           Carbon features an eclectic selection of more than 30 unique licensed cars.     

  
 There's a great selection of licensed real-world cars that you can purchase throughout the course 
 of the game, which are sorted into three different groups -- tuners, muscles, and exotics. And you'll 
 find that each group handles differently. In the tuner group, you'll find a lot of souped-up Japanese 
 sports coupes, like the Nissan Skyline, Subaru Impreza WRX, and Toyota Supra. And the strength 
 of these cars tends to be an ability to slide around corners. Muscle cars are all Detroit steel, 
 including new stuff like the Chrysler 300 and the Dodge Challenger Concept. They also include early 
 1970s classics, like a Chevy Camaro SS and a Plymouth Barracuda. And though they've got great acceleration 
 in a straightaway, they're pretty loose in the corners. The exotics group is probably the most 
 varied, with high-end offerings from Mercedes, Porche, Alfa Romero, Lamborghini, and more. These 
 cars also tend to demand a higher level of skill to use them correctly.  

  You can buy cars from dealerships, or you can win them from crew bosses. And once you get them, 
 there are all kinds of upgrades that you can apply to them. There are tiered performance upgrades, 
 as well as a rainbow of paint colors, dozens of vinyl stickers, aftermarket rims, spoilers, and 
 body kits. You can also fabricate your own body parts with the game's autosculpt system, which 
 is oddly reminiscent of the Game Face feature in EA Sports' Tiger Woods PGA Tour games. It's a 
 novel idea and great for making some really physically impossible-looking parts. But it takes too 
 much incremental tweaking of settings to get something unique. And there's such a wide variety 
 of prefab aftermarket parts that don't require all that toil, which means only the truly obsessed 
 will get much out of the autosculpting.  

  If you keep your eye on the prize, you can see the credits roll in Carbon's career mode in well 
 under 10 hours. But if you want to beat every event, as well as unlock every last car and upgrade, 
 you can just as easily spend 20 hours. And there's even more racing to be done outside the career 
 mode. There are 36 increasingly difficult races to take on in the challenge series, and the quick-race 
 option lets you jump into something -- no strings attached. There's also split-screen multiplayer, 
 but it works poorly and won't do much to prolong your enjoyment of this game.  

  With Palmont City apparently living in eternal night, the game's feel recalls the Need for Speed 
 Underground games, though the scenery changes in Carbon are much more varied. There's a distinct 
 West Coast feel to Palmont City, and you'll find yourself in districts that recall the more posh 
 parts of Los Angeles and Las Vegas. As different as it feels from the city of Rockport in Need 
 for Speed Most Wanted, keen eyes and ears will notice a lot of recycled elements here. Vehicles, 
 environmental objects, textures, and a lot of the sound elements have been cut and pasted into 
 Carbon, making for some odd dj vu. In some cases, it's a good thing because the squeal of the 
 tires and the growl of various car engines still sound great. But hearing the same police radio 
 chatter in Palmont City that you did in Rockport is just weird. There's some familiar, dramatic 
 music in Carbon as well. Although it's odd how poorly the game uses what is actually an interesting 
 licensed soundtrack of rock, electro, hip-hop, and grime. You just won't hear much of it because 
 the game seems to prefer its own music most of the time.  

          Carbon on the Wii looks about as good as it did on the Xbox.     

  This game seems 
 as if it was developed for the Xbox 360 and the PS3 first and foremost because the Wii version 
 feels compromised. One of the most telling points is the fact that the race-wars event type, which 
 puts you in a field of 20 racers, isn't even an option in the Wii version. This is likely because 
 of technical limitations. Still, the game runs nicely in widescreen with 480p support, and despite 
 a lack of horsepower, the game retains its strong sense of style on the Wii. The cars feature a 
 good amount of detail, and the scope of Palmont City is pretty impressive.  

  Ultimately, Need for Speed Carbon doesn't make the best use of some of the strengths from Need 
 for Speed Most Wanted. Many of the changes made to the Most Wanted formula seem to be for the sake 
 of change, but it all still just comes back to the solid driving action, which Need for Speed Carbon 
 puts to good use.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (63 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Evilhen88
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 12:42 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Carbon Wii.
  
  Good
  
  Graphics: the graphics in this game are very good but there still is room for improvement such 
 as your car actually getting damaged instead it just gets some scratches.
  
  Controls: there are some people who say the controls on this game are rubbish. I don't think they 
 are because when you turn the wheel left the car turns left whats wrong with that. There is a downside 
 though, the cars in this skid which makes drift very hard this might just be me but I haven't even 
 won one drift event yet.
  
  Sound: The sound on this is fantastic it has full songs which you can try to listen to behind the 
 roaring of your engine (you can change that in options if you want to hear the songs) .
  
  Cars: There are lots of different cars in need for speed carbon and they are different like dodge 
 charger is fast at getting off the line but can't get to much of a top speed but a Lamborghini 
 is slower acceleration but will have a much higher top speed.
  
  Customising: You can do a lot to your cars not only being able to upgrade the engine but also paint 
 it and put logo's and pictures on it and there are lots of different designs to choose from so 
 you will never be bored. there is also the option to make cars for free play so you upgrade cars 
 for free but you can't use them in career.
  
  Free Roam: There is free roam in this but there isn't much to do you can test your cars, go to 
 car dealers, do street races and get chased by cops but apart from that there's not really much 
 to do.
  
  Bad
  
  Crew Members: Crew members are supposed to help you in races by doing different things but my crew 
 members always drive in front of me and then just stop which during a race isn't helpful.
  
  Difficulty: I find this game very hard towards the end and as i've said above i've yet to win 
 a drift event. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon is by far, one of the best driver games ever, simply because of a few simple 
 things.
  
  Firstly, no need to buy extra equipment for the realistic driving experience, it's all in the Wii 
 remote, which means, more money in your pocket!
  
  Secondly, the graphics are amazing, I hate to harp on things like this, but Need for Speed Carbon 
 has very realistic looking cars, and it adds to the gameplay!
  
  Third, the costumization system for the cars is just plain well done. NFSC's car customization 
 screen allows you to do whatever you like to your car, with all the choices in your hands (Including 
 color customization) !
  
  Fourth and foremost, gameplay is the best, run from the cops for hours, or join in races with your 
 wing-man always by your side. Or whatever, just rome around the whole city doing whatever you'd 
 like.
  
  THere you have it, Need for Speed Carbon is an excellent game, few flaws that aren't even worth 
 mentioning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyd_93
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  this game cost me $100 at the time but now can cost around $50 in many stores, so i was pretty 
 upset i forked out an extra $50 for this. it does take a little while to get used to the wii-style 
 driving, but you'll get it after a few races. it felt the gameplay was a bit short with only 4 
 bosses instead of playing the blacklist in most wanted.
  
  Canyon dueling is a real pain in the *** when you go around and the camera zooms in on you just 
 avoiding the barrier and then zooming out quickly, this cost me a few duels.
  
  drifting is the only type of race that seems hard at first but it gets really easy to do with practise. 
 the wii-mote can be a bit sensitive in drifting since the tyres are slick, so your hand movements 
 will make it look like your dancing.
  
  police are fun to muck around with, but they could have made it a bit more challengeing since the 
 only challenge i see are the spike strips and maybe the SUVs but even they are easy to avoid
  
  great selection of cars, but the customization could have had more, and there should have been 
 wifi.
  
  
  overall i say its a good game, but it still doesnt match the old hot pursuit days. controls take 
 a bit to get used to and also better gameplay wise than pro street. every new nfs game looks watered 
 down from the last so i suggest maybe get this when its on special and not play full price for 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echofoxz
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Great job on the controls, EA! There are five controls for nfs carbon, one is just the wiimote, 
 and four others are with nunchuk. I personally use just the wiimote, the four other ones don't 
 even have oversteer on them. Music this time is impressive. Graphics are great, but not as great 
 as on Xbox. The story in nfs carbon follows the story of Most Wanted, and movies between parts 
 of the game is somewhat cheesy. During the story, most races are very easy, but some drifts might 
 be a little more challenging, but if you cannot beat some races, try to get a new car or use cheats 
 (i do that all the time, it's pretty fun, using unlimited nos) . But you can't use cheats all the 
 time, like in canyon duel, its all skill. Yup, it can be very frustrating at the last canyon duel 
 with Darius, many tries to get it right (i find the easiest way is to pass him at the first turn 
 with a fast car, and stay for 10 seconds) . Not only that can give you a challenge, all the gold 
 challenges and reward cards is gonna take up a lot of your time. Great customization, that's all 
 im gonna say. Oh yea, i forgot the best part, the cops, but still this time the cops are really 
 weak. when i finished the story, i just cruise around the city TRYING to find cops, but after 10 
 min of 50mph cruising with the cops, thats when its they get a little better, but pursuit is really 
 fun. I usually try to disable about 100 cops when i play this game for fun (i use cheats, it's 
 cheap, but really fun)
  
  Overall:
  Good graphics
  Great Music
  Ok storyline
  Hard boss battle (just the last boss, Darius)
  Many Cars
  Many Customization
  Great controls
 
  weak cops
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 3, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  I snaked this game at my local blockbuster and had a great time plahying it as far as i could get 
 before I gave up (35% completion) . The graphics and customizations of the cars are pretty cool 
 and the gameplay is pretty sweet as well. It lacks in a few areas and let me explain:
  
  I had to have a friend help me beat some of the drifting missions as for some reason you need a 
 crapload of skill to use the wiimote and drift the vehicle, I was unable to pass any of the drifting 
 levels by myself at all which made it annoyign for me as you cannot progress through the game until 
 a certin number of missions in a given city are done. That was why i needed a friend to help me. 
 
  
  Also the drifting on the mountain levels are also pretty hadr as you are trying like hell to blast 
 down the mountain to beat someone and then you have to worry about falling off as well and THEN 
 restarting from the damn beginning all over again! That got really annoying to me. Same with a 
 lot of the boss levels where you have to race a boss and sometimes if you get screwed and lose, 
 you have to yet again complete all tasks again to win and progress in the game. I also had a hell 
 of a time getting away from cops in the game, they always seem to bust you and if you dont get 
 to the save point (safe house) in time before the cops start to get on yoru radar you will lose 
 ALL you prior accomplishments/money/progess! So if you spent 5 times trying to beat a boss and 
 finally do it and the cops come after you... there is no way to evade them and egt them off the 
 radar so that you can save the game in the safe house. FRUSTRATING FRUSTRATING FRUSTRATING!!!!!
 
  
  Despite its minor flaws and some gameplay/saving/control issues the game is pretty sweet just to 
 mess around with. Rent it if you can or borrow it from a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galaxybrawler
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  need for speed is bac but on the wii with much better controls and a nearly perfect way to make 
 your own car with millions of ways to decorate and make it lookas mad as possible.
  
  the story continues on from most wanted and the story is about gaining territory and making a crew. 
 it isnt the best 1player mode on need for speed. most wanted really did it for me but this is nowhere 
 as good as that.
  
  it has great sounds and the controls a fairly easy to handle. the graphics are very nice aswell. 
 but there are many things that didnt do it for me. first it was always at night and that was good 
 the first couple of times in free roam but then it got old and you wished it would become day sometimes, 
 also the muscle cars are just impossible to use and you end up crashing it all over the place. 
 i think its a combination of hard controls and bad design. its just impossible to use them well.
 
  
  overall its a good game that should be checked out by racing lovers. but i wouldnt buy it for more 
 than $50 in australia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocodog13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  well theres only 3 racing games on the wii that should be considered really. carbon, pro street 
 and excite truck. pro street is a no-no because it was still at 35 everywhere i looked and excite 
 truck looks way to short. carbon is the first need for speed game i've bought and it didn't disappoint. 
 graphics were nice (xbox1 looking) the only problem being that the text is far to small to read 
 on my 14" c. r. t t. v, was fine on my l. c. d which is around 27" i think. sound was also pretty good. 
 the controls are awesome! iv heard people say "you get bored of the mote after a while" but this 
 is far less boring than wiggling you're thumb! lol.
  
  pros.
  loads of tracks
  loads of cars
  loads of upgrades
  challenging yet fun
  
  cons.
  small text
  no drifting 
 in multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: um_i_love_games
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  As I said before I got disappointed. I got disappointed when I tried it and the turning annoyed 
 me like CRAZY!!! The way you hold the controller annoys me because it isn't like a real car. OK, 
 seriously, if they want to make a WII racing game then how about some realistic movements or stances? 
 Another thing, LIFTING the controller? WTF man, it makes no sense. The turning speed and drift 
 is not good either. Wow... I would suggest buying a different game because this isn't too good. 
 I'm serious here people. GO BUY A DIFFERENT RACING OR ANY OTHER GAME!! And if you already have 
 it...... Then enjoy this game as hard as it is.
  
  
  Go down if you own the game
  
  
  If you just L. O. V. E. this game i would say you have NO taste in video games. I would not say 
 your not cool but this game makes you kinda.... not a good taste in video games person. LOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nazmanfc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I have this game on ps2 and i love it and then i decided to buy it on the wii, its 200 times better 
 because it is just more fun the controls are the best. it has all the same features and didn i9 
 mention the controls they are so  it has solid street 
 racing gameplay solid customisation solid controls. if you are looking for a racing game on your 
 wii this is it not that stupid ''exite trucks''you have to get it and if you dont you are really 
 really really missing out because i know i was befor i got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisgopher
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Although I just rented this game and didn't spend a terrible amount of time on it, I actually enjoyed 
 the time we spent together. I was pretty much a real car racing game virgin, previously sticking 
 to arcade racers and Mario Kart. But you're tired of my rambling, here is a breakdown of the good 
 and bad of the game.
  
  Good:
  
  - Cut scenes look as real as you can get for CGI.
  - The graphics are beautifully acceptable. Even though they aren't as good on the Wii as other 
 console versions, they won't disappoint you. 
  - Team racing in single player mode: have your buddy do your dirty work for you.
  - Customization 
 is deep and awesome. You'll spend hours at a time pimping your ride.
  - Tweaking the performance on your car is a breeze, you don't have to know jack about engines or 
 transmissions.
  - An impressive amount of unlockables. You've got to work for these.
  - Muscle cars. I know that doesn't sound too impressive, but I've played racers before that had 
 nothing but rice rockets and that really burned me up.
  - Races are challenging. Don't expect to walk through this one.
  - Cop chases are exhilarating 
 and fun. 
  - The main character chick is really really really hot. 
  -Even though you may control a territory, rival gangs will sometimes challenge you to a match, 
 which means you get to participate in meaningful races after you own the town.
  - The controls. This is why the Wii version gets bad press, but I think the control scheme in this 
 game is great. There are 5 different control setups to choose from, so if you can't find something 
 you like there must be something wrong with you.
  
  Bad:
  
  - The amount of cars. I would have liked to see more models and more makes, you really don't get 
 a vast selection. You really only need 3 cars for your career. And you'll only be able to afford 
 three cars unless you are hell-bent on earning cash.
  
  - Races can be too hard. Boss challenges can be frustrating. To complete all the races you are 
 forced to do a wide variety of race challenges. Which normally wouldn't be so bad, but I hate drifting.
 
  
  - While there are a lot of unlockables, you have to play a lot to get them all, and I mean a lot. 
 
  
  - Getting challenges from rival gangs later can add to replay, but by the time you're done with 
 the game and have a maxed out car these bouts over territory will feel like child's-play.
  
  - No online play. Why God... why?
  
  
  This is a solid racing title, whether you're a 
 fan of the series or someone who. I enjoyed it and I'm sure you will too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikkeyboi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  The graphix are pretty nice, gameplay is quite usual, but lacks the fun in variety.
  
  -- Some content below may contain spoilers.
  
  In my opinion, Career mode is fun until you 
 beat it. They even come up with a pretty lame paragraph stating that ' There's ton of things to 
 do ' after you've completed career, such as Challenge series, Reward Cards and such. Okay, well.. 
 Some of the reward cards are pretty stupid to unlock... for example, to have 1 000 000$ balance 
 in career. If you didn't know that ahead of time (like me) it will be pretty hard to unlock, since 
 you might've used up some money on OTHER stuff, such as new cars (incase you get your car tolled) 
 or upgrading you / your crew member's cars (since they are not very good after a while) . But still, 
 reward cards / challenge series get pretty boring after awhile. However, they DO have some creative 
 stuff you can unlock., such as the fire truck, and the police cars (civic, etc) . Another thing 
 is that there is no music while playing 2 player mode, well.. it gets pretty boring with no music 
 (you can create your own) , but it is not very essential. Another.. is that there is no replays, 
 like say you pulled off an awesome drift, then you can't replay it, which pretty much sucks, since 
 anything can happen when you are driving ^^.
  
  Okay, now to talk about the Wii interface with this game.
  Well, at first I thought it wouldn't 
 be very good using the Wii-mote as a controller for NFS, but it turned out to be quite well. With 
 the nunchuck, it doesn't take as much mastery with the controller itself, but if you don't have 
 the nunchuck, all you do is tilt the wii-mote like a steering wheel, but if you tilt it too much, 
 it won't work very efficiently. One thing that I like about the Wii version is that it has a variety 
 of pre-set controls, and they are pretty well nicely thought out. One thing that might enhance 
 gameplay is to buy one of those steering wheel addons for the Wii, but I cannot give much feedback 
 because I do not have one of my own, but its only $20CA (for a set) anyways [=.
  
  Overall, it has been fun playing this, because it offers a pretty big variety of cars, but not 
 a very big variety of ' fun ' stuff to do. It may seem that most of the above are negative concepts, 
 but if you like street racing, I can assure you that you won't regret buying this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefly06
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 16, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  Well, first there was Underground, the first well... underground racer... ever. It was awesome. 
 Then there was Underground 2 which introduced free roam, limitless car modifying and tons of new 
 race styles. Most Wanted brought awesome graphics (for its time) and police chases and damage to 
 the police cars, it added more cars but strayed away a little from the 'realistic' modifying options. 
 Then came Carbon. It was better then Most Wanted, no doubt about it but we as NFS fans had come 
 to expect a little bit more of an improvement, you know, something we hadn't really seen before. 
 So Carbon delivered, it just didn't deliver enough, the Autosculpt was good, but it only just 
 made up for what the game lacked in story. The career mode was easily do-able within 15 hours if 
 not less and it really needed more. In all - worth getting if you are an NFS die-hard, but if not, 
 wait for Pro Street or bide your time with Most Wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irongobbo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon has the base concept of the rest of the Need For Speed Franchise. You race 
 to win, coming upon a challenge that you can't pass. You come back to town to find the race scene 
 was taken over by four groups. Your goal is to race to take over the whole city and smash all the 
 other crew's in your dust.
  
  The game was the same, as most Need For Speed games. You race to win, if you loose, you can restart. 
 The control scheme is simple to the Non-Racer, you spin the wii remote like a steering wheel, and 
 the control pad for the other functions.
  
  The extra features are the same too. You can make custom cars in the main menu, do the challenge 
 series, and just race against computers for fun. The new thing is that you have the auto sculpt 
 to customise your parts. The selection for the parts for your car has been greatly increased.
 
  
  The thing that stinks is that when you race you hold the wii remote sideways, but when you navigate 
 the menus, you have to hold it like a remote. The controls stink though, turn the remote more than 
 90 degrees either way and you get going straight again. But the final boss is overly hard. But 
 overall the game is ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trini_hoshi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed has been a great series for years and now it's made its way to the Wii. Need for 
 Speed Carbon provides using the wii mote sideways like most driving games on the Wii but, also 
 the opition to use the nunchuck and wii mote together. Custom making your car is fun and, working 
 you way up to the parts that are needed to make it special keeps you coming back again and again. 
 This game looks really good for a Wii game. Of course its graphics are not as good as what Forza 
 2 can do on 360 but, the details are still ok. This game is one of the elite titles for Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon for the Wii is an embarassment when compared to the 360/PS3 versions. It's 
 worse than a rehash of Most Wanted. The two games are nearly exactly alike, only this game will 
 take you half as long to complete, and only half the content from its other console counterparts 
 is present.
  
  Let's start with the graphics, shall we? The game looks fuzzy and pixelated on a larger, plasma 
 TV, but other than that, the cars look... well, decent I suppose, but the backgrounds look extremely 
 dark and the background lighting is far worse than the other versions of this game I've seen. It's 
 not like I can really bash the graphics given that its a Wii game (and obviously high definition 
 looks better on a high definition TV than standard definition) , but its still pretty bad.
  
  Next is the story. The story picks up from where Most Wanted's story left off, but the difference 
 is this game's story is much less enjoyable. For some reason, you can't figure out how you escaped 
 an incident from when you were in Palmont years before Most Wanted took place. The cops stepped 
 in right as you finished a race, and several confusing scenes are seen. Next thing you know, you've 
 escaped, and the money you were supposed to win had disappeared. When returning to Palmont, you 
 try to discover who let you escape, and who took the money. Newcomers to the series will definitely 
 not understand the story at first, maybe not even after you finish the game. It's a mess of a mystery 
 story, but it's as badly acted and over the top as Most Wanted, which makes it all the more interesting 
 to watch unfold.
  
  Let's put it simply: The controls are quite unusual. Holding the Wii Remote sideways is the default 
 option, but the other options are extremely confusing and will make you look like an idiot, things 
 such as using the Wii Remote as a pedal and holding it down at a 90 degree angle accelerates, while 
 lifting it back up vertically decelerates. Overall, none of the controls are too comfortable, put 
 it matches pretty well with the uncomfortable game.
  
  The gameplay, well, there isn't any new gameplay that isn't ripped off from Most Wanted, aside 
 from the new crew member option. Crew members are unnecessary "sidekicks" you get as the game goes 
 along. You can choose from different ones, each one giving you bonuses. Crew members however end 
 up being an unneeded feature in the races. Basically, if you fall behind, your crew member will 
 most likely win the race for you, and if you're in first, then most of the time they'll end up 
 passing you and winning the race for you anyway. It's very useless and is just an awkward advantage 
 over your opponents. It would have been all the more interesting if your opponents could use their 
 crew members as well, but no such thing ever happens.
  
  Cops have made a return, yes, but not nearly as boldly as many would've liked to see. Cop AI feels 
 oddly unfair in this game. If you've evaded the cops and are waiting for them to finally stop searching 
 for you (a stage in the pursuit known as Cooldown) , they'll suddenly show up behind a wall as if 
 they know where you are 100% of the time. Then the pursuit reengages. You'll find that happening 
 a lot. Also, in Most Wanted, you baited the cops, racking up the bounty you recieved to help you 
 push toward the next boss, whereas this game includes cops for no particular reason at all. How 
 can such a big factor in the last game be reduced to a mere annoyance in Carbon?
  
  The sound effects are good, but they, just like everything else in this game, were recycled from 
 NFS: Most Wanted. The cops voices and quotes are also exactly the same, which gives Most Wanted 
 players a sense of uncomfortable 'deja vu.' Even the awesome pursuit music from Most Wanted was 
 reused (which isn't such a bad thing since that was the catchiest music from Most Wanted, but it 
 would've been nice to have something new) .
  
  The music gathered for this game is even worse. Think for a second of the worst techno track you've 
 ever heard. I guarantee you that you will find something just as easily despicable in this game... maybe 
 10 tracks just as despicable. All of the music in this game may cause severe migranes. Too bad 
 the Wii doesn't support custom soundtracks.
  
  Okay, to sum it up, Carbon for the Wii is a sorry launch title for the Wii. Add another game to 
 the long list of mediocre Wii games. Wii owners, do yourselves a favor and buy Super Smash Bros. 
 That's all the satisfaction you'll ever need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liorm
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 27, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  What a miss! while this could be a great game, 2 things prevents the player not only from full 
 immersion, but from decent game play, too. First, there is such a bad bug on the wii-mote: when 
 you turn the wheel more that 180 degrees - which is pretty frequent in such games - the game fail 
 to recognize that! and I'm saying - who tested this game? who paid them? who hired them? if they 
 could miss on such an obvious issue. The second game is the city. Have you ever seen a city without 
 pedestrians? no matter how late at night? was the problem here lack of budget for bots or ESRB 
 rating? this way or the other, it's pretty sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LanceK17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Pros +
  +Back to nighttime races..... AWESOM-O!
  +Racing is Fun to Look at and fun to play
  +Terrific sense of speed
  +Cool looking driving 
 effects including Nitrous blurs, light reflection on cars, and rain drops on screen
  +Great car customization
  +Great looking CG/Mo-Cap cutscenes
  +Fun to steer with Wii-mote
 
  +5 unique control schemes
  +Challenge Series is more fun this time around
  +Reward Card system should keep you busy for a while
  +Tons of customization to the Quickplay 
 and multiplayer races
  +The Whole Car class system is pretty cool too
  
  Cons -
  -Carrer mode is too short, easy, and isn't designed very well
  -Gameplay dosen't seem very accessible 
 to NFS newcomers
  -Dosen't incorperate Wii-mote pointer or speaker
  -Police have a minor role in the carrer mode
  -Canon Races and Boss Battls aren't very exciting
 
  -Button mapping feels wrong
  -Soundtrack is simply just not good
  -No Drag races..... WTF
  
  Neutral =
  =Steering with Wii-mote is fun, original, and works 
 just fine, but it dosen't really simulate what it would be like to actually drive a car...
  one can only assume
  =Crew members are a nice touch but dosen't add a whole lot to the overall 
 gameplay and dosen't seem to help you win races since the difficulty isn't very challenging
  =The only thing that kinda makes the Canon races/Boss Battles exciting is the original scored music, 
 which is kinda fitting, but seems to be played way too much, more than the EA TRAX, which again 
 is simply bad..... except for Joker and the Thief ..... and that song by pharrell......... buts thats 
 about it
  
  Final Comment.....
  NFS Carbon is just a old car with a fresh new coat of paint........ (thats funny) .
  But the game 
 still is solid due to the same old great racing gameplay, but the things that seems to overshadow 
 all that is the Short uninspired Carrer mode, the under-used police chases, the boring Canon races, 
 the poor controls and with no option to change the level of difficulty, the game loses what made 
 the NFS series so great, and that was fun, challenging and well designed racing games............... 
 though it still is, just not as good as the rest of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadoc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Well it doesn't do to bad you should buy the wheel if you ever are going to get it thats what I 
 did. At first it is so sensitive that it is hard to control but after a while you kinda get the 
 hang of it after you beat the game for the 3rd time in a row which includes challenge series and 
 Reward Cards then it does get pretty boring except maybe when you have a friend over and they want 
 to race you and it is pretty funny to watch them crash against the wall a thousand times when you 
 are already done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballasteve
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  NFS: Carbon builds off the foundation that Most Wanted set up a couple years ago. You're a street 
 racer who cant really remember his past, and comes into the city lookin to rise your way to the 
 top. What sets the Wii version apart from the others is its unique control scheme. I actually prefer 
 the Wii version, because it feels somewhat like youre driving an actual car. there are several 
 dfferent options, some including the nunchuck, some where you hold the wiimote like a steering 
 wheel. Some people will not like the controls, others will. The story is so-so, but its enough 
 to keep you somewhat interested. Basically, rent it first, then if you like it and a local store 
 has it on a sale rack, go in and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OlnyGuy
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Brembo brakes, Falcon tires, Sparco turbo system, and an HKS fuel system. Is this car missing something? 
 Oh yea, hundreds of other accessories. If it even wants to keep up with the completion, whats 
 under the hood shouldnt come from grandmas VW Bug. Looking like a clown doesnt really help your 
 reputation either. What goes on the outside should be carefully distinguished. Not that it would 
 bother your quick vehicle, but the police always keep an eye out on the start that shines. So dont 
 shine too much. Need for Speed Carbon carefully observes each of these aspects and more, as you 
 triumphantly try to take rival crews territory and make the town yours.
  
  To many, the past is just the past. Those people greatly underestimate the power of the past coming 
 back and haunting you. Cross is back, stronger than ever. You narrowly escaped the great police 
 chase in Need for Speed Most Wanted, but the bounty hunter is back to try and bring street racers 
 behind bars. The cops are getting answers. You get spotted by Cross himself. During a chase in 
 a canyon, you hit a truck. Cross tries to corner you, but a rival street racer named Darius arrives 
 and pays him off. Darius, being the chief antagonist Carbon had to offer, wants a piece of your 
 racing action. He explains that you must form a crew and race your way to a bout with Darius himself. 
 Palmont is a large city, but only big enough for one crew to be the best.
  
  The beginning is always a little tough. One shouldnt be forced to race, but in this situation, 
 its different. You get the choice of one automobile, but the choice isnt just a simple pick your 
 favorite car. Sacrifices must be made. Each car is split into one of three classes. These car classes 
 are the tuner, muscle, and exotic. The tuners like to be sharp on corners, exotics like to blow 
 past the speed limit, and the muscles are just quick right from the start. Once you have your ride, 
 you put your skills to the test against some of the other crews roaming Palmont.
  
  Your crew is an important asset to your racing. Crew members can either be blockers, drafters, 
 or scouts. Blockers simply block the rival racers, drafters draft your car so you get gain more 
 speed, and scouts find shortcuts. These crew members are about as useless as a human appendix. 
 Blockers work only about half of the time. For the other half, they crash into you causing you 
 to slow down. Scouts, find every little road there is, even if it makes the track longer. Drafters 
 can just win the race for your. Their drafting is completely useless. One positive aspect of their 
 existence is that if your crew member wins a race, it counts as a win.
  
  Only one crew member can be assigned at a time and only three can be recruited. The others just 
 sit there on a bench waiting for coach (you) to put them in. Each crew member also gives you a 
 little boost during races. Whether its more nitrous or more money, they at least give you something.
 
  
  Racing in Carbon is exciting. The game takes advantage of a free roam concept. Races dont come 
 to you; you go to the races. Sprints, circuits, checkpoints, speed traps, and drift races are all 
 back from previous installments. Canyon duels and races are a new addition to Carbon. These are 
 simply races that take place in a canyon, where the air is thin and the cars go faster. A canyon 
 duel is a special race where you must keep up with the other car without hitting them. The walls 
 are lifted. This means that if you hit a barrier in a canyon race, you will fall off. Dont expect 
 to just bounce off like a super ball. The canyon duels are usually saved for the main boss of the 
 crew you are dealing with at the time.
  
  Car customization is limited. Like Most Wanted, there is no ranking meter to score how your car 
 looks. This is convenient since it gives you much more freedom to customize your car exactly like 
 you want. Engine parts are linear again. My favorite feature in Underground 2 was that you could 
 chose specific parts to install onto your car. Carbon only allows you to purchase packages and 
 not single items. If you have troubles with the races and need some new parts, money is the only 
 answer. Drag races can be the solution. Sometimes a sports car will pull up to you asking you to 
 race. If you defeat the challenger, a cash reward will be successfully obtained. Once you start 
 taking over other crews territory, more parts will be available for purchase.
  
  The police are back in this installment, though they arent quite as annoying. In Most Wanted, 
 I despised the police. You had ridiculous amounts of bounty to obtain. Carbon eliminates police 
 achievements and just focuses on the police just being there. This means that the police really 
 have nothing to do with the main game play. Boy am I glad they decided to do this, the game is 
 just so much more enjoyable.
  
  If you defeat a crew boss, you will have the choice of choosing markers again. These rewards go 
 to great lengths by even letting you pink slip the bosses car. That can prove to be very useful 
 in the future. Its also easy cash if you decide to sell the vehicle. Crew bosses wont go down 
 to easy though, they will keep coming back to the point that makes your stomach churn. It isnt 
 bad, they just get annoying. Also, I want to point out that the last boss is freakishly hard. I 
 have a McLaren and I still cant beat him!
  
  Even though story does feel a little bit on the short side, Carbon is a game that will make you 
 want to come back and play. One of the few things that elongate the game play is the Challenge 
 Series. This is a list of races/bouts that you must complete to unlock certain upgrades and cars. 
 These range from Pursuit Evasions to Canyon races. Wii offers no online, but playing with two players 
 is available.
  
  Wii does an excellent job in the innovation department with its Wii remote. Carbon offers up to 
 four different control styles to choose from. My favorite consists of holding the remote sideways 
 and turning it like a steering wheel. You may look a little dumb while doing this, but it does 
 work. I was surprised at how well the game responded. I found it relatively easy to control the 
 car after about twenty minutes of playing. One thing that disappointed me was that with four control 
 options, not one offered to play the game without motion controls. Oh well, I guess I got what 
 I bought. (A Wii that is)
  
  As the opening cut scene starts rolling, the frame rate will make some dry heave. It just isnt 
 good. Honestly, it looked like five frames per second at first. This does smooth out a little as 
 the game starts going. Cars look absolutely excellent! One of the best looking Wii games out there. 
 Compared to the PS2 version, the graphics are significantly improved. Environments are bland, but 
 the character and car models are stunningly terrific. When going fast (fast, fast) the frame rate 
 does get a little chunky (dont worry, I dont even know what I meant by that.) This shouldnt 
 be a problem though, because nobody cares about frame rate when going 150 mph. Frame rate should 
 be the last thing on your mind.
  
  EA games do an excellent job with the tracks in the game. Rock, rap, pop, and techno are all included 
 in the lineup. Everybody will find something they at least like a little. Except grannies, but 
 they shouldnt be playing games like these. Engine revving and tire screeching is crisp. Something 
 that will definitely catch you ear is the engine sounding different after you put certain parts 
 into them. It is indeed very creative. The voice acting is really good too. Even though you dont 
 hear too much of it, the stuff that you do hear is great. It had a feeling of bad cinema, which 
 is very good for a videogame.
  
  What the game lacks in length, it makes up in substance. The parts, brands, and especially cars 
 are all vastly important during your stay at Palmont. Racing your way to take completely over Palmont 
 wont be easy, but can be accomplished. The challenge is great, are you ready to step up to the 
 plate? (Or in this case, the pedal) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFSspeeddemon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Carbon is the best racing game you can get for the wii, maybe even the best racing 
 video game ever. Need For Speed Carbon puts you in the place of a street racer trying to control 
 the entire city with his crew. The single player mode is exciting and will take a long time to 
 beat. You have to complete a series of events in each of the four sections in the city to face 
 a boss race in an extremely exciting Canyon Duel in which you can fall off the cliff and plummet 
 to your death. The muti-player however isnt so fun. It doesnt keep track of who won each race 
 or give you many racing options. Overall if youre looking for a good single player game Need For 
 Speed Carbon is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain_ager
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 28, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon is quite a good racing game. It's control scheme is a nice feature because 
 you can take complete control of the car. the hand braking and the speed breaker is a very nice 
 feature so you don't have to slam into the wall. The over steer option is a great feature that 
 you can use it in situations where you need it. You don't want to use it all the time unless you 
 have perfect steering. Over steer is usually used for sharp turns. When you choose a car in career 
 mode, don't pick the Mercedes Benz. (it's not a very good car) . It's a fast car, but really bad 
 turning. The best car to use is the Lamborghini Murcielago. You should put all your hard earned 
 cash into the car and beat the game with it. Enough with the car. The multiplayer races are short 
 but very competitive. All the multiplayer tracks are from the career mode. Some races can only 
 be done solo while the other tracks can be done in split screen mode. The split screen mode is 
 a challenge if you and your friend both have the same car. The race could be close depending on 
 the way the two of you drive. Overall, the game is one of the best wii racing games out there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d-ray12
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 14, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  This game is definitly fun. Im not saying this is the best need for speed i've ever seen, but it 
 was a great start for the series on the wii. The cars look great, the scenery looks good, and the 
 gameplay was definitly one of the funnest racing games ive ever played. They took almost full advantage 
 of the wii remote, but it left me wanting more out of the controls. The head to head battles are 
 a great addition to the series and I definitly look forward to seeing what else they are able to 
 do with this series on the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gally66
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  A good game for any NFS fans. plenty of cars to match your style and a lot of customization options 
 lets you make a car that suits you. graphics are good a little bit blurry when going 180 mph but 
 the cars look good. fun to play with good length and a unique team racing feature where crew members 
 can find you short cuts or knock the opponent into the wall or give you a speed boost. police chases 
 are weak but large map with free roam keeps things interesting. any body who isnt a street racer 
 will enjoy the game, but i suggest you get it used because like most racing games it looses its 
 interest after you beat the game or even before you do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is like all racing games. The controls don't work well. The graphics are fantastic. The 
 look really nice and they just work well. The story line is okay. The game could have been a lot 
 better. I hope that the next NFS game is better becasue this one wasn't give any love like the 
 game for the other systems. The sound is good. It has some nice music and i t just works well. 
 Once you beat the game chances are tht you'll never come back to it. The boss battles feel like 
 a chore and the game is really repetitive. It is really fun the be chased by the police though. 
 Well there is nothing else that I can say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im567
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  well thise game is not as great as need for speed most wanted because of the two on two racing 
 itget mostely boring after a while unless u are rell y into racing games so ifur a need for speed 
 fanatic itsthe game for u but if not u shouyld look some where else or if ur just looking to past 
 time u may find thise game very useful thiise game laks in police chasing mostley the police never 
 chasis u and whene they do it is not that great. so ushould just buy need for speed most wanted 
 for the gamecube and have fun with taht 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 17, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  It seems the Wii can't get racers down pack. The gameplay is customizable. However I found none 
 of these worked for me. The game also has trouble responding to the wii remote. I tried all the 
 control styles and personally none of them worked for me. While I could (and should) go on and 
 on about how badthe gameplay is I will look into other catogories. The graphics are okay. There 
 is not much that will blow you away so when you look at the game you will think average. The sound 
 is pretty good. Unlike Excite Truck the vehicles sound like their supposed to sound. The game will 
 last you long for others and short for some. It is filled to the brim with repetiveness though. 
 This is a game I would steer away from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigmick07
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Sure it has no online play, but does any other wii game have it either. It has multiplayer modes 
 so just invite a couple friends over to get that experience. The boss battles are not hard if you 
 now what ur doing. The graphics look ok, better than last gen systems, but alot worse than current 
 gen systems. The control scheme is ok i am sure you can find a control configuration that works 
 for you. (there are 5 to choose from) Its not amazing but they work well and is a breath of fresh 
 air from holding down buttons or triggers. The engine noises sound great and the police pursuit 
 is awesome. The story is on the short side but the challenge series and intense cop pursuits easily 
 add a couple hours to the experience. I would have to say though for the first nfs game it does 
 pretty well but considering that this review is a bit late i would say wait for prostreet. (cus 
 it will probably have online play) If you want a solid single player racing experience this is 
 a good game, but if you are looking for fun multiplayer modes i would stay away at least until 
 the next nfs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTUTCJ24
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  After playing NFS Carbon I am convinced that driving games on anything other than the Wii are obsolete. 
 The gameplay is just plain fun!!!!! The game should be played with one of those steering wheels 
 you can put your Wii-mote into because the grip on the controller without it is kind of awkward. 
 The story is great, and starts with a flashback that took place before NFS Most Wanted. I have 
 only two problems with this game:
  
  1- Too short. Yeah the story is good but it should be longer and have more police chases like most 
 wanted.
  
  2- Too easy. After a while, you will get so good at this game that only the last race will be a 
 challenge for you. There is no difficulty setting either, which means second and third runs through 
 the game are just a walk in the park. And there is no traffic when you race, which makes winning 
 a bit easier.
  
  You do get a crew which is good, you got blockers, drafters, and scouts. They can help you win 
 races by putting you in first place, or winning themselves (if they win you get the money, just 
 like you won the race) .
  
  The customization is the meat and potatoes of this game. Most wanted had good customization, but 
 this is so much better. You can make your car look unlike any other by adding vinyls window tint, 
 wheel paint, and extra parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muumoo
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 21, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  It's May, and I'm sitting with a Wii in Europe longing for the release of Super Paper Mario. Nah, 
 I can't wait any longer! I need something to ease my sorrow and maybe provide me with a little 
 bit of entertainment. So I went down to the local game store and bought Need for Speed Carbon. 
 I thought, what the heck I've played it a bit on the PC and maybe it's fun on the Wii with the 
 Wiimote and all.
  
  I hurried home and immediately launched the game, with no greater expectations I might add. But 
 well, I start playing the game, and I immediately notice some rough edges on the models and some 
 poor detailed textures (being used to PC-graphics) . But I put that aside and tried to learn the 
 new way to steer the cars. First off I felt it to be rather odd, and I tended to turn too much, 
 but as I progressed the new way became more and more natural and now I just love it. I cant even 
 understand how I could enjoy Need for Speed on the PC with just a plain keyboard. On the PC I just 
 used the teleport-system when I was about to race, but now on the Wii, I use the GPS-system 
 and drive there in person. The controls and the sound makes it really enjoyable and I just love 
 cruising around in the open city.
  
  The graphics in the game isnt the best, but they work. The city looks good and provides a nice 
 feeling of suburban nightlife. I have no direct complaints, but they could have been better.
  
  Need for Speed: Most Wanted (PC) was a game which I really liked with police chases and all, 
 but sadly this isnt a big part of Carbon. The cops are in there though, but they are barely noticeable 
 if youre only driving races. So, I, instead of just driving races, tend to free roam in the city 
 a lot and just look for trouble and if you have a lot of cops on your tail the game really becomes 
 entertaining.
  
  I really recommend this game for people interested to try out video-game driving in a somewhat 
 different fashion than they maybe are used with.
  
  Well, I really should get back to Palmont City and just cruise for a while with my pimped up ride 
 even though the game ended too soon! Cheers!
  
  + Controls, when you get used to them
  + Sound and overall presentation
  + Big open city with evil cops sneaking around
  + Car modification
 
  - The gritty graphics doesnt provide eye candy, but it works. (1st generation Wii-games, what 
 do you expect?)
  - Lacking some fun aspects from previous Need for Speed: Most Wanted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madogmgd
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 4, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  the controls for need for speed carbon on the wii are great
  but really arent nescesary drifting can be a pain in the behind
  canyon duels can get frustrating 
 the game is easy if you
  have cheat codes on lol they should be on gamespot somewhere
  i got to the last boss and his audi kept beating my lambhorgini
  in canyon duels -.- teammates 
 can get crazy
  i was using my teammate to make me go faster and turn
  perfectly and i was going 198 mph was about to turn a corner
  then she slammed right into the 
 wall and my car follows her
  thats her ability so i ended up getting flipped
  at 200 mph -.-.-.-.-.-.- if your buying this game i would get
  it for a different system than 
 the wii dont get me wrong i love the wii
  its just this game isnt made for it if you want to experience it though
  i would rent it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p_angelofdeath
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 30, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  .......... Here finally i bought a need for speed game for Wii. Let's talk about this compare between 
 the others platform. First you'll get the new scheme of motion sensor of Wiimote if you play on 
 Wii i will explain that ahh this like you're real driving all of thing that you can control car 
 left or right is flip to left &amp; flip to right .. that's cool right? the other thing that i 
 want to complain is a frame rate of game is low at the start race but in other version is not. Graphic 
 in Wii is good they make a good graphic and good control for Wii but EA does't use any motion sensor 
 on title screen or choose menu i very dissapoint that make you feel freak.
  
  Take a look screen shot at my profile here.
  http://www. gamespot. com/users/p_angelofdeath/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isthisnametakn
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 29, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I just got the Wii and don't get me wrong, it's fun as hell. I've got the Wii sports, play, and 
 the Rayman game and they're all great . I can't see me getting into hardcore gaming with it like 
 I do with my 360 because my hands get to acheing real fast. I just want to make that clear; the 
 Wii has its things that neither of the other console do as good. And I understand full well that 
 Nintendo was not pushing graphics as a top priority, but, what would be the right words... holy 
 ****! This game is lousy. I usually don't complain about graphics provided they aren't totally 
 subpar but this game is borderline hideous! If only for a matter of pride, you'd think they'd at 
 least try to create something that looks respectable. I got the 360 version for a comparison and... 
 there's not one. That being said, the game itself is fun. I think that the controls could have 
 been fine tuned just a little better, but as is it's still plenty playable. I was an avid player 
 of Most Wanted and I'd have to say this is a descent follow up. I always wanted night driving in 
 the last game but this one is done totally in the dark. if they actually had a full mini day of 
 half day/half light that would have been my prefered setting. I like the look of the city in Most 
 Wanted better. This time around they went for the whole Emerald City look and it's cool but they 
 just kinda beat you over the head with neon. I like that they made the cop chases hard but they 
 also downplayed them in relation to Most Wanted and that was kind of upsetting. The other major 
 change is the squad-based racing as I call it. You actually have a crew that races with you and 
 you battle for turf. The city is diced up into little sections. It's kinda like Othello: control 
 all the sections, you win the game and It actually works out pretty good. I usually prefer to race 
 solo but it's always fun to sick Neville on your enemies.
  All in all, the game is pretty descent. If you can ignore the ugly graphics and sometimes frustrating 
 steering, you'd probably find this game neer perfect. I'd personally, I'd buy it on the 360 because 
 of the better graphics and more stable controls but I have to admitt the novelty of the Wii wheel 
 is pretty cool. If you liked Most Wanted, you could probably find this game on some console that 
 would suit you pretty well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hador_nyc
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 27, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I didn't realize that this game was all about drifting. It's not a standard driving game, but more 
 of a drift only thing. The graphics are good for the Wii, and the sounds fair as well. I have the 
 component video output, and the sound goes to my stereo receiver; watching it on a HD tv. This 
 game is definitely up to snuff on that level. The only real problem that I see is that I thought 
 I bought a different game. If you do like to drift in your driving games, then this one is a blast. 
 I might add that I keep it because I'm still able to find the fun in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panosfz6
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 27, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Game Play : Really enjoying this game one of the best in my collection also played this game on 
 PC: most wanted and i can say this one is the best.
  
  Graphics: Not a wow but its not the so bad as the gamespot review. Played this one on a ps3 at 
 a store as they had it loaded as a demo an i can say after playing it on the ps3 the wii its not 
 that bad.
  
  Sound : Its ok I like it
  
  Value : Dont know yet might fire it up to have a quick go around town when i feel like it
  
 
  Controls: Here is something that nearly put me off this game. I think it works great I dont see 
 the problem in the control scheme. And at 30euros (25$) it was a sure buy
  
  I am 34 and wii is my first console as I have always been a pc gamer the controls are the main 
 reason to own a wii and this game really shows what it can do. I think people have to get used 
 to a different style of game play and stop trying to compare this to ps3 and x360, wii puts the 
 human factor into games and I think many dont like that concept because a good button pusher cant 
 handle human error. Get this game and enjoy any way thats why we are all here to enjoy that little 
 time we spend playing, and not to grump about every small speck thats in the wrong place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_weird
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  There are plenty of options but the controls make more frustrating than enjoyable. It may not seem 
 like it at first since it is so easy but it gets harder latter on. The steering is just horrible 
 though and is preventing it from being a great game. The crew members are helpful and the custimization 
 is awesome but the story line is weak. The graphics are some of the best in the wii and dents, scratches, 
 etc, can be seen the more you make contact with things and it registers on that side. The possibilty 
 of this game was endless but not used to its full pontential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamez_Hunter99
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 10, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The Gameplay is what you expect from a Need for speed game, the motion controls are basic but are 
 still fun to do. The game story is gripping and enjoyable, overall the game has great Gameplay 
 but lacks because of the motion controls.
  
  Graphics
  The Graphics is what you expect from any Wii game; it is nice to look at even at fast speed. Overall 
 the game has nice graphics that is nice to look at, there not a lot to say about the graphics.
 
  
  Sound
  The Sound is great too in this game, the cars sound nice and you get that real sense of speed when 
 going down a road at 200mph and hearing the engine roar, the sound is one of the best bits of the 
 game.
  
  Value
  The game is great in Value, theres not a lot of replay value once you have finished the game but 
 it is still fun to play through the game again.
  
  Tilt
  Overall if you want a good street racing game, pick up need for speed carbon on the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emile144
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  A fascinating idea which seems to be effective. This is what Wii is about. Although it is said 
 that motion contreol doesnt fit the Need For Speed series with a bit of getting used to it becomes 
 great fun. After some time you'll be speeding down a canyon feeling the air on your face. With 
 pleasing graphics and sound it all depends on the gameplay. Admittedly this game is not for everyone. 
 This game is for people who dream of sitting in a cramped car, stinking of nitrous, thinking of 
 nothing other than what they see in front of them. If you are one of these people this game will 
 get you fascinated. What is special on this game is that it combines Underground series with Most 
 Wanted without losing much of their elegance. The map is big enough and although the career mode 
 is indeed a bit short it's pleasing and some value remains even after you've completed it. Although 
 the game recomends the us of a numchuck it's not truly requires outside the garage so if you want 
 to enjoy this game to its fullest we would suggest using it since it adds to the accuracy and the 
 feeling of control. All in all , probably the best driving game on Wii so far and a game which 
 leaves promises for a righteous driving future on this console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 1, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  This game is the best NFS game that I have played to date, and I have played all of them. First 
 off, for all of you people complaining about the controls, there is a simple solution. GO TO CONTROL 
 SETUP 5!!!!!!! This game really has nothing to not like about it, I find the controls on setup 
 5 are easier than on the Xbox 3-sexy, and the graphics are next to the same!!! There is virtually 
 no difference between the two versions of this game. The only two problems this game has is that 
 it doesn't have online multiplayer, but you don't need that when you have a game this good. Also, 
 the drift races in the canyon are a little too hard if you ask me, and so they are not as fun, 
 but you don't have to do them. So if you are going to buy this game, get it for your Wii and support 
 Nintendo!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartWii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  Okay, when I was first thinking about what my second game for Wii should be, I thought about Carbon. 
 I love NFS and Carbon is a great game. Then I read the review from Gamespot and that sort of lowered 
 my spirits on buying it. However I still bought it. Did gamespot even realize that you don't play 
 this game like DownHill Jam but you turn the remote horizontaly and tilt UP AND DOWN!!!! This game 
 has a great amount of fun and makes it great with the remote. When I played this game for PC, I 
 didn't really like it because it seemed like a lowdown to NFSMW. However NFSC for Wii makes up 
 for the short storyline and adds in game controls. The back of the box doesn't lie. This game is 
 truly revoulutionary!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gam3dbz2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 15, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  NFS: Carbon is a very exciting and long lasting game. You first start off and get to pick between 
 three types of cars, Exotic, Tuner, and Muscle. Each car is unique in its own way and the story 
 changes by just a bit depending on which car you choose.
  
  The police chases aren't as important on this NFS game but its still really exciting to escape 
 from the police. There are miniquests as i would call them to obtain certain cards and if you complete 
 a certain set of cards then you get something new such as a car. And this can make the game last 
 a lot longer especially if you complete the career mode it will give you something to do.
  
  The game has a bit of a problem.... I dont know if its just my game or my wii... but the game 
 freezes a few times and i can't turn off the wii and i have to unplug it... actually its not the 
 wii because it only occurs when i play that certain game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiuKang3000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 15, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Carbon is the newest installment in the NFS series. This game is about fast cars 
 and hot girls. The controls for the Wii version are way better than that of the Xbox. On the Xbox 
 version, you don't have total contral of the car. But on the Wii, it's a different story. You hold 
 the Wii mote like a steering wheel (Which meens you can use the steering wheel attachment that 
 came with that GT racing game) and tilt it on it's sides to steer. What I really like is the customization 
 options that you have. You can customize the car from head to toe. It is very simple and very satisfying.
 
  
  I recommend this game to any Wii owners who like racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkMaster7991
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't wait to get this game for the wii. I got the steering wheel and everything. I thought 
 the controls would be good like excite truck but i was wrong. Pretty much the big problem of this 
 game is the controls. That is serious too. I couldn't turn and it was impossible to move. Graphic 
 are pretty good but the gameplay runied everything. If it was good i would have gave it a good 
 review but i don't suggest for the wii. For the wii it's the worst in the series. I hope the next 
 one has better controls. So don't rent this game at all. but hey it's your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerBoi1234567
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  The Need for Speed series is a great video game series, and when I heard it was coming to the Wii, 
 I was excited. However, I was quickly let down. The graphics, for the Wii, are good, the game is 
 classic need for speed, but the game really lets down in terms of controls. The motion sensitivity 
 of the Wii-mote is not good. A lot of times I found my self going head-on into a wall while trying 
 to make a tight turn. Also, with the way the Wii-mote is held, I found my self changing views while 
 trying to activate my crew member. Speaking of crew members, though they may be good at times, 
 other times they are useless. The blocker is the only one I use, besides the drafter on races that 
 are fast. The scout , though useful in finding shortcuts, don't help much because by the time they 
 find it, you pass it or crash while trying to go through it. If this game would have had better 
 controls, it would have gotten I higher score. but it is a decent game nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 22, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon for the Wii, overall, is an impressive game. It has the same great single-player 
 Career mode and other satisfying material that all of the other game consoles have, such as huge 
 areas to explore, police chases, and intense, high-speed races. The only major thing that truly 
 separates the Wii version from the other console versions are the controls. In the Wii version, 
 you hold the Wii remote horizontally like a steering wheel (just like Excite Truck) , and tilt it 
 left and right to steer your car. This is a lot of fun to do, and you will most likely enjoy it. 
 But, you will notice that the controls are at times, unresponsive and at many times, just slow 
 to respond. This makes driving difficult. The controls, in my opinion, are a disappointment, for 
 they could've definitely been much more polished up. Just a little more work on the controls, and 
 the game would've been a lot better. But, hey, its still an entertaining game, and will keep you 
 busy for more than enough time. The Good: Decent graphics, great, lengthy single-player career 
 mode, huge area to explore (just like in the previous NFS games) , and intense races. The Bad: Controls 
 sometimes extremely awkward, frustrating, police chases can get too annoying, repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toby_mac_freek
Rating: 1.4
Date: Feb 18, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  After wasting my hard earned cash one this pathetic excuse for a game, I have one thing to say. 
 Most boring, worst planned out, cheesiest, crappy controlled game I have ever play. You'd think 
 that EA could make a worthwhile game? No, sorry not this one. The controls are nothing short of 
 ABYSMAL! Graphics are mediocre, and gameplay SUCKS! The sounds are rips from NFSMW as are most 
 of the parts, sure the auto sculpt sounds cool, but theres barely any parts to sculpt. Boss races 
 are impossible, the only good type of car in the game is tuner, anything else just sliiiiides all 
 over.
  
  Final Verdict: Don't even bother renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123dcb
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  When i got my Wii like 2 months after it was realeased, I was looking for some good games. This 
 game is hard to describe because its not really good or bad. One example is the controls are really 
 anoying but the game itself is really fun. I was about to make the difficulty hard because the 
 game is sordove chalengeing but for a true gamer its just right. There could be some improvents, 
 like the controls ovbiously. There are some laughable cut-scenes but most of them are cool. There 
 are awsome pursuit chases and some sweet cars. But i actullay love this game just its not my favriote.
 
  You really need alot of patince to master the controls. I recomend it for any person with a Wii. 
 Thanks for reading my reveiw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjs927
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 30, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  My uncle got me started on Need for Speed with Hot Pursuit 2 for game cube. I then went through 
 Underground and Most Wanted. (somehow I missed Underground 2) They gradually got better, with Most 
 Wanted being the best. I was looking forward to Carbon. A new system, a new game. I had looked 
 around online and was excited when I saw be the cop back and also wireless compatibility. When 
 I got the game, I was disappointed when I didn't see either. I thought it would be great to see 
 the Wii's wi-fi capability. I shook it off and decided to try it out. I played and was crashing 
 into walls and various other things. After time went by, I got better. In about an hour I was driving 
 great. After my second time playing I was already at my first boss. It really is a good game if 
 you give it a chance. I was disappointed by the lack of pursuits. In Most Wanted, you had to get 
 a certain amount of Bounty before facing a boss. Now, pursuits are only to unlock crap. The customization 
 is better than Most Wanted, but driving is more of a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfatman24
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  So many things about this game were fantastic. It is a fun game that i played over and over again. 
 (only twice) . It is fairly easy which will make you feel bamf.
  
  The graphics of this game did not amaze me, except in the videos. Neither did the police pursuits. 
 Having cops in the game seemed pretty pointless. I didn't really see any point in having them. 
 They are fun every once in a while but most of the time they will just get in the way of your races. 
 Also the defensive races. These sucked. You would only get 500 dollars off of them and if you didn't 
 race them then you had a good chance to lose some territory. All in all nfs: c was a great game. 
 JUST MAKE SURE YOU CHANGE THE CONTROL SETTINGS. USE THE DEFAULT SETTING 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enrique_marrodz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Let me start whit some statements to improve understanding. This, as several other Wii games, had 
 received very hard reviews, especially because the controls. I wanted to point out this first because, 
 as NFS is a long running franchise, it doesn't have too much new things to offer, just the same 
 old fun, but the control experience can turn this in a whole learning experience.
  
  Ok, now for the game.
  
  You'd been cheated and busted in an ilegal race, now there is someone 
 offering you an agreement where you need to recover all the territories from the several gangs 
 by, obviously, racing them. All of this in order to find out who cheated you.
  
  As for the novelties, now you'll be forming a crew with other racers, each one have special abilities 
 and can provide you with several bonus on your career.
  
  For the race types you'll find the classic circuit, sprint, speed-trap and checkpoint race (from 
 MW) , and the return of drift which can be very tricky! Also the canyon race where you have to follow 
 closely your rival and pass him/her if possible, and next you'll lead trying to leave your rival 
 in the dust and not be passed at all.
  
  Ok, now the obvious graphics and sound department. I need to tell you that I'm playing in a conventional 
 TV set, but the city and the car models look very polished, and some effects are very nice and 
 complement each other in a great way. I haven't seen the GC version but if that really looks like 
 the Wii one, wow, the GC is far more amazing than I thought!
  
  The soundtrack is not good at all, and is difficult to appreciate it while running as, even configuring 
 the volume, the sound and car effects dominate a lot. It would be nice for this game too allow 
 custom soundtracks like Excite Truck.
  
  Finally the gameplay. There are several control configurations as you may heard, but I really want 
 to focus in just three main variations:
  
  1. Using just the wiimote to drive (buttons facing up) , 1 and 2 to accelerate and brake/reverse, 
 and the pad for nitro and ebrake, as weel as other commands.
  2. Using the nunchuk to drive (tilting) , and wiimote to accelerate/brake/reverse.
  3. Using the 
 analog stick to drive and wiimote to accelerate.
  
  I gonna put it like this, my favorite configurations were 1 and 2. The third one is, I think, for 
 the hardcore gamer unwilling to learn a new way to play, but it fails. The other two really can 
 get frustrating and, surely, you'll try to reach for a stick in several moments, but ther won't 
 be need to as soon as you can pass the first races. Thr drift is a whole new challenge, at least 
 from my experience.
  
  Two bad things about the controls, the nunchuk is REQUIRED to several operation in some menus, 
 which can be very annoying if you opt to drive using only the wiimote because you'll have to plug/unplug 
 the nunchuk each time. The second complain is about the menus usage wich, oddly enough, can't be 
 pointed with the wiimote but are operated in amore traditional way like assigning buttons to all 
 selections.
  
  Overall is a great driving experience and very rewarding as you get used to the controls!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ponedore
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Indeed, as the Gamespot review said, this game is just not built for the motion sensor, it plays 
 much better with the fifth configuration; the analog stick plays the rol to steer the car and the 
 wii-mote to accelerate it. Playing it that way, the boss duels are much, much easier due to the 
 tight turns you have to do and the precision this have. If you want to enjoy the game with friends, 
 relatives and so, you should have it because its just plain fun steering with the wii-mote and 
 a way to get the older ones to play it and have a nice time. In the graphics section, its good 
 but could be better because we are talking about a new generation system, but the cars are well 
 done. The customization chances are just perfect, giving it more lastability.
  
  Just give it a try and you wouldn't leave the new way to play racing games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiJonesy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  ive only been playing this game a day but the game play is amazing. the graphics are not that bad 
 either. id say the only bad thing about the game is that you have to buy your cars! if your into 
 racing games this is the one. The amout of cars you can get is really good, about 30 and all amazing 
 ones too. i think the best add on to the game since the last one is you get your own crew who race 
 in the races with you and some times win it for you, or you can order them to take out other cars 
 ect ect. overall its a brilliant game. 9/10 !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalejr88
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  The game completley surprised me becuase of all the negative reviews that ign and gamespot have 
 been giving. This game is really fun but takes about 30min or more to get used to the controles. 
 But once you get used to them the game is super fun to play! The team mate aspect of the game is 
 great and makes the game more enjoyable. Do not listen to what gamespot or ign or any other gamer 
 website has to say. This game is absoulutley fantastic. The visuals might not be great like the 
 360 or PS3 but the visuals still look good and looks like a very good Xbox game. The game also 
 holds a steady frame rate which is a must in a racing game like this one. Over all i fyou are going 
 to buy a racing game for the wii then this is the one to get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingandCitizens
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, the game play is awesome. There is absolutely nothing wrong with the controls 
 for this and the motion sensing is perfect for this type of game (I don't know what this reviewer 
 was talking about) . I found it after about 15 minutes into the career that it was relatively easy 
 to control the car, but not too easy which gives this racing game some very challenging turns for 
 your car to handle. Which is perfect, because nobody wants to play a game with absolutely no difficulty. 
 I have played almost every racing game with never an intention of buying one because I wasn't a 
 fan of the genre. I simply bought this because I thought racing could redeem itself with some cool 
 motion sensing controls. I was completely right. The free roam feature is probably the best on 
 the game. First racing game that I thought deserved a spot in my collection. On to the graphics. 
 Take a look at the other racing games and other games out for the Wii. Nothing compares to this. 
 The city is amazing and the cars are some of the best I've seen. Although it may look a small bit 
 choppy at times, it still doesn't disappoint.
  
  The sounds of the cars are probably exactly like what they would sound like, but I wouldn't be 
 able to make that decision because I haven't really heard a drifting street racing car going one 
 hundred miles an hour down a curving hill. But they sound great nevertheless. I don't particularly 
 love the soundtrack, but it does provide a fitting compilation of music for this genre.
  
  This game is worth a ton to me because it is the first racing game that is actually worth mentioning 
 that came out for the Wii. It provides you with good graphics, excellent gameplay, and a decent 
 soundtrack. It's a great title.
  
  Well I could personally play this game all day. As a matter of fact, I did. It's just fun cruising 
 around the city and entering these races. It's a great time and it's the only racing game you should 
 play until the next NFS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wikkedclown17
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  i got NFS: C for christmas and i started playing immediately.
  at first i was extremely frustrated because the controls appeared to be a complete mess. the reasons 
 were because (a) it does take about 20-30 min. to get used to the control scheme. and (b) because 
 i had a cheap suspension system in my car. But after you get used to the controls and get some 
 decent suspension, you'll be racing hard in no time. After playing with the wii-mote, i can't play 
 racing games without it. storyline:
  the story is pretty much like every other NFS game. you have a sweet car, then it gets impounded 
 or whatever. and you have to make your way back to the top. but who gives a damn about a storyline 
 in a racing game?
  
  (story 6/10)
  
  gameplay:
  very similar to NFS: U2 and NFS: MW, you free roam around a vast city (dubbed carbon canyon) and 
 find missions. You go onto other racers' turf and win races to claim it as yours. (gameplay 8/10)
 
  
  cars:
  I'd seriously hope that a game about cars would have a vast array of cars.... and this game is no 
 exeption. It has everything from imports to muscle cars and each one is 100% to it's real life 
 counterpart.
  
  (cars 10/10)
  
  graphics:
  the graphics are pretty slick, but to me, they still feel extremely gamecube-ish. but bear in mind, 
 this is an early wii titile so graphics on future NFS games will definately be improved.
  
  (graphics 7/10)
  
  controls:
  the wii-mote use is pretty basic. you hold it horizontal and 
 tilt to steer. you can access NOS, speedbreaker and other things of that nature with the D-pad. 
 you can adjust the sensitivity of the remote to how you like it in-game. the game says it requires 
 a nunchuck, but i don't even bother plugging one into my wii-mote when i start up the game. it 
 doesn't even use the nunchuck as far as i know. the built in speaker also emits small sounds here 
 and there to boost the feeling that your in the game. most game critics would have a **** because 
 the game doesn't use every possible feature of the wii-mote. but it doesn't really need anything 
 else. the only beef i have with the control scheme is that you access NOS by holding down up on 
 the D-pad and sometimes i accidently hit left or right also. so i'll be speeding along then i'll 
 go into speedbreaker. its a bit annoying but after a while, you train yourself to hit NOS lightly.
 
  
  (controls 9/10)
  
  wrap up:
  Need for speed carbon is a solid racer by any standards. it may not have the graphics of NFS on 
 Xbox 360, but that doesn't make the game not fun. It is easily the best racer on the wii so far. 
 (but then again, its only competition is GT pro series and that game is a joke) If you've got some 
 extra dough on you and you want a solid game for wii. by all means buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Claudin12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Its hard in the beginning but with practice your skills will start to improve. The story line is 
 a bit interesting but the deal in the game is racing. It may not have better graphics than the 
 PS3 or 360 but with the Wii remote your eye wont be focused on that. The remote sensor change how 
 the whole game is played and if your friend says they'd played it for the other systems they wont 
 stand a chance against it for the Wii. Besides racing you'll have to control territory but the 
 more you race the more it gets challenging and they wont stand by and watch you get more turf, 
 they'll try to take it back. Besides managing your turf you also have to manage your crew. You 
 can only have three racers in your crew so you'll have to think wisely about your decision and 
 to make it harder to choose each racer has their own special benefits that can help you in racing. These 
 racers are called wingman. What will mostly help you in the game is the blocker wingman. He can 
 knock out any driver in your way to first place. If a blocker can't help you than you will need 
 a scouter as your wingman. He can look for shortcuts that can get you to first place but its hard 
 catching up to him. And if that doesn't work there is the drafter. He will let you ride behind 
 his slip stream to gain speed boost but he should only be used if your a professionals. Besides 
 the wingman the cops are the biggest threats. They wont watch you ride with glory, they will try 
 to take you down on the act. The longer you stay with them the more dangerous they are to you. 
 You can get away from them the first time, the second time, and even the third time, but by the 
 forth time it will be no joke. They will have the name of your car, your tag, and your color. It 
 wont be funny when a police truck rammed you literally over with the force of a rhino that would 
 probably give you whiplash. I really hope you wont have to see the white car cops but if you do 
 press pause, get something to drink, and stretch real good because you'll be in that chase for 
 a long time. To get started racing there is different races to do: sprint, speedbag, drift, checkpoint, 
 circuit, and canyon (checkpoint recommended first) . The canyon races is off the scale and with no 
 nitro or speed breaker you'll have to put your improving skills to the test. But when you past 
 their crunck up cars it will be satisfying and you will probably be relieved or shout up with cheer 
 as the race is over. I wont tell you how the cars are because that will be spoiling it for you. 
 But the overall is that its a good motor skills, quick thinking, fast driving, eye soring challenging 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: citrus_oranges
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 18, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Pros - This game is a good racer, yet unrealistic it doesn't go too far in it. The graphics are 
 good and decent, but I wouldn't compare it to the 360 or the PS3. The controls are very immersive 
 and may take some to get use to, but when you do, you'll be driving like a pro. Many good cars 
 to choose from and good tastes in cars. Muscle, tuner and exotic cars to pick. Good racing fun 
 and very customizable. Great game for the wii and introduces the wiimotes capability to drive.
 
  
  Cons - There are some mode such as the drift mode that shouldn't come back. It may causes too must 
 frusteration because drifting in this game isn't racing basically. It is all about tricks. If you 
 wanna have drift in a game, get a game that is meant for drifting. Need for speed is all about 
 racing in my opinoun. The canyon duel is a bad way to race. It's not really about racing, but to 
 closen up to the other persons car and then they do the same to you. It is quite frusterating since 
 the CP ai doesn't really make their car crash. Minor bad thind is that you can have vinyls (of 
 course) , but no longer decals. Wingman mechanics aren't good, their ai always make them win..., 
 but its not an entirely a bad thing.
  
  I say this is a great game aside from drift and canyon duels. I think they should be replace with 
 drag race since thats what most of the musle cars can do. This game is my favorite need for speed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomPhoot
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  7.1? 7.1???? Wow, these guys are afraid of LEARNING CURVE. So they can't get used to Wii driving 
 games, BIG DEAL. This game deserves way more than just a frickin' 7.1. This is the greatest idea 
 for a driving game since Gran Turismo, and it gets a helluva lot better with the unique motion 
 control.
  
  GRAPHICS- Nothing special. Standard XBOX style graphics. It'll probably look alot better with component 
 cables.
  
  SOUND- Oddly enough, this soundtrack isn't as good as the previous NFS soundtracks. Some of the 
 techno is addictive, but the other categories are just normal. The engine noises are as sweet as 
 ever though.
  
  GAMEPLAY- Awesome gameplay. I can't believe official reviewers didn't like it. It takes the NFS 
 series and makes it feel like your really driving a car, not just twitching buttons. It does have 
 some problems though, such as the odd oversteer button. But, just avoid drift races and you'll 
 be ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubelover38
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  the very first thing you notice is the graphics, they arent bad, ea did a pretty good job on the 
 wii, but the controls will definetly take a little time to get used to default 1 doesnt really work 
 well it tends to oversteer and under steer at the same time i found that the default 5 setting 
 the best , using the nunchuch to steer and the wiimote to accelerate like a gas petal , tilting 
 forward for gas back for brake it always use standard shift so it worked well for me using the 
 d pad to shift .the car engines all sound different and the autosculpt feature is great you could 
 spend hours just designing you car . there is also a quite a bit to do here between the career, challenge, and 
 trying to get all the rewards cards. i like everybody else am used to a control pad but with a 
 little patience you will enjoy the way need for speed plays on the wii in does feel a little more 
 immersive when you find the contol scheme that works best for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Predator_Rule
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 17, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  Well to tell you the truth in the beggining the game is little hard but when y get inside the game 
 it is simply AN AMAZING GAME the graphics are good the sound is so realistic gameplay is the best 
 because whit the WIIMOTE the riding skill is the racing games just takes simulation to all new 
 level i really liked this game the cars are very good the hard part for me are the drift races 
 but i will always advise you to buy this amazing game well im not me very good whit reviews lol 
 but i tried my best hope y liked it ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilsmurfaroonie
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 23, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Note: Before reading this, please know that I am not going to give the full plotline of the game. 
 I am not going to spoil (for the most part) this game for those that may wish to buy it. Also, 
 I am not going to bias any of my opinions on any other NFS game; in fact, I will just act as if 
 they don't even exist. Nor will I mention any of the other systems.
  
  Need for Speed: Carbon is a very realistic game. It may seems a little extreme for a racing game 
 to have up to an hour-long learning curve, but it honestly will only take you about 10 minutes 
 to learn if you stick with the standard control scheme. I simply added all the time together that 
 it should take an average person to pick up the controller and learn each of the driving schemes.
 
  
  Summary: NFS: Carbon is an RPG-based racing game. You take on the role of a character who has returned 
 to the city to... well... race. The game is based on territory control. There are 4 main gangs 
 that oppose you, but there are some other minor gangs that you will come across. The main plot 
 is that you return to the city, someone bails you out right before you are arrested, you meet some 
 people, race for awhile, and eventually have to take down your main rival.
  
  Controls:
  There are 5 main control schemes to choose from. You can hold your wii-mote on its side like a 
 steering wheel (my personal choice) , or you can use the other various techniques, some that will 
 use the nunchuck attachment to steer and the wii-mote as a gas pedal, and some that are a little 
 different. All of the control settings are very immersive in the game play, and it allows you to 
 do so much more with this game than you could do with an analogue stick.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Very realistic and immersive. You can choose from many different cars and customization options. 
 There are many different types of races to choose from such as sprints, drifting, circuitings, 
 etc. The occasional cop chase also adds a little action to the game as well. However, as with any 
 racing game, the gameplay can get a little repetative at times. Also, some of the races can be 
 quite frustrating at times (EX: falling off the mountain during a canyon drift event) . In any case 
 though, the gameplay in this game is excellent.
  
  Graphics: 8
  The cut scenes are amazing! They look very realistic and are very sharp. There are a few problems 
 I have with the game play graphics though. Your car does not portray damage like it should. If 
 you run into a wall at 212 mph, you should recieve a little more than a couple scratches. Some 
 of the edges and sharp corners can also be very annoying or look odd in some instances. Most of 
 the time though, you will sense nothing wrong with the graphics unless you are viewing your car 
 close up when you turn a corner or anything like that.
  
  Sound: 9
  AMAZING! From the voiceacting, to the tires squealing, to the soundtracks playing during the game, 
 the sound is perfect, except a few things. There are many songs in the game that I do not like, 
 but I do have the option to turn those off. I also wish the game had an option to import your own 
 music. The only other thing wrong is that at some points, the voices of your crew during races 
 can get a little annoying at times.
  
  Replay Value: 9
  You can always redo races that you want to improve on, complete the extra bonus races, challenge 
 series, etc. if you have already beaten the game and are looking for extra things to do. All of 
 the races are just as fun the 2nd or 3rd time as they were the 1st time. This game has almost perfect 
 replay value. However, the reason I will not give this replay value a 10 is because you do not 
 gain enough money rebeating other races once you wish to finish your car collection!
  
  With that being said, I am sorry but that is all I have to say for now. This was a rushed review, 
 so if I have missed anything, please feel free to PM me at a later time because, as I said, I had 
 to rush this review. Also, If you have any comments, further questions, or concerns please feel 
 free to PM me. Or check this other player review: http://www. gamespot. com/wii/driving/needforspeedcarbon/player_review. html? id=391324 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  THe controls are a little awkward, but there are a number of control schemes to choose from, so 
 you can select the controls that best suit your taste. I personally like having the Nunchuk as 
 the steering. I feel that I control the car better that way. This game is the first where I actually 
 saw my younger daughter frustrated with the controls, but after a few quick races, you get the 
 handle of it. The Wii controller is nice, but for racing, nothing comes close to a wheel and pedal. 
 The cars and scenery looks nice, on the Wii, and Customising the cars was fun, although, I think 
 I enjoyed that part a lot more than my wife did. I think out of the current selection of racing 
 games for the Wii (Excite Truck, Monster Truck and GT Pro) this one is about the best. I believe 
 that we need to wait until the software companies mature in there development of games for the 
 Wii before we see something spectacular for racing (and other games as well) . I know that the Wii 
 is capable of so much more, but we need to wait for software companies to embraise all its possibilities. 
 Until that time, as a racing game, this gets about a 7.5 from me... For this title -Need for Speed 
 Carbon is served better on a console that supports a Wheel and Pedal. As far as the rest of the 
 game, if fun, Entertaining, but not very revolutionary (i. e. its another Need for Speed game -no 
 big surprises) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo2199
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  I just completed this game's career mode 100% and no one has written a review of this game for 
 the Wii yet. Hopefully this helps people who are trying to decide if this version of NFS Carbon 
 is worth buying or renting for the Wii. The first half of this review talks about the Wii-mote 
 controls for the game (which is it's most unique feature) while the second half talks about the 
 other factors of NFS Carbon Wii such as gameplay, graphics, sound, value and tilt.
  
  NFS Carbon and the Wii-mote: Excellent
  ================================
  The good news is 
 that NFS Carbon Wii makes excellent use of the Wii-mote control during actual gameplay! It takes 
 about 15 to 30 minutes to get used to the Wii-mote control scheme. But it is very responsive, precise 
 and best of all fun when you get used to it. Half way into the game I realized that using the Wii-mote 
 for driving is a total blast. Making rapid, large or subtle, tight movements with the Wii-mote 
 to initiate power slides and counter steering is tons of fun. The Wii-mote provides a very unique 
 and exhilarating experience for racing. These motions mimic real racing steering very well with 
 the compact, lightweight and wireless Wii-mote controller.
  
  I used the default control scheme to play NFS Carbon Wii which uses the Wii-mote only. You hold 
 the Wii-mote sideways with the D-pad on the left and the 1 and 2 buttons on the right. Tilting 
 the Wii-mote left or right steers your car. The 1 and 2 buttons brake/reverse and accelerate respectively. 
 The D-pad is used to Nitro (Up) , Handbrake (Down) and Speedbreak/Slow-motion (Right) . The benefit 
 of this control scheme is that it is the most intuitive. The downside is that the 1 and 2 buttons 
 do not allow for analog control of gas and brake. I didn't find this to be a problem and I am a 
 HUGE fan of analog gas and brake for racing games. EA managed to tune the 1 and 2 buttons pretty 
 well so that tapping quickly or holding them down yields a comparable analog feel. However, you 
 will need to master the handbrake (D-pad Down) if you want to defeat the game's toughest races 
 with this default control scheme.
  
  There are 4 other control schemes available which utilize the nunchuck attachment in addition to 
 the Wii-mote. You tilt the nunchuck left or right for analog steering and you hold the Wii-mote 
 vertically and tilt it up and down to behave as an analog gas and/or brake pedal. The learning 
 curve on these alternate controls is steeper but they are solid options for people who really want 
 to be fully immersed in a pure analog experience.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  ===========
  The Wii-mote adds tremendously to gameplay. The successful incorporation of the Wii-mote largely 
 redeems the major shortcomings of NFS Carbon's design which are found in all of it's other major 
 versions. Thankfully EA did an excellent job of tuning the Wii-mote for very precise, responsive 
 and fun driving as mentioned above. NFS Carbon uses the same airbrush-look movie cut-scenes introduced 
 in NFS Most Wanted to pull you into the game's story. This time around the characters aren't nearly 
 as intense as NFSMW but there are several more cutscenes than in NFSMW. This helps to keep the 
 storyline more fluid but the story isn't as interesting as NFSMW and the plot becomes muddled half 
 way through. But at the end of the day this is a racing game and the story provides a solid excuse 
 to get some intense racing on.
  
  NFS Carbon takes place in Palmont City which is ruled by four opposing racing crews and is divided 
 into 4 territories: Downtown, Fortuna, Kempton and Silverton. You start off by choosing to drive 
 one of three car classes: Import Tuner, Exotics or Muscle Cars. You must then reclaim all 4 territories 
 by challenging the opposing racing crews and defeating them in 66 races. You get to face a racing 
 crew boss after you win back all the districts in their territory. There are four boses total including 
 Darius, the head boss of Palmont City. Just like NFSMW, you have a chance to win a boss' pink slip 
 after you defeat them. You can also win special upgrades, cash and get out of jail markers.
  
  Thankfully, NFS Carbon does away with drag racing and reduces the number of drift races. NFS 
 Carbon introduces canyon racing where one wrong turn can instantly end the race as you fly over 
 the edge of a cliff. Oddly, in NFS Carbon-world, nitrous doesn't work if you are racing in canyons 
 for some reason. Mastery of the handbrake is a must if you wish to enjoy these levels at all. Like 
 other recent NFS titles, the racing is fast, furious and fun. There are cop chases in NFS Carbon 
 but they aren't as central to gameplay as they were in NFSMW. I did manage to get into some pretty 
 decent chases but never to the intensity of NFSMW or Hot Pursuit.
  
  Multiplayer is limited to only 2 player splitscreen with no computer opponents and no online racing. 
 You start with only 4 cars to choose from in multiplayer but you can unlock them all as you beat 
 the single player career mode. Multiplayer maintains the very tight and responsive controls of 
 single player and has very fast and smooth gameplay. Multiplayer is a fun experience, but with 
 few options, it isn't a very deep experience.
  
  You start off in the Downtown territory and you unlock Fortuna and Kempton by reclaiming Downtown. 
 The racing and challenges during these first three territories is very well balanced and extremely 
 fun! The difficulty level ramps up smoothly and you begin to unlock crew members who have different 
 roles in aiding you during races. The racing crew aspect of the game is very fun during these first 
 three territories. There are moments where you have a strong sense of connection with your crew 
 members as they help you draft, block opponents or scout you new paths to time saving shortcuts. 
 I had an extremely fun time during these first three territories which make up about 60% of the 
 total game. This could create the illusion of a perfect game for the majority of people who never 
 complete a game. The gameplay up to this point was nearly a perfect 10, largely because of the 
 incorporation of excellent Wii-controls with an established racing franchise!!
  
  Unfortunately, the fun all but totally ends after you complete the first three territories and 
 you unlock Silverton which is ruled by the game's head boss Darius. The difficulty level sky rockets 
 without warning and the races become laborious, frustrating and worst of all BUGGY. It becomes 
 immediately evident that you must now acquire and fully upgrade a tier 3 car if you wish to have 
 a remote chance of winning any further races. NFS Carbon breaks down it's cars by a tier system, 
 tier 3 being the fastest class of cars. You will enter Silverton with a tier 2 car and have zero 
 chance of winning a single race unless you get a tier 3 ride. Hopefully, you have unlocked a decent 
 tier 3 car. I managed to get a Supra and dumped all my money into it until I unlocked a Lamborghini 
 Murciealogo to beat the game with. But this struggle wasn't fun. In fact, it was extremely annoying 
 and frustrating.
  
  At this point in the career mode, the entire racing crew system falls apart as the artificial intelligence 
 (AI) becomes excruciatingly buggy. The worst example is the main female character/racer of the 
 game, Nikki, who behaves as your final drafter. Her AI is so terribly buggy and annoying that I 
 was hoping they would include a cutscene to explain that she was actually secretly trying to make 
 you lose races. As a drafter, it is Nikki's role to get in front of your car to help use her aerodynamic 
 trail to pull your car to faster speeds. This is great in theory but what Nikki does on numerous 
 occasions is pull in front of you for a draft and then all of a sudden slams on her brakes in your 
 face, knocking you into last place if not completely forcing you to lose the race. She does this 
 repeatedly and then says, Sorry, I need to take a break. This is egregiously annoying. I don't 
 understand how they let this bug through. At least disable Nikki's collision so she goes through 
 your car if you are too lazy to program decent AI. I'd take a C bug over a B bug any day. If Nikki 
 needs to take a break in the middle of the race while she is directly in front of you, she should 
 at least pull over and out of your way.
  
  In addition to blocking you from victory, Nikki will repeatedly side swipe or completely T-bone 
 your car and knock you off course or completely spin you out causing you to lose. Nikki will do 
 this whether you have activated her or not and she will do this several times in the course of 
 one race! This being said the other tier three racing crew are no better and are almost equally 
 detrimental towards having any fun or winning races. EA has the worst QA of any major video game 
 company and they obviously rushed the last half of this game knowing that the average gamer will 
 only play this game half way through.
  
  When you complete all the territories and are ready to face the head boss, you are forced to race 
 all the previous bosses in two races before you are allowed to finally confront Darius. You then 
 have to beat Darius in a regular race and then you are finally allowed to duel him in a final canyon 
 race. This last race is excruciatingly difficult. You will lose repeatedly. After losing the final 
 canyon duel against Darius, the default button to press is A on the Wii to continue. FOR THE LOVE 
 OF GOD don't press the A button. If you press A, the game dumps you out on the street and you need 
 to perform all three races again before you are allowed to duel Darius!!! You have to carefully 
 press the 2 button to re-duel Darius. Otherwise, you have to wade your way through 10 minutes worth 
 of annoying races before you can challenge him again. This is just terrible game design.
  
  Another shortcoming of NFS Carbon for the Wii is the completely terrible game menus. The game menus 
 are extremely inefficient and horribly clumsy. For example, if you are in your safe house and you 
 want to go car shopping, you can't just jump to the car dealer. You are forced to jump into free 
 roam mode (load time) . Then you have to enter the world map. Then you can finally select the car 
 dealership to jump to (load time again) . This forces you to wait through two load time cycles and 
 numerous navigation hurdles and button presses.
  
  Furthermore, the game menus completely disregard the Wii-mote pointer as a tool for navigation. 
 It forces you to plug in the nunchuck to showcase a car and zoom in on maps. All of this could 
 be easily avoided with some elegant and simple navigation with the Wii-mote pointer. Good examples 
 of excellent menu navigation are Wii-sports and Zelda for the Wii. NFS Carbon Wii forces you to 
 turn your Wii-mote 90 degrees back and forth to push the D-pad and numerous buttons to navigate 
 through the menus. This may seem like a small thing but it's very annoying and frankly stupid. 
 It's puzzling that EA could get the most difficult aspects of this game right such as real-time 
 steering with the Wii-mote tilt but didn't bother to fix the interface at all. Although this isn't 
 part of the gameplay, it makes trying to play the game very annoying. These are only two examples 
 but I could literally write a book on this alone, but you get the point.
  
  If it weren't for all of these bugs and lack of solid design for the last 40% of the game, NFS 
 Carbon Wii could have achieved nearly a perfect 10 in gameplay with it's awesome controls. I hope 
 EA isn't so lazy and stingy on their next NFS title. It is very obvious that NFS Carbon was rushed 
 as it lacks the solid polish of it's predecessors. I am pretty forgiving as I am lucky to have 
 even this good of a racing game at launch for my Wii so I am giving it an 8 for gameplay.
  
  Graphics: 8
  ==========
  The graphics for NFS Carbon Wii are pretty good considering it 
 is a 480p console. They look about the same as the XBOX version as far as textures, lighting, and 
 detail are concerned. The entire game takes place at night time which some may find annoying but 
 I was ok with it as I played it during my free time at night. Night time racing takes less graphical 
 power so the Wii was free to make some nice lighting effects with the city neon lights.
  
  The cars are solidly detailed and attractive. Visually tweaking your cars is fun and looks good. 
 This adds to the excitement of virtual customization and ownership of your cars. I managed to put 
 together a solid garage of hot looking rides.
  
  The environments look great. Each of the territories have very distinct themes and feels to them 
 and racing through them at a solid 60FPS is fantastic! There are lots of varied locations such 
 as a Chinatown and one of the territories is obviously Las Vegas which looks nice and has recognizable 
 landmarks such as the Bellagio, The Mirage and The Stratosphere (of course they are named differently 
 in the game) .
  
  The graphics aren't as good as a XBOX360 or a powerful PC, but they are still solid and provide 
 an excellent illusion of speed. I give NFS Carbon Wii an 8 for graphics.
  
  Sound: 9
  ========
  The sound for NFS Carbon Wii is exceptionally good! The sound of the cars themselves 
 is perfect! The sounds of their engines, exhaust, turbos and nitros are deep, throaty, crisp and 
 accurate. This really adds to the experience if you hook your Wii up to a decent stereo system. 
 There is no 5.1 support but the sounds are still very exciting, intense and immersive!
  
  Each car has a very distinct and accurate sound and you can tell the difference between driving 
 a RX-8 or a Lamborghini just by the excellent audio! It's also very cool that the sound of your 
 car evolves as you bolt on upgrades. Your cars will take on a deeper, throatier, meaner tone as 
 you upgrade your engine. Your turbos will whine louder and fiercer as well. This really helps to 
 immerse you and give you a sense of ownership of a real car.
  
  The sounds while you are racing are also very well done. The sounds of your tires screeching as 
 you powerslide through corners are complimented by the symphony of your opponents engines. You 
 can tell if there is a Mustang GT closing in on you or if you are neck and neck with a Porsche.
 
  
  The only downside of the audio is that this NFS Carbon hardly uses any of it's licensed music while 
 actually racing! During races, it plays generic orchestral scores more often than not. If you want 
 to hear any of the EA tracks they are only in between races and only while free roaming. It's too 
 bad because there are some awesome songs on this soundtrack.
  
  Music audio is also completely absent from multiplayer races. The multiplayer races are already 
 pretty bland without online support and no computer opponents, so the lack of music is very noticeable.
 
  
  The EA tracks configuration and multiplayer music can probably tweaked, but I wouldn't know because 
 I couldn't figure out how to do so with NFS Carbon Wii's terrible menus. Although the options might 
 be in there somewhere, I could never figure out how play music during multiplayer. Despite these 
 flaws, the most important aspects of sound are done well, so I give NFS Carbon Wii a 9 for sound.
 
  
  Value: 7
  =======
  NFS Carbon for the Wii is a decent value if you are going to buy it. The single player career mode 
 is predominantly fun and after you complete that you can go back and try to beat the career mode 
 using the other two car classes. You can also try to beat racing challenges as well. These other 
 modes aren't that interesting and going through the same career again isn't that appealing either.
 
  
  NFS Carbon Wii has a very limited multiplayer mode and this limits it's replay value significantly. 
 The multiplayer aspect of NFS Carbon Wii only supports 2 player splitscreen. There is no online 
 support, no computer opponents, very few options and no music during multiplayer. You can unlock 
 all the cars for multiplayer by completing the career mode. The multiplayer is fun on the Wii, 
 but with such little depth, it may get old quickly and seems to be more of a novelty. NFS Carbon 
 Wii has decent value for a console launch title. With over 66 racing events in career mode and 
 tight controls it's mostly a lot of fun while it lasts. It took me about 30 hours to complete the 
 game's career mode 100%. About 5 of those hours were wasted on races that had to be restarted due 
 to bugs and poor game design. Also, the career mode is deceptively stretched out by rival challenges. 
 These challenges are issued by opposing racing crews who are trying to take territories away from 
 you that you have already won. These challenges are more annoying than anything as they force you 
 to re-race the exact same races that you have already won.
  
  I give NFS Carbon Wii a 7 for value.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 8
  ==============
  I'm giving 
 this game a tilt of 8 because of my love-hate relationship with this game.
  
  I love the exhilarating sense of speed, awesome sound and above all excellent Wii-mote control 
 of the cars. This innovation of using the Wii-mote showcases what the Wii is capable of and is 
 tremendously cool! The first 60% of the career mode was extremely enjoyable and fun!
  
  I hate EA's poor QA in the last 40% of the career mode. EA had plenty of time to fix the shortcomings 
 of this version. The same bugs from the previous versions of NFS Carbon are still as blaring and 
 annoying in the Wii version. Couple this with a complete disregard of the Wii-mote pointer as a 
 revolutionary tool for menus and interface and it takes a tilt of 14 down 6 points to a tilt of 
 8.
  
  Conclusion: 8.3 Great!!
  ===================
  I haven't played Excite Truck nor GT Pro Series for the Wii. But from all of the user forums and 
 reviews, I think it's pretty safe to say that this is the best racing launch title for the Wii.
 
  
  Unfortunately, all the bugs and flawed game design elements of the previous versions of NFS Carbon 
 have found their way into the Wii version.
  
  The excellent implementation of the Wii-mote for racing has created an innovative, fun and truly 
 unique racing experience which helps make up for the game's problems.
  
  If you've just picked up a brand new Wii and are itching for a satisfying racing experience, NFS 
 Carbon for the Wii is your best bet today! It has a fairly deep career mode but it's simplistic 
 multiplayer mode and buggy second half may only warrant a rental for people on a tight budget. 
 NFS Carbon Wii is easily recommendable to racing gamers who are looking for something exciting 
 and new or for people who want to see what sort of experience the Wii-mote is capable of delivering. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
