-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 2K9
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/sports/nhl2k9/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Wii Nunchuk control does a great job of simulating real skating.
 Challenging on the ice, if not particularly smart or realistic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Awkward passing and shooting with the Wii Remote.
 AI problems and some cheap scoring.
 Visuals are in need of a serious overhaul.
 Play-by-play commentary is repetitive and the soundtrack spectacularly grating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 22, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.5, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 196 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Developer: Visual Concepts
Genre: Ice Hockey Sim
Date: Sep 8, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NHL 2K9 on the Wii boasts some innovative controls but suffers from serious AI problems. 

  Time travel just became possible, at least for hockey fans. Toss NHL 2K9 into any console system 
 and you'll immediately feel transported back to 2006, which seems to have been the last year that 
 any significant improvements were made to this hockey series. This so-so look at the Canadian national 
 pastime actually turns away from realism to embrace a more old-time arcade-hockey feel with streamlined 
 controls and single-minded AI. Although the Nintendo Wii version of the game mixes things up a 
 bit with a natural control system that uses both the Wii Remote and the Nunchuk, this addition 
 doesn't make the action on the ice feeling any more like real hockey. The game presents you with 
 a good challenge, though it seems like what remains of the realistic NHL 2K games of the past is 
 being slowly erased.  

           This four-on-four mode doesn't feel as different as it should from regular matches because 
 the pond is surrounded by an invisible Plexiglas wall.      

  Although this is the first NHL 2K game to be released for the Wii, the modes of play are almost 
 identical to those offered in 2007 for the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and PlayStation 2. The only 
 big addition this year is Zamboni races between periods, a goofy novelty that you'll likely try 
 once and then forget that it exists. Special games now include being able to play three-on-three 
 in a pint-size minirink, four-on-four pond hockey, and a solo shootout. However, none of these 
 options are more than moderately diverting. The minirink is so small that games are nonstop breakaways 
 from one end to the other, and the pond is simply a bland sheet of outdoor ice surrounded by snowbanks 
 and invisible glass that still clangs every time you shoot the puck high and wide. Ahh, nothing 
 says "outdoor hockey" like the synthetic bang of Plexiglas.  

  Franchise and Season modes on the Wii haven't evolved much since previous games on other systems. 
 Granted, these options were pretty deep last year, particularly when it came to the implementation 
 of the NHL's labyrinthine salary-cap regulations and tough contract negotiations. But there are 
 no refinements or serious additions here, and they are sorely needed, given the continuing mess 
 that is the interface. The game has taken on a minimalist look, with menus that pop up only on 
 demand, and though this looks clean, there are no permanent onscreen icons to indicate which button 
 you have to hit to pull up which menu. Even when you do come to grips with menu navigation, too 
 much of the information that you need is buried. The biggest problem is the lack of a central hub 
 screen on which you can get a quick look at all of the big news from across the league. You shouldn't 
 have to go looking for vital information such as who's been dumped to waivers, who's been traded, 
 and who's gone to the injured reserve list.           Zamboni racing is a new but not even remotely 
 compelling feature.      

  The Wii version makes use of the Wii Remote and the Nunchuk to give you more natural control over 
 players than on other consoles -- or so the theory goes. The Wii controls actually get it only half 
 right. Being able to use the Nunchuk to skate is a great idea because you can use your thumb to 
 fly around effortlessly and pull off sharp turns like the pros. This is a huge improvement over 
 using a standard gamepad's analog stick. But using the remote to handle all stick-related actions 
 is disastrous. It's incredibly awkward to pass with an onscreen cursor that you use to target teammates. 
 The game is simply too fast for you to control a puck-carrying player and move a cursor around 
 at the same time. It's a lot like you're controlling two players simultaneously. Shooting is also 
 problematic. Although pulling the remote back and pushing it forward to rip off slap shots is fulfilling, 
 the shooting controls are so touchy that you are forever winding up even when you want to just 
 push forward and take a wrist shot. It's nearly impossible to pull off any deke moves down low 
 or in the shootout.  

  Wii controls never feel natural, even after hours of playing. The passing is such a pain that you 
 wind up using it only when breaking out of your zone. From the red line in, it's easiest to forgo 
 playmaking to instead hog the puck, using the slick Nunchuk thumbstick to perform Savardian spin-o-ramas 
 and then using the Wii Remote to hammer slap shots on the net from all over the ice. Of course, 
 this results in a really mind-numbing brand of hockey. Games feel more like casual shinnies with 
 a few players out there hotdogging than they do real five-on-five hockey games. The only truly 
 successful use of the Wii controllers is with fighting. Using the Nunchuk for balance and the remote 
 to throw haymakers is both realistic and a lot of fun when you want to let off steam in a close 
 game.     

   

  All of this control customization doesn't help NHL 2K9 on the ice. Although the Wii version is 
 smoother to play when it comes to skating because its controls nicely eliminate the weird speed 
 disconnect and clutch-and-grab vibe plaguing its 360 and PS3 cousins, poor hockey sense from the 
 artificial intelligence remains a big problem. Everything is too forthright and simple-minded for 
 games to feel much like real hockey. Both offense and defense are tight enough to offer you a challenge, 
 but neither are the slightest bit realistic. AI offense is all about going to the net. Although 
 there's nothing wrong with hard-nosed hockey, computer players almost always forgo making passes 
 for taking a beeline to the slot. So you can generally shut down the opposition by simply gooning 
 the puck carrier and forcing a turnover. Defense is just as mindless. Computer defenders constantly 
 hit you with heavy pressure, smothering you so effectively that you always have somebody hanging 
 off of your shoulder pads. Such tough defense also makes all of the teams in the game play in the 
 same style. You go into Montreal for a game with the high-flying, no-D Habs and they're playing 
 the exact same trap-like system as the "defense first, last, and always" Minnesota Wild.  

           Goalies are overly prone to lackluster performances.      

  Goalie wonkiness is another 
 problem. Meltdowns between the pipes aren't uncommon in the real NHL, but the number of flaky performances 
 by top-flight goalies here is simply too high to believe. In the franchise games we played, even 
 first-rate goalies such as Carey Price and Vesa Toskala crashed and burned every few starts. They 
 would go through stretches in which they couldn't stop beach balls and would surrender goals on 
 wristers from the hash marks and wide-open slappers from the point. Whenever one of these softies 
 went in, you had to get out the hook, too; you could just about bet the house that the back of 
 the net would soon fill up with rubber. Odd-man rushes appear to contribute to the cheap-goal issues. 
 Whenever the computer goes down the ice on a two-on-one or three-on-one, it seems as if the chance 
 to score artificially increases. So even if the computer doesn't get off a half-decent shot, or 
 you get back and break up the rush, you can bet the farm on your netminder letting one trickle 
 through the wickets or whiffing at a floater heading for the top corner.  

  With all that said, there is still something about NHL 2K9 that rings true. On-ice action can feel 
 close to that of the actual NHL at times. Likewise, there are moments when the Nunchuk makes you 
 feel like you're really skating. Do some serious tweaking of the game-setting sliders and you can 
 hack the game into something approximating real hockey. And players can perform like their real-life 
 counterparts in astonishing ways. Curtis Joseph may be just a backup at his advanced age, but he 
 still pulls off his trademark windmill glove saves every now and then. Brendan Shanahan fires his 
 killer snap shot coming down the wing. And Sidney Crosby flops and draws cheap penalties.  

  Nevertheless, you sure won't mistake the appearance of NHL 2K9 players for those in an actual 
 NHL broadcast. This game is blurry, loaded with jagged edges, and plagued with animation slowdowns. 
 Player faces are roughly hewn Cro-Magnon takes on real people, bodies are so angular and blocky 
 that they seem like Frankensteins stuffed into too-tight equipment, and names and numbers on jerseys 
 are far too small and stretched out. Animations look natural, at least, although there are many 
 occasions when the frame rate hitches, or when everything slows down to nearly slo-mo speeds.  
 

           The player models aren't nearly as good as their animation.      

  Audio is just as ugly. Crowd noise is a mumbling mash so jumbled up at times that you can't make 
 out chants like "Go Leafs, go!" Play-by-play commentary is beyond annoying.  Hockey Night in Canada 
  legends Bob Cole and Harry Neale have been dropped for the San Jose Sharks' local team of Randy 
 Hahn and Drew Remenda, who do nothing but repeat generic phrases that tell you very little about 
 what's going on. The duo recycle lines, rarely mention players by name, and use a lot of weird 
 affectations such as a faux-French pronunciation of "Canadiens" and forever calling some teams 
 only by nicknames (it's "Blues," not "Bluenotes"!) . Soundtrack tunes are even more aggravating; 
 the developer seems to think that all hockey fans are extreme-sports dudes who listen to nothing 
 but the likes of The Offspring, Bad Religion, and Mastodon. Also, "Bad Boys" (the  Cops  theme) 
 plays during fights and almost every time somebody heads to the sin bin.  

  It's hard to categorize NHL 2K9 as anything but a disappointment. Even though it will give you 
 a tough game on the ice, the gameplay just isn't very realistic. All the Wii version seems to add 
 to the mix is slightly different (not better) controls that can lead to a monotonously simple-minded 
 offense and defense. You can sit this one out and see what next year brings.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: griffinboy846
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 4:30 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2K9 is on the Wii. So, it must be fun, you ask? It is kinda fun, but not for long.
  One thing you'll notice about this game is the fact that there aren't very many modes. You've got 
 Quickplay, Franchise, Season, Mini-Rink, Pond-Hockey, Shootout, and Training. In mini rink and 
 pond hockey, you allowed to fill in what players you want. Pond hockey has 3 players , while mini 
 rink has 5.
  Both have no music. So all you hear is the puck hitting the post or crossbar. In the PS2 NHL 09 
 shootout mode, you could have music playing while you play. And i know mini rink and pond hockey 
 aren't just shootouts, but still, can there be music at least?
  Do the Wii controls work? Sometimes. You point at other players on your team to pass, and press 
 A to actually pass. When you pass, right when you get the puck, wave the Wii-mote like you are 
 actually preforming a one-timer, and you will preform one. That also scores goals quickly, and 
 also wrap-arounds. You shoot the puck like you are actually shooting a puck. (But for slapshots 
 you hold B, and then shoot.) Some other actions are to check, stuff like that, some other buttons 
 are to poke check, stuff like that. There is fighting. To deke you wave the nunchuck left or right.
 
  Then there are the old teams, like the 91' Minnesota North Stars, the 01' Colorado Avalanche, 
 and a lot of other old teams. It's fun to play as these old teams, but, if you know the year of 
 the team you are putting in the game, and you have offense, defense, and overall ratings for those 
 teams, should'nt you HAVE the names of those players, from, like the 91' teams, or the 80-somethin' 
 teams? They probably have the names of the players from the 2000's old teams (01' Avalanche, and 
 i think some other teams that are like, 03' team, or 00' team) , but no names of the players from 
 the older teams! Except for a few players on those teams, the players are refrenced as "Left Wing" 
 and "Goalie". ?? Why can't they have the names like in NHL 09 where for those 100 year canadiens 
 players, where they gave the names for those players (like Dryden) . 100 years of some of the best 
 players! Yet 2K can't identify the players from the 91' Northstars.
  Also, how about some ONLINE play?!
  A Zamboini mini-game is a new feature that they made. The 
 Zamboini controls clumsy.
  So, let me get this straight, they opted for a Zamboini mini-game, instead of trying to have online 
 features? What the?
  Players look generic, so does the crowd, the jersery's on the team select screen look grainy.
 
  The AI! When you play this game, expect the goalies to let in awful goals. Once, the puck was 
 right in front of the goalie, sliding on the ice. He stares at it, and, right when it is about 
 to pass the goal line, he tries to glove save it. He lets it go to the line before he tries to 
 save it? Aother bad goal happened when the puck when on the goalie's left knee pad, there was the 
 puck. He moves his leg, the puck comes out, he tries to save it, but... goal.
  In my opinion, don't buy this game. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: countdouku1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Finally a hockey game registered by the nhl and nhlpa for the wii, it's about time. First of all 
 i'll talk about the graphics. The graphics are terrible. The players all look the same. Thankfully 
 the gameplay make up for the bad graphics. The game controls are pretty cool but not everyone likes 
 them. I love the way that you do shots and hits it's cool. i find 2k trax has some good bands like 
 penny wise and off spring. i also think the awards are cool too. The game has pretty fun modes 
 too. franchise mode and season mode are good. i like pond hockey and mini rink too. i find shoot 
 out mode is the best. i like how you get try to block the shots and then go up deke shoot and score. 
 i thought 2k sports got lazy on some of the classic and internationol teams. they got the numbers 
 but they called the guys defence men center or right or left wing. despite the faults of this game 
 may have it was a good game. maybe next year ea will make hockey for the wii and 2k and ea will 
 both make great hockey games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmjkl22
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 1, 2009 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for X-Mas and the next day I returned it that's how bad it is! Why 'cause it's 
 some of the Wii's worst graphics, cheap scoring, crappy controls, and its probably the worst hockey 
 game of all time! So there is no reason to buy this game and I was siked for this game 'cause i'm 
 a big hockey fan and stuff but this game was just disastrous so if your lookin' for terrible hockey 
 game that will rip you off in so many ways you should get this game but that's being nice for what 
 i've just said and if you like this game there is something wrong with you man you should get your 
 head checked man okay. So all in all this a all out bad game for everyone. So even if you where 
 siked for this game if you are a huge hockey fan and you LOVE the Wii like me trust me you don't 
 want this game at all so do me and the world of gaming a favor and do not I repeat do not get this 
 
   okay? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twilight_69
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 20, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Well to begin, Im a hockey fan and this being the only hockey game on the wii what choice did I 
 have but to try it. 
  
  The graphics are decent I guess for the wii, but could definitly have been better although there 
 was a small effort made for the designs on the goalers masks.
  
  A huge problem is that this game was half-mad. THey give the option of p^laying with older teams 
 of the franchises but they didnt put the names of the players so it takes away all the glory of 
 this option. 
  
  The controls are a bit clunky especially passes which seem to go backwards 3/4 of the time. Cross 
 checking is inexistent but tripping penalties are quite common. the deckes are vague and goals 
 are quite easy to score and most of the time either player will have a clue what happened. The 
 fights are pretty much punching and which player can shack the wiimote the fastest. Also the acceleration 
 of players is quite unclear as soemtimes theyll move fast but other times they wont move at all.
 
  
  Overall this game had potential but only a half effort was made. Hopefully EA will make a great 
 NHL 10 or 2K sports will fix this game and 2K10 could have great potential 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padrepride
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I was one of the people who were eagerly looking forward to a hockey game on the Wii. I bought 
 this game and had below average expectations because this was the first NHL 2K game on the Wii. 
 
  
  Gameplay:
  It's fun and addicting. Passing is pointing at the desired target and pressing A. A slap shot is 
 performed by holding B and swinging the wii-mote with your desired power. A wrist shot is performed 
 by a nice, simple flick of the wrist. I found that the games are pretty upbeat with the different 
 difficulty levels very diverse in AI performance. The Zamboni mini-game is addicting for me. It 
 is very hard to clean 100% of the ice. Fighting is very hard. There is a glitch in the fighting 
 where neither player ever goes down and the fight goes on forever until you reset your system. 
 Franchise mode is very immersive as it contains all the complicated NHL salary caps and contracts. 
 I would have liked to see an owner mode where you can also hire/fire coaches and build new arenas. 
 There is a very, very major problem in franchise where it freezes up. The only resolution to this 
 is to turn off injuries. But, if you had already started a season and it begins to freeze up, you're 
 screwed. I noticed this in other 2K games like MLB 2K8 for the Wii but in MLB it doesn't freeze 
 in the same place all the time like in NHL 2K9. The presentation of the menus was pretty terrible. 
 It was completely different than in other 2K sports games and it took a couple hours to get used 
 to. 
  
  Graphics:
  No one was expecting much after the screenshots we saw before the release. The game's menus look 
 terrible and some of the text is very, very small. The on-ice skaters and such look on-par with 
 Wii/Xbox caliber. The crowds are 2-d paper and don't do much moving which takes away from the atmosphere 
 of the games. The graphics better get better for next year's game.
  
  Sound:
  The menu soundtrack is just not my cup of tea except for one or maybe two songs. Also, there is 
 no way to change a track in the middle of the song like in MLB 2K8. The in-game commentary is pretty 
 terrible at some times. Playing in franchise mode, you're likely to hear the same thing many, many 
 times. The crowd noise is almost non-existent. For this game, I would mute the volume and play 
 your own tunes in the background.
  
  Lasting Impression:
  This is one fun game to play. For next years game, if they improve the graphics (a lot) , get some 
 new commentators, and choose a better soundtrack, and fix the freezing problem (please!!!) they'll 
 have one great game on their hands. For you hockey fans with only a Wii, you should look into buying 
 this game. But if you have a PS3 or a 360, look into NHL 09. It's the better game.... for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tvfan95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Last fall I was looking at the Wikipedia list of NHL 2K games and was, like many others, extremely 
 excited that 2K9 would be on Wii. For months I was hyped about it and couldn't wait for September 
 9th. Unfortunatly when the game was released most reviews were mixed to negative, which really 
 got me dissapointed. However I had been waiting too long for a hockey game on Wii and bought it 
 anyway. And when I got home, WOAH!!!!
  
  Despite the graphics being passable on the N64 and the different game modes limited, the gameplay 
 was superb and quite unique. Swinging the Wii-mote for shoots was fun and shaking for checks was 
 quite good. The fight were exciting, and the goaltending controls were quite nice. I also found 
 the zamboni mini-game to be a nice little feature.
  
  All in all, 2K truely did "Bring back the fun". If you like advance features you should avoid this 
 game, but if you want to just have a good buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazysheep23
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Excellent multiplayer capabilities and its just plain fun. The controls could be better but it 
 has the potential to become a classic. If you're thinking of buying it and you love hockey, get 
 it for sure. Its great, has all the right teams but the player and team creator could be better. 
 If you're choosing between Nhl 09 for the ps3 or 360 and Nhl 2k9 pick 09 but seeeing that NHL 2k9 
 is the only one for the wii its a good start. It is definetely better than Kids Sports Ice Hockey 
 but NHL 09 is at the top for sure. I'm not sure if I'll buy NHL 2k10 for Wii but if EA sports makes 
 a game for the Wii I will surely. If you do not need the game, then wait for a better, but for 
 now its a good start. Unfortunately, NHL 2k9 does not have Wi-Fi therfore it has its ups and downs. 
 Although the single-console multiplayer has lots of different modes and features. 
  
  EA Sports come on lets go, all of the hockey fans with WII's are waiting for a dream hockey game 
 for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  This game may just be one of the most Underappreciated game ever, why would people think that this 
 game is bad, I love this game so much sure the graphics are not the best, but this games gameplay 
 is so great, I love how you can play as the goalie, as well as that, you can also do one timeers, 
 it was hard at first, but if you practice it for awhile, then it should get easier.
  
  But also NHL 2K9 has alot more to offer, then most people think, I myself like this game alot, 
 I'm mostly playing NHL 2K9 right now since I like Hockey so much.
  
  NHL 2K9 is such a great game that I think needs to be look at like all of the other sports, when 
 is it going to be NHL's time in the sun.
  
  I know that this game may not be perfect, but it's still a great sport.
  
  But now on to the 
 Score, Yes this is the score I think NHL 2K9 desevers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tehnubbin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  It's been nearly two years of silence for the Wii in regards to an NHL title appearing on Nintendo's 
 little console that could. It seems odd, as hockey seems almost like it would be a perfect fit 
 on the Wii. Konami, EA and Nintendo have brought football (soccer, for the yanks) , 2K have brought 
 out two baseball games, EA's given basketball and American football a whirl, as well. Yet no one 
 has truly attempted hockey, at all. And so 2K has taken up the call to arms, and in doing so, brought 
 out a game that plays well... but looks like it fell out of the ugly tree and hit every branch on 
 the way down.
  
  So what works and what doesn't with NHL 2K9? Well, once the game boots up, you're asked to enter 
 your profile name, then pushed straight to the exhibition game screen to allow you quick access 
 to some pick up and play hockey. This is something that some will find very handy, as it's probably 
 part of the reason that they picked up this version as opposed to the other console versions available. 
 The main problem here is that you don't really see any other options available, and aside from 
 a tiny little bar at the bottom that tells you how to access the 2K Nav system, (by pressing the 
 C button) , you're not given any instruction on where to go and what to do. It's a minor gripe, 
 but I think that most users will agree that the interface here is just confusing and wrong.
  
  Another problem with the games menu system is that it doesn't support IR interface, at all. 
 You have to use the D-pad on the Wii remote for some things, and the analog stick on the nunchuk 
 for others, and it can often be confusing at first to figure out which one does which... especially 
 in the Franchise or season modes. Lack of IR support for the menu system in a game that supports 
 it for other facets of the game just seems inherently lazy and annoying. 
  
  Once you get sorted with the menus, things get better, as the actual gameplay is pretty intuitive, 
 and the controls function well MOST of the time. You can jump into some tutorials if you need to 
 practice any aspect of your game, and it's likely that you will. The game will teach you pretty 
 much every essential you need for hockey: How to bodycheck, shoot, deke, and pass. The one thing 
 that the game doesn't show you how to do, is take a faceoff. For this, you're on your own, because 
 nothing seems to work well enough for you to win more faceoffs than the AI, although multiplayer 
 is a bit less of a gamble. 
  
  After learning the basics, you can jump into Franchise, Season, Exhibition mode or try your hand 
 at some mini-games. There's not a lot of variety to the mini-games, and none of them are really 
 worth playing for any serious amount of time, but one playthrough is warranted just to check out 
 the modes anyway. The meat and potatoes here is in the Franchise and Season modes. Both are full 
 featured modes that have appeared in previous games in the 2K series, and 2K has done well to keep 
 them as deep and engaging as ever. Stat tracking, news items and all the frills of running a hockey 
 club are included and all function quite as you'd expect them to. However, the lack of IR menus, 
 again, makes editting lines, sorting through stats and running strategies for your team a huge 
 pain, and is often too confusing to bother with for most players. From what we've seen on other 
 consoles, it shouldn't be this difficult to make changes to your roster, and a simple point and 
 click (a la PES2008) would have suited this game much better. 
  
  So how does the game play once you've got everything set up just as you want it? Well, considering 
 all the negatives I've had to say about this game, and yet I still gave it a 7, I'd have to say 
 this is the part of the game that truly shines. The controls work very well, and IR passing is 
 a dream. It's accurate enough that you won't miss too many one-timers, but also realistic enough 
 that you won't hit passes every single time you try. Loading up passes between three players is 
 a simple task of holding the C button, then pressing A, then B, and strategically letting go of 
 the A then the B button to get it to the third player. It's easier than it sounds, and is one of 
 the more satisfying plays you can make when it works... which it does, most of the time. 
  
  Shooting is simple and fun, though a bit more depth would be nice in future titles. A wrister is 
 made by simply swinging the Wii remote, and a slap shot is made by holding down the B button, swinging 
 the Wii remote and letting go during the forward swing. Both feel right, but I still can't help 
 but feel there's something lacking in the controls when compared with the skill stick in EA's NHL 
 series. Deking is relatively easy as all you need to do is tilt the nunchuck, however, you'll find 
 that sometimes if you move your hand you'll find your skater deking without really prompting him 
 to do so, which can result in you losing the puck if this happens at the wrong time. 
  
  Defense is a little more unruly than the offense, but is still functional and again, relatively 
 easy and effective. Shaking the nunchuk to bodycheck an opponent feels good, if a bit underpowered 
 at times. It's a little more realistic that you're not sprawling opponents out with a simple check 
 but it can be hard to line up the checks with the analog stick while shaking the nunchuk, and this 
 results in a lot of weaker hits than you're likely used to, or expecting. Poke-checking is done 
 by using the B button, and hooking someone to slow up their offense from behind is used by shaking 
 the Wii remote. Poke checking is the most effective method to get the puck and works better than 
 trying to hook them, but both features function as they should.
  
  So we've got the gameplay, the feature set and interface covered. What about the games looks? Erm. 
 Well. They suck. The game looks absolutely terrible once you're on the ice, even in the cutscenes 
 of replays, and celebration sequences after you score a goal. Players are all generic looking in 
 nature, animations are absolutely stiff and appaulingly ugly, and the arena's don't have very much 
 to them at all. 
  
  The AI is also questionable. Goaltenders are poor at performing even the most elementary saves, 
 so you best brush up on those defensive skills early on, as you're going to need them. Defenders 
 left to their own devices often spend time in the corners of the rink and very rarely do they flatten 
 an opponent or attempt to stop them when on the breakaway. The knowledge that the goaltending AI 
 is incredibly dumb kind of takes away from the satisfaction of scoring a goal, because it doesn't 
 take much effort, at all. It's defending that will ultimately fulfill you, especially if you're 
 in net and taking on a sniper the caliber of Daniel Alfredson, or Ovechkin. 
  
  All in all, the only reason I can recommend the game at all, is that the controls are fun, interesting 
 and best of all, work. The experiences offered in franchise and season are good enough to warrant 
 a playthrough, but only on the tougher difficulty settings, as you'll often walk over the competition 
 in the easier settings. Being that this is the only NHL game on the Wii, it's really a no-brainer 
 for hockey fans to pick this one up and give it a shot. The gameplay is fun enough and deep enough 
 to keep fans happy, but the absolutely disgusting visuals, and poor AI mean that 2K still have 
 some work to do if they want people to come back for another season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jiggernauts
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I was able to finally get my hands on a copy of NHL 2K9 for the Nintendo Wii via rental. I have 
 purchased all my games to this point with virtually no renting, but for some reason I had a feeling 
 that I shouldn't do that in the case of NHL 2K9.. and thankfully I made the right decision. This 
 game has taken a sport and game that I have loved throughout the years, and threw it in the mud, 
 kicked it and then walked away. I truly can't understand how the passing system used in this game 
 was approved during any stage of development. Someone had to have noticed this system can't work. 
 While playing this game you can't just concentrate on playing the game of hockey, you must also 
 concentrate on the almost horrendous mini game of pointer controlling. My eyes constantly shifting 
 from puck, to offensive alignment, defensive alignment and tiny blue cursor, this is almost convulsion 
 inducing. This may be easier with time if it wasn't for the fact the shooting system is designed 
 to be played out like taking a real shot. This naturally means your no longer pointing at the screen. 
 So while there is just about to be a rebound since you had just taken a shot. You must watch the 
 mad dash of horribly designed blocky/fuzzy-ish players, clump into one area, find a little tiny 
 fuzzy black dot within this large ugly mess of characters.... annnnnd find your little blue cursor 
 so in case you get the rebound quick, you can make a quick pass out to the point in order to get 
 a one timer. This simply just doesn't work. You can't intelligently play a hockey game when the 
 controls used to play it, simply don't allow for the most basic of plays to work. This leads me 
 to believe that the people in charge of design and approving of the controls in this game, are 
 less intelligent than a minor hockey coach and the 10 year olds who are able to understand how 
 these plays happen. (Not that I'm saying 10 year olds and minor hockey coaches are stupid, I just 
 needed to make a point. Thank you to all the minor hockey coaches out there and good luck little 
 guys in your upcoming season) . Anyways..... If you are going to make a hockey game next year, remove 
 the IR passes. Or at least make it an option to play with or without it on. I just don't understand 
 how this was allowed. I do understand you had a deadline to make. And I'm not talking just about 
 the NHL season. I'm also talking about the deadline of beating NHL 09 out the door so people will 
 buy yours first just to get there fix, only to buy EA's after for a superior experience. It wouldn't 
 of been profitable to release after EA. But Wii owners would of understood if you took an extra 
 few months to get the controls right. You would still of had the entire Wii hockey market regardless 
 of release date. But at least with a delay Wii owners would want to purchase this game. Instead 
 of avoiding it at all cost. I have never written a review before but I felt as thought it was necessary 
 to warn the unsuspecting public of this atrocious attempt at a hockey game. Don't get me wrong 
 I'm sure the type of people who stare at blocks for hours while laughing then run into walls at 
 high speeds will love this game. Unfortunately anybody with proper motor skills and any hockey 
 knowledge needs to avoid this game at all costs. So please if you see this game do not buy it, 
 and if you see others about to buy it, stop them. This game cannot be purchased, Video game developers 
 cannot be rewarded for shipping cr*p like this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeman114
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2K9 is the first in the series to hit the Wii, that's all the positive things I have to say 
 about this game. The graphics are not that great and there are weird camrea angles everywhere. 
 Another thing is the weird control scheme, you have to point at the spot that you want to pass 
 to which is annoying and it takes to long to do it so your often going to lose the puck from a 
 pokecheck. They call it "Precision Passing", but that's only if you have enough time to pull it 
 off. And it's confusing how to slap-shot now, you have to hold down B and swing the wiimote without 
 letting go of B. If you do let go you will do a fake slapshot but if your used to other versions, 
 like me, you end getting that confused with a real slapshot. Another thing is the confusing Main 
 Menu, when select main menu, it just shows the main menu while it is paused... I call that laziness 
 with the game (I had my suspicions when the game loaded and it immideatly took me to the Play now 
 mode... It's definetly not worth the buy because of mediocre graphics, confusing control scheme 
 and confusing main menu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric1044
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  this is a really fun game. as a hockey fan i've been waiting forever for it. a little dissapointed 
 in the graphics though, you cant see a players face even when creating one, and goalies have no 
 necks. camera angles aren't the best. the controls work pretty well i'd say and i do enjoy playing, 
 hopefully next years will tweak it up a little better, but for now, this will do the trick... also 
 there are classic teams, but im pretty sure the players dont even have the right numbers or anything, 
 all i've used was the 93 leafs with out dougie gilmour, something id like to see is the generic 
 player just wearing #93, or #17 for wendal clark. but it is better than no classics i'll give them 
 that. this is a game for a real hockey fan who's desperate to play one on the wii. however if i 
 had a 360 as well as a wii, i would have chosen nhl 09 for sure. hopefully one day the 2k franchise 
 will be able to compete with a more hardcore game (cause bringing back then fun doesnt make much 
 sense, the EA versions are a lot of fun) overall i'm glad i got the game because it is very entertaining 
 and finally some hockey for the wii!
  
  
  
  (i just wish the leafs didnt suck so much, no sundin means NO offense!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goaliebrain
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Shot and Quick here: 2K's first Wii offering gives us an innovative control scheme, but unfortunately 
 gives us dated graphics and sound to put a big buzz kill on it. While the Wii may not be the graphics 
 powerhouse like the 360, I would still expect something on par with say, 2k5? Gameplay can usually 
 overcome graphics, but when you add it the tin can audio, its too much. Now for the positive. The 
 Wii control scheme is something I hope they stick with and fine tune for next years release. The 
 idea of using the screen to point at your players and pass seemed odd and unusable to me, but after 
 trying it, I must say it works rather well. The shot taking with the wii-mote takes a little getting 
 used to, but is also pretty fun when you get the hang of it. In all this might be a worthy competitor 
 (if the price point was a little lower) if not for the major step backwards you have to take in 
 gfx and sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gregdawg08
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  After waiting 3 years or so, I finally got my hands on an NHL game. Since I only own a Wii, I missed 
 out on the last few years of hockey fun, so I was glad I could go back to playing a NHL game. There 
 are many things I have enjoyed in this game, but a few things are missing or are lackluster. Here 
 are the positives:
  Fun controls are easy to use and enjoyable
  Very good music for a sports game
  Shootout mode is fun and fast paced
  Pond hockey and Mini 
 Rink mode allow you to play a fast and furious game with your friends
  Cool fanchise mode menu setup informs you about what's going on around the league easily
  Playable 
 for all difficulty levels
  Dekes and star moves are a lot of fun and add more scoring
  Decent graphics
  Fighting is fun
  Zamboni mini game is a good break during intermissions
 
  Checking is easy and enjoyable
  
  Now lets look at the negatives:
  No online mode, because the wii can't support it well
  Limited emotion from the players. Though 
 fist pumps and team bench jumps are present, the players barely smile when scoring a goal or winning 
 a fight, and the team rarily celebrates together on the ice by huddling and or high 5-ing.
  Graphical flaws occur sometimes, and look really bad
  Players stand on the ice during shootouts
 
  The crowd is shown to be flat when there is an aerial view
  Controls can sometimes delay and cause bad miscues
  Faceoffs are too easy
  
  Overall, its 
 a 7.75. The positives outway the negatives. It's a fun game to play on your own, or with family 
 or friends. If you own a wii, I recomend you get this and enjoy some great hockey!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thomasmoneyguy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is really what I expected from 2k. Their graphics have never been up to par, 
 and they are at about a PS2 level right now. I should know because I have NHL 2K8 for the PS2. 
 But I was very impressed by the on-ice intros before the game. They also improved on making the 
 arenas and ice surfaces a lot more realistic. Second, I just played this with my friend for about 
 an hour, and by the second period, the controls were able to really get me into the game. It is 
 really great as a multi-player game. Plus, the Zamboni intermission game is a great way to just 
 have some fun with it. Another plus is having the historical teams. They make the games a little 
 more interesting, believe it or not. Overall, if you have a Wii, your a hockey fan, and your not 
 looking for HD graphics or super-realism, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessehogie
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 9, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I had a lot of hopes for this game but I had my reservations. For the most part my reservations 
 were right. The graphics fall short mostly because its a Wii game. The controls are a step in the 
 right direction, but they feel too thrown together to really impress. Numerous glitches in the 
 game (sound stopping suddenly, announcers getting cut off) really make it feel thrown together. 
 The shooting movements feel natural but forced at the same time. I can see myself flicking the 
 Wiimote harder to try and force a harder shot, but it doesn't happen. Fighting is very frustrating, 
 doesn't feel intuitive at all. The passing is something I enjoyed. After some practice I was nailing 
 complex passing and shooting routes. This is a good start for a Wii based hockey game and I have 
 high hopes for the future. If they fine tune some of the obvious glitches and upgrade the graphics 
 a bit, they would have something great.
  
  UPDATE:
  
  I have been playing this game for a while and I have run into a glitch that totally kills everything. 
 While playing a season or franchise, your game will randomly freeze. No way to get out of it, you 
 have to unplug your Wii and start again. After the freezing starts, your saved game is fubar. I 
 thought this might be a one time deal, but it happens with every single saved game. Thought it 
 might be my disk, brought it back, got a new one, same deal. I spent some time searching for this 
 issue and it seems to be happening to a lot of people. Seriously 2K games, what gives? Why would 
 you release something with such a serious flaw? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomus68
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game, yesterday, and after 3 match and 1/2 hour of practice i won my firt game, pinguins 
 vs red wings and i had a lot of fun playing it.
  So this one is fun for me. but for owners of ps3 or xbox 360 and even wii owners this a game to 
 rent firt. I have no doubt that the EA version of nhl 09 if far superior, but i guess i will have 
 to wait next year, if EA decide to make a wii version. 
  Graphic are not fantastic but not that bad, for the controls, you have to get use of it, but after 
 a while, i manage to score a few goals :b
  
  Im sure that next year, it will a better year for hockey fans and Wii owners :)
  
  (en francais) 
 en gros, nhl 2k9 pour la wii, j'ai t agrablement surpris, mais puisque on est tous diffrent, 
 je suggre de le louer avant. le jeu  49$ n'est pas donn quand mme.
  a va vous prendre au moins 1/2 avant de vous habituer aux controles et aux graphiques qui ne sont 
 pas si pire en passant, mais aprs vous risquerez de voir gagner votre quipe prfre (avec grande 
 joie) ... go! habs go! ;b
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: legochip10
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  A pretty good game, but it's probably not as good as NHL 09 is. This is my first NHL game since 
 2003. I didn't really get into hockey that much till 2 years ago and there weren't any NHL games 
 for Gamecube or Wii that were recent. So since I have a Wii I got this because I don't have an 
 Xbox or PS3. 
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10 Great gameplay. Swing the remote to take a wrist shot, hold B and swing for a 
 slapshot. Use the D-pad to control your stick. All of these work pretty well but at times can be 
 delayed. There are times where the controls are confusing. LIKE THE FACEOFFS! It took me 10 games 
 to finally realize how to do faceoffs. You swing the remote just so it's a little bit early because 
 the control is delayed for some reason when you faceoff which is annoying. But besides that gameplay 
 is great and slapshots feel good to wind off and shoot to. It's one of those sports games where 
 you say "ok one more game" (after the next one) "one more game" which keeps me addicted in a way.
 
  
  Sound: 7.5/10 Sounds of the crowds and goal horns sound good. The music is decent in the game but 
 some of the songs get annoying.
  
  Graphics: 6/10 ... ok one of the things that made people furious about the game. The graphics are 
 good at some points where the shots run smooth at times and thats pretty good. But the major problem 
 is that it looks so blurry and has few textures to anything. Other than that the game includes 
 refections of lights off the ice, helmets and glass which is a little impressive. 
  
  Overall: 8/10 Hopefully next year all the problems of the game are resolve. But for right now if 
 you have an Xbox 360 or PS3 I would suggest that you get NHL 09. But if you only have a Wii and 
 really want an NHL game then you might want to check this out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stratmancj
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 11, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  Not much positive to say about this game except ... finally there is hockey on the Wii. The controls 
 are horrible and can not be customized. You have to use the motion controls with the Wii Remote 
 in the game. Face offs are very difficult to get down, and the use the same motion as a shot so 
 I find that most of the time when I win one, the player automatically takes a shot from wherever 
 he is. Shooting requires shaking the Wii remote, and checking requires shaking the nun chuck. Why 
 can't they just use a button for check, would be much easier. There is no online game play at all, 
 because they "waned to focus on getting the controls down." Thanks a lot for that 2K. The graphics 
 are sub par, similar to the last hockey game I owned, NHL 2002 on the original XBOX. Also, there 
 is a bug where it has trouble auto saving. I have seen a lot of complaints about this one on message 
 boards. If you only have a Wii and really need a hockey game, buy it. Otherwise, wait till next 
 year when EA does it right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdwester
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 12, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  After years of waiting, wii owners are finally being treated to their first taste of NHL action. 
 Unfortunitly this tasty little treat is going to make you sick.
  
  I own a wii and didn't have anything close to high expectations for the graphics and I was still 
 shocked at site of NHL 2K9. It's a gong show. Blurry, discolored, poorly animated, pixelated, slow 
 moving, crap. The best looking part is the load screen, so enjoy.
  
  Even with this, I held out hope that the innovative controls would deliver a fresh hockey expierence. 
 And they did in some respects. I found hitting was a pain, but the rest, passing, shooting, blocking 
 was fun. But be prepared, the movement accuracy you enjoy in others hockey games doesn't exist 
 hear. Think Timbits.
  
  There are a couple features, ie franchise, pond hockey, ect. But who really cares when the game 
 looks and plays like a dogs breakfast. As for me, I going to spend the next hour re-wrapping this 
 thing, and taking it back. Still more fun than the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffemt215
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  i had high expectations for this game, since ive ben weighting for a hocky game on the wii ever 
 since i heard of the wii. ill start off with the Cons.
  
  Cons: graffics, yes i know i shouldnt expect much but its just down right blurry, come on the wii 
 aint as weak as the game developers think it is. i wasnt expecting xbox360 graffics but i also 
 wasnt expecting 2k5 graffics ither. but the good side. THATS THE ONLY CON.
  
  PROS: controlls are responsive and become second nature just after a few games. flick wrist for 
 wrist shot, hold B while flick for slap shot. Being the Goalie is also new and exiting and fun 
 for once. u get a chance to block everyshot if u want.
  
  All in all the game is a good first try, i just cant get passed the graffics but hey its there 
 first try on wii so next year i expect big improvements after they see how hudge the market is. 
 but worth the money. GO PENS!!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
