-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/nightsjourneyofdreams/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Smooth, satisfying flight-based gameplay.
 Some clever level designs mix things up.
 Beautiful artistic design and superb musical score.
 Fun, interesting boss encounters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Second-rate on-foot platforming sequences.
 Some levels are on the mediocre side.
 Motion controls not implemented very well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 48 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 712 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Dec 18, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It may not have the same magic as its lauded predecessor, but Journey of Dreams is still a fun, 
 if inconsistent platformer that positively drips with style. 

  NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams is a beautiful, sweet-hearted game with a warm, chewy center that's tough 
 to resist. As the titular inhabitant of Nightopia, you'll give chase across a variety of gorgeously 
 crafted environments, befriend two children piecing their hearts back together, and ultimately 
 prove that friendship is something to be valued and trusted. You'll probably smile much of the 
 time you play, thanks to all of this good-natured charm. But you won't be all smiles: Journey of 
 Dreams, for all its visual dreaminess and elegant simplicity, trips itself up with some surprisingly 
 awkward levels and a Wii-centric control option that detracts from the game rather than enhances 
 it. The game will keep you in a good mood, though, so forgiving its faults is an easy task in light 
 of its breezy gameplay and a handful of excellent boss fights.  

           Rocket man burning out his fuse up here alone.      

  As in 1996's NiGHTS Into Dreams, 
 the game's Sega Saturn predecessor, you will play as two different children whose stories intersect. 
 This time, those kids are Will and Helen, both of whom have some parental issues to sort out, and 
 both of whom enter the dream world of Nightopia while they slumber. Nightopia is under attack by 
 the evil Nightmaren, the followers of an evil, hulking entity named Wizeman. It's up to Will and 
 Helen, who can merge with an androgynous jester named Nights, to defeat Wizeman, free Nightopia, 
 and retrieve their scattered ideya -- orbs that represent different aspects of their hearts. If you're 
 a fan of the original, this probably sounds familiar, and indeed, it owes a lot to the basic premise 
 of the Saturn game. On the other hand, some of the dialogue is simply cheesy.  

  Most of the dream worlds you visit are split into five levels. The first level is where you will 
 find the familiar Nights gameplay that fans have looked back nostalgically upon for years. Here, 
 you soar through the air as Nights, navigating through rings and collecting blue chips. Blue chips 
 are no longer the key to completing the level, however. Now, you must free Nights from imprisonment 
 by chasing birdlike Nightmaren guards. These guards possess keys that unlock a series of three 
 cages, and to complete the level, you must unlock them all before time runs out. The game never 
 makes it quite clear why you have to unlock these cages once Nights is free from his original trappings, 
 and fans may miss the clearly defined, story-driven purpose of the similar levels in the game's 
 predecessor. Yet it still provides a satisfactory backdrop for Journey of Dreams' flight-based 
 gameplay.  

  Nights flies on rails, so in terms of horizontal movement, he is always on a straight path -- though 
 you do have plenty of room to maneuver him vertically. You can do this with any Wii-supported controller: 
 Wii Remote only, remote and Nunchuk, Classic controller, or GameCube controller. The remote-only 
 scheme is the only one that puts the system's motion controls to use, unless you count the amusing 
 but pointless acrobatic moves also available in the remote-and-Nunchuk scheme, which are performed 
 by tilting the remote. Too bad the most Wii-specific control method is easily the most cumbersome. 
 Gliding in this manner involves pointing a large, blue focus cursor in the direction you wish to 
 move and holding the A button to fly forward. You can get used to it in time, but it feels, amusingly 
 enough, much too floaty in light of the more precise movement afforded by the other methods. Considering 
 the precision needed to earn a high grade on each level, flying is best accomplished using the 
 analog stick on your alternate controller of choice. Even then, however, the octagonal cutout around 
 the analog sticks on all of these controllers can get in the way of truly precise maneuvering. 

  Once you get settled in with your preferred controls, you'll find Journey of Dreams is an often 
 joyous experience. You'll soar through some lush, colorful dream worlds, from a fragile land of 
 glass to a Broadway-inspired neon utopia. You will often interact with elements of these worlds 
 in clever ways, such as bumping into huge floating billiard balls or having to watch your reflection 
 in the mirror to collect blue chips and fly through rings. These levels will also mix things up 
 by changing perspective (suddenly, you may be facing upward and zooming toward the clouds) or transforming 
 you into another object such as a train car (for some literal on-rails action) . It's simple but 
 effective, and the game's smooth sense of speed and collection of goodies to discover will keep 
 you engaged.  

  Nights does have a few tricks up his sleeve. You can execute a drill dash, which sends a spinning 
 Nights zooming forward at a quick pace, though you need to keep your dash power gauge filled by 
 flying through rings. You can also perform a loop to capture the various items within the shimmering 
 circle you create, and even transform into a couple of different forms, such as a rocket or a dolphin. 
 Some of these moves come in most handy during Journey of Dreams' excellent selection of boss fights. 
 In each world, you actually encounter bosses twice -- an easier version in the first level, and a 
 more challenging version in the final one. Considering Nights' small collection of special moves, 
 boss fights are surprisingly fun. In one, you attach yourself to a gigantic and apparently helium-filled 
 jester and fling him upward (it's more fun and challenging than it sounds) . In another, you roll 
 black cats into holes in an amusing Marble Madness-inspired confrontation. Not all of them are 
 consistently enjoyable -- the second appearance of the chameleon boss jumps to mind -- but for the 
 most part, the boss fights are enjoyable and memorable. And if you are a fan of NiGHTS Into Dreams, 
 you will be pleased to know that the final boss is a familiar one (and perhaps less pleased to 
 know that another crowd favorite is nowhere to be found) .  

  The chase levels and boss fights are mostly great. The intermittent levels... well, not so much. 
 In some cases, they're obvious filler, like trying to fly through the rings an octopaw leaves behind. 
 Others are boring, such as the traditional (and bland) platforming levels in which you directly 
 control Will and Ellen. A prime example is the on-foot Broadway level, in which you play as Will 
 and must lead Ellen across a tedious, annoying sequence of jumping and orb-switching. And in some 
 cases, such as an infuriating level where you have to play a tune by hitting musical notes, things 
 get downright frustrating. It's admirable that developer Sonic Team tried to throw in variety, 
 but the game too often veers from its obvious and impressive strengths and journeys into mediocrity. 
 If these levels were the exception rather than the rule, they would be easier to swallow, but they 
 constitute three of the five levels in each dream world.  

  Once you're done with the two campaigns (which takes around five hours or so if you don't bother 
 collecting dreamdrops or gunning for higher grades) , you can fool around with some of the game's 
 multiplayer options. Race mode is the better of the two multiplayer game types, and you can speed 
 toward your goal against a friend locally in split-screen, or against a friend or random player 
 over the Internet. In battle mode, you simply fly around and throw balloons at each other -- certainly 
 not the most entertaining activity. The most fascinating online feature is My Dream, a meadow filled 
 with nightopians you've collected during the campaign. You can visit other players' dreams, take 
 your nightopians as gifts, and even communicate with your buddy with emoticons. You can even sync 
 your dream with the local weather. Not that such a visit adds anything to the gameplay proper, 
 but it's still an amusing distraction.  

  Visually speaking, Journey of Dreams is deliciously vibrant. Each dream world is unique and colorful 
 without veering from the overall art design. From beautiful underwater vistas to a busy carnival 
 complete with exploding fireworks, environments are created with painstaking care. Nights is smoothly 
 animated, though in the ground levels, the children don't move as fluidly. Cutscenes are also well 
 done and often poignant, thanks to expressive facial animations. You will encounter frequent moments 
 where the frame rate dips a tad, but it doesn't usually get in the way of smooth flight.  

           It's a bird! It's a plane! It's a... well... we're not really sure what it is.      

 
  Not enough can be said about the stupendous soundtrack, which features both updated tracks from 
 NiGHTS Into Dreams and new, equally fantastic tunes. In fact, its sound design is Journey of Dreams' 
 finest feature, not just due to the evocative soundtrack, but also to some high-quality voice acting. 
 Not that Nights' vocal personification will be everyone's cup of tea. As previously mentioned, 
 the jester is genderless (though we've referred to Nights as "he" for purposes of this review) , 
 and the accompanying voice is, well, correspondingly confused. But whether you think Nights sounds 
 like a young woman or a young boy, it's a good fit for the character. The children are also nicely 
 acted, as are familiar personalities like Reala and Wizeman. The only real blemish is the constant, 
 annoying cackling of a few of the boss characters.  

  Journey of Dreams is not a difficult game, though it does have its challenging moments, particularly 
 within some of the more esoteric boss battles. It also has a number of minor issues. Most cutscenes 
 are unskippable; if you continue the first dream level to the boss but lose, you can't start at 
 the boss -- you have to repeat the whole thing from the beginning. And so on and so forth. Yet despite 
 these issues and other minor quirks that will have purists up in arms (Where's Jackle? Why was 
 the giant alarm clock replaced with awakers?) , NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams is a good, enjoyable romp 
 through a clever collection of beautiful worlds. Playing it makes you feel warm and cozy, a nice 
 treat indeed for the holiday season.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (58 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: conqurer6493
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I may be giving this game a little more leeway due to the fact that I haven't played the original 
 NiGHTS but to be quite honest, this game is inexplicably more fun than it appears to be "On Paper" 
 First off, the game is gimmicky; In a good way. There are a lot of different obstacles, and while 
 some are functionally the same, the aesthetic difference is still worth noting simply for the appeal 
 of the look. However, Bosses share little to no difference with each other, and may at times have 
 very strange and hard weaknesses. Ever heard of a boss who's weakness is a tilt puzzle? No? There's 
 my point. However, the on-foot levels are the game's only real shortcoming. While they're a good 
 change of pace initially, don't expect to be going back to those levels because they're so much 
 fun. Yes, they may have some rather tricky obstacles, but once you get past them, they'll lose 
 their charm like any other beaten puzzle. As for the flight segments, don't be put off by the fact 
 that it's on rails. There's plenty of variance, potentially more than you would think possible. 
 Long story short, give this one a chance. While it doesn't totally justify spending $50, buying 
 this one secondhand, renting it or if at all possible, getting it out from a library are great 
 options.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Value: 6/10
  Tilt: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 12:11 am PT
Review:  Sonic team develops a lot of Sonic games and are have grown to be known as that team that keeps 
 releasing lack-luster Sonic rehashes. That's almost what Nights feels like, a lackluster Sonic 
 game. 
  
  The story is a typical Japanese non-anime story, whose dialog has been translated, without a proper 
 English rewrite. The characters aren't given a lot of time and energy to develop themselves, and 
 the story wraps around what might as well be two faceless children who are dreaming the events 
 of the game. 
  
  The level design is very bipolar. The boss battles are fantastic, and well thought out. However, 
 the regular levels are repetitive, easy and kinda boring. Your character, Nights, flies through 
 the worlds that you are playing and goes through rings. These rings give him/her (I can't really 
 tell) boost power to catch up with a bird in the level from whom you have to steal keys used to 
 exit the level. That describes most of the regular level designs. There are also some levels that 
 grade you on how well you fly through the rings you encounter, but there is no clear instruction 
 ever given on how these rings are counted when you fly through them. On this second level type 
 you will find yourself losing and not really knowing why. 
  
  The good news is that this game is fantastically kid friendly, even more-so than Sonic games. Your 
 character never dies, you simply just run out of time. All the damage that your character takes 
 is deducted as time from your remaining time balance. Also, the art direction is very reminiscent 
 of the first Nights game, which is a great thing. 
  
  Many of the powers that you earn throughout the game don't seem to have much of a use, except maybe, 
 helping you improve your best times on the individual levels. Because of this, you tend to forget 
 that Nights can turn into a rocket.. etc. On the flipside, these powers are required to beat the 
 final boss, so in the end the powers just seem poorly planned. 
  
  There are a handful of levels that require you to traverse areas using the two dreaming kids. These 
 are very rudimentary platform levels that control terribly and really don't add much to the experience. 
 
  
  I liked Nights, but I felt like Sega didn't want me to like Nights. It felt like it was developed 
 for Japan and as an after thought it was ported to America, just to make a little more scratch. 
 While its a welcomed departure from the monotony of annual Sonic games, Nights doesn't have the 
 same spark that it once did. Maybe that's due to the gaming world not needing a title like Nights, 
 or maybe it's just not a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travisstaggs
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2009 10:06 pm PT
Review:  So I bought this game a long while back and I never did feel like reviewing it till now, so lets 
 begin shall we, and on a side note if you find the original get it not this.
  
  Graphics 8/10: Beautiful graphics and environments.
  
  Gameplay 8.5/10: The gameplay takes 
 awhile to get use to but once you learn it you'll have it down like nothing.
  
  Sound 10/10: I love the music in this game one of the best soundtracks for a game I've heard in 
 a long time.
  
  Replay Value 4/10: Once you beat it you'll more then likely never play it again except maybe race 
 on multiplayer mode with somebody.
  
  Overall 7/10
  
  REVIEW:
  So you loved the NiGHTS for the Saturn a super long time ago and you still have a thirst for another 
 NiGHTS game? Then look no more here it is! Alright enough with the dorky intros lets get down to 
 this game short and simple first off the pros of the game beautiful sound, beautiful graphics, 
 fun gameplay, now with the cons got to beat the clock annoyance which is the only real con but 
 its a big one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: so_hai
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 2, 2009 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Beautifully rendered cut-scenes welcome players to this game. Through them, we are introduced to 
 a modern London-type city as well as the two protagonists of the game: a boy named Will, and a 
 girl named Helen. They are both symbols of innocence, yet each has their own personal problems 
 with which to deal with. Will has a major (and unhealthy?) attachment to his father, while Helen 
 has a conflict between spending time with friends or her violinist mother. There is an attempt 
 to weave these personal conflicts into the story and game-play, and we are taken on a journey the 
 long-way-'round to resolve them. Does it sound odd? Well wait, it gets stranger still.
  
  As the prologue winds-up, we are plopped into the "Dream Gate"  a modern gaming convention. This 
 is the master stage-select area of the game. A flowing fountain in the middle of a classic courtyard 
 is surrounded by a handful of ornamental wooden doors. These represent the opening to each zone 
 or area in the game. It's like the Observatory in Super Mario Galaxy, and is similar to countless 
 other games out there. As Helen or Will, you can mess about in this halfway-world collecting chips 
 or exploring the scenery. But this area revealed a short-coming for me in the shape of the controls 
 for Will/Helen. They feel "light" to touch, and jump unrealistically with mid-air direction change 
 that would make Megaman jealous.
  
  Disappointingly, a silly and decidedly poorly rendered owl character is the voice of reason in 
 this title. He greats your selected character and attempts to give you a run-down on the dream-world 
 in which you have found yourself, (even though his knowledge is far from complete) . I am always 
 let-down when these sorts of characters are used because they too are a convention, all the way 
 down to the silly round glasses and dry, pompous English characterisation. I wonder what a bumbling, 
 foolish and reckless owl character would come across like! Besides, after playing quality titles 
 such as Super Mario Galaxy, you notice how inexpertly this owl has been constructed. But enough 
 about the damn bird
  
  Helen or Will "dualize" in order to become one with "NiGHTS". And just what does that mean? Well, 
 in the "dream world", you need to become and control this character in order to fulfil the various 
 missions presented to you. So who is NiGHTS? It is a flying, acrobatic, androgynous, British jester 
 with skin-tight purple garb and eyeballs as large as apples, that's who. It flies about the place 
 in order to protect the Nightopians from the Nightmarens (obviously!) . Just why they need Will 
 or Helen's help is something I never quite picked up on, but nevertheless you're in way over your 
 head before you know it.
  
  Once you've become NiGHTS, you can fly about the place by either aiming with the Wii remote on-screen, 
 or by using the stick on the nunchuk controller. Most people seem to prefer the latter method due 
 to the non-responsiveness of the former, (this seems to be the current trend for Wii titles!) . 
 It is shown side-on and it is the player's job to line it up with the inexhaustible supply of "rings" 
 and "blue chips" that are thrown at you. Flying thorough and collecting these things quickly allows 
 you to gain combo scores or "links" as they're called in this game. And that's about the size of 
 the game-play  you are either flying cleverly, speedily or accurately in order to fulfil whatever 
 goal it is that they've given you at the moment. Once this goal is met, you are given grading  
 this is on a scale between an E, (the lowest) to an A, (the highest) . This gives the game some 
 replay value, and also a kind of grading reminiscent of school reports marked by an authoritative 
 teacher.
  
  The difference in quality between the cut-scenes and the in-game presentation is vast. The cut-scenes 
 are some of the best I've seen in terms of their fluidity, colour and movement. The in-game graphics 
 are really unmemorable  with disturbing amounts of bright colours and unclear scale and perspective. 
 Sure, you're not required to perform anything too tricky when playing as NiGHTS, but it seems unfair 
 when you come to a complete stop before you're even given a chance to react. Luckily, it achieves 
 its high speed fairly quickly, and most interruptions can be overcome reasonably. We visit forests, 
 ruins, cities, a Broadway district and others, but you're always doing similar things it seems. 
 Sure, you have a few sojourns as a white-water raft (don't ask) or as Will or Helen themselves, 
 but it somehow feels like it's missing something to me  as if the level design wants you to rush 
 past in case you notice that the world itself is a sham.
  
  There was much talk of the game holding a magical quality, an experience never duplicated by anything 
 since the original NiGHTS game. Perhaps I'm less sensitive to this sense of wonder and other-worldliness, 
 but this game seemed to be rather a routine adventure for me. Sure, the subject matter is fairly 
 original (for a video-game anyway) , but it seems restricted by its own kooky logic. A "real" world 
 and a "dream" world that are normally separated seems simple enough, but somewhere in there it 
 all gets complicated and before you know it, you're a dragon flying through rings in order to defeat 
 a giant bodiless, faceless robed monstrosity with the voice of Dr. Claw from Inspector Gadget. 
 It seems eccentric and magical on paper, but it seems kind of pretentious in practice.
  
  NiGHTS: Journey Into Dreams requires players to defeat bosses throughout the adventure as well. 
 These things are (again) very unusual characterisations, and are usually brought down with a particular 
 technique that NiGHTS allows. They range from magical chameleons to strange stems bearing evil 
 cat-heads. NiGHTS is fairly defenceless, yet it still manages to take these guys down with the 
 "paraloop" technique (a loop-to-loop) , or a strange method where it grabs with both hands and then 
 boosts into whatever it may be you're holding. I suppose the bosses themselves are imaginative, 
 but they really just appear at the end of a line of missions, as if the developers themselves had 
 given up on giving them context or meaning. Where did they come from, why are they here now, what 
 do they want? Much of this title is inexplicable.
  
  About halfway through this title that sense of "I've seen this before" occurred to me. I then realised 
 that this game is the Peter Pan story/myth in disguise (in this case it's louder clothing) . We 
 have a mystical, youthful character with the ability to fly who captures the hearts and hopes of 
 neglected children. NiGHTS gives them hope, responsibility and self-esteem in order to resolve 
 their personal problems. It is a rite-of-passage story, decorated with magical dcor in order to 
 charm and enchant its protagonists.
  
  But apart from that, it is only a so-so experience for a gamer. Sure, it can be satisfying linking 
 up all of those rings and chips, but I couldn't help but feel that it was a little pointless, and 
 I found NiGHTS the character fairly shallow and one-dimensional. I expected her to be more mischievous 
 and reckless, rather than the clean-cut responsible figure it turned out to be. The bright pink 
 jester outfit with a twist is a misrepresentation  I think NiGHTS should be dressed like a school-teacher 
 or librarian! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Eleven years! That's how long it's been since NiGHTS Into Dreams glided onto Sega's Saturn; a cult 
 classic immediately taken to the hearts of hardcore gamers and reminisced about ever since. But 
 the problem with being a hardcore hit is double-edged. While you guarantee a game's place on those 
 Best Ever (Like, Ever!) lists, you're sometimes at risk of not making an awful lot of money from 
 it by aiming it at too narrow a market. You also burden yourself with the weight of expectation 
 - how do you update an iconic title without cheesing off those who loved it first time around?
 
  
  Little wonder that it's taken 11 years for Sonic Team to figure out how to approach a sequel then. 
 Yet here it is, and in many ways it stays true to the 1996 game. There is still the Peter Pan-like 
 dreamworld, Nightopia, and the double-stranded gameplay still stands. You play through Journey 
 of Dreams as either Will or Sarah, in tandem with the livewire jester NiGHTS, and the bulk of the 
 action is centred on zipping around gleefully colourful levels, looping around pick-ups to gain 
 more speed and taking out enemies. All very familiar.
  
  
  
  Reala State
  Starting out from a central hub, you'll access the various worlds through a series of doorways. 
 Events play out for both Will and Helen in much the same order: Wizeman's (he's the big boss character 
 from the original game) henchman Reala is constantly on NiGHTS' case for one thing or another and 
 invariably you'll begin a level as either character on foot, searching for the jester. Once NiGHTS 
 is free, you can then merge with him/her and begin flying around the level.
  
  Journey of Dreams operates in a kind of 2.5D sphere, where you have 360-degree control over NiGHTs 
 but move along a loose rail through a level. In fact, it plays as more of a racing game than an 
 adventure, as you'll actually loop around a circuit as you attempt a task, with a time limit running 
 down. Levels become high-speed memory tests of pick-up locations and time saving manoeuvres as 
 elastic cables catapult you through your lap. It's as a bright, vibrant speed fest that Journey 
 of Dreams succeeds.
  
  After completing a set of goals, you'll enter into a boss fight which requires all of NiGHTs' abilities 
 - paralooping (where you loop around an object to remove it) , drill-dashing (performed by hitting 
 B - pick-ups and links keep your speed reserves stocked) and no small amount of perseverance.
 
  
  
  
  NiGHTmares
  There are problems though. Of the three control schemes (the Classic controller, Nunchuk or Remote) 
 the Remote offers the least accurate solution. By holding down A and aiming a cursor, you direct 
 NiGHTs around the screen - in theory, anyway. But it's too cumbersome to really work. It's hard 
 to get a feel for where the invisible boundaries lie, and inadvertently running into them when 
 time is tight is crushing. You're better off using the Nunchuk's stick. And bizarrely, given Journey 
 of Dreams' courting of a new audience, there's an old-school feel to having to start entire levels 
 over again when falling at the last hurdle, which is really annoying.
  
  But on the whole, Journey of Dreams works. It's a sequel that adds more extras without really changing 
 the basics of the original. It might lack a little of its predecessor's slickness but it's still 
 worthy of your time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams firstly, (As I mentioned in my review deck) the soundtrack to this game 
 is fantastic, all background music has vocals, and that's just fantastic!
  
  The levels are brilliantly colored, attractive to the eye, and probably the most open-ended game 
 that already has a path built out for you! 
  
  Another big thing about this game is the ways you can control NiGHTS, you can either aim and point 
 at the screen where you want him to fly, or you can connect the nun chuck and spin the wheel in 
 the direction you want NiGHTS to fly. It gives you a nice choice!
  
  And the bosses of this game, they're eerie, creepy, and plain scary at some times! SEGA did a fantastic 
 job at incorporating fun, eeriness, Interaction, and challenge all in one game, not to mention 
 - a great story, good cinematic cuts, and above all, a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grorusso
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  nights journey of dreams for wii it's an excellent game
  
  i never played the original but i can tell you this game is great music is great and the story 
 to here's my review:
  
  music-great i love it!
  
  gameplay-fast and difficult
  
  sound-great!
  
  multiplayer- i love it i haven't got time to play the race game but i love 
 multiplayer
  
  difficulty-hard you need lot's of training just to get A ranking's
  
  Story-i love it it's sad, happy, mad in both of the storyline's will the boy and helen the girl
 
  
  i heard that you can play as the original two character's when you get all the 60 water drop's 
 but i haven't finished the game yet
  
  controls-responsive i love the wii mote with nunchuk's style i haven't played with the other's
 
  
  graphics: beutiful simply beutiful
  
  
 
  
  final thoughts:
  
  the game is beutiful the music the gameplay the graphics i really reccomend this to anyone so go 
 buy it i got it new at circuit city for only 18$ so it's cheap but not in all places 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonicgamer_Tess
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  The game itself is beautiful (depending what you find beautiful) and has a very fun gameplay style. 
 Yet learning to fly with the Wii-mote is very difficult and gets annoying in the lenght.
  
  Yet I like the different missions to do. after a good whiles playing you get used to controlls 
 and it gets pretty easy. though Some bosses of the game is incredibly frustrating and hard, while 
 some are incredibly easy. Story however was cute and sometimes a bit to cheesy for my taste. And 
 Story was very short and game was finished so quiuckly I didn't know what happend.
  
  Yet It's really fun and at some missions it's addicting.
  And the "my dream" can be fun yet annoying 
 if you haven't played for a while and go back there.
  
  I recommend playing this slowly or it'll all end very quickly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Impresive graphics; plenty of unique level design; it's just plain awesome to play as 
 NiGHTS again, and it's done well; a unique, fun story; a pretty good score to set the tone; the 
 different forms of NiGHTS are just as fun; the levels are worth coming back to; three controller 
 options.
  
  The Bad: Exploring as the kids is mostly lame; voice acting is either so-so or just plain bad; 
 the Wiimote-only controller option is poorly executed; the stupid talking owl that no one likes.
 
  
  NiGHTS was once one of Sega's most popular characters. Back in the day, when Sega made systems 
 and competed with Nintendo and Sony, the purple jester was in glory alongside Sonic, Samba de Amigo, 
 Parappa the Rapper, Beyond Oasis, and Shining Force. Now, however, all those franchises have been 
 sloping downhill, or have ceased to exist.
  
  Sonic pulled out some great 2-D, and yes, 3-D games back in the day (Sonic Adventure 1 and 2) . 
 Since then, his games were either just ok or awful. Sonic Heroes was ok, for example. Shadow the 
 Hedgehog, or the new Sonic the Hedgehog... not so much.
  
  But even Sonic is back on his 3,000,000,000 mph feet with Sonic Advance 1-3, Sonic Rush and Sonic 
 Rush Adventure on GBA and DS, and his best 3-D work in years, if not THE best, Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings. It looks like Sega is finally figuring out how to get back on track, and Secret Rings was 
 a great start.
  
  Sonic Unleashed, Sonic and the Black Knight, Samba de Amigo and Major Minor's Majestic March are 
 all coming from those old developers now, too. They want to see if they can keep this snowball 
 rolling, and I certainly hope so.
  
  NiGHTS was one of those big ones too, and it's getting revitalized at long last thanks to Secret 
 Rings' success, too.
  
  So has NiGHTS aged very well?
  
  Sadly, not exactly. Like Sonic, NiGHTS isn't quite what he (or she?) used to be. But in terms of 
 Sega getting back to becoming Nintendo's biggest competitor, or biggest partner, or wherever they're 
 headed, NiGHTS is another good move forward.
  
  Controlling NiGHTS is simple. You move the control stick around to move him/her up, down, left 
 and right in a quazi on-rails path (on-rails like Secret Rings before it, in other words) . You 
 can also make huge circles to suck in your opponents, grab hold of them and send them flying, and 
 collect blue bubbles in the air to allow you to fly like fifty times faster.
  
  As lame as my description sounded, it really is pretty addictive. The levels are all way different 
 from each other, even though the bosses are often the same ones (though they sometimes become more 
 difficult as you go) . You can become different forms of NiGHTS too, which just adds to the fun, 
 not detracts from it.
  
  The levels also have quite a bit of replayability. You'll be shooting for the highest grade, just 
 as in Sonic and the Secret Rings (same devs, if you were wondering) , and it's going to be in the 
 process.
  
  On the downside, playing as the little kids isn't so great. You'll pick a boy or girl character 
 in the beginning, and they'll have their story intertwine with NiGHTS's. They basically make for 
 a platforming element in between the NiGHTS levels. While every once in awhile you'll get a fun, 
 maybe even vaguely challenging level, it's mostly a bit dull. It's spiced up more when the kids 
 are working together though, so it's not a total disaster.
  
  The NiGHTS levels are where it's at, in other words. The kid story won't crush the game's fun, 
 and again, isn't always bad but NiGHTS is far better to play as.
  
  The voice acting is so-so at its best, with NiGHTS and most of the enemy characters, but the kids 
 and the stupid owl (the reincarnation of Kaepora Gaebora) are pretty bad. Similarly, Sonic and 
 the Secret Rings had decent acting for Sonic, the final boss and maybe Knuckles, but the idiot 
 genie and Tails were pretty lousy. It's a bit of a shame for both (possibly due to budget issues) , 
 but again, it's not a game destroying complaint.
  
  The music, on the other hand, is pretty good. Sonic and NiGHTS each have lyrics in their music, 
 and Sonic does more often, but neither is really bad. Neither's fantastic either, but it's generally 
 a plus.
  
  The graphics (again like Secret Rings) are wonderful. They don't prove the Wii's potential, but 
 they aren't half-baked efforts by any stretch, and some of the better graphics from a third party 
 to date. It's good to see Sega did indeed put their time and effort in here, like with the rest 
 of the game.
  
  The length isn't extremely long or short, but the replayability helps the matter. I compare Sonic 
 and NiGHTS so much because the two games are very similar. The graphics are great, the music's 
 ok, both are on-rails (sort of) , the voice acting's awful, the controls are pretty good, and the 
 replayability's great. Each is a big step for Sega becoming what it once was. And each is really 
 pretty fun.
  
  This team (who made both of the above) is some of the best in years for the company, and they have 
 more coming up. If these two giant characters have even better improvements, Sega could at last 
 have the blue blur compete with Mario once again. That unforgettable war from the Super Nintendo 
 and Genesis years would be great to see again to get platforming, and Sega, back on track. And 
 judging by this game and Secret Rings (assuming this keeps up) , it's coming, if very slowly.
  
  Would I suggest NiGHTS? Yes. It's not one of the most fantastic games on Wii, but it's definitely 
 fun, just like Secret Rings, as always. Both are worth a look, and if not a purchase, at least 
 a rental. C'mon Sega, let's keep this snowball rolling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pride1289
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Even though I did not play this game when it first came out and instead played it out of boredom 
 and the need to do something new, I did like it. I loved the fact that you didn't have to get all 
 A's for that extra level/scene thing with Reala. There were a few things I didn't like about it 
 though. Like the boss Bombomba. Or whatever it/his name is. I have terrible memory, do forgive 
 me.
  I had trouble with it because I failed a few times at getting it past the trains. But it didn't 
 take long to get past it. I only lost like, one time. Or was it two? I forget. But I have to admit, 
 that was a fun boss. Theres only one other thing I didn't like. But I did enjoy it more then disliked 
 it. Way more.
  I loved flying around. It's one of my favorite things to do in games. I greeted NiGHTS a lot just 
 so I could fly as him. Heh heh. I got off track didn't I? Oh well. I'll get to it again. Or not. 
 Depends. ANYWAYS!
  I did not play NiGHTS into Dreams. I have looked up as much as I could about it though. Such as 
 pictures and the likes. I read the comic too. I would have liked to see Jackle in Journey of Dreams.
 
  That's all I really have to say about it. I recommend this game to kill time, play something new, 
 or to know about something else that will get you into another random group of people you could 
 one day meet at comicon and/or anime expo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega-sonic
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 25, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  Nights where have you been the past ten years. I know that since nights into dreams, nights was 
 in various games including sonic ones but finally after a long wait for a sequel we get one. This 
 game stays on the concept of the original of which you can explore the dreamy lands or fly though 
 rings like the old times and has a reactive my dream world that changes by the type of characters 
 you catch while flying whether nightmaren or nightopian, plus the game reacts to the weather that 
 is said on the wii's weather channel. Some bad points are the following: 1. The annoying owl as 
 a helper 2. The wii remote "mindsight" control scheme
  3. The boss battles.
  
  These points aside it is a good game and a happy return to NiGHTs. 
  If you missed out on the 
 original nights then look on auction websites or your games shops that sell retro games because 
 the original nights was brilliant in it's time
  Dream well everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majadamus
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 1, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Definitely not the best game for the Nintendo Wii, but Nights: Journey Into Dreams is still a fun 
 video game to play. Very childlike, and very easy, but don't let that sway you away from this game, 
 adult-like gamers. This is one game that anyone can enjoy. 
  
  SOUND: Quite honestly, this game has some really good music. And that is the best part of it, unfortunately, 
 and which I also like about it the most. It has cheerful, gleeful; music that might get people 
 up and that'll have them start dancing around the roomeven those just sitting around watching. 
 There was a lot of emphasis put into the soundtrack as I can tell, but not so much put into the 
 voice work. Oh, wellmaybe next time the developing team will pay attention to the voice acting. 
 
  
  GRAPHICS: This game doesn't stand out graphically amongst the other Nintendo Wii games, but it's 
 still fun to play. They're very blocky, the text is muddy, and the coloring is blotchy. As for 
 the character designs, most of them are very ugly. Especially those cutesy winged fur ball dwarves 
 or fairies.. or whatever they were called. The main characters designs were also very odd looking 
 and somewhat disfigured. The animations were very stiff as well. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is the part of the video game where it is somewhat more of a letdown. Flying around 
 in the world of NiGhts: Journey Into Dreams may be fun, however, the controls can be very frustrating 
 especially using the wii mote. When the wii mote is in use the main character is harder to control. 
 The most preferable controller for this video game was the Nintendo Wavebird. It made it so much 
 easier to play with than using the Nintendo wii mote. 
  
  BOTTOM-LINE: It's a video game that can be enjoyed by anyone of any age. This video game has many 
 problems with the most significant problem being the gameplay. Sega hasn't uplifted this series 
 any further with this video game, as a matter of fact, to be honest, this video game made the series 
 look worse. Nice try, Sega. Maybe they'll create a better NiGhtS in the future. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anton10000
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Due to the Saturn's incredibly niche fanbase, any hugely popular game for the system such as NiGHTS: 
 Into Dreams, was bound to be forever immortalized, steeped in nostalgic bliss for eternity, a memory 
 constantly kept alive due to the lack of any sequel for well over a decade, but now, it has finally 
 arrived in the form of Journey of Dreams, but unfortunately, it wasn't worth the wait.
  
  Journey of Dreams follows the dreams of Will and Helen, two children who are suffering from terrible 
 nightmares caused by their emotional issues in real life, such as Will's father never being around 
 for him, and Helen's guilt over not practicing the violin with her mother before the big concert. 
 Through their nightmares, they reach the land of Nightopia, a world which is created via the "Visitor's" 
 dreams. Almost straight away, the main character you have chosen meets Owl, and of course, NiGHTS, 
 the purple harlequin the series is famous for. From there, the two children "dualize" with NiGHTS 
 to save the world of Nightopia from the evil Wizeman and all the bad Nightmarens who are bent on 
 destroying the land of dreams.
  
  I, for one, haven't had much play time with the original Saturn game, but I don't see that as a 
 hindrance, but rather as an advantage, as I am not playing this game with a set of rose tinted 
 specs. Journey of Dreams plays exactly the same for the most part to the original game , with you 
 being tasked in each level with collecting blue orbs and flying through rings in order to get lots 
 of points in the fastest time possible to get the best grade you can. Along with that, there are 
 some other tasks which vary from the rather ingenious, such as flying at the same speed as musical 
 notes pop up, to the absolutely awful, such as many a mission where you have to save the Nightopians 
 by doing a loop around them, which grows incredibly tedious quickly thanks to the vague objectives 
 given at the start of many of the levels. What further sinks the game into greater depths of tedium 
 are the boss battles. 
  
  Now, while some of them can be somewhat fun, most of them are dull and based on luck, which can 
 lead to your 10th try randomly working. One part of the game which really sucks all the fun out 
 is the really poor implementation of the Wii controls. While flying in a straight line isn't too 
 bad, trying to do any of the necessary manoeuvres is almost impossible, and you'd be well advised 
 to go for either the Classic controller or the Gamecube controller if you are seriously considering 
 playing the game for more than 15 minutes. Finally, for some God only knows reason, on foot platforming 
 levels were put in, which are the definition of awful thanks to bad controls and uninspired levels 
 and objectives. 
  
  Journey of Dreams would have looked decent for a Gamecube game, but on the Wii it is really lacking, 
 in a similar way Red Steel was. Blurry textures, a low polygon count and some of the most garish 
 levels detract from the only area Sonic Team are any good at these days.
  
  Unsurprisingly, the voice acting in Journey of Dreams is pretty atrocious, akin to various other 
 modern Sonic Team games, where every character is a mix between a girl, a boy, and Posh Spice, 
 which all come together to create some of the most grinding dialogue ever, not helped by an awful 
 script and unbearable cut-scenes. The soundtrack is a mix of enjoyable light fluff, to some abhorrent 
 tunes, as is the same withy all Sonic Team productions. This game's truly awful track is most definitely 
 the last track, and is even more gut wrenching than the awful one from Sonic and the Secret Rings
 
  
  If you really wanted to, you could go back through all the levels, over and over again to attain 
 the highest grade possible, but why you'd want to is beyond me, as once you're done, you'll be 
 glad you'll never have to go through most of the game ever again. Will and Helen's stories take 
 an hour and a half each, culminating in about three hours if you simply race through, which is 
 what will most likely happen, and this great lack of content is just not good enough in this day 
 age. There are a couple of online modes, such as the "My Dream" option, which is like an online 
 Chao garden, and there is online racing, which shows that at least Sega put some thought into this 
 game.
  
  Closing comments: Journey of Dreams is the product of another homogenized series that Sega has 
 thought to bring back, by being sucky. Sure, it's fun in spots, but barely takes advantage of the 
 Wii's capabilities, and can be horribly frustrating at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hue14
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I am probably disliking this game because as many reviews read over the internet said "If you haven't 
 played the original, you will not like this." God I have never heard such a good statement. Lemme 
 just start by saying that I can survive all the color blinding happy worlds some video games have 
 to offer, so I am not dazzled by the levels of this game, its something else and it can change 
 the whole way somebody looks at a video game. Gameplay. At first, I was enjoying NiGHTS unique, 
 confusing gameplay, but as I learned how it went and moved further on into the game, I realized 
 it was just god awful bad controls. My gosh, most people think point and click games are just a 
 snap to master, but this is frickin outrageous! I can't even guide the guy through anything to 
 collect an item. After a few levels of gameplay, I had to change to Classic Controller. Don't even 
 get me started about the on-foot missions. To put it all together, this game has fun levels, cool 
 characters, and a nice story but the gameplay chops off a portion of my overall score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  Sega Saturn! The name always reminds me of the exquisite but poor-fated Sega's product. As one 
 of the high-tech members of the 5th console generations, Saturn utilized 2 CPUs. However, the difficulty 
 of programming for dual processors finally proved too challenging for third studios and made them 
 abandon Saturn. Consequently, it was not able to compete with PlayStation 1 and Nintendo 64 during 
 the period of 1994-2000. Our little memory about this console is only few high quality games developed 
 by Sega themselves, one of which was Nights into Dreams (1996) belonging to Platform genre and 
 once considered the rival to the classic Super Mario 64. Despite its great success, the label Nights 
 fell into shadow for over a decade, until the Christmas time in 2007, when the sequel Nights: Journey 
 of Dream (JoD) was officially released.
  
  Similar to its brother, the story in JoD happens in a dream world called Nightopia endangered by 
 the dark beings Nightmaren. Players will choose to become William Taylor or Helen Cartwright to 
 start the adventure in Nightopia. The fate has arranged for them to meet Nights, a civilian here 
 and help Nights to struggle against wicked faction of this world.
  
  Overall game play of JoD has little change compared to Nights into Dreams. We control Nights flying 
 in the space to collect golden rings and spheres through many game scenes. However, Nights can't 
 fly freely but is confined to pre-rendered arcs. In addition, some episodes allow us to play William 
 or Helen in a more traditional manner of Platform: pure running, jumping. Through out the game, 
 you can help Nights to collect masks which helps transforming himself into dragon, dolphin or rocket 
 to have additional swimming, sprinting skills. Each scene is further separated into smaller parts 
 which requires completion between certain amount of time. At the end of each scene is a tough boss. 
 Although all bosses have their weakness game does not offer any clue about this so you have to 
 try and die several times. Here comes the annoying thing: Dying in boss fight will force players 
 to redo the whole round, which makes such a short game like JoD take an unacceptable amount of 
 time to complete.
  
  My Dream mode seems to be more pleasant, you will hunt your favourite strange animals and bring 
 up them. Through Wii Forecast Chanel, My Dream is lively presented with many kinds of weather like 
 in our real world. Besides, Battle Mode and Speed Mode through Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection will allow 
 you to play with gamers from all over the world. Another strong point of JoD is that you can choose 
 over a selection of control device. Since game does not make any use of sensor feature of Wii, 
 Remote + Nunchuk can be replaced with Classic Controller or GameCube gamepads.
  
  If in the past Nights into Dream is on a par with Super Mario 64, the recent JoD can't be compared 
 to Super Mario Galaxy as a platform. Looking at what Nintedo has contributed to Super Mario series, 
 we can see how disastrous the slow advance of Nights is. Gamers still fly in a dream world, but 
 where is the enthusiastic feeling once found in Nights into Dreams?!! Perhaps after a while with 
 JoD, few can't help but wonder what Sega has done to make a legend become such a mediocre product. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TgunXD
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Attacks- Nights is like a Sonic game, but in the air. NiGHTS is swift and doesn't need strong attacks 
 against these weak enemies and bosses.
  Items- After completing missions, you get 1 of 3 masks that transforms NiGHTS, which is a cool 
 ad-on.
  Strategies- You need skill, smarts and speed to defeat this game. 
  Characters- The amount of characters is small, but each character is very complex in design, personality 
 and abilities.
  Music- Perfect. It makes normal songs sound like crap. Best video game songs.
  Graphics- Is this 
 a Wii game? The graphics are too good. Hard to believe. 
  Gamemodes- Alot of gamemodes. You won't like all of them, but you will have your favs.
  Wifi- 
 Well, it's not bad, but not competitive. 
  Story/story mode- good...
  Coolness- It's more beautiful than cool, but good.
  ESBR Rating- accurate 
  
  rating- 9.9/10. 
 Reason, good game, but needed more levels. But WORTH THE PRICE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonicpower451
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  NiGHTS Journey of Dreams is a sequel to the best selling SEGA Saturn console NiGHTS Into Dreams. 
 After 11 years of waiting for a NiGHTS sequel, the fans finally got what they need! I haven't played 
 NiGHTS into dreams though, but I've been looking at videos from Youtube. First I will start off 
 with the good things. The story in this game is about a 12 year old boy named Will and a 12 year 
 old girl named Helen, having some bad dreams about real life problems. They both end up in a place 
 called the dream gate, meet with and old Owl named... well, Owl and a purple flying jester named 
 NiGHTS. There mission is to get the 5 ideya. Ideya are 5 orbs that show parts of your heart. There 
 are also 2 old characters from NiGHTS Into Dreams. Wizeman and Reala. Wizeman is planning to destroy 
 Nightopia, with the help of Reala. Now I will talk about the gameplay. Well, there are different 
 control schemes you could use. Wiimote held vertically, Gamecube controller, Wiimote and Nunchuck, 
 and classic controller. The way you control NiGHTS is exactly the same just like in the first game. 
 But there is a different way to complete a level. In the first game there are ideya captures. In 
 here, there are NiGHTS captures. You will need to save NiGHTS by going inside the NiGHTS captures 
 and dualize with NiGHTS. Once you've done that, you will need to grab the keys from these things 
 called goodles that fly on giant birds. Unlock all 3 NiGHTS captures, you will end up in the first 
 boss fight. There are fun missions to try out! Like playing music in the sky, etc. The 5th mission 
 in every level, is a harder version of the first boss fight in the level. Next I will talk about 
 the features. There is Nintendo Wifi connection so you can race againts other players from around 
 the world! When your in the dream gate, there is a place raise a cute little creature called Nightopians. 
 If you use a paraloop (takes in objects after drawing a circle with twinkle dust with NiGHTS) in 
 a stage on nightopians, they end up in a place called Mydream. If you do certain thing in a stage, 
 the Mydream garden will evolve and change. If you paraloop enemies called Nightmarens, they will 
 end up in Mydream and eat your Nightopians. You can also use Wifi connection to go to your friends 
 mydream. finally the music is very beautiful and really fits the game! Especially the NiGHTS theme 
 song "Dreams Dreams!" 
  
  Now the bad things!... Some of the bosses can be very confusing. Wii remote controls are hard. 
 On-foot missions are not fun sometimes and you would rather fly with NiGHTS. The character movements 
 during some cutscene don't look pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaBrownie
Rating: 5
Date: May 20, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This is the gayest game I'v ever played. NiGHTS, who is clearly a male, has the highest Brittish 
 female voice I have ever heard. The whole Chao garden knockoffs "things" look like babies with 
 a halo, angel wings, and look kinnda like floating turds. 
  
  Maybe I'm being a bit rash here, but there are some good points to the game. Flying is fun, but 
 stinks in the repetitive set-path levels, the storyline is so-so, but what do you expect in a SEGA 
 game, and the graphics are great for a Wii game. It's just that every characters design and voice 
 make them sound like you're watching an episode of Spongebob.
  
  Controls are awful, all of them. I reccomend a Gamecube controller for people who actually want 
 to play this game, because the Wii remote doesn't capture your motions, and NiGHTS usually just 
 starts to move on his own in the levels. It is a frustrating game with horrible controls and character 
 design, and something that might not be good to anyone except fans and kids.
  
  It; s an overall nightmare, grown from low budgets and from the mind of a gay five year olds mind. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pikazilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin, here are some facts that the game's producers have.
  
  NiGHTS has been referred to as "genderless" by the game's creators. The character's personality 
 is described by Iizuka (the game designer) as "a mirror of the child's personality." The player 
 is supposed to become Nights, thus being either gender depending on the interpretation of the player. 
 Technically, you can call NiGHTS a he, a she, or both. Either way, NiGHTS has a sexy body and a 
 nice tight ass (No, I'm not gay) .
  
  Nights: Journey of Dreams is a sequel, not a remake (according to Sega) .
  
  
  Ok, now for 
 the review.
  
  In the game, you will notice that most or all of the characters are British or sound British, including 
 NiGHTS, who lives in a dream world. The developers believed that sonic was focusing on Tokyo and 
 New York, so NiGHTS focuses on England.
  
  
  NiGHTS has a lot of unique abilities. NiGHTS can fly very fast and doesn't get tired, NiGHTS can 
 create a portal called the paraloop that sucks in small creatures or objects. Possibly the best 
 ability is transformation. During certain levels, NiGHTS can transform into a ball, a boat and 
 a rollercoaster with stretching wheels. After completing certain levels, you can become a super 
 fast rocket, a swimming dolphin or a cool, bad ass sky dragon that is strong against wind storms. 
 You have to fight an army of nightmarens, creatures that cause nightmares and destruction.
  
  The game has 9 worlds-1 level selection mode, 1 dream garden (similar to sonic's chao gardens) , 
 3 levels for the male protagonist, Will, 3 levels for the female protagonist, Helen and a final 
 level. Each level has 5 different modes, each of them not only hard to do, but hard to perfect. 
 Like the sonic games, each mission is ranked from A to E (A is perfect-E sucks) . In almost all 
 of these levels, an owl tells you what to do to help you. At first, he seems ok, but he gets very 
 annoying very quickly. It can even go to a point where you have to say 'Get the XXXX out of my 
 way! Screw you! Just shut the hell up!'
  
  
  The dream garden is home to nightopians, little angles that were the inspiration for the famous 
 chao creatures from sonic games. Like a chao, nightopians are put in this garden where they pretty 
 much have some fun. Their halos represent their condition (yellow-ok/red-unhappy) . The more nightopians 
 you get, the better your garden will be. Occasionally, these baby faced creatures make out behind 
 your back and lay an egg, giving you a new nightopian. You get these nightopians into your garden 
 by using the paraloop. All the normal nightmarens are sent here too. They will try to eat nightopians 
 and destroy your garden. Also, you can show off your garden online with wi-fi.
  
  All the levels begin with a hunting strategy where NiGHTS has to find giant birds and steal their 
 keys to unlock cages that NiGHTS is imprisoned in... wait what? NiGHTS is stuck in a cage and the 
 only way out is to fuse with Helen or Will temporarily and unlock all the cages, including the 
 ones that NiGHTS was not in. It's a dream world, nothing makes sense. What makes even less sense 
 is that NiGHTS gets captured 6 times, but there's always a good uh there might be a good reason 
 why NiGHTS gets captured. After the level is complete, you fight a boss for bonus points.
  
  After this, you get three random levels. One is when you chase an octopaw, a flying octopus. 
 While flying, you need to make as many combos as possible. Chasing a harmless animal just for fun 
 seems like animal abuse, but tell that to Mario, who is killing hundreds of turtles and walking 
 mushrooms.
  
  Another mission involves one of the humans losing NiGHTS, and has to go through a large area filled 
 with nightmarens. This pretty much sucks, especially since your only weapons are those orbs that 
 you find in the game. However, you can easily run out of ammo, so this is one of the bad levels.
 
  
  Another mission involves NiGHTS doing a special task. From playing with bubbles to saving hundreds 
 of nightopians, there are really random, but most of them are really fun.
  
  The final level is the boss you fought at the end of the first level, but the boss is either stronger 
 or is at a stage where they have a huge advantage.
  
  
  The bosses are-
  
  Donbalon (a balloon clown)
  The way to defeat him is to fight him on a giant pinball table. NiGHTS 
 need to send him flying to the top of the stage, where a bunch of spikes will poke and pop him. 
 It's really hard to do it fast enough to get an A. I don't see why you can't find a nail and just 
 pop him that way; he is a balloon after all.
  
  Chamelan (a chameleon magician)
  This Chameleon creates a magical barrier that he hides behind. You can destroy the barrier, but 
 the point of the match is to defeat him. This guy loves poker apparently so he has a deck of giant 
 cards. The Chameleon is hiding near a group of aces. Watch out, just like in the movie, Nightmare 
 Before Christmas, the Kings attack you with spinning swords. He's actually very easy to defeat, 
 especially since he only has 1 hp.
  
  Cerberus (a Cerberus (hence the name) )
  Cerberus is a group of 3 demotic dogs tied together with chains. The golden, middle body turns 
 into a round ball if you are far away, but turns into a dangerous, spiky dog if you get too close. 
 However, he can't transform if you ram into him quick enough. Once that happens, you send the middle 
 body flying while the other two bodies collide with each other. Do this two more times to win. 
 This is pretty easy if you can do it right.
  
  Girania (a giant piranha with a French mustache)
  Girania is a giant fish that attacks you by 
 jumping out of the ground He then flies into the air until he falls back into the ground. While 
 he is attacking, you can attack him back, which causes him to transform into hundreds of orbs. 
 You then have to paraloop all of these orbs to defeat him. What sucks is that you can't catch him 
 in a fish net and cook him for dinner.
  
  Bomamba (a cat like witch)
  There is a unique way of fighting this boss. There's a giant table with some holes. Bomamba creates 
 a small army of ball like cats. You have to tilt the table so that the cats fall into those holes. 
 This is hard since you are constantly being attacked and it's hard to get these cats in the hole 
 when you can't tilt the table well. This is truly one of the hardest bosses. The weird thing is 
 that once all the minions die Bomamba dies automatically, which is stupid, but good for you.
  
  Queen Bella (giant spider queen)
  Queen Bella is a spider that attacks you over a giant lava 
 pit. There are floating floors on this stage, preventing the queen from falling to a fiery death, 
 which is kind of what you want. To make her fall, you must use balls of webs and falling rocks 
 to destroy the floors. These objects will bounce around the stage until they fall into the lava. 
 Once you destroy the floor that Queen Bella is standing on, she'll fall down into the lava and 
 burn to death.
  
  
  The two player mode involves a race or a battle. A race is where the two players fly around to 
 try and reach the finish. The battle involves you to shoot meteors at each other. This is not a 
 good mode as the players are really fast and the meteors are slow and have almost no homing capabilities. 
 The first player is NiGHTS while the second player is Reala, NiGHTS's evil twin that you see in 
 the story. He had never clipped his fingernails; those things can poke an eye out. Remember, you 
 can challenge other people online with wifi.
  
  
  Spoiler Warning
  
  Once you complete all the levels, you go to a special level that looks like London. You play as 
 one of the humans, but you can fly like NiGHTS. The story in this level is different depending 
 on how you end the game, but you can see the true ending by getting at least a C ranking on every 
 other level in the game. Eventually, you get to fight Wizeman, the deity that created all nightmarens, 
 including NiGHTS. Yes, NiGHTS is a nightmaren, so that's why I'm mentioning it at the spoiler section. 
 NiGHTS might be a nightmaren, but he/she is still good, it's just a racist stereotype that all 
 nightmarens are evil (even Will and Helen believed this to be true, which must make them bad friends) . 
 NiGHTS challenges Wizeman to a battle to the death, but Wizeman mentions that destroying the creator 
 of the nightmarens will cause said nightmarens to be destroyed as well, which means NiGHTS will 
 kill himself/herself if he/she wins. NiGHTS doesn't seem bothered by that. Since NiGHTS is with 
 both Helen and Will, NiGHTS fuses with both of them, creating two NiGHTS (one male NiGHTS [Will] 
 and one female NiGHTS [Helen] ) . While fighting Wizeman, you control one of the NiGHTS while the 
 other follows you. Wizeman is the final boss, but he is surprisingly the easiest boss to defeat. 
 You just need to transform at the right time to go through his attacks.
  
  Once you defeat Wizeman, NiGHTS starts to disappear (because that's the only way to die in E rated 
 games) . Will and Helen reenter the real world and meet each other in real life. At the last second, 
 you see NiGHTS, not just alive, but in the real world. It seems illogical, but there's been crazier 
 crap in other videogames.
  
  End of Spoiler
  
  
  Other notes
  
  NiGHTS, as of 2007, have only two games, but he/she had cameos in other Sega games, mainly sonic 
 games.
  
  Sonic Adventure (DX)
  Sonic Adventure 2 (Battle)
  Shadow the Hedgehog
  Sonic Pinball Party
  Billy Hatcher and the Giant Egg
  Sega Superstars
  Sonic Riders
  Sonic 
 Riders: Zero Gravity
  Sega Superstars Tennis
  Phantasy Star Online I & II Plus
  
  
  The graphics for this game, it's just unbelievable, because it looks sooooo real. The movies in 
 the story mode have more detail than any other Wii game and might even rival PS3 games. It's just 
 so freakin' amazing. In the game, the detail is almost perfect, it is pretty sweet, especially 
 the colorful background. The music is a big 5/5. Almost each musical number is a song that can 
 be considered good. If youtube had more NiGHTS music videos, these would be some of my main favorite 
 songs.
  
  Despite this, having less than 35 levels doesn't seem to be a long game Also, most of the characters 
 act like pedophiles because they have nothing better to do than to follow these two children. I 
 don't care about NiGHTS being one, but if you got that big ass deity sending an entire army to 
 capture you then you're pretty much screwed. The fact that preteen kids are sent to a world where 
 everyone act like Michel Jackson and can fly makes it look like a new Peter Pan movie.
  
  They need to make another NiGHTS sequel, hopefully one with more levels.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HammersUK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  NIGHTS JOURNEY OF DREAMS (Wii)
  
  In 1996, Nights into Dreams was released for the Sega Saturn, it gave gamers an excellent perspective 
 of 3-D flying, excellent music and terrific graphics in its time. The original was a true classic. 
 Now 11 years later we finally have a follow up and it just had to be on the Wii, will have the 
 magic of the original? Or will it be another recent flop from sonic team?
  
  STORY
  
  The story revolves around two kids. Will, a talented footballer who's devastated about his Dad 
 moving work places and training with him less. You also have Helen, a Talented violin player who 
 has regrets about leaving her Mum behind during practice to go shopping with her friends. After 
 having nightmares about their problems, they end escaping to a place called Nightopia and meet 
 a cheerful jester character called Nights and helps them overcome their problems during the story. 
 But all is not well in Nightopia. The evil Wizeman wants Nightopia destroyed with the help of the 
 servant and nightmarian king, Reala. So its up to Nights with the aid of Will and Helen to stop 
 them. Its a nice light hearted story that will mostly appeal to kids.
  
  GRAPHICS AND PRESENTATION
  
  When the game starts you get some very impressive CG cut scenes. 
 But then you get to in-game and they are very unimpressive, it looks like an early PS2 game. Yes 
 we all know that the Wii is no PS3 or XBOX 360 in the graphics department, but after playing games 
 like Mario galaxy and Metriod prime 3, the Wii is no doubt capable of better. On a positive note, 
 Journey of Dreams is a very colorful game with a good Art style, its just a shame that SONIC TEAM 
 did not push the Wii at all.
  
  In the sound department. Journey of dreams really has some really terrific music, its fast paced 
 sometimes weird but enjoyable. While its not quite as good as the original, its not far off. You 
 got some remixed tunes as well as new ones. Most of the games sound effects have been taken from 
 the original witch is no bad thing becasue it will probably give fans of the original some nostalgia.
 
  
  Now to the somewhat bad part in the sound department, voice acting. Its no surprise that we have 
 another SEGA game with cheesy voice acting. Nights now talks with a girls accent! Nights can sound 
 ok in parts but in other parts it can be pretty bad. The thing is i don't think Nights should talk, 
 yes voice acting can give someone more character but somthing like Nights could have been more 
 cooler and more mysterious without speech. Will like everyone else has a British accent, but when 
 listening to Will, some parts can sound British but then he sounds American in other parts, the 
 voice actor was clearly an American. Helen British is a bit better but she sounds completely lifeless. 
 Owl sounds alright but nothing more. The only characters that sound very good are Reala and Wizeman, 
 they sound just right.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  There are FOUR different control methods for playing Journey of Dreams. First is the Wii remote 
 on its own witch is absolutely rubbish, you have a pointer called the mindsight and you hold the 
 A button and point the direction you want Nights to go, its easy flying through the rings but doing 
 the complex moves are almost impossible, all i can say is DO NOT play this game with the Wii remote 
 on its own, they are BROKEN. Its not the end of the world as every Wii comes with a nun-chuck. 
 With this method you control Nights with the nun-chuck and dash with the A button on the remote, 
 it works very well but my only gripe about this method is that to do flips and loops, you you need 
 to shake the Wii-remote but the problem with that is that it barely responds when shaking. The 
 best way to play Journey of Dreams is either with the Classic controller or the Gamecube controller, 
 using the anolougue stick and doing the acrobatic moves with the right shoulder button works great, 
 using the nun-chuck is good but using the controllers are much better.
  
  The game has 7 worlds, 3 for Will, 3 for Helen and both sharing the last world. The first 6 worlds 
 consist of 5 missions. The first is a chase mission where you have to chase a bird and grab its 
 key and then go and unlock the cage, you do this three times and then go in to a boss fight, the 
 chase missions are great and easily the best thing about the game. The other missions include saving 
 Nightopions from danger, these include para looping them to safety, turning into a train and stopping 
 them from crashing, turning into a boat and collecting them from the ocean and destroying the mines 
 so they won't hit them, most of them are pretty fun but a couple of the can be frustrating. There 
 are parts of the game where you chase this thing called an octopaw, in these missions you have 
 to links by going through rings and collecting blue chips, you have 5 attempts to beat the target 
 of 30, these are alright but nothing great, just feels a bit pointless. There are other missions 
 witch include, making a bubble big and hitting the notes for the tune dreams dreams, while they 
 are pointless, they are pretty enjoyable. The worst part of the game is where you play as Will 
 or Helen in a platforming stage, you have to find your way out of an area and throwing blue chips 
 at enemy's, these are very dull and should not have been in the game. Nights also has other forms 
 like a dolphin for going underwater, A rocket for going faster and a snake. These are a nice addition 
 to the game and feel well balanced.
  
  Nights Journey of Dreams is pretty easy and very short, but the game has got some pretty decent 
 replay value. You will want to go back anyway for the chase missions becasue they are very fun, 
 but to get the last idya, you need to get at least a C ranking in every mission. Also if you collect 
 all the dream drops witch are scattered throughout the worlds, you will get a nice little surprise. 
 You also have a place called MY DREAM witch is an updated version of A-LIFE and is very similar 
 to the Chao garden in sonic adventure 1 & 2, its pretty much a nightopion version of cyberpets. 
 MY-DREAM also takes advantage of the Wii forecast channel, for example if its raining in your area, 
 it will be raining in your MY DREAM, quite a nice feature indeed. The game also takes advantage 
 of the Nintendo WI-FI connection, you can upload your scores, visit your friends MY DREAM, and 
 have online races where you race against Reala, split screen includes race and a battle mode, battle 
 modes are not included for WI-FI witch is a real shame.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Journey of dreams is a very good game in most parts but bad in some, if you can overlook its faults 
 you get a worthy follow up to a true classic. Any fan of the original should play it but anyone 
 who has never played Nights should be cautious.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaxxo
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 24, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  I don't own a Saturn (yet) so I haven't played the original Nights into dreams, I did play the 
 demo in a store once but that's all I've ever played from Nights and I thought he/ she/ it was 
 a really cool character but it was never heard from after that we did see easter eggs from Nights 
 in Sonic adventure 2 and Billy hatcher but not a real game, until now.
  
  --STORY --
  
  Once again some kids, a boy and a girl, are having nightmares about their real life. Will, is the 
 boy for this game and since his dad left for... Work I guess, Will starts having nightmares about 
 how lonely he is.
  
  Helen, the girl of this game, is practising for a concert with her mom but like any other girl 
 she thinks that hanging out with her friends is more fun than doing "schoolish" like things. But 
 she feels that she is leting her mother down and start having nightmares about it.
  
  If you play as either Helen or Will you will end up in front of the Dream gate the place where 
 all people goes when they dream, you meet up with a guy called "Owl" (and yes, he is an owl) who 
 tells you about the Dream gate and shortly after you run into Nights, or "He" runs into you, and 
 tells you all about "Dualizeing" which means you can share bodies.
  
  --GAME-PLAY --
  
  Just like the original this game is about flying, but in this game a thing was introduced : platforming 
 levels where you play as the kids not flying around with Nights. This was very mixed in reactions. 
 I thought it was good, it could be better if the controls were better. But many others hated this 
 thing, so it's up to you to decide if this is good or bad.
  The flying stages with Nights are good, I sometimes get frustrated over the controls since they 
 are a bit too sensitive but it's nothing too horrible.
  An other thing is you can play this with any controler you want, I suggest the Gamecube controler 
 but you can use the classic controler or nunchuck as well. What about the Wii-mote you ask? Don't 
 use it, pointing controls doesn't work in these kind of games. In this game you play like in "Sonic 
 and the secret rings" first a longer mission where you chase after guards on birds and after that 
 you get into a boss fight. The missions after are : fly through a number of ring, plattform stages 
 with the kids, destroy a number of things and a harder version of the boss fight. After beating 
 all the missions in a level you get a mask that can change you into other forms like : a dolphin 
 and a rocket. Last thing I have to say about the game-play, the bosses are great the first one 
 is big and easy to destroy but the second boss is always a hell either if you play as Will or Helen 
 the second boss is always the worst.
  
  --MUSIC / VOICES --
  
  The music is awesome it fits the mood of the game and is just joyful to listen to. The voice actors 
 are good too. Overall no problems here.
  
  --JAXXO'S SCORE --
  
  Well, this game is a nice little game to have if you can get over the platforming stages and half-bad 
 graphics. This game get's a 8 / 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myviewing
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  When the mid-90's hit and the SNES and Genesis were finally moving on through the history books, 
 Nintendo and Sega prepared their successor systems along with Sony's first stab in the video game 
 market. Nintendo made the Nintendo 64, Sega made the Saturn, and Sony made the original Playstation. 
 The difference in this generation was that instead of going against Sega for competition, Nintendo 
 now dealt with Sony. This happened because the Saturn never caught on in popularity in North America 
 and the lack of any Sonic games to challenge Mario didn't help with an almost non-existent advertising 
 campaign. For those who did own a Saturn however, they were able to boast the ownership of just 
 one of many platforming icons Sega created for the absence of Sonic, a game titled Nights Into 
 Dreams The game was met with very positive reviews when it first came out, and is considered by 
 IGN to be the 94th greatest game ever made to this day. However, with the Nintendo 64 showing off 
 Super Mario 64, the definitive 3D platformer of the time, accompanied by Crash Bandicoot on the 
 Playstation, Nights into Dreams bombed in the sales market and fell into obscurity. 
  
  This is the history of the Sega icon Nights who joined Ristar, Sparkster, Bug, Clockwork Knight, 
 and the many other icons who fell into obscurity and were never touched again due to the fact that 
 the only platformer who helped Sega sell past a million units was the legendary Sonic the Hedgehog. 
 After many years and faltering popularity for Sonic however, Sega has finally given what many fans 
 of the Saturn original have been asking for: a sequel. Nights: Journey of Dreams is a Wii exclusive 
 that follows the gameplay formula of the previous Nights along with several new gameplay modes. 
 So is this dream worth dreaming after all these years? Time to find out. 
  
  The story follows the overall idea of the Saturn game: Two young children, a boy and a girl, both 
 have nightmares about their every day lives and end up in the world of Nightopia, and the story 
 you play depends on the character you pick. The boy, Will, has nightmares about his father not 
 being able to see him due to, what else, work that takes him overseas. The girl, Helen, is a violinist 
 who has begun to spend more time with her friends than practicing with her mother, despite her 
 violin recital being a week away. Both children begin to have regrets about this and have nightmares, 
 and their nightmares are much worse than they can imagine since monsters begin chasing after them. 
 When the children see a bright light in their dreams that leads them away from these monsters though, 
 they reach out to touch it and find themselves in the world of Nightopia. Overall, the story is 
 very well presented and gives a very heartwarming sense that feels very pleasing to see, especially 
 in a generation of gaming filled with dark and mature shooters. 
  
  When one takes a look at the graphics, the graphics in the game are only average at best. The cinematic 
 cut scenes are very well done, they look realistic and show that the Wii is far from suffering 
 in the graphics department. However, there aren't enough of these cut scenes to show that the game 
 is anything that is more current gen. The character models are nicely done, but the backgrounds 
 look like something from an early Gamecube game. Despite average graphics, there's not much to 
 worry about since they don't cause problems with the gameplay, and it's more likely you'll be focused 
 on the gameplay and how fast paced it is to even notice. 
  
  In the sound department, just like many Sega games in history, the game does a fantastic delivery. 
 The music is absolutely wonderful, it helps convey the charming presentation that the game delivers 
 and fits any situation. Many tunes sound like those from the Harry Potter films, but with everything 
 that made them feel magical and heartwarming. The sound effects are also well done, there are some 
 sound effects that sound like those from the Saturn original, helping give off a retro feel, and 
 they feel fitting for every action that happens. What's more fitting, and this can come to be quite 
 a surprise from a Sega game, is the voice acting that the development team hired. Obviously in 
 order to appeal to the European market, Sega gave the voice-acting cast British accents. Overall, 
 these accents are very fitting and well presented, though they may not appeal to some gamers who 
 demand something more mature. No one needs to worry about Nights though, Nights is often considered 
 to be an androgounous character, and the voice the development team gave Nights sounds like one 
 that could belong to a boy or a girl. Some may not be pleased that Nights' rival, Reala, has been 
 given a voice as well, but his voice is still well presented, and sounds like that of an actor 
 who played the Joker from Batman, which is fitting considering his villainy. Overall, Sega did 
 a fantastic job in the sound department to enhance the top-notch presentation. 
  
  The presentation is well done, but has the game play Nights fans come to know and love remained 
 in tact? Overall, judging from game play footage of the Saturn original, the game play is still 
 present in its sequel and even more is added. There are four different ways to control the game, 
 with the wii mote and nun chuck, the wii mote alone, the Gamecube controller, and the classic controller. 
 The most effective ways are wii mote and nun chuck and the Gamecube controller, though the wii 
 mote alone is not recommended. Nights is controlled by flying to the left or right with whatever 
 method of movement used and flying in a circle formed from the twinkle dust from Nights' hands 
 lets Nights do a paraloop to suck in anything that is nearby, which can defeat enemies and suck 
 in blue chips to help increase your Link score. The drill dash allows Nights to fly faster, but 
 can only be used for a certain amount of time before the bar limit depletes, but can be refilled 
 by flying through rings. The Link score is determined by how many rings you fly through, blue chips 
 you pick up, and Nightmareans you defeat, which all help increase your score to help get a higher 
 score and overall, a higher rank. Nights also has the power to transform into different personas 
 that can be found from masks throughout the game by pressing a certain direction on a d-pad, which 
 can allow for more exploration and offer replay value for the stages. 
  
  The core game play consists of flying through rings and facing enemies, the Nightmareans, by chasing 
 down a bird riding Nightmarean against the clock, defeating it and taking the key, and bringing 
 it back to a cage. After doing so three times, the boss of the stage appears and Nights must defeat 
 it within a certain amount of time. Examples of the bosses include Donbolan, a giant balloon inflated 
 clown, who Nights must get to the top of a giant pinball-like structure before the time runs out, 
 and Girania, a giant freaky fish, who Nights must touch square in the face to make it dissipate 
 into a million spheres that must be sucked in before they form into the fish again. The boss's 
 are all unique in their own ways and never have a single way of defeating them. 
  Not only do the boss battles have variety, but the game play itself has variety as well. Some stages 
 include ones where Nights must chase after the creature Octopaw by flying through a certain number 
 of rings and acquire a high enough Link score during the chase, some include stages where the character 
 you control must navigate through a stage in order to find Nights within a time limit. There are 
 also unique stages that offer variety such as moving water bubbles to the center within a time 
 limit to make it larger than a certain size, and where Nights transforms into a boat to help rescue 
 the Nightopians who are in danger of being captured by the Nightmareans. The variety in Journey 
 of Dreams is very high to count, and could take a long while to account for it all. 
  
  There are also factors in the game that can keep players coming back for more of Journey of Dreams. 
 One factor is the "My Dream" feature, which works much like the Chao gardens in Sonic Adventure. 
 This allows players to capture, raise, and combine Nightopians in a sandbox environment. The environments 
 are affected by the Wii weather channel and can make special content that cannot usually be found 
 available. If you have Wi-fi connection on your Wii, you're given the chance to race others online 
 like the core game play in the game itself. The races consist of Nights and Reala racing one another 
 to the finish and getting a higher score. When playing, the player's perspective will say that 
 he or she is Nights while the opponent is Reala, and vice versa. 
  
  Overall, Nights: Journey of Dreams is a game filled with an amazing deal of variety and fun factor. 
 This makes Nights one of the better games to get on the Wii, especially if you liked the Saturn 
 original. If you haven't played the Saturn original, and you're looking for something that isn't 
 another first person shooter that relies on gritty violence and destruction for fun factor, this 
 game is definitely for you. Nights: Journey of Dreams is one of the best third party support titles 
 available on the Wii right now, and is very well worth checking out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgplaya89
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Before you even ask, Yes, I own and have beaten NiGHTS Into Dreams many, many times. People seem 
 to hate on JoD because of the nostalgia behind it. Yes, I loved Nights as much as the next gamer, 
 but it definitely WASNT the best game of all time. One of my personal favorites, but not the best.
 
  
  and now, almost 11 years later, we finally get the sequel we've been asking for. let's see how 
 it holds up.
  
  Story: Basically the same story as NiD. Two kids, Will and Helen, both have their individual problems 
 and nightmares, which lead them to Nightopia, where they meet the androgynous title character, 
 Nights. From here, the kids go on parallel paths, intertwining at certain points, exploring Nightopia 
 and trying to keep it safe from Wiseman and his Nightmaren. 
  
  What can I say? It's a story, and it works. No one's expecting a deep and emotionally moving story 
 here. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics on this game are a beauty to behold, by Wii standards. the art style is 
 very unique, while not straying too far from its predecessor. the cutscenes are a bit choppy though. 
 
  
  Gameplay: Here's the section that really matters. This is definitely the same Nights, though a 
 little less fluid. there are four control types, but the ones that are the most user-friendly would 
 be the Nunchuk or the Gamecube controller. 
  
  you go through 6 stages, 3 to each character, with 1 final stage for both, similar to the original. 
 Where they stray from the original however, is by adding different missions to every stage, along 
 with a second boss fight. I personally liked most of the missions, and thought they were a great 
 way to extend the game. too bad the cutscenes are not skippable until you've beaten the individual 
 missions they are connected to.
  
  there is also a Chao Garden-esque mode called My Dream, where you can feed orbs to the Nightopians 
 or Nightmaren you collect by paralooping them in the action stages. It's a nice little diversion. 
 
  
  There is also online play, with a couple modes. you'll be lucky to find a race though. 
  
  
 Overall, I liked Nights: Journey of Dreams, and I personally believe that it's a worthy sequel 
 to the Saturn original, if you don't go in expecting too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: General_Diablo
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 9, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i just rented this game and it is one of the worst wii games i have ever played. It is horrible!! 
 There is a timer on every single level and you are constently stressed to just get the level over!!! 
 I have just played the first few lvls but of what i played, it is terrible!!!! The sensor controls 
 are terrible!! The screen control is terrible, and it is amazingly hard. On just the first few 
 levels i cant even beat the bosses! they are these stupid blimp jokers that keep bouncing around, 
 and right before you beat him, he goes flying alllllllll the way back to the begging (and it is 
 a long way) . then he laughs at you!! ANNND to put the topping on the cake it is all timed!! so 
 if u dont make the time limits you have to start at square one!! and that is just for boss battling!!!!
 
  
  Gamplay- Horrible Graphics- reallllly need to be improved 
  
  and pretty much the sound is the only thing that is decent in the game, that is y i gave it a 2.
 
  
  2 player mode is not fun at all, And the online play doesnt even work because nobody is ever online!!
 
  
  LISTEN PEOPLE -----
  
  I dont write a lot of reviews but i felt i had to to warn you guys on how terrible of a game this 
 is!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therealshezman
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 30, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  I think I may be in a minority here, but this game prommises so much and let's down the second 
 the start screen appeirs.
  
  I realy wanted to love this game, the graphics were lovely, the story seemed like it had prommis 
 but the game is aufull.
  
  To begin with the control options, all four (hope other developers take note) , are terrible. I 
 ended up using the nunchuck option to control the sickly sweet characters. All in my opinion were 
 unresponsive, example, trying to make a sharp turn with such lack of sensitivity made me want to 
 hurl my remote and nunchuck at my tv. 
  
  The gameplay is'nt any better. hold right (or point, your choice) go up and down a bit... oh yeah 
 thats it. That is untill the soul destroying "on foot" level's. Here you get the droll task of 
 leading helen or will around vast, empty, uninhabbited dream worlds. If you can't be bothered to 
 throw blue chips/balls at the slow moving enemys you can trot allong past them. To be fair to this 
 game the first boss, who is also the second boss (all bosses in the "dream worlds" apper twice) 
 was a real high point. The idea is to throw him into the roof by catching him, waiting till NiGHTS 
 is facing the correct direction and letting go. This was amusing for all of 2mins (I played this 
 section 3-4 times) , the best 2 in the game in my opinion. All the othe boss'es seem pritty cool 
 too when you first meet them, then you set about getting rid of them and yet again a few mins entertainment 
 and thats about it.
  
  The graphics are good on the playable characters are realy pritty, but other than that dull, dull, 
 dull.... 
  
  The worlds you enter are nothing much to be honest, you would expect a bit more from sonic team 
 with the chance to make dream world's, the same could be said for the enemys, there isn't much 
 thought put into them. Just generic puff balls, birds and other things you can either spin round, 
 circle or fly past.
  
  I hate to bad mouth things other people create, I could'nt make anything as good as this, but I 
 parted with cash for this and was not impressed at all! If you are looking for something different 
 to mesmarise you look elsewere. 
  
  Total dissapoint, if you fancy it, rent it first or wait for the bargin bin. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. I'm going to copy Gamespot for a sec and say the good and bad.
  
  Pros- Flight Levels are lots of fun -- The cutscenes at the beginning and end of the game are amazing 
 -- The game has a fun and cool concept. -- A few of the bosses are really cool lookin.
  
  Cons- Some of the levels are stupid -- All of the other cut scenes are really laggy and bad. -- 
 Bosses can be weird and confusing -- You can't tell if NiGHTS is a gay boy or a weird girl.
  
  NiGHTS has a very cool story and concept. The story is cool too. Some of the cutscenes (like 
 the ones at the beginning and end) are amazing. Flying around is the reason I play this game. This 
 is a unique blend of a platformer and flying. It is very original. I just wish they did a better 
 job.
  
  This game is easy to put down. Some of these levels are flat out stupid. It can bore me. Alot! 
 Bosses look good but you have no clue what youre doing. NiGHTS, are you a gay boy or a weird girl? 
 Owl says
  
  
  ****SPOILERS**** 
  
  
  
  ".... disturbed by the fact that NiGHTS is a Nightmaren, I understand if you do not want to trust 
 him..." Read that again. Notice. 'TRUST HIM" That means NiGHTS is a gay boy.
  
  
  
  ****OKAY YOU CAN LOOK NOW****
  
  Overall, if you like sonic. Buy this. If you like platformers, 
 maybe buy it. IF YOU HAVE ONLINE- Think about it. I enjoyed it but it has its share of flaws.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer6464
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams for Wii is full of great ideas that were poorly executed. The wii remote 
 controls stink, plain and simple. In order to enjoy this you need to use a different control option. 
 Alot of people probably didnt buy this for the gameplay though, they bought it to revive their 
 memories of the old game. It will do that. It has this feeling of magic when you play, you cant 
 describe it. The great music and colourful visuals add to the fantastic atmosphere. The game is 
 primarily flying levels, where you fly through rings and try to chase after 3 enemies and get their 
 keys and unlock nights, then you face the boss. You control primarily up and down, as nights swirls 
 through the environments, but some points have a top down view or a 3-D view. The bosses are easily 
 the worst part of the game. Most are just plain unfairly hard and horrible. Especially that ugly 
 cat witch that had horrible tilting controls. The on foot missions are ok, but quite boring. Overall 
 the game is short, unless you are trying to colect every single dream drop. It can be beaten in 
 a rental, which i would reccomend. The story is also nothing to write home about, and the characters 
 are really annoying. Helen's voice makes her sound like she has her head in a cloud all the time, 
 and will sounds all nasal-y. Also NiGHTS is a chick?!?!
  Anyways even with all the criticism ive given it, that feeling of magic i described earlier saves 
 it. Its like they had all the best ideas and had the most potential ever, got all the environments 
 and music done, then just gave up and rushed the rest. Overall, just rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MizzDiamondz
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  The long awaited sequel to NiGHTS Into Dreams is finally here. After 11 years of waiting, Sonic 
 Team has decided to create a fun, immersing new NiGHTS game. Although it certainly doesn't live 
 up to the original, it is a great sequel. 
  Basically, you choose to either play as Will or Helen, two 12 year old children from the fictional 
 town of Bellbridge, in England. They have recurring nightmares every night, and in one of them, 
 they find a patch of light, and jump into it, revealing the area known as the Dream Gate. There, 
 they meet a wise old owl, respectivlely named 'Owl', and he explains to them where they are, the 
 Dream Gate, an area in the Night Dimension. Then, they meet NiGHTS, a curious purple Jester-like 
 creature that 'dualizes' with the two children, allowing them to become one with NiGHTS, controlling 
 his actions, and are able to fly. Gameplay is really quite simple; players can use the Wii Remote 
 on its own, Wii Remote + Nunchuk, Classic Controller, or the Nintendo Gamecube controller. NiGHTS 
 can fly up, down, left and right, but is fixed on a course, so you cannot fly off anywhere and 
 get lost. There are seven dream worlds, three unique to each character, and one that both characters 
 must explore. In every world, there is a 'Chase Mission', where the children must find NiGHTS inside 
 a 'NiGHTS Capture' within the time limit (which is easy as NiGHTS is essentially right in front 
 of you) , and then Dualize with him to escape from the cage, and chase a 'Goodle' on a bird with 
 a key, to unlock the cage three times. After this you get a boss fight; complete this and you pass 
 the mission. Another mission in every world is a 'Link Challenge' where you have to chase a creatrue 
 called Octopaw, which releases ring, and you must fly through as many Rings and Blue Chips in succession 
 to get as many links as possible. You have five chances to obtain the required amount of links 
 to complete the mission. There are also three platform-style missions where you control the children 
 to rescue NiGHTS in some way. NiGHTS Journey of dreams also brings back the characters Reala, NiGHTS' 
 rival, and Wizeman, the creator of Nightmare, who is the game's antagonist. The game also marks 
 the return of the A-life system, where players can raise their own Nightopians and Nightmarens, 
 and a Multiplayer Mode, where Player 1 plays as NiGHTS, and Player 2 as Reala in the form of a 
 race or a battle. NiGHTS Journey of Dreams also introduces Personas, masks that give NiGHTS special 
 abilites. For example, the Dolphin Persona transforms NiGHTS into a Dolphin, allowing him to swim 
 underwater, finding new places and other secrets. The Rocket Persona transforms NiGHTS into a rocket, 
 enabling him to fly at an extremely high speed. The dragon Persona transforms NiGHTS into a dragon, 
 allowing him to withstand ant winds and reach places he couldn't reach before.
  Should you buy this game? Well put it this way: You're more likely to enjoy this if you haven't 
 played the original, but if you're a diehard fan of the first game, then I'd definitely recommend 
 it. You may be annoyed with the minor changes if you have played the original, but it's a great 
 sequel that shows Sonic Team is back to making what it used to make: High quality games that show 
 style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockstarDX
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  For a decade, old school fans have been asking Sega to make a sequel to Nights. When Sega don't 
 seem to care for Nights anymore, POOF! They come up with the sequel, Nights: Journey of Dreams. 
 For the Nintendo Wii. In this sequel, you're flying around Nightopia with Nights again and two 
 NEW children. But as always, Nightopia is in danger when Relea and WIzeman step in and try to ruin 
 Nightopia. Can Nights work together with the kids to save Nightopia? More importantly, is this 
 the sequel we've all been waiting for?
  
  Let's go more in-depth with the story. There are two children with troubles in their lives. One 
 of them is a boy named Will. He plays soccer quite alot with his dad. So much, his dad is his only 
 real friend. But when his dad has to leave on a trip and cannot take Will, Will feels lonely and 
 starts having tons of nightmares. The other child's name is Helen. She likes to play violin alot 
 with her mother. They're practicing for the recital. But lately, Helen has been feeling guilty 
 because she's hanging out with her friends instead of with her mom. So she starts having nightmares. 
 These two kids then travel to the Dream Gate and meat Nights. Who helps them get rid of their nightmares 
 by helping to defeat Wizeman. While trying to defeat Wizeman, Nights runs into her old rival, Relea.
 
  
  The gameplay is alot like the original's gameplay. Sega decided to take the easy way and try to 
 stick to the classic as much as they can. Not a bad thing of course. It let's new players get introduced 
 to Nights. Like me. The game also let's you play as the two kids. Their gameplay is very simple. 
 Just press A to jump. B to throw these blue things. You can collect these to earn points, and then 
 you can throw them at enemies. Their gameplay is ok. But it's nothing awesome. Good thing there 
 are only four levels with them.
  
  With Nights, the action becomes really fun. She plays just like the original. With some changes. 
 You use the control stick to fly around with her. Press or hold A to turbo boost. But if your gauge 
 empties, then you cannot boost. You can get more by flying through the rings. Collecting rings 
 and the blue balls will increase your link count. The higher your link count, the more points you 
 get. Though, if you don't touch a ring or blue ball for 3-5 seconds, then you lose the link. Obtaining 
 big links is essential to getting an A rank in levels. Each mission tests your skill with Nights 
 in different ways. Like the Link missions where you have to obtain the biggest link possible for 
 you with Nights. You'll be sure to have quite some fun with Nights and will not regret your purchase 
 then.
  
  The graphics are pretty decent. But they aren't anything steller. When playing the game, the graphics 
 don't look that bad. But when they go close up to the game models in cutscenes, the models are 
 just ugly. They aren't very good for what Sega has done with the Wii like Secret Rings. The CG 
 cutscenes are excellent as always though. They look absoulutely beautiful. Nights looks awesome 
 in CG. The framerate is bad most of the time in the in game cutscenes. But sometimes, it's perfect. 
 But mostly bad.
  
  The soundtrack lives up to the first game's soundtrack. The music fits the Nights theme quite well. 
 It's all calm and happy when it needs to and all bad and rock when it needs to. The soundtrack 
 is nice to listen to alot. It's not overdone to get you distracted from the gameplay. The sound 
 effects are basic and get the job down. The voices though are okay. Nights' voice though just doesn't 
 fit her. In the first game, she was all silent and not a Sonic personality clone. It looks like 
 Sega copy and pasted Sonic into Nights. The children's voices are just.... horrid. Nothing else. 
 Horrid. All other voices are pretty good though. Relea's voice is real badass.
  
  There's not alot to do in the game. This game probably didn't have a big enough budget to add so 
 much content. Sega did make up for this though by adding online play. Online play lets you race 
 against random people or your friends around the world with Nights. This is generally fun and helps 
 the replay value alot. Since you only have Story Mode to really do everything in the game, it's 
 nice that Sega added some real good multiplayer action.
  
  Overall, does Nights: Journey of Dreams live up to the first? I'd say not quite. But I never played 
 the original. But from what I've seen of the original, it doesn't. Nights tries too hard to incorporate 
 other types of missions when it should've just focused on Nights flying around collecting ideya 
 like the first game. This game is still fun. If you never played the first, you'll defiantly like 
 this game like me. if you have though, you may be a little disappointed but will still get fun 
 out of the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazer127
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  It is hard not to mention the origanal nights game when revewing this game, that is because not 
 only is the story just like the origanal, but the music, level and some bosses are just like its 
 saga saturn brother. the story starts of as either Will or Helen entering the "dream world" or 
 Night dimension as they call it in the game, The CG movies in the game is great, it really pushes 
 the Wii. but when you get into the game the voice acting... well it isnt the best one out there.
 
  
  After a short tutorial with your new old owl friend (who you want to kill as he can be VERY annoying 
 at times) you will then unlock the first dream world and depending on which child you play as, 
 it will be either a grassland or an underwater utopia. The Ideya also return in the game
  
  If you have not played the origanal game then let me explain. The Ideya are the essences of the 
 night dimension, You start of looking for the first Ideya in the world you are in and you do so 
 by doing 5 misions which always start of with the classic Nights sidescroling levels. These missions 
 differ from a link chalenge to helping guide the other child (who you will meet in your story several 
 times) to the end, These provide a fresh new look but they could of done without on some of them.
 
  
  the new chao garden is in this game and it is now called My dream in wich you look after the little 
 angle like creatures that you suck up by your "paraloop" move but beware, You can suck up some 
 badguys as well and they might run riot in your little paradice.
  
  So basicly If you are a fan of the origanal game and dont mind some bad voice acting then you will 
 find Nights journy of dreams a very refreshing experiance, now all we need to do is convince Sega 
 to make a new panzer Dragoon... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enrique_marrodz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This may be one of those cases when there is a fan base expecting a new iteration for so many years, 
 that somehow, nobody knows for sure what to expect.
  
  The story goes around two kids, Helen and Will, each one with a deep fear affecting their lives. 
 In their dreams, each one meets with NiGHTS and find out how the "dream" world is being threatened. 
 In joining NiGHTS they will attempt to save this world and, at the same time, confront and overcome 
 their fears.
  
  About the story. Is a very engaging and cute one, depending on how sensitive and open you may be, 
 is really easy to get in touch with the characters and, despite being a short affair, it's still 
 an enjoyable one, and soon you may feel the characters growing in you.
  
  The general world design is very nice. A really oniric one which helps to establish each character 
 mood and interests. The graphics are top notch and really show you how the art direction can achieve 
 a great sense of immersion. The world design is colorful and with strong contrast when the time 
 or situation is appropriate, for example, when you encounter a stage boss. There is, also, a good 
 amount of detail, although some textures may seem a little bland and is hard to say if this was 
 a design choice, to represent the dream world, or a lack of effort. Light effects, reflections 
 and shadows are also on the bright side, but some animations may look unpolished and awkward.
 
  
  One of the greatest departments in the game is the music and sound one. The whole game has a beautiful 
 soundtrack, very moody, and the way it changes to reflect certain events is just great. In one 
 level you have to keep the pace in a gigantic partiture, and play accordingly. This works just 
 great and adds a good deal of challenge to score perfect. The voice acting is also good and reflect 
 well the emotions of the several characters.
  
  About the gameplay you may find a certain amount of repetitiveness in the organization of the worlds 
 but, considering is a short game, it doesn't affect at all. Some on foot platform games are interesting, 
 but they are not very polished. You can say the main effort was on the flying sequences, as the 
 running feels too mechanic.
  
  A final word on the playing mechanics is that they offer several controller configurations: Wii-mote 
 only (IR focused) , Wii-mote/Nunchuck (Analog stick) , and classical controller (Analog stick) .
 
  
  I can say the IR is really broken, as the sensitivity is to high and any movement is overly complicated. 
 Accuracy is no where to be found and, all the control schema feels like a total waste because it 
 was a really clever idea.
  
  My best recommendation, stick to the sticks. Is much easier to control, either NiGHTS or the kids 
 this way, despite the fact you may feel the Wii-mote as a dead load in your hand because is not 
 really used other than for rumble as all you need is one stick and one button. Some flying tricks 
 were added to Wii-mote movements, but they are not really needed.
  
  Finally, there are some extras that can be unlocked depending on the grade you obtain in each mission 
 and some collectibles. And a "sand-box" where you can keep inhabitants of the dream world and do 
 some interaction. This "garden" is also available to receive visitors via WFC, which is a nice 
 addition.
  
  On the WFC/Multiplayer side, you can also battle and race against a second player locally, and 
 race online with friends or random players. The stages available for this can also be unlocked 
 via the main game.
  
  In general, is a great effort and, despite the control failures, it really deserves a place in 
 your library (although not permanently if a sequel manages to fix these details) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyDagger
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing the first NiGHTS game on the Dreamcast, and I think that game was better 
 than this one. But that's not to say that I didn't enjoy this one.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  The graphics in this game vary from good, to bad, to amazing. The CG cutscenes look amazing and 
 fit the mood of the game very well, while the in-game cutscenes aren't as good. Sometimes the characters 
 and level design can look a bit blocky, but that's only for in-game cutscenes. The gameplay cutscenes 
 look simply stunning, amazing looking affects are everywhere and the character motions are very 
 well done.
  
  Audio:
  
  The V/O in the game isn't much to boast about, while the characters can sound good, they can also 
 at some points sound like they were bored when recording the voices. The music in Journey Of Dreams 
 is beyond amazing, with amazing orchestral scores and some good non-orchestrated stuff too. The 
 music really complements the level design which, when mixed with graphics makes the mood of the 
 levels feel very good, which coincidentally makes the gameplay more enjoyable.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is where the game begins to falter. Don't get me wrong, the gameplay is awesome, 
 but it's a few misses in certain gameplay areas and the controls that stop it from being an amazing 
 game. In the game there are two different storylines, one being Helen's dream and the other being 
 Will's dream. Journey Of Dreams has an ok multiplayer comprised of only two things to do, either 
 race or battle, not much diversity eh? You can also have multiplayer online! But you can only do 
 races? What's up with that? Some of the levels where you play as either of the kids are mediocre 
 at best, and some of the Nights levels are lacking and not too exciting.
  
  There is also "My Dream" where, depending on what you collect throughout the game, Nightopians 
 or Nightmarens build up your "My Dream". Although you don't have much to do with how it gets built, 
 its a nice side dish to the main game. Also when you go online depending on where you live, the 
 weather can change in "My Dream" mode all thanks to the Wii weather channel. You can also visit 
 your friend's dreams which is another small goodie.
  
  The controls in this game are what make this game lose some of its magic. You have different ways 
 of controlling the characters, but none of them are all too impressive. With mediocre controls, 
 the game begins to become sometimes frustrating and overly difficult. This is part of why I didn't 
 enjoy multiplayer too much. The other part of it is because you get only two multiplayer modes, 
 well three if you count "My Dream".
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall this is a game that has a great presentation and alright gameplay that any NiGHTS fan would 
 enjoy. Other than that you should probably just rent it first to get a feeling of it, and if you 
 can resist its undeniable charm this game is not for you. This game is a good distraction from 
 life and another excuse to not go and play outside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams isn't necessarily a bad game, it is just overall unimpressive. You have 
 different ways of controlling your characters; you can use different controllers if you want. NiGHTS 
 is basically your average platformer here to bring us some joy of the original game. I mean, it 
 wouldn't have hurt to add in some neat changes to the formula because the formula doesn't really 
 work for me anymore -- though it might for some fans.
  
  Graphics are iffy, everything looks like an average GameCube game. Some levels are very colorful 
 and detailed at times, too! The CG cutscenes are very nice, though. The levels are unique in a 
 way, but some are linear. Storyline isn't epic or anything, just average you-be-the-hero type deal. 
 Voice acting is good, sound effects are well done. The thing that makes this game really awesome 
 is the musical score in the game. The music is wonderfully orchestrated and very catchy. I am was 
 very satisfied with the music. The game is short and won't take long to beat. There is online, 
 but not many are on, and it can get boring at times.
  
  It depends, it is NiGHTS into Dreams, but with a different storyline and characters. It's the same 
 game, but with a small upgrade. No matter what, if you like platformers, give NiGHTS: Journey of 
 Dreams a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownHedgehog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams is the long-awaited sequel to NiGHTS Into Dreams. The controls are very 
 simple and similar to the controls in the previous game. You can use the Wiimote on its own, the 
 Wiimote and the Nunchuk, the Gamecube controller or the Wii Classic Controller.
  The game now has more cutscenes and full dialogue than in the first game, which adds more detail 
 to the story. The new two playable characters are Helen Cartwright, a violinist, and Will Taylor, 
 a skilled soccer player, who both have nightmares, but are then taken to the Dream Gate, where 
 they meet NiGHTS (voiced by Julissa Aguirre) and help him save Nightopia and its residents by retrieving 
 all five Ideya (the first Ideya is already collected) .
  The game's gameplay has slightly changed. The blue chips are no longer required to unlock the "Ideya 
 Captures," but they can still be used to execute long "Link" combos. This time around, you need 
 to chase the guardian of the "NiGHTS Captures" and get the key off them to advance. Now all the 
 levels (except the final level, Bellbridge) have several missions which can be played (such as 
 "Rescue Mission," "Escape the Labyrinth" and "Link Challenged") . And also, during gameplay, you 
 can take some Nightopians to a Chao Garden-ish mode called "My Dream." As you bring more and more 
 Nightopians to the "My Dream" mode, more and more items will appear. However, like Chao, you need 
 to look after the Nightopians and feed them Blue Chips every now and again, or they will grow very 
 tired and faint. The reccommended amount of Nightopians kept in "My Dream" is 5. "My Dream" also 
 allows players to visit each other's dreams via Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection.
  And also, a new 2-player mode has been added, so you can race in the stage you choose, or have 
 a NiGHTS Vs Reala Duel online or offline.
  The graphics and music have improved since the previous game. The famous music composer for NiGHTS 
 Into Dreams, Naofumi Hataya, composes the new music for this game and also makes remixes of "Growing 
 Wings" and "Dreams Dreams." Plus, this game is EDTV/HDTV compatible, so you can enjoy NiGHTS in 
 better resolution.
  Despite the fact the game shows a lot of similarities to the previous installment, NiGHTS: Journey 
 of Dreams brings smiles to gamers around the world with a new story, new levels, new bosses and 
 modes. Those who played, wished or missed the first game will definetely love this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleLev
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  Ever since I first heard there was a new Nights game in the works for the Nintendo Wii, I was filled 
 with joy. One of the most magical feeling games I remember playing was going to be kept alive. 
 In fact, I would go so far as to declare that Nights was one of the main two selling points that 
 made me eventually pick up my own Wii. Man, was I naive.
  
  It's not that I feel like I was conned or mislead into believing this would be just as remarkable 
 as the first  the problem is that I wasn't being as realistic as I should have been. When I remember 
 soaring through the skies of Nightopia around a decade ago, I remember the awesome feeling I got 
 out of just playing the game. The music was spectacular and the game play mechanics were excellent 
 (for the time being) , but I still couldn't precisely put my finger on what it was that made playing 
 it feel so good. Much like when listening to an amazing song that speaks to you or viewing a powerful 
 film, you get an amazing feeling without being completely capable of analyzing what it is that 
 is so powerful about it. Perhaps, it is just the unlikely coincidence of sounds that suit the sights, 
 and sights that suit the senses. Whatever the case may be, I regret to say that Journey of Dreams 
 does not do its predecessor justice. Whatever was responsible for shaping the amazing sensation 
 of playing the original Nights game now remains hidden a decade in the past.
  
  In some ways I actually now feel that Nights would better be glorified solely as a memory, as opposed 
 to a stagnating series of average games. In any event, Sonic Team has taken a less conservative 
 approach by reviving an eleven year old legend. The new Nights game, Journey of Dreams, not only 
 shows a wide array of signs indicating its growth, but a considerable number of gaming aspects 
 that seem oddly out of place in today's era of gaming.
  
  If you are unfamiliar with Nights, or the latest installment, Journey of Dreams, the concept is 
 pretty simple; you soar through the skies while trying to maneuver as elegantly as possible to 
 glide inside loops and earn points by collecting orbs. You take the role of a fantasy like creature 
 (or entity) called, "Nights". Well, technically, you take the role of one of two children, Will, 
 and Helen, and through fusing with Nights you are capable of flying through the fantasy worlds 
 created by the each child's dreams. The worlds you explore are depictions of the child's dreams 
 and innermost thoughts and worries. While Nights indirectly helps the children address their worries 
 and overcome the hurdles in their life, the children help Nights defeat the Nightmarens and restore 
 peace to Nightopia. The premise sounds nice enough, but all of the little details seem tacked together 
 and kind of bland.
  
  The game-play is incredibly similar to it's predecessor, for better or for worse. Much like the 
 classic Nights, of a time almost long forgotten, all flight is "on rails". That is to say, flight 
 is not free motion and you cannot go in any direction you desire. Instead, you have a predetermined 
 route which you follow merely instructing Nights to fly rightward, or leftward to go back. Most 
 of the levels are compromised of having to chase down a bird with a key, lather, rinse and repeat 
 a few times. Actually, quite often the purpose behind what you are doing in each level is quite 
 unclear or without much merit or purpose. But hey, flying around is still quite a bit of fun.
 
  
  Controlling Nights can be done by using every possible Wii input device there is. If you want to, 
 you can use solely the Wii remote and hold down the A button while aiming in the direction you 
 want Nights to fly. It sounds simple enough in theory, but it isn't incredibly accurate and is 
 a bit more of a hassle to pull off then one might think. My guess is, you aren't going to find 
 that too comfortable and will resort to one of the other alternatives. Controlling Nights in the 
 classic sense can be done with the analog stick on either the nunchuck, the Wii classic controller, 
 and even a Gamecube controller. Since Nights is basically just a one button game anyhow (aside 
 from directional controls that is) , it really doesn't make much of a difference. If you have a 
 preference for a favorite analog stick, then the choice is yours. Unfortunately, that just doesn't 
 make it much better.
  
  Personally, I preferred using the analog stick of either the nunchuck or the classic controller, 
 but I was still quite frustrated from time to time at how imprecise it felt at performing mundane 
 tasks. In all fairness, I think I should boldly state that I am not the biggest fan of the Wii's 
 analog stick. It's my general feeling that Nintendo has never made a half-decent analog stick (sorry, 
 Nintendo fanboys) , which is something that comes to bite Nights in the ass as a result. For one 
 thing, the Wii analog sticks are enclosed within an octagonal shape, which makes creating a smooth 
 circular gesture problematic. I also encountered a far more annoying problem with using the nunchuck, 
 and it was a real kick in the teeth. The rubber material is good, but not great. This leads to 
 my thumb losing grip and needing to be readjusted periodically. Because of this, a certain level 
 where you must hit musical notes on time became incredibly difficult, merely as a result of not 
 getting a good enough hold of the controller. In all fairness, I don't want to judge Nights, or 
 the developers, over this pitfall, since I feel that problem was more hardware based than software 
 based. But in any case, while having a perfect grasp may seem trivial in most Wii games, I found 
 it to be far too unforgiving in Nights. Sadly, nothing about the control scheme felt like it was 
 in anyway Wii-specific, which makes me think Sega only went this route because of a more family-oriented 
 market and lower expectations on the visual realm of things.
  
  While I do love video games of all kinds on every platform imaginable, I don't want my open-minded 
 approach to be hindered by treating a particular platform with any dose of immunity. With that 
 said, I expected a lot more of the visuals in Journey of Dreams. Maybe I am just far too used to 
 gaming on the Xbox 360 and PS3 and my standards are much higher than the Wii seems to be capable 
 of. In any event, the graphics of Journey of Dreams cannot come close to rivaling even the most 
 mediocre titles on the Xbox 360 or PS3. Most of, if not all, of the character models are low-polygon. 
 I was surprised to see some obvious, jagged edges on Nights, which even my expectations would not 
 have predicted. At several points I actually felt that the graphics felt more like a N64 or Gamecube 
 title. Most of the textures are low resolution as well, which doesn't make things any better. In 
 all fairness, the graphics have definitely improved over the original, but only by a real minor 
 step, and nowhere near where one might expect after ten years of technological evolution. Fortunately, 
 the creative minds at Sonic Team once again paint beautiful scenery with their imaginations as 
 the palettes. Most of the levels are bright and colorful, and just along the lines of what you 
 are probably used to. Each level hosts a number of abstract themes which definitely do a great 
 job in giving the game personality and originality. It's just a bit of a shame that the details 
 could use quite a bit of work.
  
  At least the music delivers to what a fan of Nights might expect. While some of the tunes may not 
 be as memorable as the original, the score definitely feels like Nights. I may be mistaken, but 
 it also appears as if some of the original music, or at least certain melodies from the original 
 score, have been remixed. If you're just thinking, "re-used content; what a rip off!", hold on 
 a moment. The music is fresh and original, but there are a few tunes that have been mixed up a 
 bit, and it is my opinion that this was a good choice, considering how good the music in Nights 
 is. For the most part, the music is pretty sounding and fits the fantasy theme of Nights to a T. 
 The real downer with the music, and sound overall, is the horribly lame and scary pop song at the 
 end with lyrics. I really wish I could pay a visit to the studios and shake some soldiers while 
 exclaiming, "what were you thinking?". Seriously, when I first heard the music's pace picking up 
 and the voices coming in, I became quite disturbed. Maybe it's just my pop-phobia , but that poppy 
 song at the end really rubbed me the wrong way.
  
  First of all, it was interesting to hear Nights as well as Will and Helen speaking with a British 
 accent. Then again, a tower resembling Big Ben appears on the cover, so it probably won't come 
 as a shock to most of you. Oh, and let me point out that I have nothing wrong with the British 
 voice-overs. In fact, I think it gives Nights more of a personality. In a way, I'd really hate 
 to hear such a fantasy creature speaking with an average American dialect. Perhaps, "yo! wuzzup 
 kidz? ya'll ready to fly witch me?". Nah, that wouldn't do either. The British accents work well; 
 that isn't the problem. Some of the dialog is overly exaggerated, and the owl sounds both corny 
 and annoying. He comes off as even more annoying because they slap on pointless one-worders. You 
 know, where he only speaks a single word, like "visitor", yet the dialog has a lot more to say. 
 Actually, I was hoping for a level where I'd have to chase around the owl and then tear all his 
 feathers off, because he was really starting to get on my nerves. Anyhow, it doesn't help that 
 a lot of the dialog is cheesy. All in all, I'd say that the voice-over work is just on par; it 
 has its ups and its downs. This is a family game geared at a general audience, so I'm not too sure 
 what else you could do with the voice-over tones and dialog without running the risk of coming 
 off too oriented towards a specific audience.
  
  As you complete a realm of levels in Journey of Dreams, you unlock and "Ideya", which gives Nights 
 the ability to morph into one of three different forms. Nights can transform into a dolphin - which 
 allows him to go under water, a rocket  which allows Nights to blast around at super speeds, and 
 even a dragon  which allows you to avoid the effects of wind, which would otherwise prevent you 
 from advancing at certain parts. It all sounds good enough that the game-play provides you with 
 the opportunity to get several feels for the game, but the truth is none of these forms feel all 
 that special or satisfying. Generally, you won't even bother with changing to the alternate forms, 
 except on the few rare occasions where it is necessary to advance in a level. In terms of simple 
 enjoyment, the forms do little to add to the enjoyment of game play, and feel like nothing more 
 than a necessary extension you are required to rely on at certain points. It's a shame because, 
 it could have been a real treat to play as the special variants of Nights, but it really didn't 
 feel that different than playing as Nights.
  
  Journey of Dreams, while an enjoyable and unique, is not without its annoyances. Fortunately, most 
 of them are fairly trivial things which do little to hamper the overall feeling you will get from 
 playing the game. But since, I am trying to portray a clear overview of what to expect, it is foolish 
 to ignore them as if they aren't there. First of all, Journey of Dreams doesn't believe in checkpoints. 
 If you fail a mission, you have to restart from the beginning. This isn't so bad for most levels, 
 but there are several levels in which a boss fight is slapped on at the end of the level. If you 
 happen to fail the battle against the boss, then you will need to repeat the entire level again 
 in order just to get to the boss. Not the most pleasant situation to be in, when levels can take 
 around 5-10 minutes to complete, which means you will be replaying a lot of game-play anytime you 
 mess things up. Whether you fumble or not, you will redo boss fights several times, which comes 
 off as rather dull the second or third time going at it. There are not many bosses in the game, 
 so instead you redo boss fights with slight changes to make them harder. Apparently, the developers 
 were either short on time, or they didn't think anyone would notice. I did, and I wish there was 
 more of a variety.
  
  Cut scenes also cannot be skipped. Well, strike that  most of the cut scenes can't be skipped. 
 There are a few clips which can be skipped, but the majority of all the story based cut scenes 
 are forced, which makes replacing parts more tedious than necessary. Then again, this is hardly 
 something to throw a bit fit over since Nights isn't an extremely challenging game and won't have 
 you wanting to skip scenes too often anyhow.
  
  One of the absolute biggest bummers, which I regret to inform you of, is the length of the game. 
 While you have the opportunity to play as both Will and Helen, who each have their own story and 
 individual levels, it still won't take very long. I completed both of the story modes in under 
 four hours combined! It feels as though the developers put far too much of an emphasis on scores 
 and ranks to compensate as "replay value". That doesn't do it for me, because I am not too concerned 
 with earning a specific ranking for each level, when the reward for doing so is so negligible. 
 Fortunately, you will have the opportunity to soar through the skies of Nightopia with a friend, 
 since Journey of Dreams has multi-player support. Still, it's not the most exhilarating multi-player 
 game, so it doesn't do very much for the game's life span.
  
  The emphasis on how many points you earn, and what rank you complete the level in feels dated. 
 That sort of thing was all fine and dandy ten years ago, but gamers today expect a bit more than 
 arbitrary scoring systems to fill their needs. Another dated concept is the irrelevant and unnecessary 
 time limits. Why are we being timed here while chasing around a bird with a key? Is a bomb going 
 to go off? Is someone in urgent need of rescuing? What's the big hurry? It feels like a game revolving 
 around time limits and how many points you earn is slightly out of place in today's gaming world. 
 Once upon a time, this is what gamers wanted and loved, but today we expect logical explanations 
 for why the time limits are there, and a reason for striving to achieve X number of points. That 
 is not to say that Nights is way off base, but it definitely does seem to be showing signs its 
 age.
  
  I like Nights. I like the concept of it. I like the music, and I like the fantasy worlds. I like 
 its innocent nature and the ability to fly around without any consideration about defeating foes. 
 No matter how bad Sonic Team may manage to desecrate this legend, I will still stand by, patriotically, 
 and go down with the sinking ship. Journey of Dreams doesn't do its predecessor justice, but it 
 at least rekindles the nostalgic feelings of a truly original and unique game. It has its flaws, 
 and I am well aware of them, but there is also a good time to be had, if at least for only a short 
 while. It's worth checking out if you know what you are getting into, or if you just want to try 
 something fresh and unique. If you don't set your expectations too high you will still manage to 
 have a good time.
  
  
  
  Overall Score: 6.3
  
  Gameplay: (7) Classic nights game-play just as you would expect. The control schemes all feel a 
 bit off and could use some fine tuning.
  
  Graphics: (7) Not very high in polygon count and some low resolution textures. At least many of 
 the levels are really pretty.
  
  Sound: (7) Great music which definitely feels like Nights. Voice acting is on par, and the owl 
 needs to be spanked.
  
  Lasting Appeal: (4) Way too short! Complete both story lines in under 5 hours combined. Fortunately, 
 there is multi-player support, though it does little to extend the game's life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  13 years ago, NiGHTS Into Dreams was on the Sega Saturn and it innovated the way we played 3D games 
 when it came with that analog 3D controller. NiGHTS Journey of Dreams lets you play in 4 ways: 
 gamecube, wii remote, classic and nunchuck controller. In my opinion, I think it's better to play 
 with the classic or gamecube controller. (I have the classic controller so I play with that) Although 
 this new NiGHTS sticks to its original gameplay, some of the music and sound effects were taken 
 from the Saturn game. It's cool if you are a retro gamer and personally, I didn't mind it at all 
 since I was familiar with NiGHTS on the Saturn. You play with a boy and a girl like in the first 
 game; Will and Helen. They both have their own story and their dreams are intertwined. They see 
 each other during the dreams and basically, that's what NiGHTS is about, dreams. NiGHTS is the 
 Peter Pan of sega because like Peter Pan, NiGHTS is a carefree being. There is a story with voice 
 acting and let me just say that the voice acting is well-done for a sega game (Sega games are usually 
 known for poor voice acting and horrible music.) and the music was good too. The voice acting is 
 in English (British English) and it was good. When it comes to graphics, the CGI cutscenes looked 
 wonderful but the gameplay's graphics looked like it should've been on the PS2. Now, I know the 
 Wii is capable of better graphics since Super Mario Galaxy is the best looking game on the Wii 
 right now. This game is about 10-12 hours long, it's pretty easy, a 6-year-old girl can pass it. 
 It's a short game and it can end very quickly. Luckily, NiGHTS is Nintendo Wi-Fi enabled so you 
 can play online with people with and/or without friend codes but in the 2P battle, there's 2 modes, 
 race and battle but you can play online with race which is cool but kinda sucks. There's also a 
 My Dream which you can go to in the Dream Gate and you can meet someone and fool around. NiGHTS 
 has 3 different personas and he (or she) can become a dolphin, a rocket and a serpent and I thought 
 that was pretty cool since the first game didn't have that (or so I don't think) . NiGHTS Journey 
 of Dreams was a good game but it could've been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoxyAreku
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  As some may know, the original NiGHTS was my favorite game of all time. It was a true masterpiece, 
 and it's sequel is really great.
  
  The game stars two kids, Will and Helen, both at the age of 12 years. Will is really close with 
 his father and would always practice playing soccer with him, however him being so close to his 
 dad has kept him from making friends of his own and when his dad has to leave town on a business 
 trip he is left all alone. This bitter loneliness has made him have nightmares almost every night, 
 until one night a magical light takes him away from his nightmare and into the land of dreams, 
 Nightopia.
  There is also the young girl Helen, she is very close with her mom and used to practice playing 
 violin every day with her, she eventually became very involved with friends and it eventually caused 
 her to lose the strong relationship her mother and herself shared, and she slowly started to feel 
 very guilty resulting in nightmares every night. She gets taken to Nightopia just like Will.
  
  Most of the stages involve flying around as NiGHTS to clear a certain objective, or fighting 
 a boss. There are a few on foot missions too, but those can get rather boring kinda quickly.
  
  The game has 6 worlds, 3 for each child and five stages in each world. The story doesn't take 
 that long to beat (I did it in 5 hours) but the true fun of NiGHTS is returning to each stage to 
 try to get the highest ranking and score possible. There is even a world ranking system so you 
 can compare your scores to others online, and you can also do a 2 player race mode and 2 player 
 battle mode. You can only do the race online however, there is also a thing called "My Dream" where 
 you can make your own little garden, sort of. You can invite people to your dream and also visit 
 theirs through wifi.
  
  The game also offers 3 different ways of control. You can either use just the wiimote, the wiimote 
 and nunchuk, or the gamecube/classic controller. I recommend NEVER using just the wiimote, the 
 motion controls used there aren't that good. Use either the nunchuk or a normal controller. 2 out 
 of 3 isn't bad! 
  
  The graphics in the game are beautiful and the music is great, it shows, just like the original, 
 that Video Games are a form of art as well.
  
  The game is completely unique, and there is no other game like it. You won't be blowing anything 
 up or shooting anyone, but NiGHTS proves that you don't need to kill stuff to have fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario_46
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Fun flying gameplay  Gorgeous music  Graphics look great sometimes...
  
  The Bad: ... But other times they don't look so good  Mediocre on-foot sequences  Ridiculous, 
 clich filled story.
  
  
  
  
  Introduction:
 
  
  
  
  NIGHTS into dreams is probably the most beloved game of the Sega Saturn console, it was created 
 by Yuji Naka and the Sonic Team and was considered one of the best platformers of all time, sadly 
 it failed to reach the success of games like Mario 64 or Spyro The dragon. The game became a cult 
 classic and many people demanded a sequel for years, those demands were ignored until 2007, when 
 Nights: Journey of dreams was announced for the wii. 
  
  And though it won't live up to the expectations of purist and sometimes feels bland when compared 
 to the original, it's a fun game on it's own and can provide moments of joy. 
  
  
  
  
  Presentation: 
 8/10 
  
  
  
  Nights 
 is a very colourful game and all the menus look great, so do the CGI cutscenes because they look 
 very realistic. The in-game cutscenes don't look nearly as good though, the characters don't animate 
 well and they look plastic and very PSone-ish. 
  
  But other than that the game is presented quite well and the music score is superb to say the least. 
 
  
  
  
  
  Story 
 & Characters: 5/10 
  
  
  Journey 
 of Dreams is set in the world of Nightopia, which is some kind of world where the kids go once 
 they fell asleep. The story is separated in two parts: Will's dream (a young soccer player whose 
 dad is never around) and Helen's dream (a young girl who constantly disappoints her mother) . 
 
  
  Once they sleep they go into Nightopia and meet Nights, the main protagonist. Nights can be either 
 a male or a female depending on which character you choose. The point of them being in this world 
 is gain confidence and strenght, to do this they must defeat the Nightmarens (creatures who are 
 trying to make of Nightopia a constant nightmare) and collect the four ideyas. 
  
  The core story is decent, but it's filled with the most overused clichs in this type of stories: 
 the kids overcoming every obstacle with purity of the heart and blah, blah, blah. The same thing 
 we can expect of a bad Pokemon movie. Of course it can be enjoyable for kids and other people, 
 but it's just very uninteresting and boring. 
  
  
  
  Gameplay: 
 7/10 
  
  
  
  Nights: 
 journey of dreams can be called a 3D side-scroller because you follow a linear path to complete 
 your objectives, sometimes the camera turns into a third person perspective though. The levels 
 are divided into five dream worlds and there's a time limit to complete each objective. 
  
  Much like the original you'll be flying through rings and gathering orbs. Some of the objectives 
 to do in the game include chasing birds, keeping up with a little guy called octopaw while getting 
 an amount of links and of course boss fights, which are very enjoyable, sometimes they are weird 
 and frustrating (Chamelan) but once you get the hang of it you'll start enjoying them. 
  
  The amount of variety in the objectives and missions is very good and most of them are really fun, 
 The flying gameplay is particularly enjoyable but sadly there will also be some on-foot sequences. 
 Why sadly? Well because these are bland and frustrating and detract from an other-wise joyful gameplay. 
 
  
  Between the moves you can fin in the game you'll ge the spiral and the paraloop, which is one of 
 the most important and is done by doing a circle. You can also choose between five control options: 
 Wii controller, Wii controller with nunchuck, Gamecube controller and classic controller. To control 
 nights with the wiimote only option you have to move the cursor while pressing the A button, this 
 is frustrating when it comes to do paraloops, i personally recommend the nunchuck + wiimote combo 
 because is the best way to play it, all the other control options are fine though as long as you 
 play with an analog stick. 
  
  Once you finish a level you'll get a grade based on your performance, and to beat these levels 
 you'll also get masks that transform Nights and give him new abilities, these are nice and give 
 the game some variety but they weren't really needed.
  
  The mutliplayer component in the game comes in the form of a battle and race mode, both playable 
 online, but they aren't much fun. There's also another online component called "My Dream" in which 
 you'll raise Nightopians and share them with other people, you can also communicate with them via 
 emoticons.
  
  
  
  
  Visuals: 
 8/10 
  
  
  
  Most 
 things look great in the game, it's colourful and beautiful and the water looks realistic at times. 
 It's a joy to watch at times, but other times (especially during the on-foot sequences) things 
 look a little bland and the characters don't animate that well. 
  But Nights is full of great artistic design, all the worlds look awesome and backgrounds look superb 
 at times.
  
  
  
  
  Sound: 
 9/10 
  
  
  
  How good 
 is the voice acting? Well that depends on how much cheesy, fake british accent you can take. And 
 the sound effects are just decent. What makes the sound so good then? Well the marvelous music, 
 which is by far the best thing about the game and it'll keep you in a constantly good mood, it's 
 just that great. It mixes old with new and the intro music sets the tone on how the game will be: 
 a joyful experience. 
  
  
  
  
  Performance: 
 7/10 
  
  
  
  The framerate 
 gets erratic at times but it doesn't detract from the experience. Loading times can also be annoying 
 and long at times, but other than that it performs smoothly.
  
  
  
  
  Replay 
 Value: 8/10 
  
  
  
  It can 
 take up to seven hours to beat the game with both kids, you'll keep coming back for better scores 
 and plus the added online component will prove to be quite fun to some people.
  
  
  
  
  Fun Factor: 
 8/10 
  
  
  
  Though 
 most of the on-foot platforming is annoying and broken the flying missions are a joy to play because 
 they're so well done, the boss battles and overall variety will give you plenty of good moments.
 
  
  
  
  
  Appeal: 8/10 
  
  
 
  
  Nights is a platformer, a genre that it's loved by most and plus it doesn't hurt that is a really 
 good one. It's definitely a game that can be played and enjoyed by most people and if you didn't 
 like the original you might as well give this a try because it has a lot of variety. If you've 
 already beat Super Mario Galaxy for the tenth time, put it down and pick this up.
  
  
  
  
  Tilt: 
 8/10 
  
  
  
  Nights 
 is a great game and i liked it a lot, the great gameplay keeps you in a good mood and is just a 
 fun game overall, too bad the story was so bad, because the rest of the game is full of awesome 
 and it's quite addictive too, it's not really a must have, but is one of those games you really 
 have to consider getting.
  
  
  
  
  Overall: 
 
  
  
  
  7.6 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzydennis
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  
 
  
  NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams is the long wanted sequal to the SEGA Saturn classic NiGHTS of Dreams...! 
 This game remains very close to the original and doesn't try to change that much. The plot focuses 
 on 2 children. A boy named William and a girl named Helen. William is a young soccer prodigy, but 
 he doesn't get much time with his father and starts getting nightmares from being seperated from 
 him. Helen has been neglecting her mother and practicing the violin for an important recital. Helen 
 starts having nightmares too. In their seperate dreams they meet the famed jester NiGHTS. As they 
 grow friendly to the new worlds, they very quickly find out about Wizeman and his super awesome 
 henchman Reala!
  
  
 
  
  The graphics in NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams is a mixed bag. They can look so different between gameplay 
 and cutscenes. The CG cutscenes look perfect and capture the mood perfectly, but the ingame engine 
 cutscenes, not as much. The ingame cutscenes look pretty ugly and at times alittle blocky. The 
 enviornments can look shabby and the character move far too much. These cutscenes aren't so bad 
 that yoeu should watch them, but it looks far less appealing than the rest of the game.
  
  Gameplay graphics look great! The characters aren't as close and they move well and capture every 
 action perfectly. The enviornments are beautiful. From the Aqua Gardens funky water effects to 
 the neon lights of Delight City! It's hard to say that the graphics look bad! It's a perfect fit! 
 The particle effects, such as NiGHTS' rocket form look great too!
  
  
 
  
  The sound in NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams isn't much to talk about. I mean all the classic sounds 
 from the original game are in this one and some new ones. It all sounds great, but nothing out 
 of the ordinary to mention.
  
  
 
  
  The best part of this game. The music is perfect! Many songs are orchrestrated and some are not. 
 All the music fits so well that the tunes are still in my head! The main theme (redone fron the 
 original game) is so great, that I would rank it as one of the best video game themes ever! Just 
 hear it and you'll love it!
  
  NiGHTS VS. Reala 2 (music track) is so awesome!
  
  
 
  
  The voices in NiGHTS are fitting, but nothing worth mentioning. NiGHTS voice fits her well and 
 it really doesn't give a definite gender. Reala has a more raspy voice that fits with his character 
 very well. William and Helen are good for the most part, but at time sound bored. Wizeman sounds 
 so cool!
  
  
 
  
  The gameplay of NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams is very unchanged from the original. This time you have 
 4 control options. You can use the Wii Remote, Wii Remote and Nunchuk, Classic Controller, and 
 the Gamecube Controller. The Wii Remote control scheme has you point toward the screen to move 
 NiGHTS, but it turns out much more annoying to use! I prefered the Wii Remote and Nunchuk control 
 scheme (even though it's almost identical to the Classic Contoller and the Gamecube Controller) .
 
  
  The gameplay itself looks 3D while it's played on a 2D plane. You can move NiGHTS up, down, left, 
 and right, but not forward and backward. The control is very fun and flying is fun in general. 
 You hit any one button to spin and attack. It's so simple, but it plays so perfectly!
  
  The boss fights are so unique! Many bosses play differently and are very fun. I'm not going to 
 spoil anything, but be ready to face the most unique bosses, that use strange physics, card tricks, 
 and even Cerebus (a 3 headed dog!) . Reala fights are fun to only a few people, but I found them 
 enjoyable.
  
  In another note there is also Multiplayer. You can play with people in your house via splitscreen. 
 It can do a regular race that plays like single player, but with two people, one as NiGHTS and 
 the other as Reala. Also there is battle mode, which can be very fun! Wifi is so awesome! It only 
 consist of race, but it's a lot of fun!
  
  There is also a virtual pet known as A-Life and the MyDream is veru fun too, but I just wish there 
 was more control over it,
  
  If you like unique games and own a Wii, you must get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dapieguyofdoom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  NiGHTS Journey of Dreams is a sequel to the Sega genesis game, NiGHTS into Dreams. I've never had 
 the opportunity to play the original game. So you can believe me when I say that I like this game 
 for what it is, not because it's a sequel to Sega's classic. 
  
  I'll start with the graphics, the most controversial part of the game. The pre-rendered cut scenes 
 are absolutely amazing, but only total to about 3 or 4 minutes. The in-game cut scenes are mediocre 
 at best. Despite the horrible in-game cut scenes, the actual gameplay as NiGHTS looks beautiful, 
 and stays on an impressively high frame rate. 
  
  NiGHTS incredible soundtrack is really what adds the depth and that relaxing feeling of floating 
 through the magical world. Every bit of music in the game fits in perfectly with its respective 
 environment, and is one of the main staples that made NiGHTS so popular in the first place. 
  
  The story isn't too bad, but gets a little immature at times. It follows a boy named Will and 
 a girl named Helen who both have problems in their life, and end up having nightmares because of 
 them. However, both Helen and Will possess what's known as the Ideya of Courage, and end up in 
 Nightopia, a world of dreams. Not all is well in Nightopia, as the Nightmarians strive to cause 
 turn it into a world of nightmares. In order to prevent the Nightmarian's schemes, Will and Helen 
 each have to find the remaining Ideya that have been stolen by the Nightopians. To retrieve the 
 Ideya, the children receive the help of NiGHTS, a fantasy jester that freely roams Nightopia in 
 search of anything to help satisfy its curious nature. There are a couple of easily perceived, 
 small plot twists here and there, but besides that the story is pretty straightforward.
  
  Next is the gameplay, which is really what makes NiGHTS such a unique experience. As NiGHTS you 
 fly through rings trying to get as many links as possible to add to your time score and giving 
 you the best possible final score of an A, with the lowest being an E. Every mission has different 
 requirements, and therefore, different factors that determine your final score. Some missions have 
 you saving the Nightopians, the residents of Nightopia, and other missions have you trying to rid 
 an entire city of Nightopians, link together a chain of music notes, or even stop a roller coaster 
 from crashing. There are a couple of on foot levels that were added for diversity, but end up being 
 the dullest part of the game. The last level of each course is the boss level, which is truly one 
 of the highlights of the game. Each boss battle is extremely different, and has some of the cleverest 
 ideas I've ever seen in a video game. Words can't really explain how these battles are executed, 
 but the bosses themselves include a lizard magician, a bloated clown, and a witch with evil cats 
 at her disposal. Don't be fooled by how simple these fights sound, you have to experience for yourself 
 how brilliant they really are. 
  
  Besides all this, Sega included a couple of side things to do to keep your attention. Spread throughout 
 the courses of Nightopia are items called dreamdrops. Dreamdrops are usually hidden and hard to 
 find, but if you do mange to collect them all, you will be greatly rewarded. You could also strive 
 to get all A ranks on every mission, which also unlocks an unexpected surprise. Perhaps the most 
 engaging of all the extras is known as My Dream. This is self-explanatory; it's your very own dream. 
 It is essentially a less complex version of the Chao Garden of the Sonic Adventure games. You can 
 fill your dream with Nightopians which, depending on what course you got them from, can drastically 
 alter the landscape of your My Dream. While the My Dream system could be improved in many ways, 
 it still adds quite a few hours to your NiGHTS experience.
  
  Despite NiGHTS predicable storyline and lackluster in-game cutscenes, it is an incredible experience 
 that shouldn't be missed by anyone looking for a good time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebonyflame
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  Lets get this out of the way now, this is not your parents NiGHTS. It is a game somewhat based 
 on the original. Where the original had a very clear, straightforward objective, this sequel has 
 emerged with lots of fluff and filler. That is not a bad thing, but it is not exactly a good thing 
 either. In the original, your goal was simple, gather a few blue orbs to spring the guardian of 
 nightopia, NiGHTS, and then go gather your Ideya. Once gathered, defeat the boss of that stage. 
 This game has spoken dialogue, which is cute or cheesy, depends on who you ask. I say cheesy. This 
 game has given NiGHTS a personality, you actually interact with NiGHTS in the cutscenes (blasphemy 
 I says) . And there are critters you are actually required to confront for a key to a cage (not 
 sure what thats all about) . The controls are okay when using analogue controls on the gamecube 
 or classic controller. Amazingly enough the motion controls, which seem like they would have been 
 a perfect fit for this genre of game, suck ass. More like an afterthought. My personal opinion 
 of every Wii game not produced specifically by nintendo is this: Let the game be developed in house 
 by whatever company is doing all the content and then when it comes to implementing the controls, 
 send the finished product, minus the control scheme to nintendo and let them implement it as they 
 seem to be the only company that does it right everytime. This game is a definite buy on my rating 
 scale for people new to the series. It is very beautiful (comparable to any next gen 360 or PS3 
 game for artwork and presentation) . The musical score for this game is top notch, a perfect fit 
 for this game. The tsory, while a bit muddled in its complexity, is great for all ages. The controls, 
 while perfect for gamecube or classic controllers, could have used a lot more work for the wii 
 motion controls. For fans (by that I mean people who actually owned or rented, played and enjoyed 
 the original) I say play at your own risk. The dialogue, clumsy controls and overly complex story 
 may put you off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonic91
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I say worth the wait cause i wanted to know what made NIGHTS such a great series, and finally i 
 got my answer. Nights : Journey of Dreams is a great platformer err more like fly-er as you go 
 through colorful worlds, great boss fights and amazing sound track to come with it.
  
  Story 9/10: 2 characters: A boy named Will and a girl named Hellen each with some troubling issues 
 with their parents. Wills father is getting distant with him while Hellen seems to be the time 
 with her mother for granted. Both are pulled into the world of dreams due to nightmares they are 
 having. There they meet NIGHTS and explore the world of dreams not only to save their dreams but 
 also all of Nightopia from the evil wisemen. Theres some evil, some harmony, and a shocking twist 
 or 2 that will fill you with the magic of dreams.
  
  Gameplay 8/10: Flying around through 7 colorful enchanting worlds is fun but has a few occasional 
 moments of dull. You will complete several missions each with their own tasks flying through rings 
 to increase the time on the clock. You'll Gain masks for new powers, some levels contian special 
 transformations, and the boss fights will become memorable for years to come. But with all this 
 fun comes a few levels of actual platforming which for some reason are not so fun parts. When your 
 not playing as Nights your just running around jumping and throwing orbs to confuse enemies. These 
 arent really bad but they dont have any charm or outstanding platform elements but hey those are 
 just 2 or 3 levels. Your level of fun will also be based one what controls you use to play the 
 game. Nights as a wii exclusive contians motion controls, but also using the nunchuck connected 
 and classic controls. The nunchuck and classic work great and flying is as easy ever but the wii 
 remote controls are a little stiff. Pointing in the direction to fly is fine but when trying to 
 pull off the loop attack it gets frustrating, ironic how the exclusive controls are the only ones 
 that dont work properly. Sticking to the older model, its still an addictling fun game.
  
  Graphcis 9/10: The world of dreams needs a good amount of thought. You need to have bright colors, 
 good level design, and make it feel like your in a dream. Nights does all of this to an almost 
 perfect scale. You see some graphic moments that arent as good as others, but with beautiful cut 
 scenes and levels that look good even during NIGHTS's flying around you wont be disappointed.
 
  
  Sound 9/10: Musical orchastra pieces are all through the game. Combine with the look the music 
 gives you the feel of dreams and nightmares beautifully. You'll fly throw the worlds care free 
 as you listen to these with an amazing theme song right off the start.
  
  11 years ago a game was so good that it got hyped to create a sequal. Now with the delivered experience 
 at hand i can see why. NIGHTS is a fun game that can reach out so that you may not want to wake 
 up for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Fantastic music, tons of control options, sometimes pretty, decent concept
  
  The Bad: Controls take getting used too, too repetitive, somewhat dis jaunting story wise
  
 
  I had high hopes for NiGHTS thinking that maybe Sonic Team will put some effort into a game for 
 once... well I was let down once again. While NiGHTS feels a lot like the Saturn game and the Sonic 
 games they did a semi-decent job with this. While the graphics are sometimes pretty, and while 
 gliding around and making Paraloops to capture Nightopians from giant black holes of doom is fun 
 it gets kind of old after awhile. You can play as either Will or Helen who are two children who 
 land in the world if Nightopia while sleeping. They of course meet NiGHTS (who is a sexually confused 
 Nightmaren) to save the world from Reala and Master Wizeman. Some levels consist of you looping 
 and swooping through an on rails level of collecting rings, busting open cages with nothing in 
 them, and ummm... fighting weird bosses. While the bosses are weird they are the best part of the 
 game such as a giant clown that you have to bounce vertically through a series of obstacles pinball 
 style. You can create you own little Nightopia (think of Chao gardens for old Sonic fans) and visit 
 your friends' online with real time weather forecasting (!) There's not much other than that to 
 say besides the wonderfully delightful soundtrack and the endless controller options. Pick this 
 up for your kid or yourself if you're having a boring weekend.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattyrock
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  NiGHTs: Journey of Dreams is the most decent title out there for the Wii today that I spent my 
 $100 bithday money on the day it released (which was also my birthday) .
  
  For those who don't know, NiGHTs: Journey of Dreams is a (respectiviley proclaimed) sequel from 
 "NiGHTs into Dreams" released on the ill-faded Sega Saturn back in 1996, which came with a different 
 style controller and different style of gameplay. Many Consider NiGHTs to be a spin off of Sonic, 
 but if that's true or not back then, NiGHTs holds it's own as an underrated title.
  
  Story: Just like in the first game, you have 2 kids to choose from to Journey into their dreams.
 
  
  A boy named Will who loves being around and cared by his dad since he has not much friends, but 
 when his dad leaves him, he had to face with his loneliness.
  
  Then there is a girl named Helen, who is praticing to play the violin with her mother, but she 
 spends more time with her friends than focusing on the concert that she is suppose to do.
  
  Their dreams of those stories become nightmares, so they both run away from dark spirits that 
 try to catch them, though they enter the white light that leads to the Gate of Dreams.
  
  So, it's not really hyped, epic kind of stories but more like something delightful that we can 
 appreciate in the game, though during the course of the cutscenes, they may seem different with 
 the characters but it's the same thing, but there are a few variatons that add differences to both 
 stories.
  
  While during the main course of the game, NiGHTs with the child of your choice defend Nightopia 
 from the evil Nightmaren which is lead by the dark Wizeman the Wicked and his main henchman and 
 NiGHTs rival Reala (who looks similar to NiGHTs but more creepy, dark, sinister and kinda cool 
 ^-^) .
  
  The story progresses for the kids to learn on what's right and such, also mysteries about NiGHTs.
 
  
  Gameplay: It's pretty much like the first, you just go around and do different missions. For example, 
 when trying to get NiGHTs out of his cage, you Dualize with him (as in the child you chose will 
 join into him so you can play NiGHTs) and you have to go around and get 3 keys to get NiGHTs out 
 in every different direction. After, you fight a boss, most of them are challenging or at least 
 tricky like a chameleon that keeps disappering.
  
  Graphics: The colours in the game are astounding in the least but low wheb it comes to the technical 
 spots. Even with the cutscenes, there are a few frame rate issues, but that does not interrupt 
 the gameplay. So, the graphics are not the best but colourful.
  
  Design: Simple and sweet, the Gate of Dreams is nothing more but a park surronded in water but 
 when comes to playing the game, level design is astounding as it looks.
  
  Controls: There are many controller types you can choose from, not one but 4 controller types which 
 include the Wii-mote, Nunchuck, Classic Controller or the Gamecube controller (I use the Nunchuck 
 controller while many people prefer the Classic and/or Gamecube controller) . They're pretty simple 
 though can be taught for the first time or different controller type when you Dualize with NiGHTs 
 and learn from Owl (the player's tutor) , there are a few tricks like the Paraloop, which you make 
 NiGHTs do a loop that can grab a bunch of orbs or .
  
  Though the controllers are a bit broken in someway, like it may not aim on where you move on the 
 wii-mote or control stick, but if you can get pass that it's not too bad, but not the best either.
 
  
  Sound: First: Music, it is beautiful, well-crafted orchestrated music makes this a buy it now soundtrack 
 with such magnificent classical style, there are a few ones that we remember but it's all well 
 and dandy.
  
  Second: Effect, it has a few classics and some new ones.
  
  Third: Voice, Yes, NiGHTs has a voice in this game, though the dialog may seem a bit cheesy, but 
 so is the voice acting, sounding stereotypicial british people and NiGHTs may seem like a he to 
 the characters in the game but sound more of a she with the looks and voice. So, it's seems laughably 
 bad but not horrible.
  
  Overall: This may not be the best NiGHTs game that we'd hope for, with it's clunky controls, dodgy 
 graphics, tough boss battles and cheesy voices, but it's all the same gameplay that we remembered 
 10 years ago and has that certain charm that we love and care.
  
  Give it a rent first, but if you're a Sega fan and/or want something worth while for your Wii, 
 then this will do just fine! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  The original Nights carried the rare distinction of being one of the few Sega Saturn games that 
 didn't suck . It was never a huge seller instead built up a cult following over the last ten years 
 and even the great Shigeru Miyamoto was quoted as saying "if there was one game I wish I had made, 
 it would've been Nights."
  
  Finally the Sonic Team takes a break from multilating the beloved hedgehog to make Nights: Journey 
 of Dreams for the Wii. Luckily Nights hasn't suffered like Sonic.
  
  Journey of Dreams isn't so much a sequel as a reimagining of the series. This time around we have 
 two kids, Helen and Will who travel into the world of Nightopia. Will loves soccer but has trouble 
 trusting his friends and misses his father who is often away with his work. Helen is a violinist 
 who is supposed to be practicing for a concert with her mother but slacks off in order to hang 
 out with her girlfriends. While the story might seem cookie-cutter beneath the cheeziness and so-so 
 voice acting is a charming story that teaches lessons about trust, love and overcoming your inner 
 demons. How many games actually teach life lessons?
  
  Essentially the gameplay has tried to stay true to the original Saturn game. There are four control 
 schemes for the game. There's using just the Wiimote which can be extremely tricky and take some 
 time to master. If that's too hard you can switch to the nunchuck/Wiimote setup which only uses 
 the motion controls in making Nights do some tricks by twisting the remote. You can also use the 
 Gamecube and classic controllers, but really, what's the point of getting a Wii if you're going 
 to play games with a regular controller? That's like playing Guitar Hero with a wavebird. You can 
 practice with all control schemes in the hub area any time you want with the tutorial so it's at 
 least worth trying out.
  
  When you enter a level, the first mission is a classic Nights stage. You start out as a kid on 
 the ground, you enter Nights's cage and dualize or merge with Nights and fly in an on rails sort 
 of stage flying through rings to increase your dash power in order to catch up to Nightmarens on 
 birds who have keys you need to collect in a certain amount of time and then you take on the level's 
 boss. But a major issue of the game comes in that if you run out of time during a boss fight, you 
 have to start the entire level over again from the beginning. The levels aren't terribly long but 
 it would've been nice to simply start at the beginning of the boss fight.
  
  Journey of Dreams tried to expand on the gameplay by adding more variety to the levels instead 
 of simply just the standard chase levels. Will's storyline shows more variety in the additional 
 levels including stages where Nights transforms into a boat or roller coaster car and Will rides 
 along. Helen's stages usually involve Nights flying around collecting things. There's also a race 
 level where you keep up with a creature called Octopaw and try to get as many ring links as possible 
 to get a high score. Also, the designers tried to give the children more to do by having on foot 
 platforming levels where you play as the kids. While this was a good idea, it wasn't executed well. 
 The levels are pretty straighforward. The only defense the kids have is throwing blue orbs and 
 the jumping is iffy at best. The final mission of each level has you fighting the boss once more 
 but slightly harder.
  
  Which brings me to another issue, the game is simply too short. Will and Helen each have about 
 three areas plus the final level which is the same for them. The game can easily be beaten in an 
 afternoon. Though the desire to up your score and get at least Cs gives the game some replay value 
 and the "My Dream" section stores things you've collected throughout the levels and gives you an 
 area that has weather that changes depending upon what the Wii's weather channel says and this 
 world can be shared with friends online. Another online feature that's nice but not great is you 
 can play two player online races with player two playing as Nights's rival, Reala. It's not great 
 but it's nice to see more Wii games getting into the online game.
  
  The graphics in Nights aren't bad but not as good as they could be. There's some great CG cutscenes, 
 gorgeous levels and wonderful character design especially the bosses but in other parts especially 
 the "My Dream" area, seem lacking in polish. Also load times in this game are a bit on the long 
 side.
  
  Musically, Nights has a wonderful score and music that perfectly fits the game. My favorite song 
 had to be at the last level, Bellbridge. It stays fun and upbeat and intense for the boss fights. 
 The voice acting, however is what you've come to expect from the Sonic Team meaning, not that good. 
 Wizeman and Reala sound good but at times I wish the kids would just shut up. Though in fairness 
 unlike, say Tails, the kids are voiced by actual kids, not adults trying to sound like kids. Then 
 there's your guide Owl who reminds me of Zazu from "The Lion King." Finally fans were shocked when 
 it was learned that the once silent and genderless Nights spoke and a feminine voice was heard. 
 As a girl, I'm thrilled to have another female lead in games that isn't a helpless damsel or an 
 oversexed, big busted bimbo. Not everyone is thrilled with Nights being a girl, but I welcome it.
 
  
  In the end, Nights: Journey of Dreams is a sequel that fans have been hoping for. However it doesn't 
 offer much in terms of new elements and given how poorly new elements have been received in the 
 Sonic series, the Sonic Team is probably afraid of drastically changing things. Like "Secret Rings," 
 "Journey of Dreams" has some good ideas but needed more polish, but let's hope it's not another 
 ten years before the next Nights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painter015k
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams is one of the most heartwarming adventures to hit the Wii, flying through 
 magical dream worlds and busting up Nightmares. The CG opening movie just blew me away and the 
 in-game graphics were aren't all that bad and the voice acting is nailed. The only problem with 
 the voice acting was NiGHTS voice. It took me forever to finally settle on his gender, but the 
 childrens' voices are perfectly executed. Some of the dialogue is a little cheesy, but it does 
 get good towards the end. It takes awhile to learn the controls, but they're not all that bad oonce 
 you get the hang of it. The level design and bosses provide a unique challenge, but the time limit 
 added pressure and was annoying to lose a boss fight and do an entire level all over again. Aside 
 from that, the background music for the levels are perfect and the characters are beautifully designed 
 and showed that Sega put a lot of hard work into making this game. I may not have played NiGHTS 
 Into Dreams, but Journey of Dreams is clearly a worthy sequel to its predecessor and the perfect 
 game to warm up with on a cold winter day. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liteshaodow
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams is nothing if not wonderful. In fact it is a dream in itself that such 
 a wonderful game exists in this world. This game is filled with awe-inspiring worlds and amazing 
 scenery. With this is combined wonderful, mind-blowing game play. Be it flying through the air 
 or exploring the grounds of these brilliant worlds this game is quiet amazing offering a little 
 bit of something for almost any player.
  The story of this game is a heart-warming one full of trust, freedom and fighting for what we believe 
 in and the things we care about. Any person whose heart is not affected by this wonderful story 
 needs to seek medical attention. Its story's like this one that allow us to remember the joy and 
 simplicity of life
  With multiple types of "missions" this game really mixes things up. You might find yourself flying 
 after a creature in the sky or fighting to find your way out of a labyrinth. In addition to regular 
 game play there are 2-player battles and races available for local competitions, competitions with 
 a faraway friend, or with some random person in the world. This is really enjoyable for those of 
 us with a bit of a competitive streak in us.
  The only flaw of this game is that it is somewhat short, but this is easily made up for by the 
 extravagant replay value. Whether it's collecting that last dreamdrop or beating your high-score 
 there is always something to do in NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams.
  To top a game such as this off there is the My Dream feature, which is your dream garden that changes 
 depending upon its inhabitants and your accomplishments. So since you're My Dream is dependant 
 upon you no two are exactly alike. With the assistance of Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection you can visit 
 the My Dreams of your friends and people all over the world or invite them to see yours.
  All in all NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams is a wonderful, mind-blowing game that is sure to warm your 
 heart and open your eyes. With a beautiful story, different types of game play, replay value, and 
 the My Dream feature this game definitely has something for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneshotskye
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  An important notice for all who are considering the purchase of Sega's NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams: 
 If you have a dirty mind, this might not be the game best suited for your tastes. Perhaps an anecdote 
 is apt for this situation, and mine came during the first few minutes of the prologue; for the 
 moment the magical owl suggested I "dualize" with the flying jester, Nights (who then proceeds 
 to tell me to touch him to begin the process) , I had to pause the game to purge my mind of the 
 endless fan fiction possibilities that could arise from the scenario.
  
  Fifteen minutes into the game and I know I can never look at Will the same way again.
  
  But 
 the entire game isn't just one endless innuendo, so let's continue on a more serious note, folks. 
 The first and only other NiGHTS game in existence, NiGHTS into Dreams, made its debut on the Sega 
 Saturn over a decade ago, and the small circle of fans who owned the system have been clamoring 
 (or at least secretly wishing) for a sequel to the platformer ever since. The good news is that 
 the core gameplay elements have remained intact in this new game - you still have your chasing 
 sequences, your enemy captures, and your item gathering tasks, all aided by Sega's mainstay series 
 of floating rings scattered about Nightopia/Nightmare. The landscapes are vibrant, lush, creative 
 - you name a positive artistic attribute and you can be sure the game delivers it in the most enchanted 
 way. The characters you encounter are similarly unique, and yes, people, you can be assured that 
 there will be the rare moment when you feel Sega's recaptured the magic of the first game.
  
  But unfortunately, NiGHTS works similarly to another Sega series, Sonic, not so much in that 
 you feel your jester as a slower, floating form of the blue hedgehog (though they both harbor an 
 unexplained attraction to golden rings) , but in that the sequels seem to be missing a key component 
 that made the first games so addictive. Thankfully NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams does not suffer from 
 the same fate of Sonic and Co. in that Sega doesn't attempt to revitalize an older franchise by 
 providing a fresh gimmick for players to fiddle around with. In other words, you'll never see Will 
 or Helen surfing about in a futuristic racing environment (Sonic Riders) , or stuck in a pinball 
 game (Sonic Spinball) , or shooting enemies a new Swiss cheese stomach (Shadow the Hedgehog) . Rather, 
 NiGHTS suffers from what can be best described as a mediocre execution by their development team. 
 Sure, the environments are pretty, but the occasional jerky framerate detracts from its overall 
 splendor; Owl's plumage may be nice to look at, but you'll be spending your time watching it shake 
 across the screen like he's making some halfhearted attempt at krumping. Yes, the characters might 
 be interestingly conceived, but the story backing their brightly colored garments isn't, as the 
 plot skims over trite problems that the developers assume kids face. Problems with parents? Having 
 difficulty overcoming procrastination? No problem! Sega's got you covered and they'll help you 
 face these dilemmas with a stockpile of clichd, "feel good" cutscenes. Some may find these scenes 
 heartwarming, but I seriously doubt anyone will believe that NiGHTS is breaking any new ground 
 in the storyline aspect.
  
  Probably the biggest complaint there is to be made about the game though comes in the form the 
 control scheme the developers set up to control their purple jester. And maybe they initially looked 
 into creating a 3-D free roam environment, and maybe the "flying on a track" approach works better, 
 but the way the whole thing is executed leaves something to be desired.
  
  Now, I could provide a whole rant on the problems with the controls (and I will in a minute) , but 
 before addressing the problem, I'll provide the resolution. This is what the whole thing comes 
 down to: Gamers, I implore you to whip out your Classic Controllers. Those that aren't blessed 
 with either better be willing to plug in your Nunchuks because you're going to need them. Playing 
 with the Wii Remote by itself ups the learning curve from a ridiculously easy five missions to 
 a frustrating mission or two trying to master the guiding red hexagon that controls the direction 
 in which Nights is flying. The first few missions work in the same fashion in that oftentimes you'll 
 find yourself colliding with cliffsides and chains before a new mission pops up. Then you will 
 have the pleasure of fumbling with your controls as you perform the few moves available to your 
 character before taking down whatever baddie is haunting the level. Once these levels are finished 
 and the controls are mastered, you'll probably still feel the whole thing is a little clunky because, 
 well, it is.
  
  There are additional modes to play through once the story mode is complete, like a decent multiplayer 
 battle, but the game's focus remains with Will and Helen and the prepubescent problems they have 
 to deal with. The children will look pretty as they race around Nightopia, but a few nagging problems 
 prevent this title from really taking off from the ground. I suggest that the casual gamer might 
 want to give this a try, but you hardcore Saturn fans out there (all ten of you) might want to 
 pretend that NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams never happened. Because the sad truth of the matter is that 
 this title makes you miss the magic in the original and sadly, you might have to pine for another 
 decade before Sega tries their hand at this series again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  First thing you need to know: if you are a cynical videogamer whose favorite game is something 
 akin to DOOM III, abhor platformers and cuteness, and care not for surreal storylines with tricked 
 out characters, then this game is NOT for you, AT ALL. This game does not appeal to everyone. That 
 would be like saying Magic Pengel or Katamari Damacy appeals to everyone - with mold-breakers like 
 this it just doesn't happen.
  
  That said, assuming this type of game IS something that is for you, on with the review. ^_^
  
 
  I forever regretted never being able to play NiGHTS into Dreams due to never having a Saturn... I 
 sat by and played my Genesis and Dreamcast, always wishing for a sequel or port, teased by references 
 in Sonic Adventure and enticed by Youtube videos and fanart...
  
  In short, I have been waiting for this sequel for 11 years for the chance to play this series.
 
  
  So, was it worth my wait? Is it what I expected?
  
  I think I can say yes, it was. happy It is not what I was expecting for a game that was awaiting 
 a sequel for 11 YEARS, there are things that are unpolished about it, but for the things it does 
 wrong it does so much more right, and overall comes across very strongly. I am proud to add this 
 game to my eccletic collection, and I can't wait for more.
  
  So I will nitpick over things in this review to let people know everything I think of the game, 
 good and bad. Just so you know, I am an animation student in her senior year of college so I have 
 some experience with 3D modeling, textures, and animation, so I'll look at things also from an 
 artist / designers point of view as well, not just a longtime (girl) gamer.
  
  But just realize that most of the unpolish is blown away by breathtaking levels, music, sparkly 
 effects, and a cool story / world I want to revist again and again.
  
  PRESENTATION
  
  The world hub idea is well used all the way back to games like Mario on N64 and Spryo on PS1, and 
 it works nicely here. Everything is set up like a dream, from trippy worlds to sparkly menus. The 
 loading screen for going into worlds with the respective child character falling through the sky 
 is nice to look at (And the load times are pretty short, none were every so long I got bored, but 
 they could always be shorter :P .) Level ranking is a E-A system, and it's easy to look through 
 your ranking / collection in a Spyro-like-world-book presentation system.
  
  In-game-engine cutscenes are plentiful, with only pre-rendered (GORGEOUS btw) for into/ending. 
 These are animated well, NiGHTS especially. The kids eyes bother me a bitthey are kinda wide-eyed. that's 
 the modelers faults tho, not the animators. XD
  
  Speaking of animation, it's also great for in game as well. Nights acrobatic flying, in all of 
 her personas, is smooth and well done. The kids' is simple but is good, and serves its purpose. 
 I love watching Helens skirt fluff around. :P
  
  Back to presentation specifically - Some things are a bit abrupt, like the bosses at the end of 
 the chase levels just kind of APPEAR with no intro or explanation. It IS a dream worldthings happen 
 cause they DO, not cause they make senseand we already knew Reala and Wiseman were causing nightmares 
 all over the place so it's not like it was out of TOTAL nowhere. Still, it felt unpolished. Also 
 the defeat of a boss is a bit abrupt, no satisfying boss death-cutscene or big sound finale to 
 let you know you are victorious. Againunpolished. But mostly excusable.
  
  SOUND / MUSIC
  
  The voice acting is excellent, a WOW kind of thing when it comes to Sonic 
 Team games (as compared to the FREQUENTLY ANNOYING or laughable voice acting many Sonic games suffer 
 from o__o ) The music is also consistency good, some songs I even want on my CD player! :P
  
  Although the sound levels can be sporadic, IE they did not equalize the level of the volume. 
 Some things are too soft, others too loud. Like Helen's voice is often too soft in a cutscene compared 
 to Nights, and the cutscenes in general are softer than the in level music, so I need to turn it 
 up, then turn it back down after the cutscene is over.
  
  As for the sound effects, I feel like I'm playing the original I never got too cause it's all so 
 classic! happy (I've seen videos of the original) . Very satisfying and never a sound effect goes 
 unwasted or hits a wrong note. I liked the detail of the sound changing, like when you jumped in 
 the fountain, and landing on the brass metal sculptures got you a very realistic brass-hollow-sculpture 
 'thunk' sound. happy
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Graphics in this game range from beautiful to WTF. You have really nice character models/designs 
 like NiGHTS, Reala, Helenand Wiseman looks like something out of Shadow of the Colossus (!) . then 
 you have things that look like rejects from Spyro the Dragon on PS1 like the Owl... O__o SeriouslyWTF 
 with the Owl.
  
  Textures are also varied. Textures on above mentioned characters are beautiful. Wiseman is especially 
 nicely textured. The glass level for Helen is LOVELY, and thr water, although not real-time interactive, 
 looks good to me (no stutter or obvious pattern repeating) . Some of the textures are VERY intricate 
 on the bosses, some of the most detailed and crisp I've EVER seenthe lacey designs on the nightmare 
 bosses are so detailed it's hard for my eyes to even comprehend them sometimes, they are ridiculously 
 detailed!! O__O
  
  Then you have disjointed textures that look like 1st gen Dreamcast graphics in the kids platforming 
 levels some even being of a lower resolution, which is so weird because they are often near some 
 very high-res textures that look great. It's like they just didn't bother or something. These are 
 not too numerous tho and often in the kids levels which overall are forgettable anyway.
  
  Oh yes, and the special sparkly effects are LOVLEY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  The original NiGHTS game was supposedly a great, but sadly overlooked, game. I have never played 
 it before, but the new sequel, Journey of Dreams, caught my attention because its immersive graphics 
 and seemingly breathtaking flying gameplay. Well, sadly, this game should live up to no one's expectations.
 
  
  
  
  What is perhaps Journey of Dreams' only strong point is its graphics and music. The graphics are 
 pretty immersive and are truly beautiful during most of the gameplay. The music is very good and 
 nice as well. It seems like it would be enough to pull you completely into the game, but that isn't 
 the case. Where the game excels in graphics and music it lacks in its gameplay and story. 
  
  
  
  The gameplay should be really cool, right? Seriously, who wouldn't enjoy a bit of awesome 
 flying around beautifully animated worlds? It's too bad that the flying isn't nearly as good as 
 it could, and should, be. It all takes place on unclear set courses and is pretty confusing until 
 you get used to it. I think it would have been much better if it was more free-roaming, that would 
 have really been cool. The missions are pretty repetitive as well. You pretty much do the same 
 three missions in each of the game's dream worlds plus two different ones. The missions feel pretty 
 pointless, too. For some reason, every time you enter a new world, NiGHTS get captured and put 
 in a cage and you have to free him and then open three empty cages by chasing a bird down for the 
 keys...? WHAT'S THE POINT HERE?!? Otherwise, you fly through rings and save the stupid Nightopians 
 over and over until you reach the game's end, which comes alarmingly quickly. All the missions 
 have to be completed in a certain time limit as well, which is VERY annoying because there's very 
 rarely any imminent danger or anyting. 
  
  
  The story is pretty dumb too, and isn't helped along at all by the stupid, pointless, cheesey dialogue. 
 Speaking of the dialogue, there's TOO MUCH OF IT! By the time you've been listening to cheesey 
 voices hold pointless conversations for a good 3 minutes or so between each mission, you get tired 
 of the game itself. This is definitely the game's largest downfall, and I got tired of the game 
 quickly as a result of it.
  
  
  
  So NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams is a very, very disappointing game. I'm sad that the game's full potential 
 wasn't taken advantage of, and I'm also sad that this graphical spectacular couldn't have been 
 better. I think this series should either just be finished or have something seriously better done 
 with it. It's hard to give this game such a bad score, but I guess my expectaions were just way 
 too high.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtlasVI
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  After the not-so-impressive Sonic games that Sega has been cranking out recently, one might be 
 skepticle about trying NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams. One might think "How is Sega going to mess up 
 this time?" When I started the game, I fully expected that Sega had done the same thing to NiGHTS 
 as they did to Sonic. I was wrong.
  
  NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams is a game that really has that quality that sucks you in. It focuses 
 on creating a fun and mystical environment to play in while still making enjoyable gameplay. It 
 suffers from a few minor issues, but Journey of Dreams is a great game over all.
  
  In Journey of Dreams there are two different (yet connected) story modes. You can choose between 
 "Helen's Dream" and "Will's Dream". Helen and Will are twelve year old children who each have different 
 obsticles to face in their lives. The things that bother them in their daily lives cause them to 
 have nighmares at night. NiGHTS, a flying... creature-thing, helps the children overcome their challenges 
 and the children help it (NiGHTS is gendarless) stop the evil creatures known as Nightmarens. 
 
  
  As in all recent Sega games, Journey of Dreams has a pretty bizzare, sometimes confusing, and always 
 cheesey storyline. That's not to say that cheesey is a bad thing, but expect extremely corny moments 
 when playing this game. There are a few slightly confusing moments here and there, but over all 
 the story is easy to follow. That being said, the story doesn't do anything innovative either. 
 Although, the way the stories are connected is clever.
  
  The gameplay is very good. You spend your time flying through different kinds of rings and hoops, 
 which may sound like it would get old, but the game puts a lot of variations on it. Sometimes you're 
 trying to fly through the rings to catch a bird that has a key you need, and other times you try 
 to get through a certain amount of rings in a row. The only time you're not flying through rings 
 is during boss fights, which are all different, and all fun. The game does a fantastic job of keeping 
 the same ring flying gameplay without making it feel repetitive.
  
  The fatal flaw with this game is the voice acting. Oddly enough, the weak link in the voice actors 
 is NiGHTS, the main character and one of the protagonists. NiGHTS is supposed to be genderless, 
 so do you use a male or female voice for it? Sega decided to take what sounds like the voice of 
 a twelve year old boy, the voice of a twenty year old British woman, and the voice of some kind 
 of demon and fuse them together. All in all, NiGHTS sounds like a woman. Not only is the voice 
 not fitting, but the acting is bad as well. There's one cut scene in particular where NiGHTS is 
 kidnapped by some demonic birds and he says "Hey! Let me go!!!" that sounds especially bad. 
  
  Helen and Will's voices are pretty fitting, although some of the acting is a little overacted. 
 Reala, one of the main villians, is voiced wonderfuly. Owl (as the name implies, he's a helpfull 
 owl) has a fitting voice, but the acting is not very good.
  
  All in all though, NiGHTS is a wonderfull game which will have you playing for hours on end. If 
 you like to play games to win, don't play NiGHTS. If, on the other hand, you like a game that creates 
 a great environment with stunning backgrounds and great music that really sucks you in, NiGHTS: 
 Journey of Dreams is a good choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superlink00
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Before I start my review, I feel that I need to get this out of the way: Why on earth did Sega 
 make NiGHTS a guy? It would've been much easier to believe if he was a girl. Please understand 
 that it took me a while to decide this; when I rented the game, I spent the car ride home (and 
 a few more hours afterwards) arguing with myself what his gender was before the game finally told 
 me, and it came as a shock when it did. I still prefer to believe otherwise, though.
  
  My dispute with NiGHTS' gender aside, my expectations for NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams were pretty 
 good. This was understandable, as I already knew of the NiGHTS series and its good reviews back 
 on the Sega Saturn when I learned about this game. After about a week with the game, I was both 
 delighted and disappointed with it. On one hand, I found loads of fun in the game, but on the other 
 hand, I don't think it lived up to what Sega and my expectations promised.
  
  STORY -- In Journey of Dreams, you take control of Will and Helen, two 12-year-olds living in the 
 city of Bellbridge (defined by the clock tower in the center of the city.) Both characters have 
 some sort of emotional obstacle to overcome; Will has issues with loneliness since his dad had 
 to leave for a business trip, and Helen feels guilty about abandoning her mother for her friends 
 all the time. During the night, they both have a nightmare that eventually leads them to the Dreamgate 
 World, a part of the Night Dimension. There, they run into Owl (sort of the mentor in the game) , 
 and NiGHTS (in all of his freaky androgyny.) After some explanation, they are able to dualize, 
 or share a body, with NiGHTS and can fly around as him. Using this ability, Will and Helen journey 
 through the Night Dimension to recover their lost Ideya (pieces of their heart representing courage, 
 intelligence, hope, and other good stuff) and defeat the evil Wizeman, the lord of the nightmarens. 
 It's not the best story out there, but it can be engaging.
  
  GRAPHICS -- Graphically, Journey of Dreams is a little uneven. The opening cinematic is simply 
 amazing, and shows what the series could be like someday. In-game, however, is a different story. 
 The character models look decent enough; Will, Helen, NiGHTS, and the residents of the 7 worlds 
 you visit (called Nightopias) are all nicely detailed. Unfortunately, the environments look like 
 an early Dreamcast game. Flat, stretched-out textures really shouldn't be in games anymore. Something 
 else that stands out is that framerate-wise, the cutscenes are slower than the actual gameplay. 
 Technically, there are few glitches or annoying aspects, and none of them will interfere with the 
 gameplay, save for the occasional invisible wall. But where the game shines graphically is its 
 art style. The central hub area is visually uninteresting, but every Nightopia you visit is artistically 
 unique, and feels like a fresh new experience. These worlds include a theme park in the desert, 
 a world made entirely of glass, and other artistically-endowed themes. Each and every world is 
 just a blast to fly through.
  
  AUDIO -- It seems that Sega paid more attention to the audio than the graphics; the audio fares 
 much better. The voice-acting is OK, if a little unenthusiastic (Will and Helen tend to do half-hearted 
 exclamations, and Owl is really quiet.) The voice-acting also helps support my dispute that NiGHTS 
 should be a girl; he really does sound like one. The sound effects are used appropriately and help 
 in their part to immerse you in the game, but without a doubt, the best part of the audio is the 
 music. The opening and main theme are really well-done pieces, and it only gets better from there. 
 The rest of the music fits nicely fits in with the worlds and help give them more personality. 
 The music will be stuck in your head for a few days, but in this case, it's a good thing.
  
  CONTROLS -- Before I can discuss gameplay, I have to talk about the controls. You are able 
 to use 4 different styles of control in the game: Wii Remote, Wii Remote and Nunchuk, Classic Controller, 
 and Gamecube Controller. First and foremost, don't use just the Wii Remote. The motion controls 
 are god-awful. Secondly, don't get frustrated if it takes you a while to get used to whatever style 
 you do use. Will and Helen should be fine, but NiGHTS will take some getting used to, as he controls 
 very loose. Once you figure out the small adjustments it takes to fly NiGHTS, you should be an 
 ace at the game in no time.
  
  GAMEPLAY -- NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams' biggest triumphs, and unfortunately, setbacks, are all in 
 the gameplay. The game is divided between two stories: Will's story, and Helen's. The major differences 
 between the two are the worlds they travel through. You do get to control both of them in the central 
 hub world, as well as a few missions (more on that later) , but for the most part, you will fly 
 around the worlds as NiGHTS, chasing nightmarens through rings and collecting blue chips. Most 
 of the missions in the game are really fun to play, and they're all nicely varied, ranging from 
 getting the biggest combo of links to chasing after birds to collect keys in order to free NiGHTS 
 from a cage. In one level, you have to hit musical notes in time to a flying metronome to make 
 good music. Missions that task you with defeating a boss all cleverly use NiGHTS' abilities in 
 one way or the other. In one fight, you have to fly around in circles to uncover where the boss 
 is while being attacked. Some missions, including the ones where you control Will and Helen, however, 
 just aren't very fun. And unfortunately, the missions are the host to the biggest problem in the 
 whole game: it's way too short. Will and Helen each only go through 3 of the worlds, which then 
 leads to the final world, consisting of only 1 mission with no major difference between the two 
 stories. Each world only contains 5 missions, so if you do the math, that leaves you with a grand 
 total of only 31 missions, most of which don't even last 3 minutes. You can finish both stories 
 in under 10 hours, and although there's some incentive to play the missions again in order to get 
 a higher ranking on them, the only major reward you get for doing so is the privilege of playing 
 the final world again with an extra boss fight and a sadder ending. But those hours are packed 
 with unforgettable moments and large amounts of fun.
  
  MULTIPLAYER -- I can't discuss the multiplayer very thoroughly, as I have no internet at home or 
 friends who were willing to visit during the holidays, but it doesn't look that great to me. There 
 is a 2P mode in Journey of Dreams, but it's very limited. You can choose to either race each other, 
 or play a battle mode. The races look like fun, but the frame-rate slows down when playing even 
 offline. I can't imagine it being any better online. In the battle mode, your goal is to throw 
 huge balls of energy at each other until someone gets hit three times. The major problem with the 
 battle mode is the camera focuses on the other player all the time, which makes finding a ball 
 to throw difficult, and even if you do find one, good luck hitting the other player and not yourself. 
 Both modes have only 3 worlds each to play in, which makes the 2P mode feel more like an afterthought. 
 There is also the My Dream world in the single player mode. This mode allows you and someone online 
 to wander through a personalized area filled with monsters and other Nightopia residents captured 
 in the single player. I barely went into the My Dream world in the single player, and I don't think 
 having someone else from the other side of the world wandering through it would make me visit it 
 more.
  
  CONCLUSION -- Sadly, I can only recommend NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams for a rental. It's over in 
 the blink of an eye, and there are some aspects to it that could definitely be improved, such as 
 the graphics and multiplayer, but it's a game that you need to play for sure. It may not be the 
 best that Sega could've done with the game, and maybe the series will achieve dream-like status 
 one day, but NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams is still a fun and memorable game that you will truly appreciate 
 later on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentBliss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Well it has been over eleven years since the original NiGHTS was released. Well I may be the minority 
 when comes to rating this game but I think the graphics look quite amazing for a Wii game, and 
 yes I do see some graphical flaws and pixelated textures but aside from that is looks quite beautiful. 
 The story fits the games persona, however in the game I don't think I would have liked to hear 
 NiGHTS talk, but the voice work for NiGHTS is decent but when it comes to Helen they should have 
 made her silent because she rarely shows any emotion in voice. Now the game-play, it is superb 
 to many games in my opinion but the gliding does not feel as smooth as the original but then again 
 nothing is as good the second time around I mean look what has happened to the great sonic franchise. 
 The online mode it quite fun but there are only three online levels which is lacking but other 
 than that the online offered is decent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark77778
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  I'm going to start this off plain and simple: Don't believe IGN. I don't know what it is they have 
 against this game, unless they're simply fussing over the disappointing sprite design
  
  
  NiGHTs is Sonic Team's second mascot, like Mario and Link. Just, unlike Link, for some reason, 
 NiGHTS likes to be put into a box and only make random cameos every so often in games. Finally 
 however, NiGHTs has come back for its own game, and... well... it's certainly not what I was expecting.
 
  
  If you're like me and one of those "Games are art" people, when you hear about "Entity within a 
 dream world who's a jester and solves kids problems in their dreams through flight, but there are 
 the etities of nightmares who try to ruin your dreams and have you brutally face reality." you 
 should probably be thinking either something along the lines of "Holy cow, this is gorgeous!" or 
 "Peter Pan meets Little Nemo with a potentially dark side! Sweet!"
  
  STOP. This game isn't like that.
  
  If you're looking to play NiGHTs because of an excelent 
 story done with a unique premis, you're looking at the wrong game. The story of NiGHTs is shallow, 
 as if you couldn't tell by the characters.
  
  Will: Soccor playing kid who's dad has no time for him anymore.
  
  Hellen: GIrl who can't seem 
 to balance music and friends.
  
  In other words, jock kid and prep girl who have VERY minor social issues. Yeah, nothing cool here 
 unless you're maybe five.
  
  GRAPHICS: If you've seen the cinematic for NiGHTs, DO NOT BASE THE VISUALS OFF OF THESE GRAPHICS. 
 Instead, the sprites in NiGHTS seem like something out of the Toy Story 2 game [except for NiGHTS 
 and Reala] .
  
  The atmospheric graphics however, feel like what you'd hope for, with a very serene look for the 
 dream world, and a black and red, true Nightmare-when-you-were-a-kid feel. 
  
  The enemies aren't as creative though, and come across as very dorky, though you can sorta see 
 where it should be coming from. Unfortunately, Sonic Team, I've seen way too many dream and nightmare 
 sequences in other kids films and I was expecting the NiGHTmarens to be SCARY.
  
  Let me use this other movie dream-sequence comparison here: Giant black and white beach ball with 
 a Nightmare before Christmas clown head of sorts [NiGHTS] , versus Fireman clown with a psychotic 
 smile and crazy eyes who looks like he wants to murder you and carries a evil fire hose [Brave 
 Little Toaster] . Sorry, but BLT wins.
  
  For it's horrible sprites, but amazing atmosphere, and a honest attempt at something scary the 
 graphics in NiGHTS get: 6.7/10
  
  SOUND:
  
  Okay, let's get this out of the way. For all of you who had your doubts, the music in NiGHTS is 
 fantastic, never fear [except for the My Dream section at Christmas... just.. turn off your speakers] . 
 The sound quality too, is top notch, so you don't have to worry about that.
  
  The voice acting though, pisses me off. To a huge extent. The characters are more British than 
 Fable, and when NiGHTS yells "Will!" you can't help but think of Kiera Nightly from Pirates of 
 the Caribbean. 
  
  It's fall-on-your-face-and-groan worthy voice talent, but honestly, some of it does grow on you. 
 The cheesy lines however don't. Let me quote something roughly from the game here:
  
  "Visitor, go over there and touch NiGHTs to assimilate with him and go into his body. Go over there 
 and touch him."
  
  For the above but with great music, the sound in NiGHTS gets another: 6.7/10
  
  
  CONTROLS:
 
  
  Wow... just wow. Yeah, it's not Wario's balloon fight flying, but damn, if you wanted tight Wii 
 controls, you've got 'em. Despite Sonic Team's still persistent sucking-at-camera-angles, the controls 
 for NiGHTS are smooth as silk and you can easily redeem yourself with them if the camera happens 
 to go all Sonic-Team on you.
  
  NOTE: I haven't played it with the other forms besides the nunchuck yet, and frankly, I don't care. 
 The nunchuck works perfectly so if the other ones suck, remember that I was the first to say "I 
 told you so."
  
  For controls tighter than the pants of both Adam West and Tiny Tim: 9/10
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
 
  With controls as tight as this, the gameplay of NiGHTS sticks true in every way possible, and 
 if you can toss the bad story and shoddy voices out of your mind, you'll actually find that you're 
 having quite a bit of fun zooming around in an androgynous Jester . Hence how this game is a guilty 
 pleasure. It's not a great game, but it's simple and clean fun that you'll want to go back and 
 play because it's so. You just wish that they'd work the story a bit, and make the game longer.
 
  
  Also, the wandering around as Will or Helen bits aren't as annoying as people say they are. It 
 feels like something out of a par N64 platformer game, so if you can get into that mindset while 
 you play, you'll be good to go.
  
  The My Dream section isn't as spectacular as I was hoping for, but it's still a lot of fun to run 
 around like an idiot in other people's My Dream's and see what it is that's going on. It's not 
 Animal Crossing, but it's still mindless fun.
  
  There's also the online race. Seriously, if everything else in the game sucks, the online race 
 is fantastic. You'll always find a challenge with it, and it's great to fly around with somebody 
 else and compete in such an environment.
  
  So for all of the above, NiGHTS in terms of gameplay gets a 8/10
  
  OVERALL: Grand total score 
 of NiGHTS J. O. D based on the average scores above is:
  
  7.5/10 
  
  Verdict: If you're a fan of NiGHTS or have a notion that you think you might like the package, 
 buy it. If not, but you're curious as to how it plays, give it a rent. You'll be able to experience 
 quite a bit of the gameplay within a rental time, but you won't be able to keep it unfortunately, 
 or go through all the story lines [at least within a new release rental time] . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is simple and reduced to about two buttons keeping the Sega simplicity controls. 
 However you'll find yourself wanting a joystick rather then pointing so Nunchuck, Classic, or GC 
 controller you'll probably use more. The story line is explained in some corny dialogue but you 
 get the idea. Wizeman is taking the world of Nightopia over with Nightmaren's. However the games 
 length is a downfall. One story mode can be beat in three to three and a half hours. However searching 
 for all the Dream Drops and trying to get all A or B ranks can pick the length up by a few hours 
 or if you are really good (or cheat) probably just an hour. Still simple and easy and fun is a 
 good combination. And the bosses are so strange and creative you can't help but wonder... who came 
 up with this idea?
  GRAPHICS: In my opinion the only good characters graphics wise is Reala, NiGHTS, and Wizeman. Owl, 
 Helen, and Will both seem very unfitting with the rest of the world. However the cutscenes are 
 done beautifully. And as you fly around the worlds of Nightopia the gigantic worlds seem to come 
 alive. And while you are limited to a small track the world seems vast.
  MUSIC: The soundtrack is the most perfect soundtrack I've heard. The music blands in with the environments 
 so well. And sometimes you can't help but to hum along with the "Dream, Dreams" Theme.
  OVERALL: So while the games length is dissapointing and some characters don't seem animated to 
 the best quality, a great soundtrack and simply fun gameplay make up for some of the short stops. 
 7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Major_Ryan
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  I have heard about the NiGHTS Into Dreams game back on the Sega Saturn. I've never managed to play 
 it, but it seems NiGHTS Journey to Dreams gives some sort of insight on how the game is even back 
 then. It's quite a fun game to play for all ages, yet it has that short game feel to it.
  
  In this game, you play two children, Helen and Will, inside their dreams who've had some issues 
 with their parents. Both go through their dreams to settle what issues they do have along with 
 destroying Wizeman alongside with NiGHTS. When playing as the children, the platform environment 
 seems quite a bit unpolished as it can be easy to mess up every now and then. But when dualized 
 with NiGHTS, the gameplay changes to a side-scrolled-like place with vertical movement to fly through 
 rings and collect blue chips and dreamdrops.
  
  Let's start on some of the strong points of the game. Graphics and Sound are an intricate part 
 of the game; both are impressive for today's standards. The artwork done in the various worlds 
 are very unique and show off the character's personality and their heart throughout the game. The 
 music in the game is what brings you into the game all the time. Sounds are very good and work 
 in tandem with the different levels. Some of the level designs are also very unique to help give 
 gameplay a nice edge along the way.
  
  Speaking of gameplay, there are four different ways to control NiGHTS. You have the Wiimote by 
 itself, Wiimote and Nunchuck, classic controller, and the GameCube controller. Playing with the 
 Wiimote itself might get a little frustrating, so you may be better off with the other tree methods 
 with an analog stick. With the Wiimote, you need to point it toward the screen and hold A for NiGHTS 
 to fly. Tilting the Wiimote allows for acrobatic flying but it's not essential to the game.
  
  The story is fairly typical among most games, a hero fighting a villain to save the day. Although 
 the dialogue is a little sketchy at times, it's not terribly bad.
  
  If your one of those people that just want to complete the game, more than likely you can complete 
 it in about 5-6 hours total. But if you want to collect every bit of dreamdrop in the game, it 
 may take you many, many hours to find every drop in the 5 worlds. There are a total of 60 strewn 
 about the worlds, so collecting them all may become a tedious task for a few people. It is a fairly 
 short game and I wish it could have been a bit longer, but it's still enjoyable for everyone to 
 play.
  
  All-in-all, it's great for the little ones, it's not a bloody game like most others tend to be 
 these days, and makes a great holiday gift. So if you have a Wii, give the game a try and see what 
 you think, you might be surprised with what you find inside a child's dream. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GabuEx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  Games that center themselves around blood, violence, and death are not exactly what one would call 
 uncommon. In the modern world of video gaming, games such as these are at least the majority of 
 games produced, if not more than that. And there is certainly nothing wrong with liking these games.
 
  
  But for those of us out there with an inner child who refuses to leave, eventually after wading 
 through those sorts of games one begins to desire a game that will simply touch one's heart, not 
 pierce it with bullets. And if you see yourself as fitting that description, then NiGHTS: Journey 
 of Dreams is for you. If video games were dogs, then the violent ones would be vicious attack dogs, 
 while Journey of Dreams would be a fluffy puppy with a little red bow tied ever-so-gently around 
 its neck. The mere sight of it makes you smile, and you just want to pick it up and hug it.
  
  Within Journey of Dreams, you play one of two children, Will and Helen. Both of them have personal 
 problems at home, and they have nightmares relating to their relationships with their parents while 
 asleep. Chased by black demons in their nightmares, they are saved by the light of NiGHTS, the 
 titular purple jester who resides in the dream world who can fly at will, unshackled by gravity. 
 There, they learn of the evil Wizeman, who desires to destroy all of the good side of the dream 
 world known as Nightopia. They also learn of the ability to "dualize" with NiGHTS, effectively 
 fusing with NiGHTS' body. With NiGHTS' ability at their disposal, it's up to them to save Nightopia... 
 and to heal their hearts along the way, as well.
  
  The core of any game is how well it plays, so let's first talk gameplay. The controls come in four 
 flavors: one can use either a Wii Remote by itself, a Wii Remote with a Nunchuk, a Classic Controller, 
 or a Gamecube Controller to control your character in NiGHTS. All four of them work well enough, 
 although the controls that make use of analog sticks tend to allow more precise motion than the 
 Wii Remote by itself, which requires that the user point at the place on screen to which he wants 
 NiGHTS to move and then hold the A button to move there.
  
  While there is a story to the game, it is not the main driving point of the game. Each level of 
 the game has five stages, and each stage has a certain mission that you must accomplish within 
 a time limit to pass the stage. At one point you might be chasing birds to collect keys to unlock 
 prisons which Reala, Wizeman's henchman, uses to lock up NiGHTS. At another you might be tasked 
 with flying through a certain number of rings in a row. The objectives do tend to repeat somewhat, 
 which may make the player feel that the designers could have been slightly more creative, but the 
 game is still excellent fun.
  
  The plot in the game is very cheesy. It's a typical story of good against evil, where the pure 
 of heart triumph over the wicked. And the script can be extremely corny, as well. But all of these 
 things can be forgiven for the simple fact that they are what make the game what it is: a fairy 
 tale, here to uplift the player and bring happiness and joy to those watching it. And in this, 
 it does its job admirably.
  
  One of the game's strongest points are in its graphical and audio design. The levels in each stage 
 are absolutely beautifully constructed, and the soundtrack is one of the best I've heard all year. 
 Thankfully, the game does include a feature where one may listen to audio that has been heard in-game 
 before, so if a player wishes to simply listen without needing to play, it is there waiting.
  
  Many people might have some complaints about the structure of the game. It should be said upfront 
 that there is not a very large portion of the game that is actually advancing the plot. This is 
 entirely intentional: the original NiGHTS into Dreams was very much like an arcade game, with a 
 number of levels in which you could get a score and a corresponding letter rank from A through 
 E. That remains unchanged, for better or for worse, in Journey of Dreams. If one is looking for 
 a very deep game that is heavily plot-driven and with many twists and turns, that will not be found 
 here. If one is looking for a game that is simply downright fun to play, however, this game is 
 certainly that.
  
  Having been a fan of SEGA ever since the days of the Genesis, I must admit that I've been a little 
 disheartened by what appeared to be a gradual decline in the quality of their games in the past 
 few years. I am pleased to report that the lack of polish that was so pervasive in many of their 
 games feels delightfully absent from Journey of Dreams. I can honestly and truly report that this 
 is a great game, no two ways about it, and if SEGA continues down this road, there may yet be good 
 days ahead for them. Journey of Dreams is a perfect game for any child to enjoy... whether the 
 child is 6, 20, or 65. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Nights journey of dreams , is a very magical game. It takes you to far away mistic places that , 
 well you wouldnt dream of. Graphics are not very good, bit besides that the game play is very fun. 
 The way the game plays is also very magical the way you fly around all the time , and the loopdy 
 loops you have to go through. The story line is very good , but the game lacks the super haert 
 breaking powerful, magical Boss fights. So I give this game & 7.5. Because of the great game play 
 , the magical seroundings, and the absalutly great story line ! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
