-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Nitrobike
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/driving/nitrobike/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Nitro boosts offer a nice sense of speed.
 Fairly extensive trick system.
 Online multiplayer is occasionally interesting, when you can find a match.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Track design and driving mechanics don't mesh at all.
 Little incentive to master the steep difficulty.
 Cheesy music and grating visuals.
 Inconsistent, confusing collision physics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  8, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 5.0, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 5.5, 97 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Left Field
Genre: Motocross Racing
Date: Jan 15, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Nitrobike works well when it's living up to its boost-inspired name, but most of the time, it's 
 a slow, clumsy mess. 

  The heart of any quality racing game lies in its vehicle control and track design. But these are 
 often buried beneath layers of custom paint jobs, licensed soundtracks, and scenic backdrops. Nitrobike 
 is that odd game where vehicle control and track design would seem to work well enough on their 
 own, but they achieve disastrous results when forced together as a team. This, combined with the 
 game's lackluster extras and painful visuals, means there's not a lot to draw your attention.  
 

  The main reason the courses and bikes can't quite mesh is that they tend to cancel out each other's 
 best qualities. With the bikes, it's all about speed; the most exciting moments come when you engage 
 the titular nitro boosts. Fire erupts from the bike, the screen goes blurry, and you feel like 
 you might just rocket through time itself. Not only is it exciting, it's also rewarding because 
 you'll have to earn extra boost by doing midair tricks while keeping a watchful eye on your gauge 
 to make sure it doesn't overheat. It's a nice balance that adds a lot to the experience.  

           The game's sense of speed is fairly impressive during those rare moments when you're not 
 exploding.      

  Unfortunately, the tracks are filled with far too many twists and obstacles for you to really let 
 loose. The motion controls are serviceable -- like most Wii racing games, you hold the Wii Remote 
 sideways and tilt to steer -- but not terribly reliable when pushed too far. That fact is especially 
 obvious with the hairpin turns littering most of the tracks. At the apex of these tight corners, 
 your character will occasionally ignore whatever you're doing with the Wii Remote and drive straight 
 into a wall then explode -- an infuriating problem you won't face when speeding through the more 
 gradual turns. In addition, the tracks are absolutely clogged with other racers. This wouldn't 
 be much of a problem if the collision physics weren't so punishingly unpredictable. Sometimes you 
 can bounce off the other racers, but at other times, merely bumping someone will send you flying 
 20 feet into the sky. You'll also find yourself contending with inanimate objects on the track 
 that produce equally confusing results. For example, you can effortlessly plow through a wooden 
 bridge or tower, but if you try to tear through one of the nylon signs on the side of the track, 
 you'll earn yourself a one-way trip to the emergency ward. With all these hindrances, you wind 
 up feeling like a Lamborghini owner stuck in rush-hour traffic.  

  Some of these problems are mitigated by switching gameplay modes. While career mode forces you 
 to earn medals in a sequential series of courses with hardly a setting to toggle, exhibition races 
 allow for much more fiddling. You'll be able to adjust the difficulty and number of riders while 
 focusing on the tracks that put less of an emphasis on that gritty, smash-mouth brand of racing, 
 for example. You can also play against others online, but only when you can actually find a match, 
 which is pretty rare.  

  Unfortunately, you'll need to trudge through career mode to unlock new tracks and bikes if you 
 want any sort of variety. Doing so also gives you access to certain extras, such as concept art, 
 but it's hardly impressive. It's generally the sort of quality you'll find sketched on a school 
 notebook. There's also a bowling mode you can unlock by exploding your bike a certain number of 
 times, but the less said of that, the better.  

           Just one example of the game's utterly mystifying collision physics.      

  That underwhelming 
 theme is carried through in the game's presentation. As far as the sound goes, you'll experience 
 the same droning, cheesy hard rock that seems to accompany most lackluster sports games on the 
 Wii these days. On top of that, the visuals suffer from precipitous drops in the frame rate, uninteresting 
 drivers, and bland backgrounds.  

  All told, it almost seems as if Nitrobike's driving mechanics and track design were pulled from 
 two completely different games. They simply don't fit, and that lack of harmony results in a frustratingly 
 difficult experience. If that weren't enough, insult is added to injury when you consider what 
 little incentive there is for battling through this mess. Wii owners itching for a quality racing 
 game will want to pass on this one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: NintendoGamer3
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Lets start with the Good's and Bad's shall we?
  
  GOOD:
  Very Exciting at times
  Fun Multiplayer
  Motion controlls are just right
  Not easy but also not to-to hard
  Lots 
 of cool different modes
  Cool game art
  Just like Excite Truck. (If you liked Excite Truck you'll like this)
  
  BAD:
  Bad graphics. 
 (Well what do you expect? It's Wii)
  No one ever online
  Gets boring after a week
  Takes about a day to get used to the controlls. (For me at least?)
  In the game I found a problem 
 that the next day I played the game, all of my data was deleted.. and I had no clue how. 
  
  Rent this game. Or check your bargin bin. I rented it. I'm glad I didn't buy it. But it's also 
 worth a buy being it's only $20.
  
  So basicly thats it.
  Hope this reveiw helped.. or.. something... x) Idk why your reading this.. . 
  
  Thanks again! 
 :D
  (If this reveiw sucked, tell me, I seriously don't mind. x) )
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Remember Excite Truck? I do, if only because I'm upset at myself for wasting 50 dollars on it at 
 launch -- it just goes to show you what a decent bit of marketing and a good idea will do for you. 
 Hell, it doesn't even need to work, but Excite Truck showed off that if you've got a neat game 
 idea, push it and it will probably sell well. Nitrobike, now, adds insult to injury, because in 
 addition to the game being pretty boring, the game play mechanic isn't even new.
  
  The control scheme for Nitrobike works much the same way as did Excite Truck: one is brake, two 
 is accelerate, you steer by tilting the Wii remote, and you boost by using the d-pad. Naturally, 
 you're going to be holding the Remote on its side, like a NES controller. Personally, I'm pretty 
 sick of this control scheme in and of itself, and then add to that the fact that it really doesn't 
 work all the time. It's not always all that responsive, particularly in regards to the steering. 
 You can also pull off some tricks in this game -- you'd think they'd be better-designed, seeing 
 as they're pretty important to each race, but instead you're just going to use simple combinations 
 of the one button and various directions on the d-pad.
  
  The races themselves are fine, I suppose, but throughout the entire game something just feels missing. 
 Nitrobike definitely goes after the cash of an arcade gamer -- the type who may have picked up 
 Excite Truck -- rather than somebody who's looking for a fully fleshed-out racing experience on 
 the Wii. Sure, the sense of speed is there, which is definitely cool, but the tricks are generally 
 underwhelming and not nearly as fun as I expected. Why not try something like SSX Blur, where you 
 actually use the Remote to pull off tricks? That's especially important when you take into account 
 the boost meter, which gives you a bit of an edge speed-wise as your meter fills up. And yes, the 
 only way to fill up your meter is by tricking in mid-air. A game where tricks are so important 
 seems to put in a trick system as an afterthought? Something was seriously wrong here
  
  However, I do personally like the direction the developers, Left Field, took the game. There's 
 far more of a focus on precision actually winning (thank God!) than there was present in Excite 
 Truck. The courses are far less open-ended, leaving far less room for error and really forcing 
 you to navigate the hairpin turns (and other bikers) expertly. Of course, this itself is a problem 
 when you take into account the learning curve and occasional lack of response from the Wii Remote. 
 Still, if you prefer more a racing experience than a crazy, off-the-wall unrealistic one that Excite 
 Truck offered, you may feel right at home with Nitrobike.
  
  Additionally, there's a good deal of depth here, as Nitrobike offers far more options of play than 
 did Excite Truck. In addition to a mildly fun free race mode, there's also a career mode, which 
 has you completing many events. Admittedly, most of them just involve racing, but there are some 
 neat ideas here, such as Time Trials and even racing through fiery hoops. It's a decent single-player 
 offering and while it's nothing groundbreaking by any stretch of the imagination, there's a touch 
 of variety which keeps it more exciting for a single player than the regular racing mode.
  
  The WiFi, which would have been a pretty good opportunity for this title to redeem itself and 
 offer some significant replay value, is very disappointing. Playing against live opponents can 
 only improve a game so much, especially because of the lack of voice chat or any other sort of 
 communication, and particularly when the game itself just isn't that fun. There is a local multiplayer 
 mode and this is pretty fun if you can find three friends to duke it out with, but with a not-too-fun 
 game play mechanic, even multiplayer can't make a game much better.
  
  Graphically, Nitrobike is also underwhelming, even compared to its close relative Excite Truck, 
 which was released more than a year ago. Environments look somewhat grainy, as do other racers. 
 Graphics are often a big part of racing games, because the genre is largely love it or hate it. 
 If the game mechanic isn't fun, then there's not much that can be done to make the game better 
 -- graphics, however, can help pull even a poor game from the mire. It's too bad that more attention 
 to detail wasn't given to the visuals of Nitrobike, as they could have significantly helped out 
 a suffering game.
  
  In the end, I'll go ahead and say that about 80% of people out there should look past Nitrobike 
 and instead wait for a more thoughtfully designed sequel or just hold off until Mario Kart Wii. 
 Nitrobike isn't a terrible game, but at the same time it's also just not very fun. Combine that 
 with the fact that it's a near carbon-copy of an underwhelming title (Excite Truck, of course) 
 and you've got yourself a game that's most likely not worth 50 bucks. If, however, you really loved 
 Excite Truck (and I know there are people like that out there, though I could never imagine why) , 
 then perhaps you should consider picking up Nitrobike. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
