-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: No More Heroes
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/heroes/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Joyous, stylized action that's as awesome to perform as it is to watch.
 Terrific use of motion controls.
 High-concept story and bizarre characters deliver plenty of drama and mature humor.
 Lots of small details and gameplay detours to keep you engaged.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frame rate gets erratic.
 Side missions are too short.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 22, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.3, 61 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 3,789 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Grasshopper
Genre: Action
Date: Jan 22, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is the mature Wii action title you've been waiting for, and there's nothing else quite like 
 it. 

  In the bizarre California metropolis of Santa Destroy, your trainer encourages you to get naked 
 for your workout, and hired goons bemoan the loss of their spleen when cleaved in two. If you've 
 played any of director SUDA-51's previous games, especially 2005's Killer 7, this kind of irreverent 
 and ironic humor won't come as a shock. What may surprise you, however, is that while No More Heroes 
 brandishes a similarly high-concept story as its love-it-or-hate-it forebear, it features plenty 
 of rewarding, visceral action to complement the intrigue. The eccentricities guarantee that you've 
 never played a game quite like this before -- but it's the exciting, blood-spewing combat that will 
 keep you constantly enthralled.  

  If you need further proof of this game's nuttiness, consider the story. As Travis Touchdown -- an 
 action-figure owning, porn-collecting, card-collecting obsessive -- you find yourself caught up in 
 the melodrama of a real-life assassination leaderboard. Armed with your trusty beam katana (obviously 
 meant to approximate a Star Wars lightsaber) , you slice your way through a dozen killers in your 
 quest to earn the number one rank. Narrowing things down to such a simple description doesn't really 
 do the narrative justice, though, since the absurdity of the premise permeates every aspect of 
 the game -- its characters, its references, even its gameplay. The sexy, sophisticated Sylvia taunts 
 Travis with her French accent and feminine curves over and over, only to leave him high and dry; 
 boss characters sing lounge music in baseball fields and attack you with killer shopping carts 
 and prosthetic legs; and you earn side money by mowing lawns and filling gas tanks at the local 
 service station. It's pure insanity, but you won't be able to avert your eyes.  

           Travis dry-cleaning bill must be through the roof.      

  No More Heroes' combat 
 is its shining star, and not enough can be said about its over-the-top, cheerful violence. Armed 
 with your weapon of choice (you can upgrade your katana or purchase new ones, provided you earn 
 enough coinage) , you'll take on a decent number of mercenaries on any given mission. You'd think 
 that since you're brandishing a lightsaber, the game would force you to swing the Wii Remote to 
 approximate the experience. Instead, basic combat is on the simple side: You swing your weapon 
 using the A button, and perform hand-to-hand moves using the B button. Remote-waggling is reserved 
 for finishing moves, but it's important to note that every kill is finished with such a move, so 
 there's no shortage of wrist movement here. If you deliver your final blow with your katana, it 
 may be as simple as a flick to the side, while at other times, you can jerk both the Nunchuk and 
 the remote for a theatrical, painful-looking wrestling move. The combination of old-fashioned button-mashing 
 and high-energy yanks and waggles makes for fun, often breathless encounters, and while the same 
 basic movements account for the bulk of the action, it rarely feels repetitive.  

  Much of this has to do with the exuberance of No More Heroes' brutality. Each enemy spurts seemingly 
 endless showers of blood and coins, so expect to see your screen filled with red streams and golden 
 glitter when you manage a sideswipe through multiple foes at once. It's quite cartoonish, actually: 
 Everything kicks into subtle slow motion when you divide a foe in two, a ring of stars rotates 
 above a stunned enemy's head to the sound of bird chirps, and a small slot machine spins at the 
 bottom of the screen after every finishing move. It's not just for show, though -- earn a triple 
 match, and you activate one of your darkside powers. In one case, the entire screen goes gray, 
 and a single button press allows you to attack each foe, one at a time, with a spectacular, stylish 
 thrust. In another, your foes slow to a crawl, allowing you to carve them up with greater ease. 
 These temporary power-ups are awesome to watch and an exhilarating reward for successful combat 
 maneuvers.  

  There are some subtleties to the combat. When you are locked onto an enemy, you can block attacks 
 and deflect bullets, and use the control pad to dodge. You'll take a higher or lower stance depending 
 on how you hold the remote, may need to stun enemies with a kick before you can damage them, and 
 in some cases, have to defeat them by using alternative means. For example, in several side missions, 
 baseball players clad in Warriors uniforms pitch baseballs at you, and you have to bat them through 
 an entire row to defeat them. You also need to pay attention to how much electricity your katana 
 has, as well as your own health. You can find power-ups to fully recharge your saber, though you 
 can also charge it up by holding the 1 button and shaking the remote up and down (which also results 
 in a pretty lewd-looking act onscreen -- and in real life, for that matter) . You'll find plenty of 
 health chests scattered about when needed, though apart from boss fights, you'll rarely need them: 
 As fun as the combat is, you won't often find yourself teetering on the verge of death.  

  The crux of the action is found in No More Heroes' numerous and impressive boss encounters, where 
 you'll use these subtleties to your advantage, though they don't usually present a foreboding challenge 
 until the final few fights. Yet they're still enormously entertaining, thanks to your opponents' 
 melodramatic (and often hysterical) soliloquizing, interesting attacks, and pure wackiness. Holly 
 Summers launches missiles at you from her fake leg, while Stage magician Harvey Moiseiwitsch Volodarskii 
 locks you up in the box used for his disappearing act -- an attack that kills you instantly if your 
 Nunchuk-flailing skills aren't up to par. Bad karaoke, thinly veiled Star Wars references, and 
 killer hand buzzers are among the many highlights, and just when you think that things couldn't 
 get any stranger -- well -- you're forced to reevaluate.  

  When you aren't fighting, you can roam about Santa Destroy on your motorcycle in a free-roaming, 
 Grand Theft Auto-inspired manner. You shouldn't expect the kind of spirited freedom a GTA title 
 provides, though. While there are some traffic and pedestrians, the city is really your key to 
 moving from one mission to the next, and doesn't reward you with any meaningful surprises. That 
 isn't to say there isn't anything to do outside of combat, though. In fact, to stay in top form, 
 you'll need to go out on the town. There, you can make some purely cosmetic purchases, such as 
 some new T-shirts or a spiffy new jacket, though your money is better spent on more impactful upgrades. 
 A trip to the gym, presided over by the creepy Thunder Ryu, will reward you with a few minigames 
 and a stronger body. You can purchase new katanas and upgrades from Doctor Naomi, or videotapes 
 that teach you new wrestling moves from the local rental shop. Once you're done shopping, you can 
 perform more side missions, or head back to your apartment where you can pet your cat, save your 
 game by sitting on the toilet, or try on your new clothes.  

  The mission structure isn't as fully fleshed out as it could have been. Generally speaking, after 
 each boss fight, you unlock only two new missions, and while you can revisit any mission as many 
 times as you want, many of them are identical, so you may wish for a little more variety -- especially 
 when most enemies you face in a mission are the same. Still, there is plenty of diversity to be 
 found. For example, in some missions you may need to slay every enemy without taking a single hit, 
 while others may occur entirely in dark mode, or may allow you to only use wrestling moves. The 
 crazy side jobs that you need to take before unlocking new missions are also nutty enough to keep 
 you fascinated. You'll deliver coconuts that apparently weigh a hundred pounds, wash graffiti off 
 of walls, and scour the beach for hidden mines. They're simple tasks, to be sure, but they use 
 the motion controls well and are just crazy enough to make you wonder what weird job you'll be 
 taking the next time around.  

  In keeping with the stylish combat and crazy dialogue, No More Heroes' visual design is brimming 
 with strong color choices and benefits from some crisp cel-shading and well-done shadows. Clean 
 textures and exaggerated animations are among the many visual highlights, and some of the kookier 
 boss designs are terrifically insane. There are some graphical issues, however, found mostly in 
 the frame rate, which has a tendency to slow down a bit when you're zooming around on your bike 
 or dicing up a half-dozen foes at once. Nor is the game a technical powerhouse, relying on its 
 powerful art design to carry the load and content to leave its edges jagged. In fact, No More Heroes 
 seems keenly aware of its technical shortcomings: Its minimap and health indicator are pixelated 
 by design, and the menus themselves hearken back to the 8-bit days, as if to embrace the game's 
 focus on style over technical prowess.  

           Its every Star Wars geeks dream come true.      

  The sound design is terrific across 
 the board, however. Not only is the off-kilter soundtrack the perfect complement to the ongoing 
 zaniness, but the sound of combat is loud and quirky, down to the bloodcurdling cries of your delimbed 
 opponents and the tinkling flow of coins into your coffers. The remote's speaker is used quite 
 well here, emanating the prototypical groans of your katana to fantastic effect. The speaker is 
 also used to simulate a call on Travis' cell phone, and done so well you will probably hold the 
 remote up to your ear as if it were an actual receiver. The voice acting is pitch-perfect in most 
 cases, down to Sylvia's lugubrious French sarcasm and Travis' immature bloodthirstiness.  

  A fairly standard play-through will probably net you around 12 hours of gameplay your first time 
 through, though you could blow through it quicker if your goal is simply to get to the end as quickly 
 as possible. But even with the element of surprise removed, the fantastic combat is more than enough 
 reason to revisit No More Heroes. This time, SUDA-51 has delivered a game that can match its absurd 
 premise with equally stimulating gameplay, making for one of the most unique and satisfying action 
 games in recent memory.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (313 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bladex8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Well i get to play a game with some of my friends and so i play no more heroes. You play as all 
 round **** Travis Touchdown (yes that is his real name) an anime obsessed badass who buys a working 
 lightsabre off ebay and sets off to become the worlds top ranked assasin so that a french girl 
 will have to sleep with her...... seriously and thats only the start of the weirdness, my weirdometre 
 was reaching its peak round about the time that i was running through a movie studio when men with 
 paper bags on their heads came out and started attacking me with road signs only to hear them scream 
 "MY SPLEEN" when i unleash jedi style death upon them, and then my weirdometre was overflowing 
 at the point when i was having a boss battle against a girl in a pink dress who uses a baseball 
 bat to launch gimps from her gimp conveyor belt at you like a missile... also you save your game 
 by taking a dump... i wish i could make stuff like this up.
  
  But dont be fooled this isnt simply a weird game, for a start this game has the best use of the 
 wiimote since metroid prime 3 and the action is fast paced and fun throughout... as for flaws the 
 open world moments where your running round the city are a bit dull and the UK version has the 
 gore from the US version removed... it's not everyones cup of tea but overall this game is made 
 of awesomeness. The graphics are really amazing you should buy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2009 2:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The graphics are cool and stylistic; the game loves the fact that it's a game; a fun 
 soundtrack; a healthy dose of customization; a great sense of humor; excellent voice acting; the 
 whole thing's just plain whacky; there are plenty of options as to how to go about the game; amazing 
 Wiimote and speaker use; multiple difficulties and endings; it's one of the most unique games you'll 
 ever get; amazing replayability.
  
  The Bad: It's pretty short; the combat may get a tad repetitive when you go through easy mode; 
 framerate dips; the overworld isn't nearly as fun as the levels.
  
  Suda 51 makes games that are very commonly rated M, as over the top as you're gonna get, and nothing 
 like any game you've ever played before. No More Heroes more than lives up to that reputation, 
 and is one of the best third party titles on the system that isn't a port.
  
  Okami and Resident Evil 4 are fantastic, but this guy's brand new. There is nothing anything like 
 this game, I'm serious. You'll think that the main character, Travis Touchdown's weapon is like 
 a lightsaber at first. But the game isn't about to get sued, because it doesn't relate to Star 
 Wars in any other way, and barely does at that.
  
  Travis was flat broke when he met up with this beautiful girl, Sylvia, at a bar. She paid him for 
 a hit man job, and with Beam Katana (the lightsaber thing) in hand, Travis wiped him out. That's 
 when Sylvia tells him he just killed the tenth ranked assassin in the world, and that he should 
 try aiming for first. He's even guaranteed a ton of money for it.
  
  Travis lives in a motel called No More Heroes, hence the game title, has a cat, broke up with a 
 girl he misses, rents porn videos at the movie store, drives around on the kickass motorcycle, 
 and has no job. And you'll watch him take a dump when you save the game. Unlike every other gaming 
 character, he has to crap at some point... But the point is, he's a cool guy. Except for the job 
 bit, so he seals the deal with Sylvia.
  
  The game opens up with you hunting down the tenth ranked assassin, and you'll be wiping guys out 
 in no time. Many of the easy enemies have baseball bats or wrenches. That's not much of a challenge 
 for your Beam Katana, so it'll be easy to get into it. You hit A to attack, then swing the remote 
 a certain direction for a finishing move. This prevents annoying waggling of the remote, but also 
 keeps it involved.
  
  You can also grab enemies and use wrestling moves on them, which you'll learn more of on the way. 
 These are cool and spice up the combat a little bit, and you're free to battle anyone with the 
 moves or the katana. You can block with the weapon too, and use high or low attacks based on what 
 angle the remote is at.
  
  However, the Beam Katana isn't made of light energy, it runs on electricity. You'll have to charge 
 it up once in awhile, by shaking it up and down- really hard and really fast. Yes, that's definitely 
 the reference you're thinking of.
  
  It's random stuff like that, much of which is way over the top (like the fact Travis will yell 
 F*** you! every once in awhile killing someone) , that really puts the fun in No More Heroes. A 
 normal game like this would be solid, but that sense of humor really makes for a stylish, unique, 
 awesome game.
  
  The levels basically just involve wiping out the bad guys, but you'll also be finding trading cards, 
 money and energy for your katana along the way. It's funny, not gruesome somehow, when gallons 
 of blood pour from one or more guys' heads you just ripped off, and coins fall out too. That sounds 
 horrible, but you have to see it to get it. It's so over the top that you won't even think of it 
 being real, and red and gold stuff coming out of their head makes it less... mainstream.
  
  As you go through the game, naturally, your enemies will get tougher. Each assassin is extremely 
 bizarre, but they're absolutely awesome and you'll find yourself excited to meet the next one. 
 Many of them, and even some of the other enemies later on, will carry katanas or guns, so you will 
 have to watch yourself. And hey, if you get to the top, it sounds like Travis is gonna get lucky 
 with Sylvia.
  
  The Wiimote speaker hasn't been implemented in games very much, or not in a very noticeable way. 
 In this game, it's not used during play, but Sylvia will be calling you in each level to talk to 
 you about what's happening. It sounds just as good as the already awesome voice acting from the 
 big screen, and as it's coming from your phone in-game, it's a brilliant stroke from the developers.
 
  
  Outside of the levels it's a lot different. You can customize your Travis, getting him new shades, 
 shirts, jackets, belts, and jeans. You can increase his strength and stats at a dojo, buy videos 
 for wrestling moves, and get new Beam Katanas as you go along. You can go to the motel to deal 
 with all that and save (take a dump, again) too. There are a few sidequests scattered in there, 
 and there's generally a fair few options as to handle your cash. It's not GTA, obviously, but again, 
 you have choices.
  
  You'll get lots of money from each level, but when you're back out in Santa Destroy (the name of 
 the city in California) , you have to pay for a steadily increasing 'entry fee' to get the info 
 on the next battle. Seems like a bit of a ripoff, although you do get more money than you lose. 
 You can spend that on the above customizable techniques, weapons and clothes (that's just for fun, 
 by the way) , or you can just blast right on through.
  
  However, you will have to explore the city at least a little. The money you get from the previous 
 level won't be enough to secure your entry into the next, so you have to go get other jobs to pay 
 for the new level and whatever else you'd like to do. Here, you have a ton of options. You can 
 do respectable things, believe it or not, which are fun, weird mini-games. You can mow people's 
 lawns, collect coconuts, clean walls with graffiti on them, pick up trash, or fill up people's 
 cars at a gas station. On the other hand, you can indeed get other hit man jobs. One of the first 
 ones you'll get is going out to kill the owner of a pizza place. There are some where you'll act 
 like a baseball player and hit the balls back at your enemies with your katana. And eventually 
 you can go to certain locations without getting a job and just go on a killing spree. You can't 
 get hurt doing these, but if you do well you'll get some sweet mula.
  
  However, it's still not as fun to be in the overworld as in the levels. The jobs are fun much of 
 the time, and it's nice to be able to customize Travis, but everything's so far apart that driving 
 around gets old. True, the motorcycle's awesome, but it can be a little tiresome. Plus, the motorcycle 
 controls aren't nearly as good as just moving Travis around. The control stick seems to be bad 
 at picking up how much you want to turn. It won't hurt the gameplay but it'd be nice if it were 
 fixed. On the other hand, the camera won't mess up, ever.
  
  Once you're back in the levels, you'll be happier. That's not to say the overworld is just not 
 fun, but the levels are more fun. However, toward the end the combat might get a little tiresome. 
 Not a lot, because it's just so much fun to watch, but you might realize how much you've seen these 
 animations before.
  
  More on the zany side, the voice acting is weird, like the characters themselves, making the plot 
 fun, unique, and well executed. The speaker, again, is used better than I think it ever has been 
 used in any other game. And the music is awesome, and insanely catchy. The sound on all fronts 
 in this game is wonderful.
  
  Now here's what I mean by the game loving being a game. The map is done in 8 bit blocks, as if 
 it were on an NES or something. Travis even falls asleep once and an 8 bit mini-game starts up 
 in his head. It likes video games like you do. Travis even has an N64 in his room. It's a fun little 
 addition that goes a long way.
  
  The graphics aren't like any other game's, kind of like everything else in No More Heroes. It's 
 hard to describe them, except they're stylish. They seem blocky, but it looks purposeful, and the 
 shading is one of the coolest parts. It's not a powerhouse title on Wii like Mario Galaxy or Metroid 
 Prime 3 is, but there aren't any complaints to make. It is a bit of a gripe that the game lags 
 sometimes, and noticeably, but it won't hurt the experience.
  
  The game will probably last around ten hours, maybe closer to fifteen if you work on hunting down 
 all the sidequest items and getting maxed out on everything. The most expensive katana is a ton 
 of money, there are a lot of clothes, a lot of stat upgrades, and some collections to track down. 
 And it'll take a lot longer to get enough money to pay for each level if you get all of that, but 
 it's definitely a great experience even in the overworld. Plus, there are three different difficulties, 
 and if you beat it once you'll unlock a secret ending (the first ending is pretty crappy, in a 
 partially literal sense, so you'll want to see it) .
  
  As you can see, there are some noticeable ups and just as glaring downs to No More Heroes. Would 
 I suggest it? Certainly. No question. If you're sick of the endless RPGs and action-adventure games 
 in a magical world, sports games, horror shooters, and most infamously first-person shooters that 
 all feel like clones, this'll be a breath of fresh air. It's worth your time and money. It's not 
 what you'd call a killer-app. It's not close to perfect either. But it is an experience like nothing 
 you've ever had before, on any medium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfc42
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 17, 2009 8:19 am PT
Review:  I really don't get why this game got such high ratings. The ultra-violence is kinda' fun. I suppose 
 you could enjoy the crazy overacting, but to me it was just grating. No one would think this was 
 a good movie. It just gets a pass for being overly crude and being on the Wii. House of the Dead: 
 Overkill does the same thing, but it is slightly funnier and the game is actually fun to play.
 
  
  The game looks ok, but the Wii's hardware really ruins things. What is the point of driving around 
 an empty city on a motorcycle thing that controls REALLY badly.
  
  And the jobs? WTF? Picking up coconuts and mowing a tiny little lawn? I don't understand how these 
 aspects were not lambasted. The rest of the game is just repetitive fighting combined with semi-interesting 
 boss fights.
  
  The real combat in this game is between the players and the controls. Why do I have to keep flailing 
 about for no good reason? I can understand the Wii-mote for boxing and bowling, but why can't I 
 just hit buttons to do all my attacks? Of course, this game has you charging your lightsaber by 
 jacking it up and down, tee-hee-hee. That is mildly amusing the first time, but in the middle of 
 a fight it is awful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ausgamer529
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 12:49 pm PT
Review:  because when you start playing your fighting and that gets borig after a while. so then your exploring 
 santa destroy and that also gets boring so you want to fight more after that and when you get new 
 combos and moves from the drunk at the bar you realy want to try them out so if you like lightsaber 
 like blades that can rip through people as if they were wet paper then this is the game for you. 
 if not then just pick it up for kicks 
  
  graphics: 8.5 not the best wii graphics are good not the best but better than some wii fighters.
 
  
  characters:9.5 Travis touchdown is one of the coolest video game characters ive ever played as 
 next to mario. hes so realistic and just like how some of my friends are that are hotshot badboys.
 
  
  gameplay: 9.0 it makes great use of the wii mote but i wished that instead of haveing to press 
 the A button to attack and the wii mote to raise my sword that i just could use the wii mote to 
 swing travises sword and A to make heavy attacks
  
  storyline: 9.0 its a great story line about a guy who kills this dude who looks a lot like the 
 bad white haired dude from kingdom hearts 1 and gets sucked in to this killing rank system after 
 finding out hes ranked
  
  overall its a awsome wii tittle filled with blood guts and a hot german chick 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucky_seven07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I picked up "No More Heroes" for the Wii after I read a shining review about the game. I thought 
 the story waswell, quite frankly, a little bizarre. "No More Heroes" is the story of Travis Touchdown, 
 an assassin who hopes to rise to the top of the assassins league by eliminating his competition 
 and rising to be #1. His main motivation isn't really noblehe just wants to score with the hot 
 female leader who seems to be organizing every encounter between Travis and the other ranked assassins. 
 Travis has a penchant for leather jackets, tinted sunglasses, professional wrestling, light sabers, 
 and cats. He doesn't mind killing and is willing to chop his way through seemingly endless numbers 
 of lackeys to finally face off with the assassin that he is bent on eliminating from the top ten 
 list. The entire point of the game is to help Travis rise to the top of the assassins league by 
 getting rid of the competition.
  
  "No More Heroes" is a mature title and filled with very over-the-top blood and gore. Expect lots 
 of head lopping and blood geysers. The controls were easy to learn and to use. The use of the Wii 
 motion controls to perform the finishing moves is entertaining. You never know exactly how some 
 wretched goon is going to die. I never really got tired of seeing my light saber cut through enemies 
 like a hot knife through butter. I'd rate the controls a 9/10. Very easy to learn controls and 
 entertaining finishing moves.
  
  The graphics aren't anything fabulous but compliment the general mood of the entire game. I'd give 
 them a 7/10.
  
  Overall I gave "No More Heroes" an 8.5. The game is quirky and quite different from other games 
 on the Wii. I enjoyed the controls but found the gameplay a bit tedious. A large part of the game 
 is earning enough money through side quests or assassination missions to actually get to the fights 
 with the ranked assassins. It's the same general idea over and overoh, and over again. Each ranked 
 assassin is different, which helps add some variety to the game, but overall the whole premise 
 of advancing is the same. By the time I got to ranked match #4, I was quite tired of the game and 
 actually quit playing it and came back to finish it several months later. The boss fights are challenging 
 and the dialogue can be somewhat humorous at times. I give "No More Heroes" high marks for being 
 different and being one of the few mature titles for the Wii that is actually fun to play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2009 7:30 pm PT
Review:  'Punk's Not Dead' proclaims a banner as you boot up No More Heroes, the latest brainchild of the 
 mad genius Suda51. If the game is any indication, this is certainly the truth. No More Heroes actively 
 defies the norm. It's simply one of the wackiest, craziest, most ridiculous games ever released.
 
  
  When Travis Touchdown - an otaku social shutout living in a motel room - takes an assassination 
 gig to earn extra cash, he finds himself caught up in a quest to become the best assassin who ever 
 lived. Aided by the seductive Sylvia, Travis sets out to murder his competition and, hopefully, 
 get lucky along the way. In classic Suda51 fashion, the game is very stylized and very funny, taking 
 stabs at pop-culture, social trends, and video-game clichs at every turn. Every character, no 
 matter how small, has his or her own set of unique personality traits. The inevitable friction 
 between them is inevitably entertaining, and it's enough to keep you going during the game's occasional 
 monotony.
  
  Travis' weapon of choice is his beam katana, and it's really the only weapon anyone would ever 
 need. Essentially a cooler version of the lightsaber, the beam katana can slice off heads or cut 
 people in half with ease. It's obvious the combat is the star of No More Heroes, and though it's 
 rather simple and a bit repetitive, it's very fun to watch and perform. There isn't a lot of waggle 
 involved here - the A button handles your katana attacks, while the B button is used for pro wrestling 
 moves. Waggle comes into play during the finisher moves, but that's it.
  
  There's more to the combat than just attacking, though. Travis has a high and low stance, and choosing 
 the correct one will block attacks and break through enemy defenses. You'll need to know how and 
 when to dodge, block, and recharge your beam katana (done by imitating a hilariously obscene act) . 
 Honestly, though, none of this has much impact on the combat; you'll be able to get through with 
 just the basic attacks. A large chunk of the game is combat, so it's too bad it usually feels so 
 same-y.
  
  However, there's one part of the gameplay that always fresh - the boss fights. The ten ranked assassins 
 above Travis have a crazy array of attacks and techniques that will force you to use every move 
 in your repertoire. It's a bit basic - dodge an attack, then find the counter-attack opportunity 
 - but the fights are still crazy fun. Dodging the attacks can be challenging, and you'll feel good 
 whenever you take one of the assassins down. Every boss is very eccentric, and they all give hilariously 
 long-winded soliloquies before and after you defeat them. They're very sharp and well-written, 
 and occasionally, even thought-provoking.
  
  If the ranked fights are the game's high point, then getting to them is surely the low point. Every 
 boss level comes with an over-inflated entry fee. To earn the cash he needs, Travis will have to 
 take odd jobs and small assassination missions. On their own they are fine, if a bit repetitive. 
 Unfortunately the whole thing is connected by an awful open world. Unlike in Grand Theft Auto, 
 the city of Santa Destroy feels dead. There's nothing to do except drive, and there's nearly no 
 pedestrians or other motorists to mess with. 
  
  The overworld was definitely an afterthought - a way to artificially lengthen the game - but it's 
 still criminally unpolished. You'll have to deal with ugly environments, bad collision detection, 
 and some stupid crashes. But the most annoying thing happens when you fail a mission. You can't 
 restart. Instead, you have to drive aaaallll the way back to the assassin HQ/job center, take the 
 mission again, and drive aaaallll the way back to where the mission started. Stupid design choices 
 like this make parts of No More Heroes feel strangely unfinished, a shame when the rest of it is 
 so good.
  
  But really, No More Heroes is a game that's meant to be style-over-substance, and what style it 
 is. The brilliant cast and laugh-out-loud story is brought to life by some great voice-acting. 
 It's meant to be over-the-top, and it fits in perfectly with the quirky writing. There are tons 
 of cool retro touches - the Atari 2600 menus and maps and the chiptune-styled soundtrack come to 
 mind. This is all brought together by very stylistic art direction. Like killer7 before it, No 
 More Heroes is cel-shaded. The characters and environments consist of stark, bright colours, and 
 the character designs look like something straight out of Japan's craziest magna. Also like killer7, 
 No More Heroes is ridiculously gory. It's common to see decapitated enemies fountaining blood from 
 their neck, and others slowly peel apart after a downwards strike. The violence is too excessive 
 to be gritty, and ends up just looking very cool.
  
  No More Heroes may be flawed, but it's so stylish and original the problems are easy to overlook. 
 It's one of the system's coolest games, and you can find it at the bargain price of $20. Every 
 mature Wii owner needs to play it, if only to be able to say 'I fought a mailman who fires lasers 
 from his crotch.' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownRandom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 8:06 am PT
Review:  i have only about 10 Wii games that i love, and NO MORE HEROES is one of them
  
  this game reminds me of the grand theft auto series, but with lightsabers
  Even though this game 
 is on the Wii, it still has amazing visuals and great controls (and good controls for a 3D Wii 
 might be hard to find)
  
  this is one of the few Wii games that i recommend for gamers and this game never dissapoints (except 
 in a few areas)
  
  With good combat, and good controls, the action in this game has no reason not to be good. The 
 game has some interesting minigames which adds more play time and gives you something to do, other 
 than slice people to bits. The option to change clothes is a fun extra as well. One of my favorite 
 parts about the game is that you can either buy new "beam katanas" (lightsabers) or you can customize 
 your, already owned, beam katana, OR, buy a new beam katana and customize it. Another thing that 
 i liked about the game is that you can enhance your combat abilities by "working out" at a gym. 
 
  
  If you can enhance your abilities and customize your weapons, then it gives you a reason to do 
 something, other than follow the story. 
  
  But, here are some problems:
  
  - the game's story is short (i wish that they made the story A LOT longer)
  
  - the lack of 
 freedom
  since you can free roam santa destroy (town name) you should be given the option to pull out your 
 beam katana and cause mayhem in public, but you cant and you also cant interact with people on 
 the streets 
  
  - the motor cycle
  dont get me wrong, i love the motor cycle, but i would love to be able to buy new motor cycles 
 and or customize my motor cycle even further than it already is
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  thats basically it, only three problems, otherwise, the game is perfect 
  
  there is a lot of good stuff that i didnt mention in this review that i also like, but i guess 
 that could count as a suprise when you play the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horusalis
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Travis Touchdown is your average guy who just happens to be an assassin trying to climb up the 
 ranks to be number 1. Your objective is to take out everyone ahead of you. This is one of the better 
 games for Wii I own. The controls are unique and make the game fun to play. Good story, but gets 
 repetitive throughout the whole game as after every boss you need to collect more money doing jobs 
 to get to the next assassin. And of course the amount needed increases every time. Despite this 
 though, the game brings unique bosses that make you want to collect that money fast so you can 
 face each of them. Travis and characters bring humor into the game. Customization lets you change 
 clothes with many different items. Game also allows you to collect different things to add to your 
 collection. If your still not sure about this game, rent it first. But in my opinion, this is a 
 great addition to any wii owners collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snover2009
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 9:56 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS:
  
  They are highly stylized, not taking full advantage of the Wii's hardware, but its style is unsurpassed 
 by any next gen game.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  It is basic, but fun. You use your trusty beam katana to slice multiple opponents in half. You 
 can also daze then and use a wrestling move on them, this breaks up the continuous slicing a bit. 
 I enjoy the super powers that you randomly attain in combat. But, unfortunately, it is only when 
 you are fighting though the boss levels and not in the assassination missions of the overworld. 
 The overworld is open, but there isn't much to do.
  
  STORY:
  
  Much thought has went into the story of No More Heroes, although it is unfortunate that you have 
 to go to you tube to see what Jeane says to Travis and the end of the game. It is no that repulsive, 
 no reason to fast forward it in the game.
  
  REPLAY VALUE:
  
  After finishing the game, you can start a new one with a higher difficulty. However, you will keep 
 all the upgrades you got in the last game, which is sweet.
  
  VERDICT:
  
  Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2009 4:51 am PT
Review:  No More Heroes is an over-the-top third person action game and one of the better games on the Wii.
 
  
  Travis Touchdown lives in Santa Destroy, California in a motel called No More Heroes. His room 
 is decorated with pro wrestling and anime fan stuff and after winning a beam katana from an internet 
 auction he is in desperate need for money. Of course he'll take a job as an assassin and takes 
 the life of #10 in United Assassins Association. Travis is now himself #10 and #11 is after him. 
 Only way out of this is to rank up all the way to #1 so Travis has no choice but to continue his 
 killing spree all around Santa Destroy. Story is told through impressive and quite long cutscenes 
 featuring real voice acting instead of just text. It's all done well and it's a very cinematic 
 experience.
  
  Bulk of the gameplay is third person combat and the Wii controls are done nicely, because the actual 
 sword slashing and kicking is done via A and B buttons. Catch here is that all kinds of special 
 and finishing moves are done by using Wii's motion controls. It's fun and it stays fresh all the 
 time. Lock-on to a target happens by pressing Z-button and after a kill the target moves automatically 
 to next location. This might be the first game after Zelda Twilight Princess that has a decent 
 lock-on system on the Wii. Camera is not controlled by the player, but with a C button it can be 
 centered behind Travis' back. It's a nice trade-off, since Wii doesn't have a second analog stick.
 
  
  Graphics are cartoonish and simple, frame rate is not that great and there are way too many loading 
 times to break up the action. Still that distinctive retro look of No More Heroes is not something 
 we've seen a million times already. Environments are all static and lifeless except a few breakable 
 objects containing items. Character animation is mostly good, but at times Travis' walking looks 
 a little weird.
  
  Sound design is well done and the best thing is, as I already said, the fact that there's real 
 voice acting. Musical score is very guitar and rock oriented, but it starts to loop too often after 
 4 hours of gameplay. Sound effects are appropriate and they fit the action nicely, but I would 
 have expected more different sounds when handling that beam katana.
  
  Game has a similar structure to GTA or Saints Row. No More Heroes motel acts a save station and 
 as your headquarters. You have a main mission, which is to kill everyone that has a higher rank 
 than you do and between missions you need to do side missions and collect money to earn your way 
 to that next ranked match. Navigating through the city happens with Travis' motorcycle, but all 
 in all the town of Santa Destroy is just there to help you move from point A to point B. It's not 
 an interesting living city like in GTA for example. Side missions range from collecting coconuts 
 (really!) to doing some part-time assassinations. These locations can be found in a map that is 
 a lot like in GTA.
  
  No More Heroes contains RPG elements, since you can train Travis to learn new moves, buy better 
 equipment and new clothes. This makes you want to do your best, but these upgrades don't seem to 
 affect the gameplay that much. Save system uses checkpoints and also save points, which are men's 
 toilets.
  
  No More Heroes has a distinctive style and there are not that many violent and adult oriented games 
 out there for the Wii. For serious Wii gamers this is worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best games out for Wii. I had alot of fun playing the game and I was 
 impressed with the gore and brutality of no more heroes. This is definitly the mature game alot 
 of people have been waiting for. The plot centers around travis touch down. Hes an assasin tring 
 to making it to rank 1 in the assasin association. Basically hes a foul mothed stone cold killer 
 and probebly one of the most interesting and funny characters I have ever seen.
  
  The action on the game is great. The sword fighting and arcade style kill moves that implement 
 the wii contols and excellently tuned. The blood spatter and viciousness of the game is enough 
 to draw any action fan. The fighting is complex but at the same time easy to learn so anyone can 
 pick up and play.
  
  The other great thing about this game is the great attention and just random humor. The game goes 
 the extra mile to be violent but most of the time you'll catch yourself laughing (like when you 
 save your game) . So there is alot of creativity here and the very best example of this is the boss 
 battles there are ten in all and they have to be some of the best bosses Ive ever seen. Theres 
 everything from base ball swinging maniacs to teenage samurai. Every boss challenges you to fight 
 a diffrent way.
  
  The game does have alot of flaws many of which are very noticable. Even though I was having alot 
 of fun I thought the game could have been much better in alot of areas. The city part of the game 
 needs alot more work. The city is just lacking in the graphics and physics department and there 
 isnt a whole lot to do when your just driving around. Also I want to know why you cant steal cars. 
 The other thing I would have to complain about is the content the game had some intresting side 
 missions but there just wasnt a very big variety you were basically just doing them to get to the 
 next boss fight and that can get boring fast. Even with these things the game is definitly a must 
 have for the Wii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sportsmen2008
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2009 8:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun mature title for the wii. Overall this game does so many things right that it 
 is a good title, however it has 2 glaring weaknesses which keeps it from becoming a 10!
  
  The overall game play is fairly fun and satisfying. The overall plot makes a lot of sense for the 
 game. It keeps you interested and you want to figure out what is next. Each Boss fight is unique 
 and can give you some real challenges.
  
  The graphics look great, and the game has a very unique look which makes it stand out. The music 
 is ok, but the voice acting is fantastic! 
  
  Flaw number one is the free roaming in the city. Its slow and boring and the jobs are just so random. 
 You should be able to interact with everyone, and do whatever you like. If they made this part 
 GTA like it would really add another level to this game. I think I would take off -1.8 from the 
 overall score because of this. 
  
  The 2nd flaw is the actual fighting. The feel is great, while you are slicing a guy open, or breaking 
 his back with a wrestling move it looks and feels great. However It would be nice to use more then 
 1 button, they do not need to make this too tough but just 2 buttons, and a waggle here or there. 
 This is only a small deduction. 
  
  This is a great game and you want to get it, $20 or less its really a steal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetstopia
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 19, 2009 3:12 am PT
Review:  No more hero's is rated high by GameSpot, the Critics and the Users (on average about 8.5) but 
 in my opinion the flashiness of the violence and blood are districting people and clouding their 
 opinions.
  
  The amount of good reviews this game has means that no matter what I say if you think the game 
 looks awesome, and bloody and violent then your either going to buy it or rent it at some time. 
 You will be right though the game does look awesome and it is bloody (assuming you manage to secure 
 an uncut version with red blood and not black blood) and it definitely is violent. Really what 
 more could you want from a game. The answer to that question is variety.
  
  While No More Hero's in your face attitude is enough to draw you in and put the controller in your 
 hand unfortunately the repetitive nature will force you to put it back down after not more than 
 20 min. Splitting a suit wearing gangster in half or decapitating that same gangster to the tune 
 of a blood fountain gets better and better as the first round progresses. It seems as though there 
 will never be enough bad guys to turn into chop suey. What makes this better is your learning the 
 controls and the finer points of the high and low striking techniques. You pick up wrestling moves 
 as you go which also gives you new ways to inflict pain and suffering. And then that's about it. 
 I'm sorry but by the time I got to the first boss I was sick of bashing A and waving my arm for 
 the same blood filled death sequences. The wrestling moves I mentioned are a nice distraction but 
 in the end makes killing the guys take longer. There are power-ups you get which seem to generate 
 randomly through slot machine style symbols that spin after each death but even these don't do 
 much as far as changing it up.
  
  The graphics are pretty cool though it must be said. SUDA-51 deliver the kinda comic cell shaded 
 style started in their Killer 7 title and it really works with the game. Like I said the extreme 
 amount of blood that comes from the killer blows is simply awesome to watch. The way you go in 
 slow motion for just a moment right before you rip through someone is very satisfying. The wrestling 
 moves when you bother to do them make you glad you're not on the receiving end. The cut scenes 
 of the bosses are well constructed and add to the intensity of the battle that follows. Even better 
 than the boss build up is the boss death scenes which deliver much needed variety to the death 
 sequences. Basically, while you're fighting everything is looking pretty shmick. The levels (I 
 only played 2) seem like they have promise. The first, a mansion gets a bit stagnant at times but 
 offers glimpses into some form of visual spectacles. The second, a baseball stadium, well it looks 
 like a stadium would look like. Running through the internal workings of a ball park isn't going 
 to be remarkable on the eye but when you finally make it to the middle under the big lights yet 
 again it offers some spectacle. 
  
  Sound for games in general I something I tend to disregard a lot, but in this case it must be mentioned. 
 The sound effects when your katana slices through someone have a great deal of ommph to them. When 
 wrestling moves are done bones crack and bodies hit hard and the sound reflects that. 
  The game itself is links the story of a would be assassin striving for the number one spot with 
 an over-world map featuring one big mother F---- bike. In general the streets all look the same 
 and don't really add much to going and getting jobs to do to make money to fight again. The one 
 job I did was collecting coconuts or something and it was boring, stupid and pointless. The story 
 has merit and is supported well by cut scenes with humour and good voice acting. 
  
  BOTTOM LINE
  The games mature style with massive amounts of blood doesn't do enough to make up 
 for the lack of depth and repetitive nature.
  
  I will say though it is good to some wii specific games aimed at the mature gamer, if only they 
 could get the controls and challenge to match the adult themes.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LForTheWin
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 8:54 am PT
Review:  I was always thinking wherever to buy No More Heroes, but I not entirely skilled with difficult 
 games, so I would always put it off. I saw it was going cheap in a local media store and I bought 
 it for just over 10, so even if I gave up soon, I could still trade it in for a good price. 
 
  But as soon as I started playing I instantly became immersed in Santa Destroy, they also start 
 off with an incredibllly useful and in depth (but not boring) tutorial. The controls are amazing 
 and definatley well thought out, it can reconise high and low attacks, and even uses certain motions 
 to achieve wrestling moves, so fun! 
  Another amazing concept is that the speaker on the wii-mote is the reciever as on a phone, so you 
 have to put it towards your ear to hear instructions etc. just like a normal mobile, I was amazed 
 when this happened, I wasn't really listening to what Sylvie said, oh well.
  I also love how the other characters, especially fellow asassins, are designed, they are so exagerated 
 especially when you meet your first opponent, Death Metal. 
  So even if you phail at games, like me, still buy it, put it on the easiest mode, 'Sweet' and you 
 wont care not being able to do much, you wont get sick of repeating it again later as it is so 
 fresh and individual. AMAZING AMAZING Game, BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh_99
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2009 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Plot: You play as Travis Touchdown who buys a beam katana (lightsaber) off of the internet. You 
 want to become the #1 ranked assassin so you have to kill the ten people ranked ahead of you. 
 
  
  Graphics: No More Heroes uses cell shading which makes the characters and environments look very 
 good. 
  
  Sound: Man oh Man does the music ever get boring in this game. its the same sounds looped over, 
 and over again. But the voice acting in this game is very good.
  
  Gameplay: The overworld (Santa Destroy) is a complete waste of time. I think it was a good idea 
 to have, but you should be able to interact with it more. Instead of just doing jobs to get you 
 money you should have been able to talk to random people, and they give you assassination missions 
 to do. Or you should be able to pull out your beam katana and kill random people. Other than that 
 the boss fights are awesome, and are the main reason this game is really good.
  
  Controls: Just to let you know, this is not a waggle fest. You use the wii motion sensing sometimes, 
 but it is by no means just constant waggle. 
  
  Overall: You can get this game for $20 now. Its worth it. Go buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DO646260
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2009 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure about this game before I got it from Gamefly, but once I did get it in the mail I 
 was hooked! The graphics are not great, they made it look like a Super Nintendo port. I thought 
 it was funny how they also seemed to use sounds from what I would expect to hear from a SNES game! 
 The game play is far from any of the other Wii games I have played and I like that it was quite 
 bloody and not made for an 8 y/o to play. Sometimes some of the mission can get a little on the 
 frustrating side, but for the most part the difficulty of this game is right on par with what it 
 should be. I also like the different selection of clothes you can wear and that you get to do dumb 
 little things like Mow the lawn and Pick-up trash. All in all I enjoyed the game quite a bit and 
 think that anyone over the age of 13 that wants to play a fun game should pick it up and give it 
 a whirl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tengu-Ninja
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Ahh No More Heroes. A highly under appreciated Wii game which in all reason should have sold a 
 ton! Funny dialogue, violent, and a stylistic game that has both flash and substance. You play 
 as Travis Touchdown a rookie killer who gets tangled into a deal in which he must slay the top 
 10 assassins in the US. This is followed by some of the most memorable boss fights ever with some 
 of the coolest characters ever. Let's just say you get to fight a Cos Play superhero and a bat 
 wielding psychopath eventually... let's just leave it at that. But before you can tango with the 
 bosses you have to fight their little peons in varied environments. The fighting mechanics are 
 actually quite well done and rarely get boring or tedious. They function by tapping the A button 
 (yes I know but just listen for a sec) for beam katana swings and the B button for melee attacks. 
 You can perform finishers by swinging the Wiimote at the correct time which is always satisfying 
 (You can slice people in half talk about a stress reliever :P) and Travis can also do wrestling 
 moves which he learns throughout the game. Sure the graphics are not the greatest but they are 
 not supposed to be! This is a Suda 51 stylistic game which is supposed to mock and play on old 
 school game mechanics and styles and really it works. If you are a Wii owner and have not already 
 played this then get on it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknoob
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 11:13 am PT
Review:  I don't know the whole premise, but it seems like Travis have bought a beam katana on the net, 
 and then he starts killing the best hitmen (and hitwomen) to be the number one.
  
  kukucrazywild's review is straight forward, but it's all true.
  http://www. gamespot. com/wii/action/heroes/player_review. html? id=640737&tag=all-about; review1
 
  
  OK, Travis has a nice hair, nice glasses, a nice bike and a nice "katana". So why is it a bad game?
 
  
  Well, after some few hours of playing, you'll realize that killing your enemies is not that funny. 
 Their blood is bad designed and there are only four finishing moves with the katana. Another annoying 
 thing is that all the enemies have the same pain moan before they get sliced. The wrestling moves 
 are nice, but they don't save the game from stupidness.
  
  Its visual is OK, a mix of realistic textures with cel-shading. The enemies and the town look good.
 
  
  The most disappointing part is riding the bike around the town. If you try to hit someone in the 
 streets, the person will jump out of the way. If you get too next to a car, your bike will stop 
 brutally. Oh, I was almost forgetting about the walking in the streets. If you walk toward someone, 
 Travis will drag the person along his way.
  
  Differently of any good hitman who is paid to kill someone, Travis must pay to attempt to kill 
 the next one in the assassin's rank. To make the cash you gotta take stupid jobs like filling car 
 tanks, attacking trees to take coconuts from them, pick garbage and kill people. The funny thing 
 is, picking garbage and filling car tanks pay too much, it's ridiculous!
  
  Oh, and before facing a boss, you always find a wrestling mask with a letter. After reading it 
 you remember a wrestling move. Cool, but you're given no clue on how to perform it, great deal.
 
  
  You'll find it nice in the start, but you'll want to break the disc in two parts after some days.
 
  
  The only thing that makes me happy is that I didn't actually buy the game, I borrowed it from a 
 friend.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smetloos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2009 1:22 am PT
Review:  Travis Touchdown wants to be number one the number one assassin of Santa Destroy. He met this 
 Syliva in a bar and he wants her badly. So, that's two things the game is about. Slashing weird 
 bosses to become number one and becoming number one for "doing it" with Sylvia.
  
  10 - Death Metal  "F#ckhead" and "It's gametime!" are the two expressions when the game starts. 
 The scene when hacking in the office from Scarface is very nice. By the way, the Death Metal dude 
 is a cool guy, nice glass of wine and a great tattoo on his back. I really like it when his slash 
 sword thing extends. Overall it is the first fight, he is very easy.
  
  9  Dr. Peace  Kind of Wii Sports baseball short game in it when running through this level, only 
 a bit faster. When Dr. Peace fires his gun, it is easy to avoid. Couple of wrestle moves will eliminate 
 him quickly.
  
  8  Shinobu  Personally together with Bad Girl one of the harder fights of the game. Then again 
 it is a woman and Travis' weakness is women. Nice cut scene by the way.
  
  7  Destroyman  "Destroy beam!" One of the easiest fights. It is way too easy when he fired a 
 attack to avoid it and when he laughs blab blab he's gone. Perfect atmosphere.
  
  6  Holly Summers  Too bad the European and the US version are different. This level has got a 
 good example why not to make different versions: her head keeps sticking on her body, after the 
 grenade explodes. A big shame! Nevertheless a great and fun fight. I laughed when Travis walked 
 on a mine again and again.
  
  5  Letz Shake  No fight, just a massive cut scene where we get a quick look on Travis' brother. 
 The sound of the machine gives me the shivers. Very, very nice.
  
  4  Harvey Volodarksii  Irritating dude. The same attacks, but in the end fairly simple. No gore 
 either, European version damn!
  
  3  Speed Buster  Cool scene where his master does not make it. I did not like the fights in the 
 bus. This boss is way too easy comparing to Shinobu for example. She uses a cool gun by the way.
 
  
  2  Bad Girl  Personally the toughest amongst all. When she attacks, it is brutal. Having a lot 
 of problems defeating this girl.
  
  1  Dark Star  When winning this fight, I had no tactics. I just went hacking and slashing until 
 there was no Dark Star anymore. The dragon... so nice.
  
  0  Henry  Hell yeah! This dude is different then anyone I played during the game. He is quick, 
 but then again, I am Travis Touchdown.
  
  What can I say about the graphics. It is a style not yet done on the Wii. You love it, or you hate 
 it I guess. Despite of the no gore and blood in this version, No More Heroes is a wicked game. 
 A lot of humor, great characters and a hell of a gameplay make the game a Wii Classic. Welcome 
 to the garden of madness!
  
  Ratings:
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 8,5
  Gameplay: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falconclan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 12:58 am PT
Review:  Perhaps you were not lucky enough to hear of this title before now, if that is the case I urge 
 you to read on, it might change your life (it probably won't but maybe that was enough to make 
 you stay OH **** you can see my thoughts :O) .
  
  Anyways, the game begins quite quickly revealing the main character with the laughable name of 
 Travis Touchdown, a lazy loser otaku obsessed with some anime about 3 witches who wins a beam sword 
 off an internet auction. From the beginning you can tell the creators were not being serious with 
 the story, and that is part of what helps this game achieve greatness. Travis quickly meets a Woman 
 named Sylvia who promises to "Do him" if he reaches rank 1 of an assassins league. He takes the 
 challenge needless to say. 
  
  So that's about the extent of the story I can reveal, I don't want to spoil anything. The controls 
 are quite basic A is swing, use the wii remote to switch between high and low stances and when 
 an enemy has had it use the wii remote to chop em right in half. The controls work really well 
 for this game, and I think you'll have a hard time finding anything to complain about. 
  
  The sound is the major down point for me. I don't think its my sound system but feel free to PM 
 me if I am wrong. For whatever reason the sound all throughout the game sounds as though it was 
 recorded in a really cheap audio booth. It has a weird echo like effect to it, and while I think 
 its a bit irritating at first I stopped noticing after 10 minutes or so. 
  
  The graphics for the main games fighting scenes and levels are spectacular. The cel shaded graphics 
 work fantastically for the game and the blood and gore looks incredibly surreal. It has an interesting 
 art style which for me never really got old. The city unfortunately doesn't look so incredible. 
 It seems to show the wii's hardware limits perhaps, thankfully, you won't be seeing a whole lot 
 of the city and when you do it will often be traveling. 
  
  All in all the game was a rush. The fights were awesome, the story was funny and everything has 
 a bit of personality. Every boss has their own personality and it really makes this title an interesting 
 play, best of all its a bargain bin title now. For $20, this game is a great addition to your wii 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teckblader
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:38 am PT
Review:  Travis Touchdown, an otaku assasin who wants to be number 1 ranked assasin.
  
  This game is about Travis Touchdown who wants to be number 1. And that's the story. You come along 
 10 stages to reach the ranked assasins at the end point. In the stages there are people who are 
 after you, bodyguards and random people who i think who wants to take your rank by killing you 
 so far i think. The thing i liked is funny and well thought is the phone that is your wii mote 
 you hear someone talking through it. To get a match with a ranked assasin you have to pay a entry 
 fee. Where do you get the money? Simple, get a job. You can choose a parttime job like mowing the 
 lawn or collect coconuts. If you finished the job and you did well, a assasination job wil unlock 
 where you earn much more money.
  
  The gameplay is simple. You enter the stage and travis is holding his beamsword (looks more like 
 a lightsaber) for ignition and press A when you're ready for action and slash all enemy's in the 
 area and move to the next and so on. The thing is im from europe and i saw some videos from the 
 game and i saw blood and it was awesome. the european version is a bit censored, they erased the 
 blood with ash. so if you're a european you will be propably dissapointed because you see only 
 ash flying around and not blood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kukucrazywild
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 11:24 am PT
Review:  Let's get this over with, plain and simple. 
  
  No More Heroes is one of the worst games I have ever played. 
  
  Granted, I only played for 
 a short amount of time, but that can be handed to how extremely annoying the main character, Travis 
 Touchdown is. 
  
  First, let's talk about the basic plot and all of it's many flaws.
  
  The basic premise is... Travis Touchdown, a lazy, no-good, anime otaku wins a beam saber from the 
 lottery or something. Then, after absolutely NO time spent actually learning how to use this weapon 
 he's never handled before. 
  
  So, what does this skill-less otaku do with his newly discovered amazing lightsaber skills? Kill 
 some of the most well-trained killers, which all seem to coincidentally reside in the same city 
 Mr. Touchdown lives in. 
  
  However, it's not only the game's premise that's ridiculous. The characters in the game are also 
 some of most bland characters I have ever seen. Travis Touchdown is a man who kills simply because 
 he wants to be "number one" and to get laid by chicks who are way out of his league. He's a egotistical, 
 simple minded jerk who's only redeeming characteristic is that he has a cat (which, might I add, 
 is the best part of the game) . To top it all off, Travis Touchdown has an extremely obnoxious voice 
 actor, which does not help the fact that every time he appears onscreen you want to punch him in 
 the face. And kill babies. At the same time.
  
  I could rant about this game forever, but truth be told, I'm even sick of writing about it.
  
 
  My final word? No More Heroes is a game which was meant to be badass, and turns out to be pitiful. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naruto3336
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2009 9:52 am PT
Review:  There aren't many Mature titles on the Wii and most are ports from the PS2 or Game cube. This is 
 the only Mature title you need to have to in order to fully appreciate the hardcore market on the 
 Wii.
  
  There is a lot of style used in this game which makes you just WOW every time you play it. The 
 violence is over the top. This is very innovative since there is nothing really like it. The originality 
 of the game is just outstanding. 
  
  The graphics are actually noticeably done well for the Wii. This game hardly has flaws. The frame 
 rate is normally steady. The shadows are done amazingly well. The town has a lot of places to see 
 and it is big enough to keep you busy for hours. You can earn money by doing jobs, work-out, buy 
 clothes, upgrade weapons, watch videos, ride your bike and etc.
  
  This game is amazing and it has made me addicted to it ever since I got it! Why are you still reading 
 this? GO AND BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 7:56 pm PT
Review:  the game is one of the most unique games ive played it looked like a fps but its not its a sward 
 fighting at first then it turns into a gta like game when you pass the first level ,
  
  though you cant steal cars but you get your own bike its like driver 1 basically, 
  it has some 
 good fighting , i only completed 3 levels and i liked it , i wished more games were like this ,
 
  
  the graphics are fine, for the wii , sure it doesnt have much detail as timesplitters future perfect 
 , but it does come close, 
  
  the sound i dont know theres no music . the voicing and everything else is great they didnt miss 
 a cue there 
  
  when i picked up the game at first it seam like a fps , but it turned to be a mixture of everything 
 driving shootin and sward fighting , 
  
  exploring, youll get lost . 
  
  they did a very good job , for a solid effort, this isnt the best wii game but its one of them 
 , one of them you just cant stop until the next one comes out, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wildboy124
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 12:20 am PT
Review:  Every now and again, a videogame is released that changes how we play games and what we expect 
 from others is put into perspective. One case is when Rock Band was released and stole Guitar Hero's 
 innovation to form a full band. Metal Gear Solid 4 changed the way we think about story and gameplay 
 mechanics. And No More Heroes... Well, it changed what a game on the Wii should be like.
  The difficult thing about No More Heroes is, not everybody is going to like this game, for a number 
 of reasons. Some people may not appreciate that only America received the unedited version. Some 
 will not like the fact that it isn't a technical powerhouse, or it does not take itself seriously. 
 But the main problem is this; No one plays games for the fun of it anymore. They just really care 
 about the innovation, graphics and gameplay. Thankfully though, the creators of Killer 7 have listened, 
 and have responded in a massive way. A word of advice: Enter with a clear mind, and don't expect 
 the unexpected. You'll just be in for a shock.
  
  No More Heroes story is, at first, simple. Your character, Travis Touchdown is flat broke after 
 spending money at the bar on a sultry woman named Sylvia Cristel (Based on the soft core porn actress 
 of the same name) . After killing a traveller who turned out to be the 11th ranked assassin, he 
 charges off on his motorcycle to take out the next ranked assassin. He just wants to be numero 
 uno (Gangster language for Number 1) .
  But along the way you'll learn about Travis's dark past. Do not expect it to be easy to understand 
 on your first playthrough, as it is unbelievably complex to understand. It's not until the end 
 of the game that you (Sort of) understand what's happened, and even then it will seem confusing.
 
  
  Gameplay wise, you will not be a Wii remote swinging maniac. In fact, it plays as a pretty standard 
 game in some retrospects. By using your Nunchuck analogue stick, you just push it and Travis runs 
 in that direction, and to swing away with your Beam Katana you just press the A button. This means 
 it's easy to pick up and play for those who have never held a Nunchuck.
  The game for the most part is fast paced and in some cases, requires you to use your head a little 
 bit in order to not get killed by a swarm of enemies or an unbelievably powerful, but still defeatable 
 ranked assassin. This pace is only quickened by the slot machine that is constantly running after 
 each kill. As usual, get three icons in a row and you'll receive a prize, usually as a temporary 
 power up which really can clean out a room of enemies.
  
  The graphics in No More Heroes are the 2D/3D comic book style. If you've looked at previews for 
 Madworld, it's basically the same look except with more colours. However, Suda 51 was not paying 
 attention to how much power the Wii has in some concepts, as sometimes there are small pieces of 
 lag in the game and some graphical issues.
  But still they have managed to make a style out of it. Instead of going with a similar design for 
 the pause menu, they have gone with a brilliantly realised 8-bit design instead, which continues 
 through the rest of the game's different menus. The game is obviously not a technical masterpiece, 
 but going for style instead of an advancement in tech is a real achievement in itself.
  
  Now so far you may have been noticing that my review so far is fairly plain. So then, why the high 
 score? Well, the thing is about No More Heroes is that it achieves something that most other games 
 so far in today haven't been able to do. Most games are realistic in their design, and all they 
 really care about is if one thing in the game works realistically and if another problem isn't 
 glitchy enough to cause a problem. Suda 51 have thrown that idea away, went with their own design, 
 and in return, No More Heroes is something a proper game should have, something that drawn gamers 
 into gaming in the first place: Enjoyment and fun.
  People are going to argue against this with their Metal Gear Solid and Halo's, but No More Heroes 
 is not realistic in any retrospect. Nothing is blown out of proportion. I honestly have not enjoyed 
 a game as much as I enjoyed No More Heroes in my entire life. I've gone back and played all of 
 the first games: Donkey Kong, Pacman, all of the first games and they are all simple and fun. No 
 More Heroes has revived the term fun in videogames, and it has done it in a massive way. 
  
  And it suddenly occurs to me why it was nominated for Game of the Year. It was because Gamespot 
 saw it the same way. No More Heroes is undeniably a step forward for design of a game, a step backwards 
 for technology, but another step forward to bringing the fun back into videogames.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesis604
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 3:31 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is unique, addicting and of course just plain fun. Its bloody, pure epic and one 
 of the games that got me in love with the most unique bosses in my gaming history.
  
  The controls are impressive, there are techniques that needs you to wiggle your analog stick or 
 shake you're Wii remote wildly. you don't just bash the A button, you have to dark step and all 
 those funky moves.
  
  Story line is pretty good. It can get pretty confusing at times but hey, it IS No More Heroes. 
 It is very humorous, its going to leave you on the floor laughing.
  
  The best thing about this game is: The uniqueness of every boss. You got cosplayers, Singing cowboys, 
 a Singaporean with a German accent who wields an earthquake generator from the military etc.
  
  Definitely a must buy for the Wii. Bar-none. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrubeingcool13
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 1:51 pm PT
Review:  The world of No More Heroes is filled with over the top violence. The main character, Travis Touchdown, 
 becomes an assassin, to prove that he has what it takes to be number 1 (and hook-up with a girl 
 he met at the bar) . 
  
  The controls are some of the best on the Wii. Travis fights with a beam katana, similar to a lightsaber, 
 but instead of shaking the Wii-mote to attack, it's mapped to the A button. To finish an opponent 
 off, the Wii-mote must be shaken in the direction that appears onscreen. When opponents die, they 
 leave a flurry of blood, and usually will cry out a random phrase.
  
  Mini-games help Travis earn money to buy his way into the next assassination, and new ones are 
 unlocked after each assassination is completed. The mini-games do become stale towards the end 
 of the game. Most require Travis to find something, and use the Wii-mote's waggle component to 
 collect said item.
  
  The graphics are decent, but could be a lot better. It seems as though the graphics are stylized 
 rather than heavily based on realism. The map in the corner, and the icons which appear on the 
 map, are pixelated and reminiscent of older games, but still looks good with the game in general.
 
  
  No More Heroes is the first good M rated game for the Wii and is a must play, if not a must buy 
 for the unique experience it offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenNinjaN
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2009 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Right from the get go this game is fun. Slicing and dicing with a "non-lightsaber" is exhilirating 
 and rarely old. Even if you simply have to press A repeatedly. The art style and characterization 
 is really what this game is all about, the harsh shadows and bright colors are a welcome change 
 to the realism that most games strive to achieve, instead of worrying about how well they replicated 
 the real world they went for an artistic interpretaion. 
  The bosses are really what the game focuses on since your basically raising money inbetween boss 
 fights to reach the entry fee for the next boss fight. There are assassin missions in-between but 
 they don't vary very much as far as objectives, its either : Kill until you recive a hit, or kill 
 everyone within a time limit. And you'll quickly figure out which ones you can do the best for 
 the most money. This is probably the thing I dislike the most about the game as well as is the 
 "free-roaming" in the city which is pretty limited. From finding lost red balls to get new moves, 
 to dumpster diving for T-shirts its really not very inspired or hard to find everything.
  This is a pretty decent game, the controlls are nice and tight and the art style is fantastic, 
 the city and the side missions are pretty shallow but the bossfights more then make up for the 
 some-what shallow gameplay. The biggest complaint I have is that it's way too short. I beat the 
 game in about 15 hours and found all of the t-shirts and red "Lovkov" balls before fighting assassin 
 # 1. Truthfully I would have prefered a longer game, at least 20 assassins instead of 11 would 
 do the trick. And a deeper world to explore wouldn't hurt either. Pick this one up if your looking 
 for a bloody, brutal sword slinging game for the Wii. But don't expect to much bang for your buck.
 
  
  Final Rating : 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WildCarddeDeus
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 1:09 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is one of the best action games out for the Wii, as well as being one of the best 
 jobs of clever writing and voice acting I've ever seen in video games. 
  Travis Touchdown, the main character, is one of the most interesting lead characters I've seen 
 in a long time. While being the lead in the game, he takes the classic role of anti-hero to Punisher 
 like heights in his actions. Even with that being the case, you still never see Travis as a cold 
 blooded assassin and see him either as funny with slapstick antics, a deep thinker with his thoughts 
 on life or even a compassionate and respectable soul in regards to the lives of some of the other 
 characters. 
  Along with Travis, the other characters all have their own distinct style and personality to them, 
 even when you only get a couple words out of them the entire game. They all are memorable in their 
 own right so it still interplay works fairly well even with only dealing with an opponent for a 
 total of only 10 minutes through the use of very distinct fighting styles and cinematic scenes.
 
  The action in the game is top notch, though I feel there could have been more put into it. The 
 bosses and stages are all very enjoyable, but I only wish their could be more action in a cityscape 
 the scale of Santa Destroy. The jobs, shops and mini-missions are all well and good, but there 
 could of clearly been more places to visit and more interactivity placed within the city.
  The game play is very smooth once you get the hang of it. At first it was finicky accidentally 
 switching between high and low stances by accident, but maybe an hour in the issues already goes 
 away with a little practice. The moves are straightforward but with the random execution of the 
 wrestling moves mixed with more techniques constantly being unlocked or bought as you progress 
 helps you get the sense that Travis is growing as a fighter as you are growing in your ability 
 to make people scream out "MY SPLEEN!" (great line from some subway enemies) .
  The length is solid, as unlocking clothing, doing side missions, getting gold medals for all the 
 missions, killing all the bosses etc. should get you 15hrs~ of game play. It's a great game overall 
 and anyone wanting QUALITY 3rd party game for the Wii should look right here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negemite
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Grasshopper Manufacture and Maverlous Interactive has teamed up to make one of the wildest games 
 on the Nintendo Wii, with the help from Ubisoft. Goichi Suda, who also developed Killer 7 for the 
 Nintendo Gamecube and Playstation 2 brought elements into No More Heroes, Is this game worthy of 
 begin the next Grand Theft Auto? Let's look into some detail about this game.
  
  The story follows Travis Touchdown, who is a stereotypical Otaku has won a beam katana from a internet 
 auction, he was broke after he got the beam katana, then he meets Sylvia Christel who wants Travis 
 to become a assassin, so Travis accepts to become a assassin and his first assignment is to kill 
 Helter Skelter to earn him Rank 11. After defeating Helter Skelter, he was moved to Rank 11 from 
 the United Assassins Association, a governing body of assassins. Realizing that he has the opportunity 
 to make it to the top, he sets out to secure himself the coveted position of number one hitman 
 in the UAA. So he goes out to kill Rank 10 in the UAA and defeating everyone in his way. After 
 defeating Rank 10, Sylvia reveals that if Travis stops killing, he'll eventually be targeted by 
 other aspiring assassins. Travis, now convinced there's no way out. So Travis' quest to become 
 number one is a long way to sucess.
  
  No More Heroes is kidda like Grand Theft Auto, but unlike Grand Theft Auto it's twice as bloodly 
 and it has several referneces to pop culture. While in battle mode, you lock on with the Z button 
 on your nunchuck and tap the A button the fastest as you can and then move the Wii Remote in certain 
 directions to do stylish hits. You can also use professional westeling moves that you can learn 
 thoughout the game by looking for masks before the boss fight and buy videotapes from a store. 
 You can also charge your katana and your westleing moves by holding the button and unleash it. 
 By killing people, you can get money from them while they spill blood. Killing people only applies 
 in story modes, side missions, and free side missions. Travis also has a dark side mode where you 
 must get three icons line up on the slot machine.
  
  You can go around Santa Destory with your motorcycle and cruising along the road, if you bump into 
 a building or a car, your automaticly get hurt, but your life bar doesn't lower down. If you accently 
 jump into a body of water, your automatically go back to No More Heroes Motel. Also while your 
 at Santa Destory you can do some odd job like mowing lawns and such. New odd jobs come everytime 
 you kill a assissain. Unlike Grand Theft Auto, you cannot steal cars, kill people, and getting 
 chased by the police which it kills the experience.
  
  Grasshopper Manufacture didn't do a great job for the graphics in this game, other than the characters, 
 the environment looks plain and lifeless. Due to terrible pop-up, you can crash oftern on your 
 motorcycle. When you come in contract with citizens, people just float away for no apparent reason 
 and the cars just look terrible. Some 8-bit elements looked nice for it's style. The characters 
 looked great overall and it shadows looked nice, which it's probably the reason this game has terrible 
 pop-up.
  
  Unlike Grand Theft Auto's music, the music is generic. There are no radio stations, but it loops 
 some blueglass music over and over again and it has the same music when you first played the game 
 at a mansion. There's probably less than fifthty songs in this game.
  
  The sound effects are quite cool, it has some Star Wars sound effects and some new sound effects, 
 which it might be recycled from Killer 7. Overall some sound effects are quite realistic, but like 
 Killer 7 this game doesn't aim for realism. The voice acting is amazing, they hired voice actors 
 who also did for anime characters in anime and it fits very well, Ubisoft has outdone themselves 
 with their voice acting, this is Ubisoft's best voice acting since Red Steel.
  
  The controls is quite easy to use, but sometimes the aiming for stylish moves is not always responsive, 
 this game makes a good use of the Wii Remote by wagging it and such. Fans of Wii games should be 
 amazed by this.
  
  It's a bit on the easy side, but it's quite hard later in the game. With over twenty hours of gameplay, 
 this game might be a good choice to buy if you have a Wii, but beware No More Heroes is not for 
 everyone, because of anime references that casuals won't understand and it has old school style 
 stuff that they have forgotten for the past twenty years. So No More Heroes is only recommened 
 for the Hardcore Gamers in the neighborhood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travisstaggs
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I freakin' love games like this and by that I mean its care free attitude, its in your freakin 
 face action, voice acting is superb, so much stuff to do and so little time, man Ubisoft should 
 make more games like this, I'd love to see a sequel. Anyways onto the review.
  
  Graphics 10/10: Freaking fantastic, cell shaded comic book style graphics its graphic style is 
 rare now a days.
  
  Gameplay 10/10: Easy to learn without tutorial, once you get the hang of it you'll remember it 
 forever.
  
  Sound 10/10: Superb voice acting and music, this game practically has unique charm just flowing 
 from it.
  
  Replay Value 10/10: You'll love this game forever.
  
  Overall 10/10
  
  REVIEW:
  This game should of got game of the year in my opinion but whatever, this game will 
 suck you in and leave you with wanting a sequel or something, just pick this game up already.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UVERproject
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2009 1:26 pm PT
Review:  WOOO! is this game fire. Right from the start it gets you hooked. That is probably due to one of 
 the game's main philosophy's "Gamers today are impatient" or something along the lines of that. 
 The game follows the story of Travis "Rocket" Touchdown and his quest to kill the 10 top ranked 
 assassins above him. Now I won't spoil the story but it is one of the best I played this year. 
 Getting to meet the unique and different characters was surely a treat and you saw the growth of 
 Travis as he progresses through the game. I know this game kind of ruined star wars fan boys in 
 their vision of a lightsaber but get over it. They are very original and should step away from 
 the look of the star wars kind. The control scheme is ingenious in fact. They do pretty much nothing 
 to mess you up or the game. Simple button pressing to attack and swinging the Wiimote to complete 
 finishers. Oh man are those finishers gore and blood. The level of the blood is outrageous. Simple 
 kills are over the top insane with blood just filling the screen and i'm not a fan off that. So 
 the only bad is that you have to grind on missions to gain access to those ranking matches by doing 
 lame missions and jobs. It's also a free roam map so it's a pain getting to place to place over 
 all this is a good game and highly underrated because people haven't given it a shot due to the 
 fact that it's different worth 30 bucks since a price drop within the first few months. I got it 
 used for 13. So out buy it good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2009 12:41 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed No More Heroes. The blood, attitude, weapons, art style and control scheme were 
 on completely on point. I have never played a game like it before and I will probably be playing 
 Killer 7 pretty soon, but a few things (major things) really kept NMH from shining really brightly. 
 
  
  First off, open world games can only be so good, and NMH really had the most boring open world 
 experience ever. You get to drive around a faceless town and interact with no people. You cannot 
 die in the open world and wrecking your car has no penalty at all. The open world allows you to 
 do two things... collect balls and get from point A to point B... that's it. I would've liked to 
 see more interaction with the environment in the open world segments and less load screens. Everytime 
 you leave the open world... even if it's only to obtain a mission you have a lengthy load screen. 
 If you are obtaining a mission you get a redundantly scripted passage from a character you have 
 seen dozens of times and you immediately get another load screen. Had they simply thrown the mission 
 choices on top of the open world, that would have eliminated load times and given the game a much 
 faster pace.
  
  The side quests in NMH are pretty redundant and the free play missions are all the same (kill until 
 you get hit) . Those suck really badly. Also, to sign up for a mission you must first drive to the 
 mission hub, go through 2 load screens then drive to the mission and get another load screen before 
 finally getting some combat action. If you die during the mission you have to repeat those steps 
 over again. After dying once or twice you learn what mission you can do and which ones to avoid. 
 Needless to say the open world and mission structure really killed the non-boss battle parts of 
 the game. 
  
  While the art style is clever and fun, the graphics are ugly... even for a Wii game. They really 
 look like something from the middle of last generation's systems. More work seemed to go into the 
 blood splattering, than did into the polish of the graphical engine. 
  
  Again, I really liked NMH. The battle structure and the controls even the really silly characters 
 and plotlines had me glued to the game. I really think that, had they put more time into the open 
 world idea and removed all of the artificial game lengthening devices (load screens) NMH could 
 have been a top shelf holiday release that could stand up to Nintendo first party titles in sales. 
 As it stands, NMH is a great idea that was well executed in most aspects but fell short is many 
 as well. I am stoked for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evrdayblues
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 3:12 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is an eccentric and self-indulgent beat'em up style game that puts you in the shoes 
 of an up and coming bounty hunter named Travis Touchdown. As it happens, an attractive (and possibly 
 Slavic) woman that you've just met in a bar has challenged you to become the number one assassin 
 in all of Santa Destroy, the city in which the game is set. You must kill all ten of the city's 
 top bounty hunters to become the best. The premise is simple, but it motivates the action, and 
 by all means you get the game for the action!
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The meat of the game is in its boss fights. These battles are as challenging as they are entertaining. 
 Novice gamers beware, the game is far from easy, don't be afraid to use a game guide and don't 
 be too lazy to persevere. Now, in order to gain the right to fight these extravagant champions, 
 you must pay an astronomical fee, each and every time, the next being always more costly than the 
 last. Luckily, it is easy to earn lots of cash. You can either take on menial jobs that play like 
 mini-games, such as picking up garbage or mowing the lawn, or you can do small assassination missions 
 that are wild and wicked fun. Registering for these jobs and mini-missions is as easy as driving 
 to a certain destination and selecting a job. The overworld is not much to look at, but it serves 
 its purpose and that's just fine with me. Apart from paying for the boss battles, money can be 
 used to upgrade your infamous Beam Katana or purchase more eccentric attire.
  
  Combat:
  
  Since combat is basically the bread and butter of the game, I am dedicating a whole paragraph 
 to it. Tilting the nunchuk's analog stick all the way or just slightly causes Travis to run or 
 walk, respectfully. The "A" button is your standard mash button, without it Travis will not be 
 able to swing his trusty Beam Katana. The "B" trigger/button is used to perform melee attacks that 
 can stun the enemy and thus render them vulnerable to Travis' dangerous arsenal of wrestling moves. 
 Once your foe is stunned (he will have a halo of stars above his head) you may approach him and 
 hit the "B" button. The game will then prompt you to thrust the remote and nunchuk in specific 
 directions to perform the wrestling move. For example, to the left of the screen an arrow will 
 point up while to the right of the screen another arrow will point down; in this case you will 
 need to swing your nunchuk upwards and your remote downwards simultaneously to perform the throw. 
 Wrestling moves are fun to perform, but they're even funnier to watch! There are also Beam Katana 
 finishing blows. Once an enemy's health is low enough, an arrow will appear on screen to let you 
 know in which direction you should swing your remote. Completing that motion causes Travis to swing 
 his Katana similarly, tearing your enemies up into a sea of blood and coins! The combat in No More 
 Heroes is visceral, extremely bloody and over the top, and equally satisfying.
  
  Presentation:
  
  The menus and heads up display are presented in old school eight bit art. 
 There is even one particular sound track that is in eight bit, and it sounds awesome. The rest 
 of the soundtrack is super catchy and swell, and really gets you pumped for the boss battles. The 
 main graphic art style really can't be described very easily. It has a bit of a "comic book" look 
 to it, but it's really more than that. The character models are cel-shaded, but they don't look 
 a thing like your typical JRPG models. To be brief, the art style is unique and very Suda-51. The 
 game does a very good job of not taking itself too seriously; the dialogue is fresh, witty and 
 amusing. The voice acting is also quite good.
  
  Tech:
  
  This is where the game looses points. There are many jagged edges to be found, and some terrible 
 textures as well. The frame rate is all over the place, but it never gets unplayable. The collision 
 physics are laughable, and there is much pop-up to be seen as you drive around Santa Destroy. I 
 understand that the game didn't have much of a budget; however certain standards must be maintained 
 after all. For a 2008 release, the tech is embarrassing.
  
  Bottom line:
  
  No More Heroes is a breath of fresh air in a world where video games are taken too seriously by 
 developers and consumers both. Here is a game for gamers; challenging, fun, and off the wall. There 
 are many rough edges, but none of them prevent the game from being truly enjoyable, top to bottom. 
 Such audacity and taste must be encouraged, and congratulated. Suda-51 created a new IP that proves 
 there are still creative game makers out there with plenty of guts. If you're a fan of action games, 
 and you're not afraid of absurd, over the top plots, then you owe it to yourself to check out this 
 button mashing, 'mote swinging bloodbath!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: locopr13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is and action game with great style on the graphics but this game the problem is that 
 the game is short but in a way this game make you feel excited about the blood and violence this 
 game have a good story with funny parts. Travis Touchdown is one of my favorites characters of 
 all times because this character make you feel like a killer that is the purpose of the game and 
 this game make it the challenge to get number one and in the final all of this is a conspiracy 
 of the girl to pay her and then she goes and her boyfriend tries to kill you is and epic final 
 for the game because the girl disappear and the game final came to understand that the both kill 
 themselves at the same time. This is one of the greatest games of the wii and makes you feel that 
 you wanna be the the first killer of the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyauau
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  As cel-shading goes, it doesn't get more cel-shaded and mature as No More Heroes. Its worth knowing 
 how crazy this game is compare to other which focuses on being serious than being funny. Even though 
 The Legend of Zelda The Windwaker makes the best use of cel-shading, this is the top of the list 
 for people who likes not just cel-shading but also the crazy action, sound and has enough value 
 to make it the best game of 2008.
  
  At first I though it was made by Ubisoft but it was made by Grasshopper Manufacture so sorry for 
 that mishap. Even though you think that having a katana is swinging your sword, really the swinging 
 is used in the end of each kill that you make. Use A for swords, B for throwing, Wii remote raised 
 up for high attacks and lowered for low attacks. Lucky the action is varies enough that there is 
 little in the way of repetition. Not to mention the poker for very special attacks. If you're not 
 fighting, you can go out and drive around but this is hardly a GTA thing. For a start, you can't 
 kill people but you can do jobs which is the only thing keeping you busy. You also can drive a 
 motorcycle designed for you.
  
  The cel-shading for a mature game like this is at the top of its game. With a very sharp cartoon 
 detail that you won't have any trouble being awe inspired by the game. Even though their is often 
 frame rate issues when there's lots of opponents. To make up for it, you get an 8-bit design for 
 menu's, maps and HUD display which makes it more unique than having a cartoony menu. Anyway, the 
 sharpness of the game looks so good, if you played it on 480p, the colours is strong and it gives 
 it dinstinction to Killer7.
  
  The sound is at its greatest. The voices fits right into the role and the music is originally unique 
 in its quality which makes it stand apart from all the other games. The sound design is done well 
 to fit in with the game like the sounds of casino in a cartoon or a game of pinball but with sword 
 slicing and sword blocking. Also if you own a surround sound system, you should enjoy Dolby Pro 
 Logic 2 support. All you have to do is go on the Wii sound setup and choose "surround" to get Dolby 
 to work.
  
  The value is worthy because it's a single player game. The 10 boss fights is more than enough to 
 last you through the week. It would've been better had there been an online battle which would 
 help extend the longevity of the game but having those wacky jobs does make up for the loss of 
 things to do instead of sword slashing all the time.
  
  As far as mature game goes its nothing but if you like Killer7, you're going to like this game. 
 Even though frame-rates and side-missions is a minor thing, the rest of the package with its stunning 
 cel-shaded graphics will entice you to play some more. Along with Okami and The Windwaker, this 
 game should be on the top of your list. Don't think of drawing your own cartoons like Elaine on 
 Seinfeld in "The Cartoon". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goozeynintendo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok first im gonna just say go out and BUY this game. Its a great third party game for the wii and 
 at $20 at gamestop thats a pretty sweet deal for this great package. What makes this game so great 
 is the innovative wii motions, and simple controls, plus you wont really find an M rated title 
 on the wii that is so great! The combat is simple. The A button is used to slash your sword, then 
 a thrust of the controler in the showed direction on the screen is for finnishing moves. Also you 
 can kick with B to break your opponents blocking tecnique. The combat grows on you and you will 
 be itching for more. but the best part of this game is the boss fights. Each is a new experience 
 which isnt too hard and not too easy. There are 10 boss fights in the game in all. Another great 
 part of the game is the city, which you move through with Travis'es (The Main character) Motorcycle 
 which has a great control scheme. The graphics are very unique, in there cel-shaded goodness! The 
 only real downside in my oppinion is the side jobs you have to do to get money to move on to the 
 next ranked match. You must complete them to pay to the association (The comity setting up your 
 ranked matches) in order to procede. The ones that are really fun dont get you that much cash, 
 and they are just getting in your way of spoiling the fun from the matches. But all in all this 
 is a great game, if you dont mind alot of blood this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoxOfPocky
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  First off, let's just say this game is truly a love or hate it game. In my case, I love it. I can 
 outright say it's one of the best games for the Wii at the moment. Let's keep it simple with a 
 list of good and bad.
  
  Good
  -The characters are crazy and interesting. You, of course, plays Travis Touchdown, who is a wrestling/martial 
 arts/anime fanatic. As if that's not enough, you wield a lightsaber that you won from an online 
 auction to go kill people. As you progress, you encounter some of the weirdest characters you can 
 find in a videogame, not saying that's a bad thing either.
  -The controls in the game makes great use of the Wii remote and its motion sensor. It ranges from 
 pressing buttons to attack, shaking your controller to recharge your weapon's battery, moving your 
 Wii remote to perform wrestling moves on bad guys, and much more.
  -At first the story seems awkward. Right off the bat you're already start by going on your first 
 mission to kill to get your first rank as an assassin without much background on why you're doing 
 aside from being strap for cash. As the game progresses, you gradually know the background of your 
 character and see depth in the story.
  -The humor in this game is indeed adult oriented. Nevertheless, they do give a good laugh.
  -The 
 voice acting is very good, and I, for one, like the music in the game.
  -The boss battles are quite interesting. No two bosses are alike, and they each bring a little 
 something different to the table. Each having their own interesting personalities and background.
 
  
  Bad
  -Alright, here's the deal. The graphics aren't exactly next-gen material, but I'm also not saying 
 it's bad either. In any case, flashy graphics don't make a game, gameplay and story does. However, 
 some people just ignore the game just because it's not to the quality they desired.
  -Free roam... well... in between rank battles you get to cruise around the city of Santa Destroy 
 to do various jobs, assassination requests, upgrades, and etc. Despite that, however, the world 
 of Santa Destroy does feel a bit lifeless.
  -The game is quite linear and bland in the sense that you pretty much fight the same minions (they 
 have the same voice) before every boss. What differentiate them is just their outfits and location 
 (where your mission currently is) . Secondly, the levels in which you fight is pretty much a one 
 way path. You kill some enemies, door open, you move on. Yeah, it gets tedious, but what drives 
 the game is not the minions, but the main characters and bosses.
  
  With all that being said. This game is great. You just need to bypass all that narrow idea that 
 a good game has to look the part. With it's interesting characters, story, great use of the Wii 
 controller, and wacky humor, No More Heroes is easily one of the best game available for the Wii. 
 The game only cost $20 which is a bargain in my opinion for such an addicting game. I highly recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Appearances can be misleading. Although we've played enough of No More Heroes to know exactly what 
 kind of a game it is, you'd be surprised how many people still have the wrong idea about it. It's 
 not Grand Theft Auto, regardless of the game's supposed sandbox style. It's not Red Steel, because 
 you don't really use the Wii Remote to wield your beam katana. It's not even killer7, despite the 
 relatively similar art style or the fact that it was made by the same developer.
  
  In truth, No More Heroes is very straightforward: a simple sword-fighting slash 'em up with a charismatic 
 anti-hero, tons of enemies and some brutal boss fights. Think PS2 classic Devil May Cry but with 
 extra bits thrown in. This may disappoint some people, particularly those with short attention 
 spans who get bored quickly because there's a lot of running through corridors, killing anything 
 that gets in your way. 
  
  
  Advertisement: Thankfully, the rest of us can relax knowing that No More Heroes is all the better 
 for the lack of complexity, especially since it compensates by having thick veins of style and 
 humour running through it.
  
  If you aren't familiar with No More Heroes though, a quick summary first. You take the role of 
 Travis Touchdown, a smart-mouthed jerk who reckons he's got what it takes to become the best assassin 
 in the whole of Santa Destroy. Cue your initiation into the UAA, a top-secret organisation of assassins 
 that offers you the chance to rise up through the ranks, defeat the ten best killers in Santa Destroy 
 and become the best. Oh, and maybe get the girl too... or maybe not. After all, you're only a "dopey 
 otaku assassin" as far as Sylvia, the UAA's uber-cute lady leader, is concerned.
  
  How you go about reaching the dizzy heights of mass-murder stardom is the real meat and potatoes 
 of the game, although, as we've already said, you should prepare for it not being as free-range 
 as you might expect. Yes, so after facing off against the tenth ranked Death Metal (a battle that 
 acts as an introduction to the game's combat system, complete with opening tutorial) , you've got 
 the freedom to cruise around Santa Destroy at your leisure on Travis' rocket-powered motorbike, 
 Schpeltiger. But even so, there's virtually nothing to do on the streets - the free-roaming sections 
 are only really there as a means of getting you from A to B, making them little more than an interactive 
 menu. 
  
  Is that a bad thing? No, not really, because that's not what the game's about, although the fact 
 that the city's streets are almost completely devoid of traffic or pedestrians most of the time 
 (and feature some atrocious scenery pop-up in places) is the game's only true disappointment.
 
  
  
  
  Half And Half
  There's scope to spend your hard-earned blood money on a variety of frivolities, including new 
 clothes, videos that teach you new wrestling moves, physical training to increase your strength 
 or even accessories for your Beam Katana. However, the game mostly revolves around three locations 
 (the Job Centre, K-Entertainment and Travis' apartment) essentially splitting the game into two 
 halves.
  
  One (admittedly larger) half sees you slaughtering enemies all over the place, using a combination 
 of A Button mashing, carefully timed D-pad dodges and motion-sensitive movements to slice and dice 
 them. Having played both the uncensored and censored versions of the game, it isn't actually worse 
 off for having the blood removed from the PAL version; in fact, we actually think it adds to the 
 game's style. 
  
  As for relying on button presses over Remote swinging for its action, that works best too - the 
 'finishing' swipes required feel much more satisfying as a result, while the double-motion movements 
 for grapple attacks almost feel as nasty as they look.
  
  HalBlueberry Cheese Brownie!
  The other half, however, also sums up the overall style and all-round humour of the game, because 
 it's as unique as it is bizarre. How many other games see you pumping gas, cutting grass, eradicating 
 scorpions and catching lost kittens in order to earn cash? None that we can think of, which works 
 all the more in No More Heroes' favour. It's true that such side-quests are mere distractions leading 
 up to the next big fight but they also offer plenty of diversity against the core gameplay. How 
 long you spend doing them is only really measured by how much cash you actually want to earn.
 
  
  
  
  But to avoid such things would be to miss the entire point of No More Heroes. Where you expect 
 a traditional storyline, this delivers one that, to be frank, plays out like a badly-translated 
 samurai movie with all the intentional hilarity and lack of sense you'd expect. Instead of traditional 
 enemies, you've got leather-coated gimps, men with paper bags on their heads and bat-carrying baseball 
 players. And instead of a truly decent hero, you've got a complete jerk. Throw in a decidedly adult 
 sense of humour (blood or not, this one's not for the kids) and more than a few nods to retro style 
 and you've got a game that feels incredibly familiar, but is also completely unique at the same 
 time. It's a brave move - we just hope it pays off in the long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acetrouble
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  Walking in the footsteps of its semi-predecessor Killer 7, No More Heroes is all about style, gore 
 and crude humor. The plot is weird, but intriguing and violence is endorsed to a Tarantino-like 
 extent.
  
  The Wii controls are solid and work accurately for the most part, but swinging your light beam 
 Katana for hours might just get to the point of feeling exhausted.
  
  While the characters are beautifully modelled from an artistic point of view, the town of Santa 
 Destroy certainly isn't. You'll witness odd environment textures  la first gen PS2 games and some 
 graphic bugs. What you will also endure is a high amount of travelling back and forth to get to 
 the different missions and job offers located on the map - thank God Travis' bike is quite fast-paced.
 
  
  The filthy jobs you have to do in order to pay the admission fees for the boss fights can get a 
 bit tedious - but hey, who ever said working as a gasman or collecting coconuts was fun? 
  When you've entered the main missions and slashed your way through dozens of alike-looking foes, 
 the reward is even bigger when you finally meet face-to-face with your opponent. Cause that's where 
 NMH really shines. 
  Besides there's still the inducement that after eliminating all assassins your stunning looking 
 female boss Sylvia Christel might engage in sexual activities with you.
  
  Cinematically charged and full of cynical dialogues, the boss encounters are amongst the greatest 
 of any game I've ever played. Just as twisted and extraordinary as main character Travis himself, 
 your rivals are always up for sick jokes and over-the-top showmanship.
  
  As you progress with being successful as an assassin you'll earn some cash to spend on essential 
 things like Katana upgrades or you can also get useless but super cool accessories like sunglasses, 
 shirts, belts and pants. You sure don't need them, but hey, tomorrow's assassin better have the 
 looks, right?
  
  It's those stylish little ingredients, a sick storyline fueled with self-mockery, an instantly 
 likeable anti-hero protagonist and the rapid combat mechanics that make NMH a game like no other. 
 In fact it's such a refreshing experience that you might overlook most of its flaws.
  
  Graphics: 7.5/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Lifespan: 7.5/10
  
  Overall: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashChamp88
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard about this game i was a little hesitant to purchase it, but due to all the good 
 reviews it seems to be getting i decided that it would be worth a shot... and it was worth it.
 
  
  The game starts with you playing Travis Touchdown, an otaku hitman with a crazy sense of style 
 and a unique lightsaber wannabe katana. The cotrol setup is a little easier than i expected but 
 that doesn't take away from the fun of the game... not in the slightest. The blend of melee sword 
 fighting and good old wrestling moves makes the fighting that little bit more enjoyable.
  
  The story isn't the worst thing to come out of hollywood either, you play as Travis Touchdown as 
 he makes his way through the assassins league to get to the number 1 spot so he can hopefully score 
 with the hot blonde he meets at the start. Sounds like a champion in the making to me. To make 
 him seem like even more of a champ, not only does he charge his beam katana in a crude manner, 
 but the man saves his game while taking a dump! If that's not epic then i don't know what is.
 
  
  I haven't finished the game, hell, i'm far from it, but i recommend this game for anybody that 
 wishes to expand their Wii collection with a mature game that sets the mold for many more to come... 
 hopefully. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terkio
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is the best action game for the Wii I have played so far... in fact I almost got 
 my Wii just for it. It's really outstanding! I love the whole lone wolf out to become #1 assassin. 
 The story is good and the graphic style just brings more to the uniqueness of the game.
  
  The only bad I would give to this game is that sometimes it does take a while to get from one place 
 to another on your bike, or at least it seems like it because there isn't much going on in the 
 streets. But once you get to your mission, get ready to rock'n'roll and chop people in half! The 
 sword bashing is extremely satisfying even though censored gore stops this game from being a 9.9...
 
  
  Why did you have to take out the blood? Why?
  
  If you're like me and you need to have a gold medal everywhere on every mission, this game will 
 keep you up quite a bit. It's not really that hard but some missions can be slightly tricky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10
  The gameplay in no more heroes is very diffrent from what you're probably used to. The first thing 
 you'll notice is that travis touchdown is not you're average main character he's rude, perverted 
 and somtimes a little stupid but thats just one of the many things that makes NMH such a refreshing 
 experience. Combat is pretty simple, you press the A button to attack and you switch from high 
 and low attacks by hold the wiimote up or down. Depending on what kind of enemy you fight using 
 high or low attacks have there uses. There are also a few different kinds of gameplay theres combat, exploration 
 and boss fights (yes the boss fights are different then normal combat) . and all three kinds of 
 gameplay are great but the bosses are by far the high point in NMH's gameplay. The bosses have 
 so much variety and style from you're usual big sword weilding samurai to a portly women with a 
 giant plasma cannon. Combat is also over the top and extremely bloody because no matter who you 
 kill it all ends in a gruesome gory and awesome way. There is one thing that you will notice that 
 may or may not be a problem and that is the somtimes inconsistent framerate, for me it didn't get 
 in the way but i know that most will find it to be a problem.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  The artistic design in the game is amazing and unique. At first you may thingk this is just another 
 shell shaded anime style game, but you would be very wrong since NMH is not shell shaded at all. 
 Instead it has a canvas like texture to the backround and there are some very nice colors (mostly 
 red) that pull it together nicely. On a techical note NMH could be a lot stonger the framerate is 
 one thing but somtimes the techical design of the envirements looks sloppy and there are a few 
 to many jagged edges for those of you who don't have HD cords for you're wii. But the artistic 
 beuty and overall great look of the character models makes NMH one of the better looking wii games.
 
  
  Sound 10/10
  Simple but awesome describes the sound in NMH from the layed back music to the goofy diologue of 
 the enemys (when you kill then they say" OH MY SPLEEN!!") . The voice actors behind the 10 assassins 
 and travis are very well done, they play there parts perfectly and make the characters come alive.
 
  
  Value 10/10
  There is a lot to see and do in NMH and you most likely won't see half of it on you're first play 
 through. There's also a great sence of satisfaction wehn you kill a boss or unlock a powerful beam 
 katana, and that alone makes playing NMH amazing.
  
  The good
  There is no other game like it, sublime artistic design, over the top bloddy combat never gets old, best 
 boss fights i've seen in a video game in a long time, goofy and and mostly outrageous story is mature 
 and compelling.
  
  The bad
  Somtime erratic framerate, make sure you have a strong stomach. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rennik_l
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is Suda51's first foray into the Wii, but does this Light saber fighting adventure 
 hold it's charge, or does it drain?
  
  Story:
  Travis Touchdown is an Otaku, he's got Anime and wrestling merchandise all over his apartment, 
 he's got a cat named Jeane, and he also has a beam katana he ordered off the Internet. It isn't 
 long until Travis decides to take up a job, killing Helter Skelter, also called "The Drifter." 
 Doing so forces him into the eleventh spot on the UAA hired killers ranking list, where the only 
 way to go is up to the top. The story is actually really good, with so many twists that if it had 
 a Metal Gear in it, it would pass as a Metal Gear title. What helps with this story doing so well 
 is not only the great voice work, but also the colorful cast of characters you run into, and the 
 fact the story itself breaks the fourth wall a few times throughout the adventure. The story of 
 this game also can give Wii owners a reason to say it's not a kiddy system, and the story also 
 goes places not many games go.
  
  Design:
  No More Heroes is an open world action adventure title, at least it tries to be, and somewhat does 
 a good job. The game has a world to explore, the problem is aside from hunting down T-shirts, Lovikov 
 balls, and money, everything happens by standing on an icon. The main focus of the game however, 
 is the over-the-top fighting, and this the game does well on. A typical ranking fight is a few 
 rooms loaded with enemies, followed by an extremely clever and challenging boss fight at the end. 
 However it's not that simple, as you have to earn the money to pay for the entry fee for the ranking 
 fights. You start out doing some menial task like finding kittens or cleaning the trash, but these 
 unlock challenges at K-Entertainment, a place you go to get killing jobs for more cash. There are 
 also random challenges on the world map, but these don't vary, and usually you can't do much before 
 failing.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is a mixed bag kind of, the city of Santa Destroy is somewhat interesting the first time 
 you are free to move around it, but aside from a few places, there's nothing to really do. The 
 Shpeltiger, Travis' ridiculously huge motorcycle is fairly clunky to control, though power sliding 
 and jumps help with the otherwise mediocre driving controls. The collision on the streets is also 
 sometimes questionable, as you'll crash into a car that you didn't actually touch, but were too 
 close to, while street lamps fall when you touch them. It's mostly forgiven however, when you get 
 into the killing portions. In an odd move, Grasshopper didn't make all the attacks placed on the 
 Wii-mote, choosing to use a combo. The player holds the Wii-mote up or down for a high or low stance, 
 and uses the A button to attack and the B button to use a hand-to-hand strike. That doesn't mean 
 all controls avoid the motion controls. When an enemy is about to be finished off, an arrow appears 
 on screen, telling you which way to swing the Wii-mote to make Travis kill his opponent by turning 
 them into a fountain of blood and coins. Even though you do it to every enemy in the game, it never 
 gets old. Wrestling moves are done to stunned opponents by pressing B, then two arrows appear that 
 tell you which way to swing the Wii-mote and the nun-chuck. Combat is very satisfying, and even 
 the mundane jobs are varied and use the remote in various ways.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics have their ups and downs. The upside is the cel-shading and animations are well done, 
 the game is super colorful and easy to look at, despite all the red you will see throughout the 
 game from the blood flowing from your foes. It's not all perfect however, as the frame rate is 
 fairly inconsistent, jumping around quite a bit, though it's never a huge problem. The cut-scenes 
 are very well done, with great animations and special effects. The HUD, menu, icons, everything 
 not related to the actual game world is done in a 3d 8bit style, fitting in incredibly well to 
 the visual appeal.
  
  Sound:
  Sound-wise this game is like a party grab bag, mixing new, old, catchy, and great into one package. 
 Sound effects are well done and well utilized, including using the wii-mote speaker for some of 
 the beam katana sounds, some sounds sound like something you would have heard back on the NES, 
 which still works in the context of the oddity that is this game. The music is catchy, and gets 
 the job done well, from fast paced themes for fighting, older retro style for scenes, as well a 
 great bass tune that plays in your apartment. The voice acting is creepy in how well it works, 
 each character, as odd and colorful as they are, kind of become believable because of the voices 
 that bring them to life. A bit of warning though, the script goes weird places, and the F word 
 is used quite a bit, but other than that this game is just very original in it's looks and sounds.
 
  
  Final Words:
  No More Heroes has it's down sides, but it has it's upsides that outweigh the down. The game has 
 some clunky controls but the sheer brilliance of the fighting system is unmatched. The graphics 
 have their frame rate issues, but the actual visuals are unique and make the game fun to look at. 
 Sound has some questionable music, but the effects and voice acting really makes up for it. Overall 
 No More heroes is a game that any Wii owner over 17 (the game is rated M) , shouldn't miss. 
  
  Story: 9
  Design:8
  Gameplay:8.5
  Graphics:8.5
  Sound: 9
  Overall: 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiiownzzz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  The creators of No More Heroes must have had a blast making the game because this game is awesome! 
 Not only splitting your enemies in half from head to crotch is fun but the overall story is hilarious!!! 
 The whole point of the story is kill all the assassins so you can "do it" with this one chick. 
 The bosses are really funny and all the techniques and maneuvers to kill them are even better. 
 One thing that bugs me is the only vehicle you can drive is your giant bike... which does get infuriating. 
 Besides driving, once you start fighting people you just can't stop killing them. It's the MOST 
 goriest game I've ever played on the Wii. You basically see raining blood! Finally a game that 
 makes the Wii a little less childish. If you're thinking about getting this game just get it, you 
 won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RetroGamer34233
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  No More Heroes is one of those games you watch while playing and just go "What?" It's out of the 
 box. Really. And it's surely not for little kids, so certainly be wary of its "Mature" rating.
 
  
  The storyline and violence are SO over-the-top you can't help but laugh while playing it. More 
 blood flies than a normal human being is capable of holding, and the fact you save your game while 
 sitting on the can is surely something, well, different. With every coin-collecting slaughter I 
 find myself laughing harder and harder. Like I listed up top, this definitely fits the bill of 
 "guilty pleasure."
  
  The developers of NMH must have talked with the developers of Super Mario Galaxy when building 
 this game. I say that because they also took the right approach in utilizing the motion-sensing 
 controls on a limited basis. No human in their right mind would be able to swing the Wii Remote 
 literally thousands upon thousands of times while fighting their way through this game. So fortunately 
 you swing by pressing the "A" button, while motion controls are used primarily for finishing moves, 
 throws and aiming attacks high or low. The control response is pretty spot-on
  
  The graphics are done pretty well in an artistic style. I think this was the best way to go with 
 this game, and you'll probably feel that way too after playing it. A game as out of the box as 
 this had to stray away from contemporary. And the spraying blood immediately reminded me of the 
 dismembered knight in "Monty Python and the Holy Grail." It is that out there!
  
  The biggest negative sell I have is with the between-battle parts that happen around the city. 
 You're apparently the only person in town who owns any means of transportation, and other people 
 on the streets are sparse. You also can't really interact with any random people or places.
  
  Overall though, this is a, well, interesting game. It is fun and a guilty pleasure at that. 
 I'd suggest giving it a try for sure, as it's one of the best releases for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zyre
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 24, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I generally follow the herd, and tend to enjoy games that are almost universally well reviewed.
 
  No More Heroes is definitely my exception, and I admit I may not have played it long enough to 
 give it a fair chance.
  
  The graphics were the first thing that threw me. Although I liked the manner of the graphics, I 
 found them innovative and different, they were so flawed and jagged that I could hardly stand to 
 watch the game, let alone play it.
  
  Despite my disappointment with how it looked, I decided to venture forth. The tutorial showed me 
 that the controls were going to be like nothing I had played before, which was good and I felt 
 a little more upbeat.
  
  Sadly, after playing through the first mission, those controls were already boring and irritating 
 to me. Likewise the game as a hole. Less than 30 minutes played, with the repetitive nature of 
 the combat, the relentless sameness of the graphics, and the all-around easiness, (I am  not an 
 elite gamer, and have a difficult time with most combat games) and I was sleepy and ready for bed 
 at 8:00pm. I ejected the disk, stuck it in it's rental envelope, and felt grateful that I hadn't 
 bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiImBrendan2
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  ===NO MORE HEROES===
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Soundtrack: 5/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Storyline:8/10
  Tilt:7/10
  
  Pros-
  Nice, colorful cel-shaded graphics with unique and 
 interesting designs for all of the main characters and bosses.
  
  Gameplay is bloody and feels good to waggle your path of carnage through all of the game's environments.
 
  
  Boss fights are all unique from eachother, and very entertaining. From all the bosses unique personalities, 
 to their appearance, half the reason you'll want to keep playing the game is to find out exactly 
 who your next hectic boss fight will be against.
  
  Unique story that does a great job of making you sympathetic to Travis's goals, and will provide 
 a reason for you to keep playing.
  
  From collecting Lovikov Balls for special abilities inspired by the Killer 7 characters, to searching 
 through dumpsters for special clothing, No More Heroes offers some fun side quests.
  
  From hearing about what movies Travis hasnt turned in from the lady at Beefhead Videos, to the 
 various Star Wars references, the attempts at humor are usually succesful
  
  Cons-
  
  The combat, which is what this game is focused around, will start to feel shallow and repetitive, 
 and the same exact finishing moves every single time gets old fast.
  
  The soundtrack is totally lackluster.
  
  The city, which looks to be a promising GTA-like hub 
 for your missions to be located, is barren and devoid of things to do. The city feels more like 
 an obstacle that you have to drive through to get to your next boss battle.
  
  The sidejobs, which you'll need to do a lot of to gain money, are shallow and get old fast. The 
 ones that pay the most are fighting missions, which make the combat get repetitive even faster.
 
  
  
  Overall, No More Heroes tells the tale of Travis Touchdown in a game that could have been a masterpiece, 
 but is plagued by a shallow combat system, a GTA like roaming city environment that has nothing 
 to do in it, and boring minigames. The boss fights are outstanding, the graphics are striking, 
 the combat is bloody fun, and the storyline is immersive, but you should wait until this one gets 
 a price drop before purchasing it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wooden16996
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  This game is very innovative and a very good game for the Wii. The colors make it more vibrant 
 and the blood adds the needed gore to a good mature game. The story is a bit confusing but the 
 game play makes up for it 100%. You play as Travis Touchdown who decides to invest in a light saber 
 from the Internet. Strange right. The story is pretty much the only reason this game did not get 
 a 10/10 in my eyes. Game play, visuals, and controls are all the crim Della crim for Wii games. This 
 game is not quite on par with Smash Bros. Brawl or Mario Galaxy but besides that this is by far 
 the best Wii game. This game is a true classic and I hope there will be a sequal to this great 
 start to a great Wii game. Overall I give this game a 9/10!!! Thank You all for reading my review. 
 I look forward to writing many more reviews for Gamespot. LoL:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hansolo14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Well, When I saw the first time No More Heroes i knew that I would give it an opportunity, and 
 I was really surprised about the game (licensed by nintendo)
  
  You are Travis an charismatic assassin that have to reach to the top of the assassins rank, so 
 let's go, simply as that, the reason why you want to be number one is a beautiful lady you want 
 to charm and being number one is the only way to taste her
  
  So since the first time you start with a lot of action, kill a couple of bots and a boss, the boss 
 battles is the best part of the game, you have to kill 10 bosses and every one with it's strong's 
 and weak point, THE BOSSES ARE CRAZY COOL, maybe every one kill's you a pair of time at least, 
 but is fun and very satisfying, to battle them.
  
  
  Also you have to make little mission's that are more like minigame's to get money and pay for the 
 next qualifying round. To go around (boss battle's, mission's, shop's etc) you have to move to 
 one part of the city to another with your huge motorcycle, it can be considered like a crono cross 
 map more than a GTA city cause you cant make almost nothing more than moving around and collecting 
 objects, this could be the worst aspect of the game but doesn't affect gameplay at all, you wont 
 spend a lot of time and you get very fast everywhere.
  
  you can custom Travis as you want, there are a lot of funny part's with an otaku, wrestling, star 
 war's, japanese and porn aspect's (insane no?) , you will really feel immerse in the plot of Super 
 Hero Travis, oh no no, bloddy assassin Travis.. yes that fix better with the prota.
  
  So I really recommend this game to everyone who is looking for a gore game, a good wii game or 
 just to have fun, this is a nintendo wii must have, excellent work!!
  
  Gameplay: 10 really fun
  Graphics: 8 artistic
  length: 8,5 just OK, good replay value
  History: 
 10 worthless, but really FUN and immersive!!!
  
  Different from whatever you have play, give it a chance
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shalafein
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  So the graphics were not the greatest i have seen better for the Wii. The controls for combat were 
 fun then they got boring. Driving the motorcycle was a pain in the rear!
  The side jobs were kinda dumb, i mean picking up coconuts. And by the way this game is just out 
 there. I mean really out there. I thought that this game was sick. Gross sick. If your looking 
 for a bloody game you might like this but its not really worth the money or the time to play this 
 game. So you can drive around on a motorcycle "free roam" the my eye and you go to mission to mission 
 to mission then a job then another mission then you might have enough money to kill the person. 
 There is not much going on around the city besides the random car, or the person that happens to 
 be in the way. The Voice acting was good, the music was kinda catchy. But it was a very, Very weird 
 game. If you like stuff thats out there and just like slashing stuff. You'll probably like it but 
 if you ify about rent it first. If you want a good Wii game go for Resident Evil 4 Wii Edition 
 or Super Smash Bros. Brawl or better yet grab Mario kart Wii But i do not recommend this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pikminmaniac
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I was all gun-hoe on loving this game from the great feedback it has recieved, but I am sorely 
 dissapointed. This game may have style, but the overall excperience is so incredibly flawed that 
 it comes off as a jagged mess. The overworld is completely useless. All it is is creating boring 
 space in between your destinations. The controls of the bike on the way to said destination are 
 terrible. It reacts a little late and if you hit something you go flying off and it just pisses 
 you off. The job missions are pathetic and feel like a real chore. The assassination missions are 
 fun as the combat is entertainging, but it is unbelievably repetative. The ranked missions started 
 off quite well, but after you beat Destroy man (I think he's mission number 3 or 4) the ranked 
 missions get shorter and less entertaining. The game just Peters out the closer you get to the 
 end. When you get to the final mission you'll tell yourself, "this is probably the worst level 
 I have ever played in any game!" It just drove me nuts! The boss battles are decent and are probably 
 the best thing about this game. The story is different and enjoyable and I love the ending (I have 
 seen both possible endings) , but a game is about gameplay and this one falls incredibly short in 
 this category. 
  
  To some it up this game has great potential, but the set up and glaring flaws turn this game into 
 a chore. Lets hope the second one will come through much stronger! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthur_lhl
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  In short, the game is an action, role-playing game.
  
  The tutorial is easy-to-follow, and the game provides adequate guidance to progress through the 
 game.
  
  The controls/gestures were pretty intuitive for the tasks given, but over time, these may be tedious 
 as well.
  
  ---SPOILER ALERT ---
  
  Although the storyline is pretty believable, but it is rather repetitive on the whole. Every stage/level 
 requires you to meet certain requirements to fight the boss. Ultimately, this game is about meeting 
 the requirements to play against the boss of each level in order to progress to the next level. 
 Fortunately, every boss have different ways of attacking/defense; hence, you have to attack in 
 a different way, but still using the same library of moves that you know.
  
  ---SPOILER ENDS ---
  
  I understand that there's a certain aesthetic to the graphics that the 
 game developers want to achieve; however, I believe this could be improved much more.
  
  Overall, this game may not be suitable for a gamer who's not into action because of the "repetitive" 
 missions and fighting gestures, but to those who are into action, I suppose this game wouldn't 
 bore you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inkslasher
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  In this game you play a middle aged man named Travis Touchdown. Travis is a assassin who is ranked 
 number 11 in the world, one night a girl in a bar approaches you and convinces you to become the 
 first ranked assassin. 
  
  As you probably know the wii doesn't have very many "M" rated games and that is why this game is 
 perfect on this system. This game also incorporates the Wii's motion in a great way.
  
  This game also made a few mistakes first of all the graphics aren't top notch but you can't expect 
 that out of the Wii. Also you can't interact with everything in the open world environment.
  
  This game does have some flaws but the are many great this about like having a great storyline 
 and a open world environment. 
  
  This game is a great game that you wont want to miss and the last minute twist will leave you on 
 the edge of your seat.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngb111
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 27, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  PROS: Lots of style. 
  Cons: Story written by 12 year old, pixelated graphics, repetitive combat, pointless boring money 
 making missions, ridiculous premise.
  
  This game is flawed on every single level except style. I bought this game in hopes that I would 
 finally find a reason to use my wii.
  First the premise of the story is that you are moving up the rankings of the world assassin guild 
 and paying hundreds of thousands for the privilege to do so. This story is pointless with dialogue 
 that sounds like it came from a Jr. High creative writing class. But aside from that the game play 
 makes Dynasty Warriors look diverse. You have NO CHOICE in this game how you fight. You just repeatedly 
 hit the A and B buttons to attack. All the finishing moves are predetermined, just hack in the 
 direction shown on the screen, and for the wrestling the wiimote does not respond so well leaving 
 you in a position to be attacked. I eventually gave up ever using the wrestling moves as they are 
 more time consuming and not as effective.
  The side jobs (such as lawn mowing) are uninteresting as well as are the side assassination missions. 
 All of these missions are open to repeat as often as you would like for some reason. It's like 
 a very limited and poorly executed version of GTA. The city is ugly, it has the worlds most poor 
 handling motorcycle, and for so reason there is a half-car-length-barrier around all of the vehicles 
 on the road that frequently impedes your progress. 
  I'm all for having adult themed games, but all the adult themes in this game are the kind that 
 appeal to 13-year-olds and not people in their 30s. Some of the profanity is used is pointless 
 and does nothing to add realism. For example one boss fight pits you against a katana wielding 
 high school girl that rounds around in circles during the whole boss battle yelling "Don't try 
 to f*&k with me". This a pointless use of this word and is using it just for the sake of being 
 able to. It adds nothing. Again, I have no objection to using f&*k in games, as long as it helps 
 the story add realism to the game. This game is predictable on all fronts. It puts you in a tightly 
 determined path in a world that you do not have much freedom to interact with and does it all with 
 seriously repetitive game play and a bad story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBeast789
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 24, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok let me start off saying that the game was great in the beginning and by that i mean the first 
 half hour. you get a cool sword and kill people. I loved it. then you have to go through a terrible 
 city and you have to do side missions to get money, now let me tell you that the side missions 
 are TERRIBLE, even the souless people who say that the game is good complain about the side missions, 
 which are boring and strenuous, the also take up a whopping half of the short game. The levels 
 are extremely repetitive, so are the enemies, THEY ARE JUST THE SAME PEOPLE WITH A NEW WEAPON THAT 
 DOES NO ADITIONAL DAMAGE EACH TIME!!! The game is also VERY glitchy and has terrible graphics, 
 the city is lifeless its just a cheap knock off of GTA and its just a terrible game.
  seriously people listen to this, if you enjoy quality games dont get this
  THE WROST GAME IVE 
 PLAYED IN MY LIFE...................... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdisen2
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  No More Heroes is a flawed game; I'll just get that out of the way. The graphics and gameplay could 
 be a bit more polished, the story could be a bit more fleshed out, and Santa Destroy, the brilliantly 
 named setting of No More Heroes, could be a bit more alive and interesting. That said, the game 
 is simply put, sick and horrible fun. 
  
  After my first decapitation and mutilation, I was hooked. Suda 51 managed to tastefully use the 
 Wii-mote waggle (and by tasteful, I mean jerking it violently in a suggestive manner to recharge 
 your beam sword) allowing for smooth executions and satisfying kills. The boss fights are challenging 
 and unique, if not a bit repetitive, and your effort is often rewarded with classic cut-scenes 
 that will blow your mind, not to mention incentive to push on to the next chapter. Considering 
 its now bargain-bin price of $20, it is pretty easy to recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastiffchild
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  Suda51 eh? Anyone who's been through the tremendous mind bending Killer7 will know exactly how 
 mad/creative this guy can be and though NMH isn't quite as bizarre or, indeed, deep as the PS2 
 classicit's still a great addition to the mans CV.
  
  I came back to NMH afer being initially left cold as I played a few mins at a mates and thought 
 the visuals were too weak but it must just have been his set up 'cos back at home the art style, 
 while pretty simple, is popping out at you and both crisp and individual-I like! Travis is a great 
 semi (rather than anti-) hero/loser who goes through the game with his Ebay won beam katana (upgradable 
 through the lovely, but barmy, Naomi. The more you play the deeper the game gets with a few sides 
 to the plot (which is just convoluted enough for me to keep thongs going) and some great quirks to 
 the fighting system. You don't swing the Wiimote to use your katana, as you might think , but melee 
 and sword attacks are button assigned with motions used mainly for outrageous finishing moves and 
 the wrestling throws you learn from Travis'old tutor. A mad fruit machine spins on every finisher 
 whioch, if you line up three of anything , unleashes even more crazy finishers-it's cute and really 
 works well. In fact the combat grows on you ansd there's far more to it if you want there to be.
 
  There's also twists and turns to keep up the entertainment and with a lack of more adult but immature 
 titles (you save on the loo) this is a must have for Wii owners sick of the party games for casuals 
 and Xmas paries.
  So great characters (loving Sylvia Chrystal who Trav lusts after only to end up gutted by events!) , 
 Suda's magic and great combat in an, admittedly sparse setting in Santa Destroy adds up to a great 
 and unusual Wii experience and one not to be missed out on by core gamers whose Wiis have been 
 getting the dusty treatment. Great game that misses out on perfection cos of a few dull moments 
 spent cruising the blank canvas of Santa Destroy itself. A better realised and interactive city 
 would have m, ade the game nigh on perfect but with the sequel confirmed we may get this fixed very 
 soon-I'll not leave the next one so long!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrancoFerraro
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  its difficult to find a good mature game for wii, but here you have one xD
  
  The game is full of blood and sword samurai upgradeing and moves, this city also is near mexico 
 so you learn some wrestling movess during game,
  the game is pretty cool in the sense of innovation, this kind of games is rare to find is highly 
 addictive and other stuff.
  
  The Good.
  -worth the money
  -for hardcore gamers
  -pretty tough (bloody)
  -cool combat techniques
  -collectibles 
  - Art and video in game
 
  -extras
  
  The bad:
  i didnt got anything bad except that may be traumatic for kids XD!
  
  IGN Opinion:
  
  The 
 combat is priceless.
  
  With that being said, the game also puts style before substance in a few key areas. The overall 
 story, for starters, isn't too deep, as players take the role of Travis Touchdown (a new-to-the-scene 
 killer) who is out to rank amongst the top assassins in the world. To do it, he'll need to work 
 with a tight-knit organization that arranges official fights amongst ranked combatants, and that 
 means raising money, taking on odd jobs, and earning the right to fight.
  
  What ends up happening is that No More Heroes is split into two distinct gameplay types right off 
 the bat. You've got the GTA free-roaming that is used for doing individual missions, exploring 
 the city of Santa Destroy, and hitting up a few shops and training areas, which leads the way for 
 the action-oriented story. If the game was based only on the open world style, it would have been 
 a pretty sizable disappointment as far as we're concerned, as there are constant frame issues, 
 pop-in everywhere, very little NPC activity, and a huge overall lack of polish. You'll hit tons 
 of invisible walls, collide with collision boxes for cars and buildings that are bigger than the 
 art itself, and deal with some sketchy vehicle control as well with Travis's motorcycle. 
  
  What it all boils down to is about 10 or so stores and buildings to go into, a handful of mission 
 points that bring you into new loading zones, and some mini-game jobs which are fun, but hardly 
 necessitate an entire open world. We're not denying the immersion factor you could get from actually 
 roaming around town, but there experience is far more frustrating and incomplete than it should 
 be, and it would have been easier to scale down this aspect of the game, going with a more traditional 
 level select or smaller hub world, even if it meant changing the feel and pacing of the game along 
 the way. As far as open world designs go, No More Heroes has the worst on Wii, and that includes 
 the disappointing Driver 3 city.
  
  
  
  And while the technical aspects of the open world are pretty annoying, there were a few strange 
 design choices made that really make the "out of mission" experience too tedious. While every currently 
 unlocked side quest (playable as many times as you'd like for loads of cash) is open from the start 
 of a loaded game, failing the mission removes it from the map entirely, forcing the player to move 
 from one mission to the next regardless of outcome. You can always reactivate the challenge by 
 going back to a main building on the map that handles all jobs and assassination missions, but 
 when some of the challenges are extremely difficult -- a common mission has you killing a whole 
 group of people, failing if you're hit even once -- a lack of "retry" option is a serious oversight. 
 You can drive for a few minutes to reach a challenge, wait for the load, start the mission, get 
 hit once, and then have to drive for another few minutes just for a shot at that same challenge 
 again. By the end of the game you'll end up making laps around the city hitting whatever missions 
 you can just to maximize your time, rather than trying a specific challenge over and over until 
 you succeed.
  
  All this makes the game unique! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vietboi89
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  ook if u believed this game was actually good for ur kids and bought it then congrats when he hits 
 puberty hes going to kill a good amount of people in attempt to get laid by a sexy lady with a 
 sexy french accent (OOOOO YEEAAA) ay ya so this game is like awesome orgy orgasmness so yea i hear 
 some people say that this game is better than sex and i gotta tell you it is confirmed. Have u 
 tried doing both at the same time? HUUUUUUUUWAAAAAAA!!!!!
  
  OK on a real note No More Heroes is actually a cool game. i personally loved No More Heroes and 
 everything about it, u can probably categorize me to one of those people that would probably kill 
 someone else that said No More Heroes was a good game but had its flaws... seriously dont talk 
 sh*t about No More Heroes I mean do u see me picking on Halo? (i dont really hate Halo actually 
 i havent played after the first one even so Halo was a good game but nevermind that) So yea No 
 More Heroes has me as a fan but in all seriousness No More Heroes has its flaw... i just dont want 
 anyone else rubbing it in my face thats all. ok lets get some basics down 
  Graphics of the game are manga shade like so if u dont dig that they u see the "X" button in the 
 top right cornner, click on it and throw ur hard drive in the microwave for about a good minute 
 maybe? ay ya so yea manga shade is awesome i likey very much and other people likey much too so 
 majority wins and No More Heroes wins the greatness factor WOOOOOOO!!!! eh wat can i say NMH (No 
 More Heroes) looks nice and cool and the characters do not disappoint, they are all pretty cool 
 and nice to look at. Seriously who does not like Letz Shake (BOOYAH BABY!!!) and u get to fight 
 DARTH VADER... sorta well not really but hey dont cry about it he is there kinda but the fight 
 not really (oops was that a spoiler o wellzzz) o ya characters are soooo awesome that is the only 
 word i can get out I "heart" all those people, Hurrah for Holly Summers, Hurrah for BAD GIRL (oooo 
 she so meets my S&Mness mmmph CAN U FEEL IT?!?!?!) , Hurrah for Sylvia (ooooo YEEEA i would totally 
 wreck that chick) , TRAVIS TOUCHDOWN IS MY HERO, WOOHOOOO JAMIE YOU ROCK MY WORLD!!!, Letz Shake 
 is my new best friend, Shinobu is A BLACK SAMURAI NINJA TOTAL VICTORY, so yea u can catch my drift 
 the characters are pretty bizzare and unique and AWESOME.
  
  Sounds: My God this game has some of the best script and voice acting i have ever experienced music 
 is great too i really like it but my god voice acting is top notch and dont expected any sugar 
 coated words coming out from them either u can expect the common swear of modern times to be used 
 as commonly as u do if ur not a pansy (no excuses if u dont swear ur a pansy) thank god they chose 
 to do the original dubbing in english i can onli imagine the horrible translation it gets if it 
 wasnt, actually i really didnt have to if u ever saw like the earliest trailer for this game u 
 can tell how awful the voice acting was thank the lord they did it over, nothing less than great 
 for 51 Suda Thats Right We Want it Awesome!! ok so yea the script i like very much it isnt sugar 
 with words like "i love u" or "u mean everything to me" or "lets be friends" oooo no it goes all 
 out with "YOU DIE NOW F**KHEADS", "HEY, B**CH WHAT THE F**K", and the "I want to have sex with 
 you... NOW!!!!!" ooo yea its pretty amusing if u got a sense of humor that is, if u dont well good 
 luck with life, actually scratch that i hope u suffer horribly. 
  Ah good old NMH
  
  GAMEPLAY!!!!: ok so yea its pretty simple AND I LOVE IT!!! so yea lets try to explain some background 
 info basically ur this average joe kinda guy sorta maybe, weeellll not really i suppose but ull 
 get y in a minute... ok so u got the internet and u decide to surf the web and cool idea pops "lets 
 buy a light saber of ebay" and so u do and awesomeness u won urself a LIGHTSABER and no kids this 
 aint the plastic one with the lights this one is meant to do some heavy duty killing and heavy 
 duty it is. U get ur light saber and first things first, gotta kill NOW!!!, so u start up immediately 
 thrown into action with the blood everywhere and heads rolling with henchman lining up to put a 
 futile resistnance onli to get their heads chopped off. so here is how the fighting goes 
  first type of action is light saber moves, u use the the "a" button to whack the guy with ur light 
 saber and after a few hits u go into something i call a fatality mod and ur given some motion commands 
 with the wii mote and if u comply then BAM!!! off goes the f**kers head and trust me it is satisfying 
 no matter how many times u do it and if never gets boring since there are many position to slice 
 off the head
  2nd type of action is the throwing: ok uh so the guy ur playing as has some pretty wicked wrestling 
 moves that can lay the SmackDown on anyone (im pretty sure im not the first one to say that) so 
 u start off by stunning the guy with a kick to the jewels and hes almost out of it so whoosh u 
 go in grab the b**tard and ur given motion commands depending on position and wat move ur perform 
 and whop, flop and boom the guys on the floor and most likely dead cause kiddies this aint the 
 fake stuff u see on tv it is raw stuff and the guys head is smashed all over the pavement and ding 
 ding ding Travis Touchdown land another kill now on to the next victim
  ahhh so yea each type has its own uses techniquely lightsaber kill onli work on henchmen while 
 throws are extremely effective on bosses but opportunities are rare so u better master them cause 
 the bosses are no cake walks they want Travis out and done with get any opportunity to deal any 
 damage on them but doing it recklessly will onli get u killed. soo yea fighting sounds simple enough 
 but its so darn fun it is uber awesome.
  OOO note there are also some fun minigames to do also like u would never find a game picking up 
 garbage to be as entertaining as this one his.
  
  ah so lets get to the real juice
  THE PLOT or THE WHOLE POINT BEHIND THE GAME:
  ok lets go back to the beginning 
  U the player 
 controls Travis Touchdown u are not Travis u onli control him via wii mote and wii system itself 
 he lets u no since he COMMANDS YOU to pick up the wii mote and start the action (OBEY TRAVIS TOUCHDOWN) 
 so yea u get ur trusty mail order light saber and u go whacking around some goons but for a reason 
 of course, u enjoy killing and u want to be the number 1 assassin so both of them kinda intertwine 
 and ur absolutely number one reason for killing people is TO GET LAID!!! and not by some street 
 hooker on the corner, this luscious sexy little mistress with a very enticing french accent i might 
 add has promised TRAVIS TOUCHDOWN that SHE will perform INTERCOURSE WITH HIM and u get to watch, 
 talk about a kick*ss deal who would say no and all she wants that u see to it that 10 people are 
 dead most of which are incredibly able to rip ur heart out raw and u also have to pay a small amount 
 of a few million dollars but hey u got a job, u get paid for KILLING people so no biggie the pizza 
 shop needs people like you and it doesnt seem much, its not like shes telling u to go into a childrens 
 hospital and collect 10 heads, no way, she just wants u to kill 10 highly dangerous assassins so 
 its fair game dont forget the small fee in the fine print and Travis doesnt really care for much 
 that he is starting a career that takes the lives of others with no remorse cause u no he really 
 wants to bag Sylvia (sexy french chick) and u as the player really want to watch. alright so u begin 
 ur quest and u work ur work thru some small fries to meet some of the most greatest boss battles 
 EVER. u fight 10 different highly deadly people (if u played the game right) and a little bit of 
 the plot and some rewarding cutscenes are presented to you.
  It Never Gets Boring with TRAVIS TOUCHDOWN HOOOO YEAAA!!
  
  No More Heroes gets a 9.0... for 
 being awesome in every degree of awesomeness. yeaaa No More Heroes gets the prize.
  Jamie, Bad Girl, Sylvia Holly Summers you are just too lovely. Travis Touchdown has a special place 
 in my heart. Pure White Lover Bizarre Jelly Anime, what a MASTERPIECE
  
  "Heavenly stars above
  Just believe whats in your heart
  No border between us
  I can always 
 feel you inside..." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DraconigenaDeus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Since GTAIII hit it big everybody has been trying to get a piece of the action, No More Heroes 
 (NMH) is the Wii's attempt at this. I would have to say that Ubisoft succeeded in making a game 
 that fits that mold while separating itself enough to feel completely unique. It is also one of 
 the first games that I actually enjoyed using the Wii's control scheme for and it felt right. Also, 
 it is the first Wii game I've played that actually contained mature themes and was intended for 
 adult GAMERs, and not just casual couch cuties.
  
  "There isn't much normalcy in this game, everything and everyone is unusual."
  
  No More Heroes 
 is unique in many ways, and this is something you'll notice as soon as you turn it on. You play 
 as a twenty something bachelor named Travis Touchdown who is obsessed with professional wrestling 
 and lives in a run down apartment in the imaginary city named Santa Destroy. Travis is a hitman 
 wielding a beam katana (basically a lightsaber) he won in an internet auction.
  
  The story in this game kicks off when Travis accepts a mission to kill a dangerous man known as 
 Helter Skelter. After completing this mission he attains the rank of 11 in the United Assasin's 
 Association (UAA) . And the only way to go up in rank is to kill the people ranked above of you. 
 The rest of this games plot consists of Travis moving up in rank by winning matches against the 
 higher ranking assassin's set up for him by the UAA. The story does get a whole lot more interesting 
 than that though, and weirdermuch much weirder. This sentiment is true of the characters as well 
 and they all have an intriguing past, which makes sense as it has warped them all in to brutal 
 killing machines. There isn't much normalcy in this game, everything and everyone is unusual. This 
 isn't necessarily a bad thing, different can be good. Unfortunately the plot is a bit hard to follow 
 and I found a couple of the twists at the end of the game to just be weird and not that satisfying.
 
  
  "Admittedly this content isn't for everybodyAnd to those people I say, get over yourselves!"
 
  
  When I say the themes in NMH are unusual, this isn't all bad, as I mentioned different can be good. 
 The edgy content in this game provides numerous hilarious moments and a mature feel completely 
 nonexistent in almost every other Wii game. For example, to save your game you have to go back 
 to Travis' apartment and take a crap and it shows him sitting on the can as it asks if you wish 
 to save (don't worry, it doesn't show anything you don't want to see) . And when Travis needs to 
 recharge his beam katana (after it runs out of energy) he violently shakes it up and down in between 
 his legs with a slightly crouched posture as if he's. well you know. ah never mind, it you don't 
 already know, you don't need to know. Is this a little immature? Yes. Is it funny? Every fricken 
 time. Admittedly this content isn't for everybody, as some people will find this humor tasteless 
 and many of the themes too mature and twisted. And to those people I say, get over yourselves! 
 Or grow up (though this one isn't really optional for those or you under age)
  
  "Your motorcycle can jump on commandand riding around on it is cool even if it's extremely unrealistic 
 and frustrating"
  
  Santa Destroy is very similar to the cities of the GTA games and you'll navigate through it using 
 a very similar mini map as well. Aside from mission locations, the city is filled with shops, part 
 time jobs, secrets, extra missions and all the other stuff you'd expect. For some reason the game 
 forces you to pay an expensive entrance fee before taking on each dual, so this makes exploring 
 the city and running some errands a necessity to progressing through the game and buying new stuff. 
 Unfortunately, your bikes brutish controls (more on this in a bit) made exploring the city feel 
 like a chore and the side jobs were few and became repetitive fast. Though they were extremely 
 lucrative; I wish I made thousands of dollars for mundane tasks like mowing a lawn or gathering 
 coconuts.
  
  Travis gets from point A to point B using one of the most badass motorcycles I've ever laid eyes 
 on. It feels like you could actually take on a car with this thing and win, not to say that you 
 would, and not that it matters, as the physics in this game are ridiculously out of whack. You 
 can knock over many objects by simply nudging them, while others are invincible. And your motorcycle 
 handles poorly, which is frustrating because if you run into one of those immovable objects you'll 
 be knocked off your bike. And this forces you to endure watching Travis lay on the ground for what 
 seems like an eternity before he decides to get up and get back on the bike. Your bike can jump 
 on command though and riding around on it is cool even if it's extremely unrealistic and frustrating. 
 If your close to a location you can always ditch the bike and go on foot, which is an ideal option 
 a lot of the time as Travis can book it (be it temporarily as he'll get tired) .
  
  "The controls arevery responsiveThis is goodbecause you'll be using the motion sensitive quicktime 
 events to dismember, decapitate, and dispatch droves of enemies"
  
  The greatest strength in NMH is easily its overly gory and stylish combat though. Combat in NMH 
 is straightforward and easy to pick up yet deep enough remain fun throughout. Most of your actions 
 are controlled using the buttons on the Wii Mote and Nunchuk, however finishing moves and wrestling 
 slams are executed via quick time events using the motion capabilities of Wii controllers. This 
 system strikes a good balance between button pushing and motion sensing. The controls are also 
 very responsive; this is one of the first games I've played on the Wii where the motion sensors 
 worked as they should the majority of the time. This is good too, because you'll be using the motion 
 sensitive quicktime events to dismember, decapitate, and dispatch droves of enemies throughout 
 the game.
  
  The regular enemies in this game are easy for the most part, but the bosses in NMH are challenging. 
 This is the way a game should be balanced as it allows you to have your fun slaughtering the cronies 
 while bringing attention to the incredibly well designed boss fights, which take center stage in 
 this game. These showdowns range from a duel with a gunslinger in the middle of a baseball stadium 
 to running down an old lady with an oversized laser in her shopping cart. Each of these battles 
 plays out almost completely differently and requires you to think from a different mind set each 
 time. Every single boss fight is badass and satisfying to overcome, though it can be frustrating 
 figuring out how to beat them.
  
  "This game has only one speed, FAST"
  
  The Wii's graphical capabilities are definitely inferior to the other next gen systems, but somehow 
 NMH found a way to make this work in their favor. The graphics have a very retro feel to them and 
 in makes the jagged edges of the renders look natural. The menus, health gauge, and other icons 
 could have been pulled off on the regular Nintendo. The cell shaded graphics of this game are extremely 
 colorful and vibrant though and combined with the throwback feel it achieves a style completely 
 unique to this game. It is nostalgic and aesthetic at the same time. These aren't the most detailed 
 graphics on the Wii, but they are some of the best.
  
  The sound in NMH maintains the same style as the graphics, blending classic beats and sounds with 
 some new age ones. The music is almost always up tempo matching the frenetic pace of the gameplay, 
 even in the story sequences. This game only has one speed, FAST, and this is reflected in the music. 
 Since Travis wields a light saber (or beam katana, whatever) the sound affects are obviously quite 
 good, nothing quite matches the humming of a lightsaber as it passes through the air. The voice 
 acting was great and the voices used fit perfectly with whatever character they were representing. 
 This is impressive considering the eclectic mix of characters present in NMH.
  
  "I'd liken No More Heroes to Mario on drugs with a lightsaber. It's a little unusual, but always 
 interesting and extremely fun."
  
  Even if you accomplish almost everything there is to do in the twisted city that is Santa Destroy, 
 this game isn't going to last you very long. I forget the exact amount of time, but you can probably 
 beat the game in around 8-10 hours. There are a few endings and a new game plus option though giving 
 you ample motivation to tackle this wacky adventure a second time. And given the all of the unique 
 level designs, bosses, and badass nature of this game playing it a second time isn't that much 
 of a chore, especially since you won't have to do as much busy work as you did on the first playthrough.
 
  
  **Wrap Up**
  
  Pros
  
  +Responsive controls and addictive well balanced combat
  +Unique overall feel, mature content, and many hilarious moments
  +Well designed and satisfying 
 boss battles 
  +Beautiful aesthetics combine old and new school elements perfectly
  
  Cons
  
  -Extremely poor physics engine and motorcycle controls
  -The plot is a little nonsensical 
 and erratic
  -Must repeat many side missions and jobs over and over again in order to obtain the obscene amounts 
 of money required to move on and buy stuff
  
    No More Heroes is a very unique game and for this reason I encourage everyone with a great sense 
 of humor and the desire to try something different to play it. The games style is somehow retro 
 and edgy at the same time, thus everyone should be able to find something to like here. If nothing 
 else I suggest renting it, the varied and unique level designs and boss fights are worth experiencing 
 at least once and the game doesn't take long to complete. If you like the game enough to buy it, 
 the new game plus option makes multiple playthroughs much less tedious than the first one. I'd 
 liken No More Heroes to Mario on drugs with a lightsaber. It's a little unusual, but always interesting 
 and extremely fun.
  
  Score  8.5 
  
  "It's gonna be a long, hard road. But who knows? Could kickass. Could be dangerous. Could totally 
 suck. Whadaya say, bro? Join me. Let's see how far we can take this. And for you there, holding 
 the Wii Remote right now, just press the A button. Let the bloodshed begin!" -Travis Touchdown
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petruvai
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  No More Heroes is a totally ridiculous game. That being said, it's also totally hilarious and fun. 
 It's reminiscent of Grand Theft Auto but without the graphics or depth, but with much more humor 
 and style. Travis runs around with his "beam katana" (lightsaber) killing assassins and their henchmen 
 in an attempt to become the number one assassin in the land, oh yeah, and to get a piece of *$%. 
 Yes, there is sexual humor as well as violent humor, so not a game for kids. The one negative thing 
 that I can say is that the swinging of the remote doesn't always work as well as it should during 
 the finishing moves. But I can forgive that. It's also really fun to drive around on Travis's ridiculously 
 large motorcycle in the city. There isn't much to do in the city, again it isn't Grand Theft Auto, 
 but it's still pretty stylish and fun. The boss fights are where it's at in this game. You fight 
 assassins that do karate moves, split into multiple people, shoot beams out of their eyes, and 
 a multitude of other ridiculous comic book-type things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahan-k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is on the of the best action adventure
  games ever made. Amazing story, beautiful sound tracks, awsome graphics and perfect game play.
  
 
  Game play:10/10
  Perfect! Beam Katana is such a lovely weapon to cut enemies in half! There are two ways in the game 
 to kill your enemies. The first way is using the Beam Katana, and the second way is using wrestling 
 moves. If you get close
  to an enemy, you can press B to kick and make your enemy
  dizzy, then press B again to do a wrestling move. You can also upgrade your Beam Katana in Naomi's 
 lab. There are
  a few side jobs to do in Sanata Destroy. Like collecting
  coconuts or cleaning the city! There are some free fight
  missions too. In free fight missions, you 
 must kill all of the enemies with a single health. Boss battles are really
  amazing. You must have different tactics for each of them (My favorite boss fight is, THE BAD GIRL) .
 
  
  Graphics:10/10
  Just like KILLER7. Nothing more and nothing less (But it's
  still awsome) .
  
  
  Sound tracks:10/10
  WOW! Best sound tracks after GOD OF WAR and MGS4.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 483paul
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This is the second artistic game from the people who brought you killer 7. I myself have never 
 played killer 7 but after playing this game i will go and play it. I love No More Heroes style. 
 For the most part it is fresh, appealing, and l find myself playing for hours at a time. The Wii 
 doesn't offer very many titles for the hardcore gamer and this is one title you can chalk up for 
 hardcore players. Take everything you would expect from a game these days and throw it aside and 
 pick this title up to experience something new.
  
  Graphics: This is a wii title so the graphics are what a wii is capable of. Or at least i would 
 imagine it to be. The graphic style is cell shaded and makes for some great visuals. However there 
 are frame rate issues and pop up and texture loading while in freeroam driving. I really like the 
 graphic route they took with this game. Its refreshing and fun to look at.
  
  Sound: Sound is nothing great but it fun. It reminds me of being in a rock music video with every 
 load time being heard with a screaming guitar. They also throw what sounds like 8bit sounds from 
 the NES days. You have old school, new school, and unique sounds all thrown into one and pulled 
 off great! Voice acting is great. However you do hear the same lines over and over again from enemies 
 dying. 
  
  Gameplay: Playing this game is just fun. Its that simple. Its not complex but does have enough 
 to keep you satisfied. The game is broken up into two game types. Fighting and driving. 
  
  Fighting is where this game shines. You use your "lightsaber" to hack and slash away enemies with 
 some very cool animations. This game isn't for the young. Its very graphic, has strong language, 
 and sexual references.
  
  Driving is the flaw for the game. This is why i only gave it a 8.0. Its kind of like a GTA with 
 a city to drive around in. However this feels unfinished and kinda thrown together to meet a deadline. 
 The cars, light poles, people, and buildings seem to be bigger than their textured model. Meaning 
 you'll be hitting into things that are a good 3 feet from your vehicle. Also there are pop ups 
 and textures not rendering in time while your driving around. The motorcycle you drive feels like 
 it needed some more polishing on controls. If you think of the city has purely means to get to 
 the next area than its do able. However they have you drive around more than i think they should 
 with how unfinished it feels. Even the cars that drive on the streets barely make sounds if any. 
 It just doesn't feel like a living breathing city. I feel they could have done the city with menus 
 to choose from or made it smaller and had you walk to place to place instead of drive. Anyway this 
 is a flaw but doesn't break the game. 
  
  Overall: This is a great title for the Wii and should be played. I would like to see more games 
 bring something new and fresh to the table like this game did. I am very happy with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: methodkiller335
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  No more heroes is a weird hack and slash title for the wii that is considered a cloan of GTA since 
 its part open world of a fictional california city, Santa Destroy. The other part being missions 
 to kill the top ten assassins to become number 1 to have sex with a french/japanese women with 
 her chest poping out of her shirts. The characters in the game are from past suda51 games like 
 an easter egg of a Killer7 character or Thunder Ryu from his wrestling game for the N64. I frickin 
 loved Killer7, its weird gameplay and story were the best and how it centers around politics. This 
 game centers around social issues instead of politics this time around. It still works but the 
 story isnt its best. The story really just makes fun of **** the ending is a big plot twist and 
 the whole ending parodies star wars, infact several things about the game parodies star wars. The 
 light saber, I mean beam katana, is the weapon of choice of Travis touchdown, the main character, 
 who bought his light saber on eBay. Yes, the story isnt its best. The gameplay and the hack and 
 slashing of the beam katana and the reels on the bottem of the screne that gives you powers are 
 weird but they work perfectly making the replayability high and the game fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helium_flash
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes was one of the most hyped games for the Wii before it came out. It was directed 
 by Suda51, creator of the crazy game Killer 7, so there were many high hopes for this game. No 
 More Heroes was suppose to be the extra gory, extra mature, kill fest Wii gamers have been waiting 
 for since the release of the Wii. On this aspect, No More Heroes accomplished its goal. However, 
 the game does have some very serious problems, which will be explained later in this review. First: 
 the plot!
  
  The protagonist in No More Heroes is Travis Touchdown, an arrogant, young, perverted man looking 
 to become famous. He lives in Santa-Destroy, a fictional town that probably would be set in Southern 
 California. He decides to become an assassin after winning a beam katana (aka light saber) in an 
 online auction. The United Assassins Association gives him the titles of the 11th ranked assassin 
 in the world after defeated the previous 11th ranked assassin.
  
  After this victory, Travis decides to become the number one assassin. To aid him on his mission 
 is a mysterious sexy woman named Sylvia, who instructs Travis on where his next assassin challenge 
 will be. The story, while simple, compels you to complete the game so you can discover what ultimately 
 happens to Travis Touchdown and Sylvia at the end (to give a hint, it will make your jaw drop) .
 
  
  As for the gameplay, the game is controlled by both the Wiimote and the Nunchuck. You attack enemies 
 with your beam katana until they run out of health, and then the fun part comes in. After their 
 health is depleted, an arrow will show up on the screen. You much swing the Wiimote in the direction 
 of the arrow, so Travis will use a very bloody, very satisfying finishing move on his opponent. 
 After you execute the move, and gambling slot will appear on the screen, and if you hit a jackpot, 
 you will go into a "super-mode," which is, depending the the type of jackpot you win, for a limited 
 type you get a crazy new powerful attack that makes killing enemies so much funner.
  
  Travis can also do wrestling moves, which can only be deployed when his foe is stunned. They are 
 like finishing moves in that you must follow on-screen commands to execute them. They aren't as 
 fun as the finishing moves, but a more powerful than regular attacks. They also save energy for 
 you beam katana. Your katana runs out of energy the more you use it, and you must charge is by 
 shaking the Wiimote in a very suggestive and comical manner.
  
  Throughout the game you can get upgrades to yourself or your weapons. You can lift weights to increase 
 your strenght, or buy weapon parts to make your weapons stronger. Your health will also increase 
 at certain points as the game goes on.
  
  The fighting is easily the best part of the game, unfortunately, you spend a great deal of time 
 not fighting. To get to your next assassination mission you must drive through the overworld to 
 get there. It is very GTA-esque, except horribly executed. There are multiple places you can visit 
 in the city, such as shops, your pad, or job-locations. The overworld seems gratuitously large, 
 full of people who serve no purpose other than to fill up space, and cars that do nothing other 
 than get in your way. This is the game that makes all the other sandbox games look good. The overworld 
 looks muddy and becomes boring to drive around in. 
  
  Another thing you must do before you can go to your next assassination mission is collect enough 
 money to enter the match. The United Assassinations Association requires that you pay a certain 
 amount of money prior to each match or you can't fight. This means that you must either go assassinate 
 people for money, or go do slightly amusing chores to get the money. It can be fun as it encourages 
 you to see the different parts of the city, but it becomes repetitive to do the same tasks over 
 and over again.
  
  Once you finally have enough money and deposit to the UAA, then you get to go to a set point to 
 take on the next assassion! This could be a school, subway, ballpark, or a number of places in 
 the game. Of course, you don't just simply walk up to him and fight him. No, you must defeat his 
 cronies before that, which is always fun. The boss fights are pretty varied, but once you find 
 a technique to defeat on boss, it become used on all the bosses. So it gets repetitive.
  
  The graphics in No More Heroes are pretty disappointing. Everything looks muddy and blurry. The 
 character models are the best looking things in the game, but they could still use work. The cars 
 looks bad, as do the citizens of Santa Destroy that you see walking about. The best looking things 
 in the game are the over-the-top cartoony parts where the art style is completely changed, such 
 as when you enter "super-mode." Besides that, the graphics are decent, but not good.
  
  One area where No More Heroes stands out is its style and charm. Everything is over-the-top and 
 gratuitous. Excessive amounts of blood and decapitating or dismembering foes will make you smile. 
 Gratuitous amounts of blood and sexuality also draw a smile, specifically the way your charge your 
 beam katana. All your HUD is designed to look like it has NES graphics as well. There is a lot 
 of charm in this game, which will keep you going to see the ending.
  
  The audio in the game isn't anything special. While riding your bike (the main form of transportation 
 in Santa Destroy) the music can get pretty annoying. Some of the music during boss battles can 
 be good, but there is nothing memorable. The sound effects work well though, and the voices seem 
 to work well enough.
  
  In terms of value, No More Heroes will probably take around 12 hours your first time though. Overall, 
 No More Heroes is an ambitious game, that is great fun when the action is on, but can become repetitive 
 when it is off. The graphics aren't good, and the audio is decent. After everything said so far, 
 No More Heroes still is a worthy game to play, and is one of the best action games on the Wii if 
 you can over look its blemishes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platyphyllum
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Lately, the Wii hasn't exactly been on the good side of many long-time gamers. Nintendo continues 
 to churn out stuff like Wii Music, Wii Play, and other Wii (insert name here) games that many uninformed 
 people buy. This unfortunately, gives Nintendo the wrong message and is gradually making the Wii 
 a console that lacks the first-party shine that its predecessors had. Luckily, some 3rd party developers 
 are stepping up to the task of providing some great games to this console which really needs them 
 right now. With the recently released de Blob and other examples like Boom Blox and Blast Works, 
 certain developers have showed that the Wii is definitely capable of delivering good games and 
 one of the earlier developers to show this was Goichi Suda (more commonly known as Suda 51) and 
 his team at Grasshopper Manufacture when they announced No More Heroes. While people were definitely 
 sceptical about it first, the game was finally released after a relatively long wait and ended 
 up being a very bloody, unique, and fun game which broke the trend of "family friendly" simple 
 games by delivering lots of fast-paced action.
  
  In No More Heroes, you play as Travis Touchdown, an ordinary otaku (someone with obsessive interests) 
 who pretty much dedicates his life to anime, video games, manga, and wrestling. He lives in the 
 "No More Heroes" motel in Santa Destroy, a fictional town located in California. Since he's running 
 out of money quickly, he ends up taking an assassination job after he wins a beam katana on an 
 online auction. He kills his first victim "Helter Skelter" right at the beginning of the game and 
 unfortunately for him, this makes him the 11th Ranked assassin in the United Assassins Association 
 which means he is constantly under threat from other assassins wishing to claim his place. Now, 
 the only hope for him to secure his life is to make it to the feared "1st" rank to become the top 
 assassin in the nation.
  
  Fans of Suda51 may remember his Gamecube/PS2 game killer7 which was renowned for its story. While 
 No More Heroes' plot isn't boring, it certainly isn't impressive and mind-blowing. Nevertheless, 
 it's still solid and the way it progresses gives enough incentive for players to keep playing. 
 Before and after each ranking battle against the 10 assassins you have to beat before becoming 
 No. 1, you're treated to a variety of cutscenes. These cutscenes can be humorous and light-hearted 
 (these ones mainly involve Sylvia, the woman who hosts all these assassin battles) while others 
 reveal more of the overarching story (because things are never what they seem) , progress character 
 development, and are sometimes full of fast-paced action. The dialogue also makes many references 
 to pop culture and other real-life entertainment titles (Star Wars, Duke Nukem Forever, etc.) which 
 was a nice twist and keeps the player glued to the screen during the many action and dialogue sequences.
 
  
  While the plot is definitely great, an action game can't really stand up too well if it doesn't 
 have a fun and interesting gameplay system. Thankfully, No More Heroes provides just that. A large 
 amount of the game is spent hacking your way through enemies using Travis' Beam Katana. This may 
 sound rather uninviting to those who think you'll be swinging the Wii Remote for each attack, but 
 luckily, attacks are carried out by pressing a button. Instead, deathblows (finishing moves that 
 you perform after depleting an enemy's health bar) are performed by swinging the Wii Remote in 
 the direction indicated on the screen. These deathblows are incredibly satisfying to see, especially 
 when you end up cutting through multiple enemies at once and its simple to do. There are also a 
 variety of wrestling moves available to Travis which can be used to deal huge chunks of damage 
 to normal enemies and do significant amounts of damage to bosses. Of course, the action game standards 
 like rolling dodges (known as Emergency Evades in this game) and blocking are also present.
  
  There's more to the game than just fighting though. Once you beat the first boss and you're 
 allowed to roam around the town of Santa Destroy, you learn that there's a rather large expanse 
 of other things for you to do. You can make Travis ride around town on his motorcycle to reach 
 different destinations quickly, collect hidden treasure, take up side jobs like cleaning up streets 
 full of garbage and cleaning up graffiti, or even collect "Lovikov Balls" in order to learn new 
 helpful skills. Simply put, there's a lot to do in No More Heroes as it's a rather open-ended game.
 
  
  The pinnacle of the gameplay experience for this game is the bosses. Since Travis is the 11th ranked 
 assassin, you can only expect that you have to run into the other 10, and when you do run into 
 one of them, you'll probably end up having one of the most incredible gaming experiences ever. 
 The bosses in this game are over-the-top crazy and difficult. By the 8th ranked match, you'll be 
 engaged in intense fights with the other assassins complete with really awesome cutscenes and a 
 rather high level of difficulty. Regardless of the difficulty, even if you lose, the amount of 
 excitement that these bosses give you keep making you try again until you finally learn their patterns 
 and win, at which point you're treated to an extreme (and usually very bloody) cutscene in which 
 Travis finishes off the enemy.
  
  Despite the amount of praise I've given the game so far, this doesn't necessarily mean that the 
 gameplay is perfect. There are a number of minor flaws which add up to bring the experience down 
 slightly. The controls for Travis' motorcycle are really iffy at first (which is why this game 
 could have benefitted greatly from an "area select" system where you can instantly go to places 
 you've been to which is a feature it unfortunately doesn't have) , there aren't really that many 
 places to go to, and the map can be very hard to navigate because of it's "old school" 8-bit style. 
 They don't even give you a retry option if you fail a mission. Instead, you have to drive for a 
 minute or so all the way back to the job center, pick the job again, and drive back which can get 
 quite annoying. Simply put, the gameplay experience could have been improved significantly if only 
 the game was given an extra amount of polish. Regardless, these problems are all minor and can 
 be overlooked by those who are patient and in the end; they don't fully get in the way of the fun 
 and satisfying experience that this game offers.
  
  In terms of graphics, this is one game that puts style over detailed. The graphics are cel-shaded 
 which gives off a very "comic book" like feel to the game. Even though cel-shaded has been featured 
 in other light hearted games like The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker, that doesn't necessarily 
 mean that this game's graphical style is bright and colourful. While the surface of Santa Destroy 
 is pretty lively and bright, he game is full of dark, grim, and strange environments like a creepy 
 high school and a mazelike forest. The game also features a lot of blood (you'll see blood pretty 
 much every time you perform a deathblow) which adds to the gritty feel of certain areas in this 
 game (and sometimes there's so much blood, that you even begin to get used to it like you would 
 after getting halfway into an extremely violent comic book) . While the graphics don't exactly feel 
 polished and impressive, they're still full of style to the point where it's easy to overlook that 
 fault and enjoy the dark and comical feel of the game.
  
  The game is pretty solid too in the sound department. While it may not to be to everyone's taste, 
 the game's sound design resembles an anime show. There are some iffy voiceovers, lots of cheesy, 
 corny dialogue, and very solid sound effects. While to some people, this may seem like a fault, 
 I personally thought that it made the game feel more unique and stylish. Together with the gameplay 
 and the graphics, the sound department helps in bringing together the whole feel that you're playing 
 some sort of interactive anime/comic book.
  
  While the game offers a lot in terms of content and replayability, many players probably won't 
 end up playing this game more than once after finishing it. There are a variety of optional skills 
 to get, upgrades for your beam katanas, and all sorts of different outfits to get for Travis (I 
 was actually really impressed by amount of customization options you had when it came to his appearance) . 
 Unfortunately, people will have a hard time getting motivated to complete everything because of 
 how repetitive it can get to get money. Basically, the routine is that you go to the job center, 
 pick the mission with the highest pay, take a relatively long drive to the mission area, complete 
 the mission, drive all the way back to the job center, and repeat. This was probably one of the 
 more tedious parts of the game (except for the part where you actually take on assassination missions, 
 but you still have to drive all the way there) for me and was one of the major reasons why I only 
 played the game until the end and stopped there which is really a shame because the game offers 
 quite a lot of content. To those who are patient enough to get through that though, then you can 
 expect to be glued to this game for a long time.
  
  Overall, No More Heroes succeeds at what an action game like it should be delivering. It provides 
 a lot of fun and that for me is enough reason to buy this game. It doesn't necessarily stop there 
 though with its over-the-top style, interesting graphics, and loads of content. No More Heroes 
 is definitely a game to look out for. Be warned though, that doesn't mean everyone will like it 
 because there is an obvious lack of polish and not everyone will have the patience to get through 
 the somewhat repetitive job sections of the game. Nonetheless, I give the game a wholehearted recommendation 
 to any Wii owner who doesn't feel satisfied enough with the Wii's current library of games which 
 seems to be overrun with "shovelware" lately as No More Heroes is incredibly unique and more appropriate 
 when it comes to difficulty for the normal gamer crowd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhofever
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I agree with how good the controls are being used in this game, I mean there 
 are parts where you actually put the Wii mote to your ear when someone calls you.
  
  I feel like that this game is just incomplete. The gameplay gets repetitive, which is defenitely 
 a bad sign, and the visual display isn't even close to good. Yes, it's a Wii but I see scarface 
 with better visuals. In No More Heroes, I have to actually go very close to my Television and see 
 where's what on my map. 
  
  Plus the lighting is too bright. Very hard to see.
  I know this game aims to purposely bring back the classical game feel but I think to me, this game 
 is a mess. Every time I try to force myself to play this game, I always end up putting down the 
 mote after 5 minutes of gameplay.
  
  It may appeal to some people, but for me, this game just hit rock bottom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatleos
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  In No More Heroes, a crazy sunnuva named Travis Touchdown who lives in the city of Santa Detroy 
 and wields a sweet beam katana joins a mysterious organization of ranked assassins, intent on climbing 
 his way to the top of their blood-soaked food-chain to become the world's greatest killer! If that 
 doesn't sound like a good plot for well, anything, you need to go see a doctor. The goal in No 
 More Heroes is to help Travis on his way to the rank of top assassin. You do this by playing through 
 10 action-packed levels, during which you must hack your way through countless mobs of enemies.
 
  
  And when I say hack, I mean hack! Literally every enemy you kill in this game gets sliced clean 
 in half, and then explodes into a ludicrously exaggerated cloud of blood! AWESOME!!! Well, anyway, 
 you work your way through the game by slaughtering your way through each of these lengthy action 
 levels, each of which ends in a boss. You must assassinate each of these memorable characters one-by-one 
 to finish each stage. As the game goes on, they become more difficult, sometimes possessing brutally 
 complex attack patterns (damn you, Shinobi!) But all of these bosses do have one thing in common: 
 they are incredible! The boss battles are where the storytelling and combat really shine in No 
 More Heroes. All of them are surprisingly colorful, unique, and really fun to watch. Not to mention 
 freaky! That magician still gives me nightmares A lot of the fun of this game is just anticipating 
 what psycho you'll fight next!
  
  But that's only what you'll be doing about half the time you play this game. Before you can embark 
 on a mission to slay your next opponent, you'll have to pay the entrance fee. But not to worry, 
 you won't have to play a series of tedious minigames to raise your funds! Oh, wait. That is what 
 you do. Actually, these games are far from tedious. Most of them are surprisingly fun. You'll mow 
 grass, pick up trash, collect coconuts (?) , etc. Performing these activities helps you raise more 
 LBs (??) for Travis to spend on upgrades and abilities, as well as pay for the next ranked fight. 
 In addition to these minigames, you can also go to the local hiring agency for bloodthirsty rogues, 
 K Entertainment! Here you can take on assassination missions. As you progress through the game, 
 you'll unlock more odd jobs and assassination missions that you can take on.
  
  All of these mission locations and money-making opportunities are held together by an open world 
 map. This open area holds some of the game's few flaws. For one, you can't really interact all 
 that much with the environment. Other than the palm trees that you can knock over by charging into 
 them on your bike (really fun) , most things that you bump into don't really react at all to your 
 impact. But really, the overworld is meant to connect the locations in the game, not to be a fun 
 place to roam around and destroy everything you come across. You get around the overworld on your 
 bike, the Schpeltiger (???) , which is a blast to use. There are many places you can travel to in 
 the city, like a bar where a drunk teaches you some cool tricks in exchange for Lovikov Balls (I've 
 given up with the question marks at this point) , a lab where you can upgrade your beam katana, 
 a clothing shop where you can buy some new threads for Travis, and a gym where you can train with 
 your questionable mentor, Thunder Ryu. Erm, you just have to see it for yourself.
  
  So basically, you play through a crazy action stage that ends with an epic boss battle, use your 
 funds that you get from enemies and odd jobs around town to buy upgrades and pay for the next ranked 
 fight, and repeat. The story is memorable, pretty engaging for an action game, and full of surprising 
 and hilarious moments. While the plot elements can sometimes get a bit questionable and even seem 
 forced, this game has a very fun and exciting story. Combine that with incredible, gory action, 
 innovative and unique gameplay, the catchiest theme song ever, a cast of outrageous and bizarre 
 characters, and pleasing presentation and design, and you've got a rare M-rated gem for the Wii. 
 If you haven't played this game yet, do it. NOW!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  No More Heroes is a game which has rode on the hype built from the previous Suda 51 game, Killer 
 7. While Killer 7 is renowned for having styIe over substance, Suda Goichi has managed to throw 
 the game title well into the cult end of the audience while gaining praise for delivering on some 
 unique gaming experiences. Killer 7 was criticised for certain design choices, No More Heroes pulls 
 a very similar stunt but has now struck a great balance between fun, styIe and substance. Suda 
 51, also known as Suda Goichi (Goichi is 51 in Japanese) has once again drawn this new title in 
 cel-shading graphics.
  
  There is actually more to the story than the game really dwells on. As the game puts it, 'gamers 
 these days have no attention at all' - and the opening cutscene is kept short and direct. Travis, 
 the protagonist, meets a 'hot chick' in a bar one night. In a drunken state, he accepts her offer 
 to solve all his troubles. Travis then buys a beam saber in an internet auction and sets out to 
 kill some tough guy under the "chick's" orders. All it boils down to, is to become the number 1 
 assassin. If he does reach no 1, Sylvia promises to 'do it' with him. At this point, you'll be 
 thinking, :| WTH? and WTH? is probably the best summation of this game - in the good way ;) . Even 
 if the game doesn't dwell too much into the details; the script, dialogue, settings, and the characters 
 show much, much more in the game world of Santa Monica.
  
  NMH is first and foremost a 3rd person action game. Still, playing the game is split between 2 
 very different gameplays. One is open world in which you travel from location to location, the 
 other is in 'linear-corridor' combat - a build up of waves of enemies until you reach a boss. While 
 the open world is full of odd pop-ups, full of texture pop-ins, riddled with awkward physics, lacking 
 any real sense of interaction, lacking in population/life, you may begin to question if there's 
 something wrong with the game or was the game really finished? No, it's not just your copy of the 
 game or a problem with your specific Wii, the game IS like that. :|. In some ways, the open world 
 may just have been better if it was menu-driven but upon further reflection, it is rather charming 
 in it's quirky Suda 51-sense. Am I making sense? :? Well, the game allows you to ride your very 
 unique motorcycle in a very cool fashion although the controls can feel a tad awkward. The side 
 missions contrast the underground assassination jobs. Picking up coconuts after knocking them off 
 trees or mowing some guy's lawn, or working at a petrol station are only fun the first time round. 
 Thankfully, completing these odd jobs unlock the more fun but seedier jobs.
  
  Thankfully, the game really comes into it's own in terms of the combat and the bosses. After saving 
 up enough money from side jobs and assassination jobs, you deposit your money to the 'association' 
 which organises the ranked assassin fights. You go back to your motel room, get the location details 
 through letter or through your fax machine and then make your way towards the chosen battleground 
 - this scenario is repeated between each ranked fight and so there is some repetition to go through. 
 Combat does not involve  as one would have guessed. In fact, 
 to hit, you press A. Depending on how you tilt/hold your Wiimote, you can change between a high 
 and low stance to vary your attacks. Locking onto enemies with the Z button will make you automatically 
 block attacks. When an enemy is nearly dead, you can execute a finishing move which requires you 
 to swing the Wiimote in the prompted direction. If you so require, you can daze enemies with a 
 punch/kick with the B button. Holding B will execute a strong melee attack. There are advantages 
 to using this attack to work your way through enemy blocks and also to unleash some wrestling moves 
 (executed by some very nice nun-chuk/Wiimote motion sensing) . If you down an enemy, you can kill 
 them instantly with a finishing move by pressing A while standing above them. Pressing the D-pad 
 directions, left, right and down will make Travis dodge by rolling in said direction. You also 
 have to keep an eye on the battery power of your saber, without power your saber is useless. Just 
 press '1' and then shake your Wiimote to recharge it, :shock: . Did i mention the roulette? Well, 
 once you take out an enemy, a roulette will start rolling and if you get 3 matching icons, you'll 
 enter 'dark-side mode'. While you're in this mode, you suddenly become much stronger through a 
 variety of ways: shooting power-balls, instant execution moves, slowing down time etc. By the time 
 you've read up to here, you're probably wearing this face: :| ? and shouting WTH!? It's totally 
 understandable but please continue reading before thinking this is all too ridiculous! Once you 
 get to grips with how to play the game fairly quickly, the game does one thing extremely well - 
 and that is FUN. No matter how much the game will spit in the face of 'serious business' and 'realism', 
 the game is really fun. Dispatching hordes of enemies and finishing them off with some satisfying 
 swings of the Wiimote doesn't get old even after completing the game 2 times over. The cut-scenes 
 are well-made with excellent voice acting and is something which makes you anticipate what's ahead; 
 this is where most of the production value is to be found, a stark contrast to what you're treated 
 to in the bulk of the gameplay. What I haven't mentioned yet is that the game always pulls up a 
 surprise round the corner and will probably leave you smirking (that is, if you've been gaming 
 for a long time and has become so accustomed to 'how things should be in games') . 
  
  While I've talked down on the visuals (I've yet to talk about the horrible jagged lines you'll 
 see, especially on a high resolution screen) , it feels as though the game is intentionally being 
 so. The mini-map is crude and full of pixels, and i don't mean in terms of the pixels in the 480P 
 resolution, i'm talking about huge pixels as though you're seeing it on a Game & Watch stretched 
 out onto a TV. Even the start menu is full of these abnormally large pixels. These retro touches 
 serve their purposes but seem to be an excuse to not put some more effort into the presentation. 
 The music comprises of remixed versions of the same No More Heroes theme but with a scattering 
 of more unique tracks - the remixes aren't exactly all brilliant but it does one job really well 
 and that is to suck you into the pace of NMH and make you want to live out Travis' battles and 
 experience through the entire game. Other than the music, the sound effects aren't exactly special. 
 Generic enemy sound generic, fighting sounds are how you'd imagine them to be, the exceptions come 
 about with retro beeps (and they do invoke a sense of nostalgia) .
  
  When it comes to replay value, there is not much, but more than most games within its genre. I 
 completed the game 2 times to watch the 2 endings available (satisfying, I have to add) , both times 
 in different difficulties. The easiest setting is in 'sweet', 'mild' and 'bitter' being more difficult: 
 seeing as your strength and abilities are retained from your 1st play-through, my experience of 
 the latter difficulties weren't substantially hard - it was more of a walk in the park with the 
 exception of a boss or two. The collectibles (concept art, t-shirts, wrestling masks) are a nice 
 addition too so your repeat plays don't feel too much like a waste. And if you liked the 'random' 
 scrolling shooter game, you can play it over and over from your room - despite having unlimited 
 continues, there's breathing space for the adept players to shine and feel satisfied.
  
  All in all, Suda 51 has managed to pull of a fun game despite pushing technical issues to one side. 
 You'd think texture pop-ins, pop-ups, little to no anti-aliasing and a very bland overworld would 
 be unforgiveable sins of gaming, but NMH pulls it off. The rather weak presentation which is mostly 
 masked by the retro effects don't affect the gameplay all that much. In fact, these decisions seem 
 almost intentional, shouting out to everybody that it really doesn't matter to the point that it 
 affects gameplay - taking gaming down to the base of interaction and the pure joy of it. Whether 
 people accept this or not is another topic for discussion elsewhere - what I think most people 
 would agree on is that NMH has an all-round fun combat system which is exploited well in spectacular 
 boss fights. Extra kudos are to be awarded to games which invoke unique emotions while being ultimately. 
 NMH does it and I have to recommend the game knowing the mixed feelings people may have are things 
 to be experienced at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh-pwns-the
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Once you get used to the graphics on the game it is truly a great game. The dialogue is funny the 
 story line is amazing/funny the game overall is just great. It has the best bosses out of any game 
 that i have ever played (destroyman) plus it will leave you dying to run around town in BAMF t 
 shirts and a jacket, stabbing people with one of those pop out plastic lightsabers. But seriously 
 if this game wasnt a little bit repetitive i woudl have given it a 10. The fighting system is satisfying 
 and makes you feel like you arent jsut mashing buttons since every kill requires a motion control. 
 This has possible the nicest implementation of the motion controls in a fighting game
  
  i would tell you more about the game buuuuuut i dont wanna spoil it for any potential buyers, just 
 remember to give it a chance and it will give you at least 10 nerdgasms 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The graphics are cool and stylistic; the game loves the fact that it's a game; a fun 
 soundtrack; a healthy dose of customization; a great sense of humor; excellent voice acting; the 
 whole thing's just plain whacky; there are plenty of options as to how to go about the game; amazing 
 Wiimote and speaker use; multiple difficulties and endings; it's one of the most unique games you'll 
 ever get.
  
  The Bad: It's pretty short; the combat may get a tad repetitive; framerate dips; the overworld 
 isn't nearly as fun as the levels.
  
  Suda 51 makes games that are very commonly rated M, as over the top as you're gonna get, and nothing 
 like any game you've ever played before. No More Heroes more than lives up to that reputation, 
 and is one of the best third party titles on the system that isn't a port.
  
  Okami and Resident Evil 4 are fantastic, but this guy's brand new. There is nothing anything like 
 this game, I'm serious. You'll think that the main character, Travis Touchdown's weapon is like 
 a lightsaber at first. But the game isn't about to get sued, because it doesn't relate to Star 
 Wars in any other way, and barely does at that.
  
  Travis was flat broke when he met up with this beautiful girl, Sylvia, at a bar. She paid him for 
 a hit man job, and with Beam Katana (the lightsaber thing) in hand, Travis wiped him out. That's 
 when Sylvia tells him he just killed the tenth ranked assassin in the world, and that he should 
 try aiming for first. He's even guaranteed a ton of money for it.
  
  Travis lives in a motel called No More Heroes, hence the game title, has a cat, broke up with a 
 girl he misses, rents porn videos at the movie store, drives around on the kickass motorcycle, 
 and has no job. And you'll watch him take a dump when you save the game. Unlike every other gaming 
 character, he has to crap at some point... But the point is, he's a cool guy. Except for the job 
 bit, so he seals the deal with Sylvia.
  
  The game opens up with you hunting down the tenth ranked assassin, and you'll be wiping guys out 
 in no time. Many of the easy enemies have baseball bats or wrenches. That's not much of a challenge 
 for your Beam Katana, so it'll be easy to get into it. You hit A to attack, then swing the remote 
 a certain direction for a finishing move. This prevents annoying waggling of the remote, but also 
 keeps it involved.
  
  You can also grab enemies and use wrestling moves on them, which you'll learn more of on the way. 
 These are cool and spice up the combat a little bit, and you're free to battle anyone with the 
 moves or the katana. You can block with the weapon too, and use high or low attacks based on what 
 angle the remote is at.
  
  However, the Beam Katana isn't made of light energy, it runs on electricity. You'll have to charge 
 it up once in awhile, by shaking it up and down- really hard and really fast. Yes, that's definitely 
 the reference you're thinking of.
  
  It's random stuff like that, much of which is way over the top (like the fact Travis will yell 
 F*** you! every once in awhile killing someone) , that really puts the fun in No More Heroes. A 
 normal game like this would be solid, but that sense of humor really makes for a stylish, unique, 
 awesome game.
  
  The levels basically just involve wiping out the bad guys, but you'll also be finding trading cards, 
 money and energy for your katana along the way. It's funny, not gruesome somehow, when gallons 
 of blood pour from one or more guys' heads you just ripped off, and coins fall out too. That sounds 
 horrible, but you have to see it to get it. It's so over the top that you won't even think of it 
 being real, and red and gold stuff coming out of their head makes it less... mainstream.
  
  As you go through the game, naturally, your enemies will get tougher. Each assassin is extremely 
 bizarre, but they're absolutely awesome and you'll find yourself excited to meet the next one. 
 Many of them, and even some of the other enemies later on, will carry katanas or guns, so you will 
 have to watch yourself. And hey, if you get to the top, it sounds like Travis is gonna get lucky 
 with Sylvia.
  
  The Wiimote speaker hasn't commonly been implemented into games very much, or not in a very noticeable 
 way. In this game, it's not used during play, but Sylvia will be calling you in each level to talk 
 to you about what's happening. It sounds just as good as the already awesome voice acting from 
 the big screen, and as it's coming from your phone in-game, it's a brilliant stroke from the developers.
 
  
  Outside of the levels it's a lot different. You can customize your Travis, getting him new shades, 
 shirts, jackets, belts, and jeans. You can increase his strength and stats at a dojo, buy videos 
 for wrestling moves, and get new Beam Katanas as you go along. You can go to the motel to deal 
 with all that and save (take a dump, again) too. There are a few sidequests scattered in there, 
 and there's generally a fair few options as to handle your cash. It's not GTA, obviously, but again, 
 you have choices.
  
  You'll get lots of money from each level, but when you're back out in Santa Destroy (the name of 
 the city in California) , you have to pay for a steadily increasing 'entry fee' to get the info 
 on the next battle. Seems like a bit of a ripoff, although you do get more money than you lose. 
 You can spend that on the above customizable techniques, weapons and clothes (that's just for fun, 
 by the way) , or you can just blast right on through.
  
  However, you will have to explore the city at least a little. The money you get from the previous 
 level won't be enough to secure your entry into the next, so you have to go get other jobs to pay 
 for the new level and whatever else you'd like to do. Here, you have a ton of options. You can 
 do respectable things, believe it or not, which are fun, weird mini-games. You can mow people's 
 lawns, collect coconuts, clean walls with graffiti on them, pick up trash, or fill up people's 
 cars at a gas station. On the other hand, you can indeed get other hit man jobs. One of the first 
 ones you'll get is going out to kill the owner of a pizza place. There are some where you'll act 
 like a baseball player and hit the balls back at your enemies with your katana. And eventually 
 you can go to certain locations without getting a job and just go on a killing spree. You can't 
 get hurt doing these, but if you do well you'll get some sweet mula.
  
  However, it's still not as fun to be in the overworld as in the levels. The jobs are fun much of 
 the time, and it's nice to be able to customize Travis, but everything's so far apart that driving 
 around gets old. True, the motorcycle's awesome, but it can be a little tiresome. Plus, the motorcycle 
 controls aren't nearly as good as just moving Travis around. The control stick seems to be bad 
 at picking up how much you want to turn. It won't hurt the gameplay but it'd be nice if it were 
 fixed. On the other hand, the camera won't mess up, ever.
  
  Once you're back in the levels, you'll be happier. That's not to say the overworld is just not 
 fun, but the levels are more fun. However, toward the end the combat might get a little tiresome. 
 Not a lot, because it's just so much fun to watch, but you might realize how much you've seen these 
 animations before.
  
  More on the zany side, the voice acting is weird, like the characters themselves, making the plot 
 fun, unique, and well executed. The speaker, again, is used better than I think it ever has been 
 used in any other game. And the music is awesome, and insanely catchy. The sound on all fronts 
 in this game is wonderful.
  
  Now here's what I mean by the game loving being a game. The map is done in 8 bit blocks, as if 
 it were on an NES or something. Travis even falls asleep once and an 8 bit mini-game starts up 
 in his head. It likes video games like you do. Travis even has an N64 in his room. It's a fun little 
 addition that goes a long way.
  
  The graphics aren't like any other game's, kind of like everything else in No More Heroes. It's 
 hard to describe them, except they're stylish. They seem blocky, but it looks purposeful, and the 
 shading is one of the coolest parts. It's not a powerhouse title on Wii like Mario Galaxy or Metroid 
 Prime 3 is, but there aren't any complaints to make. It is a bit of a gripe that the game lags 
 sometimes, and noticeably, but it won't hurt the experience.
  
  The game will probably last around ten hours, maybe closer to fifteen if you work on hunting down 
 all the sidequest items and getting maxed out on everything. The most expensive katana is a ton 
 of money, there are a lot of clothes, a lot of stat upgrades, and some collections to track down. 
 And it'll take a lot longer to get enough money to pay for each level if you get all of that, but 
 it's definitely a great experience even in the overworld. Plus, there are three different difficulties, 
 and if you beat it once you'll unlock a secret ending (the first ending is pretty crappy, in a 
 partially literal sense, so you'll want to see it) .
  
  As you can see, there are some noticeable ups and just as glaring downs to No More Heroes. Would 
 I suggest it? Certainly. No question. If you're sick of the endless RPGs and action-adventure games 
 in a magical world, sports games, horror shooters, and most infamously first-person shooters that 
 all feel like clones, this'll be a breath of fresh air. It's worth your time and money. It's not 
 what you'd call a killer-app. It's not close to perfect either. And no, it doesn't deserve Gamespot's 
 9.0, although it's close. But it is an experience like nothing you've ever had before, on any medium. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Il_Exile_lI
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is a game that fills a niche that very likely does not exist. This is a third person 
 action game for the Wii with high amounts of blood, gore, and sexual humor. This is THE game that 
 older Wii owners should buy and will likely enjoy, but it really isn't at the top of the genre.
 
  If you are a hardcore gamer that loves third person action hack and slash games chances are you 
 don't have Wii, and if you do, you probably have either a PS3 and an Xbox 360 also. This being 
 said, if you are one of the ten older hardcore gamers that for some reason only owns a Wii, go 
 buy this game right now, it is one the best mature games you are going to find on the Wii. The 
 problem is, there are games like this on other systems that are better.
  The best aspect of this game is the gameplay itself. It is quite fun when you get in a groove and 
 are slashing heads off and cutting guys in half, the problem is, there is a lot more to the game 
 than this. For some reason, instead of just making this a linear game where you run through levels 
 and cut dudes in half, they chose add an open world component where you are forced to drive your 
 motorcycle through a very poorly designed city, looking for jobs to make money such as collecting 
 coconuts. This is, needless to say, a nuisance. If this game was just 8-10 hours of hack and slash 
 fun, it would be much easier to recommend.
  Moving on to another poor aspect of the game we have the graphics. Even for the Wii, these graphics 
 are just sickening. It is almost impossible to decipher what some things are supposed to be. I 
 realize that instead of trying to push the Wii to it's limit, they chose to have "stylized" visuals, 
 but it really looks bad any way you spin it.
  The controls are good at times, and other times not so much. The hack and slash aspects of the 
 game control and feel nice. You move your character with the nunchuck control stick and attack 
 by simply pressing A. Some other things don't control as well. To charge your beam Katana, you 
 must shake the wii remote, and this just makes you feel foolish and it just seems unnecessary. 
 The motorcycle's controls are absolutely atrocious. It is so sensitive that you can turn so fast 
 that it is hard to make turns accurately.
  All in all, No More Heroes is by far the best game for Mature Audiences on the Wii which would 
 be much more of a compliment if there were any good games for mature audiences on the Wii. Quite 
 frankly, if you are a fan of this type of game, you will be much better off going with Ninja Gaiden 
 2, Devil May Cry, or Heavenly Sword. No More Heroes is a great choice for people that enjoy this 
 type of game and only have a Wii, but unfortunately those people do not exist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lto_thaG
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  No More Heroes puts you in the shoes of Travis Touchdown. He is a man of killing, flirting and.. anime.
 
  Travis is a professional killer and the point of the game is trying to get to the top, Number 1.
 
  
  The way you do this is by killing of all the members on the list. Starting from 11 and going down 
 to number one.
  Each boss fight is fun and unique in their own way.
  Before you get to the boss you'll have to fight your way through hordes of enemies. Needless to 
 say that doing this never gets boring.
  No More Heroes uses the Wii-mote in a fun way.
  Instead of waving the controller around the swing your Beam Katana, you press A. By pressing A, Travis 
 will start slashing around. There are 2 position you can hold your Wiimote in. One is up, you'll attack 
 with upper attacks and two is down, you'll attack with middle attacks.
  
  The game uses this in a fun way. Slashing your enemy's health bar in critical and than giving him 
 the final blow, by swinging the wii-mote in the givin direction, kills your enemy in an instant.
 
  Travis is also a huge fan of wresting and he shows that in the game. By pressing B you'll stun 
 your enemy and then you can apply a wrestling move. By doing motions with the Wiimote and Nunchuk, Travis 
 will execute a devastating wrestling move.
  
  The game is Free-roam, which means, an open world for you to explore. You can go buy clothes, go to 
 the gym to train your character, rent movies to learn new wrestling moves, go to the upgrade center 
 to get Beam Katana upgrades and so on.
  Besides the Main Story, you'll have to earn money to get to your next contender. Yes, they want money 
 for you to get higher on the list. The way to earn money is to do sidemissions. These exist out of 
 coconut collecting, lawn-mowing, working at a gas station and many more. You can also earn cash by 
 doing hit missions. Simple missions that will have you killing of guys, sometimes under certain conditions 
 like: Only wrestling moves or don't get hit and the list goes on. All enough to keep you busy and 
 entertained.
  Some gamers may get bored with the sidemissions.
  The concept is really simple, actually.
  Boss-Side Missions-Boss.. and repeat. This can lead to 
 players finding the game too repetitive to their likings, but still No More Heroes can keep you 
 entertained for a long while.
  
  The game uses a cell-shaded look. It makes the game look a little cartoony. The game looks  
 good and all present.
  The game can stutter at moments showing a framedrop now and then. Mostly when finishing off 4 guys 
 at the same time.
  These occur sometimes but nothing that actually makes you wanna stop playing the game. The European 
 version of the game has this too, but the game is slightly more stabile, but it's also the censored 
 version. So No More Blood for them.
  
  In a nutshell. No More Heroes is a fun experience. The game is not for everyone that's for sure, but 
 it has this unique sense to it. Even after you're finished you want to come back to try a higher 
 difficulty and go around and collect everything for the locked content.
  No More Heroes is a solid title that I recommend to gamers that are looking for a fun action game 
 that'll last them for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  No more heroes is a very unique game. You play as Travis Touchdown. A hitman, who is bored and 
 wants a challenge. He ends up meeting this blonde beauty, who happens to have, just the challenge 
 he is after. Its from here, that you must get threw the ranks to become the number one killer.
 
  Now, when this game came out in the UK, two things were knocked about this game. The GTA style 
 freeroaming wasn't fun, and the UK version didn't have blood. I can agree on some level about the 
 first one. But how i see it is, the on bike bits (what you use to explore the city) where never 
 the main point to the game anyway. They are just there to spice the gameplay up abit.
  The main point of the game was the fighting. And they did it very well, because its just so much 
 fun chopping things up when the controls work this well. Now the second complaint i think is silly 
 really, because when you play a game, your not going to play it just for the bucket load or blood 
 are you?. I guess there are some people out there who do.
  
  Graphics: Much like killer 7. Very pretty cel-shade, but when your roaming the town it can look 
 ugly at times. But overall its nice eye candy.
  
  Sound: A funny script, and a great choice of voice actors. The FX sound great too.
  
  Gameplay: 
 Like i said before. The order of the day isn't the roaming around, its the fighting that makes 
 this game special. But there is various other things to do, such as catch cats, cut someones lawn, 
 pick up scorpions etc. Random? yes but there fun :) .
  
  **** Box: The controls for the bike feel like your driving a tank. There is no one in the town 
 :S. There can be some very frustrating bosses.
  
  Overall: Not without its faults. But when you get down to the meat of the game, its very good stuff. 
 Funny cutscenes, and great dialog, plus its a wii game, that actually uses the wii-mote. If your 
 looking for smething diffrent in a wii game you cant look much further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacchus2
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  No More Heroes is a bizarre, surreal, and at times brilliant game. Here is a snippet of the opening 
 sections of the game to give you an idea of it's craziness. You leave your motel, hop on your fancy 
 motorbike, drive to a manor, and if you so choose go through a tutorial. Travis Touchdown (your 
 awesomely named character) pulls out his beam katana (similar to a lightsabre) that he apparently 
 won in an online auction, and starts chopping dudes up. When they die, they explode into black 
 blocks (or copious amounts of blood depending on your version) and coins. After you've cleared 
 out most of the manor, you will raise the Wiimote to your ear as you receive a phone call from 
 Sylvia, who let's you know that your first ranked match is up, and gives you some hygiene tips. 
 Once you finish off the first boss, she tells you that you are an assassin and to become number 
 1 you will need to take out those ranked above you and all Travis wants to do is get into Sylvia's 
 pants. Then you get to punch trees to knock the coconuts out and give them to a vendor, and assassinate 
 the CEO of a Pizza company.
  
  No More Heroes is full of these amusing "What the?" moments. The core of the game is the combat, 
 and it excels. In what I consider to be a wise move, every swing of your beam katana is not mapped 
 to motion controls. Instead, the way the remote is held determines whether Travis is in a high 
 or low stance. Pressing A will then attack according to the current stance, as enemies can block 
 high and low. Attacks can also be charged, which can deal damage to enemies even if they are blocking, 
 but leaves you vulnerable as it charges. Holding the Z button will have Travis lock on to the nearest 
 enemy, and this will be your default stance when encountering enemies, with the analog stick moving 
 around your target. While locked on, Travis will defend against attacks from any direction if he 
 is not attacking, and this will be necessary when surrounded. While locked on, pressing on the 
 D-Pad allows you to roll in that direction (except forwards) , which is useful for getting out of 
 a pickle. The B button allows you to bash a foe without your katana, and charging it can stun opponents 
 so that it is then possible to throw them (though they sometimes get stunned during normal combos) .
 
  
  Whenever you deal enough damage to an opponent, the game slows to a crawl, and a bright arrow appears 
 in the middle of the screen; swing the remote in that direction, and you will deal the death blow, 
 where your opponent will shatter into the aforementioned black pixels, and you will absorb a shower 
 of coins. As such there is still plenty of Wiimote swinging action in the game. In standard levels, 
 dealing these death blows also has 3 slots start spinning on the screen, and if you get 3 matching 
 icons, Travis yells out something silly and you get a limited time special bonus, ranging from 
 slowing down enemies, being able to kill other enemies with one hit, or turning the game into a 
 shooting range, all of which are accompanied by distinctive visual filters. The beam katana runs 
 on energy, and loses energy whenever you attack or block. With a button press you go into charging 
 mode, where you must shake the remote while Travis does the same onscreen in an incredibly suggestive 
 fashion. Once you get used to the combat, most of the regular enemies won't give you too many problems, 
 and you can play fairly recklessly for most of them. There are some other nuances to the combat, 
 such as sliding and weapon clashes, and throwing. Throwing is similar to the death blow, but two 
 arrows come up, and you have to move the controllers in the indicated directions, so it feels like 
 you are actually throwing someone.
  
  The bosses are harder and require some finesse and timing to beat, lest they unleash vicious counterattacks. 
 While the boss fights are still fun and force you to use some tactics you may not use during the 
 normal levels, there are some cheap shots. As these opponents often require you to be defensive 
 and take your time, it can be tedious to discover they have an unblockable one-hit kill once they 
 get low on health after more than 5 minutes of play, or if you get close to them while they are 
 in a certain stance that it is an instant game over.
  
  What is most impressive about the bosses is their character. They are completely over the top, 
 but treated with equal measures of seriousness and enthusiasm that they are hard not to like. The 
 banter between Travis and his current ranked fighter are entertaining in an entirely silly, over 
 the top, way. They also break the fourth wall on the odd occasion, enough to be funny without being 
 overused, with Travis spouting lines like "Why didn't you tell me that earlier in the game?"
  
  All of these 'regular' missions are broken up by forays into Santa Destroy. After you finish 
 your first ranked match, you can start exploring an open world map on your anime inspired motorbike. 
 It costs money for the organisation to arrange the ranked matches, so the first thing you will 
 need to do is complete a job. All of the jobs are basically minigames which are pretty average; 
 the sort you don't mind playing once, but won't want to play again, but are so easy you will never 
 have to repeat them. Finishing a job unlocks assassination missions, which is where you will make 
 most of your money. Most of these are of the 'kill enough guys in the allotted time', but there 
 are some variations, such as killing a particular target surrounded by bodyguards in a short period 
 of time, or playing baseball to knock down baddies.
  
  It takes a few stages before everything becomes unlocked in Santa Destroy, such as a place to buy 
 and upgrade new katanas, and a trainer who is obsessed with the cleanliness of your behind. There 
 are also 'free fights' that unlock around Santa Destroy as time goes by, where the objective is 
 to take out all the enemies in the area without taking a single hit, and these can be challenging. 
 What let's Santa Destroy down is that you have to drive to each of these locations and it is pointless. 
 The game world in this area is sparse, handling and hit detection while on your bike is dodgy, 
 and there is no sense of speed or danger. While it is obvious the world is this way by design, 
 it still feels completely unnecessary, and I would have preferred a 2D map with a pointer so I 
 could click where I wanted to go next to save on an hour or two of wasted drive time. Lokiballs 
 are located around the map for you to collect which are used to learn new skills, as well as t-shirts 
 which you can change into at your motel, but these could have been integrated into the game in 
 other ways.
  
  While the game is not visually impressive on a technical level, it succeeds in presenting a unique 
 style. Characters look like the offspring of cel-shaded and anime characters and cutscenes are 
 delivered in an over-the-top manner. The sound is also great. Whenever you turn on your beam katana, 
 it reverberates through both your regular sound system and the Wii remote speaker and works very 
 well, as do the swishing sounds of your katana and the shouts by your opponents. The voicing is 
 excellent, with all the actors delivering their lines with gusto that fits their characters perfectly. 
 Travis screaming "Strawberry on the shortcake!" never failed to make me grin, and neither did Sylvia 
 ringing and teasing Travis exclusively through the Wii remote speaker, encouraging you to put it 
 up to your ear like an actual phone.
  
  Many of these visual and audio aspects are supported by 8-bit aesthetics, whether by a blending 
 of some simple graphics into the game world, or old-school midi samples for certain sound effects. 
 These aesthetics as well as the overall silliness might sound dubious, but the development team 
 has managed to pull it off.
  
  No More Heroes pulls off humour in a period of gaming where it is severely lacking, and managed 
 to make me laugh several times during the course of the game, and smiling throughout most of the 
 rest. Luckily the majority of the gameplay is also great and the combat feels effective and powerful. 
 There are a few tedious parts, but every mature Wii owner should at least try this game to experience 
 what is likely to be a one of a kind game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_addict92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is one of the best wii games out there!! Suda 51 most known for killer 7 has done 
 a great job with this mature Wii game. No More Heroes has a great look and feel to the game, a 
 cell shaded look really fits well with the awesome over the top gameplay and humor. You'll spend 
 most of your time killing baddies and working various jobs to cover the charge to join in the next 
 Assaination Job. You'll do everything from gathering coconuts to cutting grass to killing people. 
 This game is truly unique from your pompous main character Travis Touchdown to the other Top 10 
 Assasins to their henchmen. The fighting in this game comes down to a beat-em up type game with 
 some crazy moves and throws. You gain new moves by watching Travis' video collection in his apartment 
 and by petting his cat Jaene. All of Travis' clothes moves and suplexs can be customized to how 
 you like it. The fighting is fast and intesnse, you will often find yourself rediculosly outnumbered 
 and looking for any opurtunity to kill or stun an opponant. The boss battles are rediculos! All 
 of the the boss battles are over the top and fun to play. You fight any where like a vacation home 
 on the beach the subway and a baseball diamond where the henchmen throw baseballs and you have 
 to swing the Wiimote like a bat and hit it back to them to kill them. Above all, Suda 51's No More 
 Heroes is one of the best Wii games to date. From the over the top killing to cutting grass and 
 collecting coconuts to petting your cat, No More Heroes is a great game for any Wii owner. I highly 
 reccomend this game as a Wii owner and as a hardcore gamer!!!! 9.5/10!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mack2D2
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This game seemed so bland and simple and repetitious to me in the start that I almost went and 
 traded it in for something more my style... but something kept driving me to give it more time 
 instead of judging it off of only 5 minutes of play. Sure enough, once I gave it some time to develop 
 a minor storyline and allow for a few character upgrades, I was hooked. You'll hear people complain 
 about the simplicity of the city and how it seems barren and non-functional... and that's the point. 
 This isn't an adventure game, the city is there for minimal atmosphere, it's more function than 
 vanity. So who cares if there is no depth to the architecture, that is far from what the core of 
 this game is about. You may also hear people complain about how you use the A button to attack 
 and swing your sword, instead of actually flicking your wrist or swinging the wii-mote like you 
 would a sword. That's a foolish complaint, because once you really think about it, the control 
 system they've incorporated allows for more precision and tactics in deciding whether to attack/block 
 high or low.
  
  They to really enjoying this game and getting around town quickly, I think lies with cashing in 
 your Lovikov balls at the bar... and learning how to drift and properly use your turbo on the motorcycle. 
 The drawback of the Lovikov balls is that they are useless until you move up a rank or 3 on the 
 assassins list... so my advice? Play until you are moved up to at least rank 7 before passing any 
 final judgement on this game.
  
  Who I think would like this game even more than the average player: People who enjoy trying to 
 collection every item... there is an insane amount of t-shirts hidden in this game, and some of 
 them are really funny if you're able to get a close look at them. All of the lovikov balls that 
 allow you to get bonus skills are also hidden, I think there are 49 of them in all, maybe 42, I'm 
 unsure off the top of my head. Summed up, to REALLY beat this game 100.00% will take you some time, 
 and in the process you'll build up one helluva digital wardrobe. Being a fan of splattery gore 
 and adult language will also help you enjoy this game even further.
  
  Summed up: you won't have to think much, this isn't any type of puzzle game... although it does 
 take a little strategy with the boss/assassin fights. This is basically a straight forward action 
 title with a hint of smart ass satire towards video gamers... it's incredibly fun when truly given 
 an open minded chance... and much needed break from all these damn puzzle and music games the wii 
 keeps getting. I, for some reason, never listened to everyone saying that we should try this game, 
 etc etc... and simply got lucky at a pawn shop and figured I'd try it out. I am VERY thankful that 
 I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kayn83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  SUDA-51 is a love it or hate it developer. I for one hated Killer 7 but after watching gameplay 
 videos of No More Heroes, my interest of his new title grew on me. When I managed to pick up this 
 game, I was not disappointed.
  
  No More Heroes stars the eccentric Travis Touchdown. A stereotypical nerd with obsessions of women, 
 wrestling and Japanese cartoons (kind of like Otacon without a conscious) who stumbles upon a light 
 saber ripoff he purchased off the internet. He then enters a tournament to become the world's greatest 
 assassin and has to kill 11 people to achieve that feat.
  
  The story is crazy but that is part of the charm. No More Heroes is a game that meshes everything 
 new and old about video games while throwing in some quasi-Tarantino gore. Even with some technical 
 issues, this creates something so unique you can't help but enjoy it. 
  
  Being a Wii title, the game demands some Wiimote action. People expecting to use the Wiimote directly 
 to cotnrol the sword will be disappointed to find out this is not the case. Instead, the Wiimote 
 is used to perform finishing slashes and wrestling moves in the heat of combat. I felt this was 
 a smart move from a design standpoint because there would inevitably be some hurt wrists if the 
 game had you waving the Wiimote like a maniac (you'd also look pretty stupid.) 
  
  The combat itself is pretty simplistic since its primarily composed of mashing the attack button 
 juxtaposed with grab attacks but it rarely feels repetitive. This is because Travis will slash 
 enemies in half, blood spewing and body parts flying. There is something so visceral and satisfying 
 in it that I found myself giggling like a school girl every time I chopped enemies in two.
  
  Since being an Assassin requires money (for some reason) , the Wiimote is also used in the various 
 minigames that allow Travis to earn enough cash for the next ranked Assassin fight. Travis will 
 do strange tasks like cutting lawns or finding cats. Surprisingly, they are actually fun because 
 of the solid motion controls and you do not need to complete them copious amounts of time. This 
 never makes you feel like your grinding for cash when you could be cutting heads off.
  
  To get around places you ride a pretty awesome looking bike. Unfortunately, the open world setting 
 is a tad questionable. This is because it really didn't need to exist as the game could have been 
 done in a fairly decent. You can customize Travis from his looks, his skills to even his weapon 
 and it allows you to accomplish various other tasks in between the major fights.
  
  Speaking of major fights, this is where the game shines. Players will need to figure out the boss' 
 strategies and use their attacks to successfully defeat them. They are always unique and they are 
 also a lot of fun. They also always end in brutal cutscenes which just can't help but make you 
 squirm. Its really a sight to behold. 
  
  Another area where No More Heroes succeeds is in its presentation. The game features 8-bit style 
 menus and sound bytes giving a very old-school look and feel. Combined with the "new-school" Wiimote 
 controls, the game meshes both the old and new and helps to add to its charm. There's something 
 very nostalgic about it and I really liked that aspect.
  
  Graphically the game has a weak framerate and there's a lot of pop-up in the open world environments. 
 The unique cel-shaded visuals are nice from an artistic standpoint but its a shame the game doesn't 
 hold up as well technically. 
  
  The sound on the other hand is enjoyable, from good voice acting to retro sound bytes, I actually 
 enjoyed what my ears were hearing. Some moments are also laugh out loud funny from the dialogue 
 that like the game itself is over the top ridiculous. The sword slashes also sound quite brutal 
 and I can't help but enjoy Travis' quips while killing enemies.
  
  Out of this review this is a game which features gore, nostalgic menus, sword fighting, wrestling 
 moves, good Wiimote controls, a badass bike, awesome boss fights and hilarious voice acting. How 
 can you not like this, honestly.
  
  Sure the game has some graphical blemishes and rather uninteresting open world structure but considering 
 what I mentioned, does this really matter? If you're a Wii owner get this game now. You really 
 don't know what you're missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dymond7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 1:10 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Extremly addicting and fun, you'd think it would get boring, but it never does, and me 
 finishing the game in 2 months explains it.
  
  10/10
  
  Graphics: one of the minor problems of this game is the graphics, it doesn't compare to games like 
 Corruption or Galaxy on the Wii, it's kind of a mix between Gamecube graphics and Wii graphics, 
 although it still is has some sweet graphics.
  
  8/10
  
  Story: It's very good, it has lots of twists and turns and unexpected things happens a lot, there 
 is no way you arent going to like it.
  
  10/10
  
  
  Basically, this game is one of the best Wii game, definatly in the top 5 Wii games, so I reccomend 
 anyone who doesn't own it on the Wii to get it, although I'll admit, after beating the game, it 
 get's a little bit easy, but still fun, a lot of people say that it has no replay value but that's 
 not true, I beat the game 3 times and I love it, although I finished the game 3 times on one savefile, 
 so all in all I have 33 hours in this game, so it basically takes about 10 hours to beat, but you'll 
 need another 10 hours to beat it and unlock everything.
  
  Buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dxnets
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  The concept is fairly simple: you have a beam katana (light saber) and you go out to kill the 10 
 top assassins of the world in order to become number 1... why? Becasue some hot girl asked you too 
 (i DID say he was a nerd) . 
  
  You play as Travis Touchdown, a nerdy, anime-obsessed guy with a small cat and a poster of what 
 looks like Sailor Moon meets Strawberry Shrotcake... anyway, you end up buying a light saber online 
 and killing the number 11 assassin in the world. The game is very simple... each assassin you kill, 
 you get his rank. To kill the assassin, the Assassoin's Association will ask you to pay a small 
 nominal fee starting at $150,000 which, after each of the 10 fights, increases. To earn money, 
 you can do jobs at the job center, such as collecting coconuts and mowing the lawn. Then, if you 
 want shadier and higher-paying jobs, you go to K-Entertainment and they will give you challenges 
 or assassination missions. 
  
  In game, you have the freedom to visit a scientist who gives you newer, better, beam katanas, train 
 at a gym to improve strength, combos, stamina, etc., buy clothes, or just stay at home and play 
 with your cat all day. 
  
  When doing the actual story/ranking battles, you have to, of course, pass through countless goons 
 to get to the boss. The bosses are all unique, powerful, and amazingly fun to kill.
  
  You slash the katana with the A button, as oppsed to preconcieved notins that the wii-remote will 
 act as the katana, and you can stun enemies with the B button. After stunning an enemy, just press 
 the B button again, and you will do a wrestling move by following the on-screen God of War-type 
 wii-remote and nunchuk direction signals. After depleeting an enemy's helath, you can finish him 
 off by moving the wii-remote in the on-screen direction. 
  
  In short... this game is AWESOME! Lots of action, a great story, and, not to mention, bloody and 
 mature, suggestive things. On the Wii, to boot! It is a must-have for any Wii owner who likes action 
 and a little comedy/suggestive themes, if you know what i mean :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTRGRZA
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is the latest game developed By Goichi Suda, aka SUDA 51. His latest game was Killer7 
 for the GCN and PS2. If there's one thing I learnt from that game is that Suda is the Tarantino 
 of game makers. With No More Heroes, he has improved himself in almost every way from this last 
 game. The game takes place in the fictional town of Santa Destroy, California. The main character 
 is Travis Touchdown, an otaku (anime geek) who has realized every Star Wars fan dream, owning a 
 lightsaber. OK, they call it a Beam Katana, but it's basically the same thing. When he encounters 
 a mysterious frenchwoman named Sylvia Christel, he is offered a job: kill a "drifter". After the 
 job's done, he finds himself ranked as the 11th greatest assassin of an organization known as the 
 United Assassins Association. Now, Travis must take defend his name by taking out the number of 
 assassins ranked above him to become number one.
  If you ever played Killer7, you'll know this game is set in a dimension very different to our own. 
 The main difference from both games is that NMH is an open world. You're free to go wherever you 
 want in this city. The main part of the game involves Travis cutting down through row after row 
 of enemies with his mighty sword to get to the assassin boss. The game mechanics simplistic, but 
 at the same time, satisfying. Press A to swing your sword by building combos. Depending on the 
 position you hold the remote, you'll strike high or low. When an enemy's life bar is empty, a directional 
 cue will appear onscreen. Nail it and Travis will finish his opponent in one strike, rewarding 
 you with a fountain of blood and coins. The B button is used for physical attacks. When an enemy 
 is paralyzed, press A to trigger a series of directional cues for the nunchuck and remote. If you 
 get it right, Travis will execute a luchador style move. Every time you kill an enemy, a roulette 
 starts spinning. If you get three matching symbols, Travis gains superpowers that increase his 
 death-bringing abilities, whch vary from slowing down time to one strike kills to giant explosions. 
 The combat never gets old and is always fun. When you get to the boss, the game's story really 
 comes to life. Each one is beautifully crafted with their own unique psychotic personality, bringing 
 true intimidation to every **** These include a detective, an african-american schoolgirl, a magician, 
 and even a superhero that fires lasers from his crotch. When you complete each fight, Santa Destroy 
 is yours to explore. To proceed to the next fight, you must come up with a sum of money to cover 
 an entry fee. For that, Travis must take up some oddjobs. Each one of these is performed by a simple 
 minigame, each making good use of the wiimote with their own unique mechanics and gestures. After 
 that, you can take on a small assassination mission. When you have the money, the next assassin 
 will wait for you. There's still plenty of other things to do in town. You can visit a sexy scientist 
 to upgrade your katana, buy new clothes for Travis, increase your strength, and learn new techniques. 
 What I like about the game is that it sucks you in. The story is full of so much imagination. You 
 really get the idea that the developers had fun while making the game. It seems that they never 
 rejected any goofy idea and it still worked. Plus, it's so unpredicatble, there's a twist around 
 every corner. But the game is still not perfect. You'll often find yourself with tons of graphical 
 glitches and run into invisible walls. Also, the camera can get a bit frantic in tight corners. 
 And the use of random elements in combat doesn't leave any room for strategy. But anyway, what 
 this game has that a lot of games today lack is imagination, which instantly makes it a wii must 
 buy. If you're a grown-up wii owner looking to spill some blood, this is a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotreat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  its what wii owners were waiting for and it sure is worth the weight, this game does not disappoint.
 
  The first thing you will notice is the odd style every thing in the game is shell shape and their 
 is a ton of odd shapes. 
  the city is big but their is almost nothing to do besides ride your bike around, and their is tons 
 of Poppins if you walk two feet away from some one they will start moving, and the frame rate droops 
 lots of time.
  But the combat and story make up for it, the combat is smooth and fun but very fast although it 
 can get reptive. 
  You play as Travis touchdown and this girl asked you to join a bloody game where you must kill 
 12 assassins and be number one, and their lots of twists in the story. 
  Issues aside no more heroes is one great game that you should check out though it only takes about 
 12 hours to complete, this is a must buy if your looking for a great action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheEndBoss
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is a unique, one-of-a-kind game and one of the few decent M-rated Wii games. I wanted 
 to like it for those reasons, and I assume those reasons are responsible for the game's good reviews 
 despite there being a fairly ridiculous amount of things wrong with it. Just because it's an M-rated 
 Wii game or because it has some artistic merit doesn't mean the game's screw-ups are excusable. 
 In short, this review is different from most of the others out there.
  
  To start off with, the game goes wrong in the very beginning with its main character, Travis Touchdown. 
 He's easily one of the most unlikable main characters ever created simply because his arrogance 
 is so thick it could be cut with a knife. He displays an uncaring attitude throughout the entire 
 game toward most characters. And considering he kills quite few of them, the question is raised: 
 what's wrong with him? This is something the game's story never explores, and aside from several 
 excellent plot twists the narrative is mediocre. Travis is simply trying to kill ten much more 
 likable assassins so he can be called the best of the best. While failing to be compelling and 
 to produce a likable main character, the story also fails to produce humor. IT seems the development 
 team decided to rely on tasteless jokes that seem out of place and vulgar, unfunny innuendos. It's 
 a shame, too, because at some moments No More Heroes can be deviously clever. It's a mystery why 
 cleverness wasn't used more as opposed to failed attempts at humor.
  
  The theme of No More Heroes' gameplay is bloody, violent killing. Travis uses a lightsab... er, 
 beam katana to fulfill his most brutal dreams of murder along with some wrestling moves that seem 
 useless by comparison. And as satisfying as it is to swing the Wii remote to decapitate the two 
 (yes, there are only two) enemy types, the game quickly falls into repetition. Why? Because before 
 every boss battle Travis has to wade through a mass of opponents who either charge at him blindly 
 or attack from afar and run away whenever he gets too close. And odds are that 95% will be defeated 
 in the same way: locking on with the Z button and mashing A to swing the katana. Sadistically satisfying 
 swing of the Wii remote to finish off each opponent aside, combat is boring.
  
  Boss battles quickly fall into a pattern of "find the opening", but they're particularly interesting 
 because of how unique each assassin's fighting style is. The problem, though, is not with the boss 
 fights but what comes after them. Travis is returned to his hometown of Santa Destroy after each 
 one, and it's an open world that makes all the fourth-rate Grand Theft Auto knock-offs feel good 
 about themselves. Causing mayhem is what keeps open worlds fun after the initial thrill of freedom 
 fades. Unfortunately there are few pedestrians, one ramp, Travis' motorcycle flips at the slightest 
 collision, and the vehicle handles poorly. WIthout any actual fun, Santa Destroy is seen for what 
 it really is: the terrible filler between levels to make the game longer.
  
  Maybe that isn't quite fair, because normal jobs like mowing the lawn are strangely fun. These 
 are undertaken at the town's job center, one of the few locations. The goal of returning to Santa 
 Destroy is to raise enough cash to enter the next fight, which is accomplished through taking jobs. 
 The fun, ordinary jobs pay decently but not well enough, forcing the higher-paying assassination 
 missions to be played. Unfortunately, they're all repetitive garbage that are all very similar 
 to one another.
  
  But maybe I'm going at this all wrong. Maybe No More Heroes isn't meant to be a polished, well-crafted 
 game. Maybe it's meant to be a messy, thrown-together experience. But then again, what's the point 
 in playing a game like that?
  
  No More Heroes isn't all bad, though. In its own disastrous way, the game is actually a little 
 fun (combat, that is, not the open world) . And because of how strange the whole thing is, the game 
 is worth seeing through to the very end. It's a bit like a train wreck: disastrous yet strangely 
 compelling. And with all these good reviews by the gaming community, maybe some people can find 
 it in themselves to overlook the tragic flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Durhamster
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  The story, though bizarre, is ironically better written then just about every story line on any 
 other title you'll find on the Wii. You're Travis Touchdown, a pop culture obsessed reject who 
 buys a beam katana (lightsaber) off the internet and aims to be the top assassin in the United 
 States. Sounds like a stupid plot you say? Well so is an Italian Plumber rescuing a Princess from 
 a monkey that throws barrels and wears a neck tie.
  
  In order to rise to the top you must fight through 10 very unique and colorful boss battles. In 
 between each mission you can take side jobs and side assassination missions. The side jobs range 
 from capturing lost kittens to picking up scorpions with a stick. As ridiculous as it sounds it 
 is surprisingly fun. They make good use of the Wii remote controls, better then the driving controls 
 for Travis's bike. Which brings me to the "open world". Traveling around the city has a Grand Theft 
 Auto feel to it, but you only get to drive Travis's bike, which by the way is the most kickass 
 bike ever to come out of a video game. The free open world is really not all the open after all. 
 It's just the means in which you go from one mission to the next or to the side missions, clothing 
 shop, and other little shops through out the city of Santa Destroy. But just because it isn't open 
 doesn't mean it isn't any good.
  
  AS for the combat. It's a hack n' slash game, at it's core but unlike 95% of all hack n' slash 
 type action games, it doesn't get all that repetitive. You hit the A button to attack and slash 
 the Wii remote down/up, or left/right to do the finishing blow, which sends gallons of blood spraying 
 everywhere. Theres also blocking and wrestling moves you can perform as well. A nice part about 
 the combat system is that all the money each opponent you kill drops, automatically goes to you. 
 Theres no anonying redundant coin collecting in this game. My only problem with the combat system 
 is that after each kill Travis has a random chance to get super powers for a brief amount of time. 
 It's a nice touch but I found that most of the time when I would get Super Powers it would be from 
 the last enemy in the room, but that's just from my experience.
  
  This game is rated M for a reason. The language and mature themes are not for the children under 
 age 17 that make up for the majority of the Wii's audience but, if you don't fall in that category, 
 would like something new and you're already tired of Wii Sports and Super Smash Bros. by all means 
 pick this one up. I bought it new in Oregon for $25 and I have to say, it was the best 25 bucks 
 I have ever invested in my Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael0134567
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  Story: You are Travis Touchdown. You are trying to become the #1 ranked assasin. You have to kill 
 the top 10 ranked assasins to become #1. The person setting up the matches for you is Sylvia Christel. She 
 constantly taunts Travis with her feminine "stuff" leaving him dry. The story is very entertaining 
 and fun and funny to watch. The rest of the story is up to you to figure out. Story=10/10
  
  Controls and Gameplay: Excellent and very responsive. You swing your beam katana with A, you can hold 
 down A to charge up your beam katana and do a powerful attack. You move around with the control 
 stick on the Nunchuk. The control pad on the Wii Remote moves the camera around. There are basically 
 2 parts of the game in there,1) The fighting and 2) driving around Santa Destroy. Driving around 
 Santa Destroy is solid, but far from perfect, the hit collision detection is rather lackluster. Theres 
 lots of stuff to collect around Santa Destroy such as T-Shirts and much more. Controls and Gameplay=10/10
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics in No More Heroes are very good and very stylish. The graphics are cartoony 
 and won't appeal to everyone, but I love the graphics. The characters looks fantastic, but in Santa 
 Destroy, you'll notice some pop-in on some building, but other than that, it looks fantastic. Graphics=9.5/10
 
  
  Sound: The sound in No More Heroes is superb, the voice acting is awesome and hearing the sound of 
 your beam katana in your Wii remote is cool. This game has lots of swearing. Sound=10/10
  
  Value: No More Heroes has lots of value, there is over 100 T-Shirts to collect, over 100 trading cards 
 and more. This game you'll probably find at $30 in most stores. But for that price, you're getting 
 a alot of stuff your money. Value=10/10
  
  Overall: No More Heroes is an excellent and one of the best games on Wii. It's one of most unique 
 games in years. This game is certainly not for kids due to its strong language, plentiful blood and 
 violence and its sexual stuff.
  Overall Score:10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guntrix50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The controls are simple, yet exciting. With an array of wrestling moves, the gameplay 
 is exciting and doesn't get old very quick at all. The boss battles are especially fun.
  
  Graphics- The graphics of this game are a bit of a disappointment. It has a great "art style," 
 but overall, the graphics need to be more detailed. There is no definition in the blood at all. 
 The characters look alright, except for the chunky hair.
  
  Story- This story is definitely worth playing for. At first it's like "Oh, whatever" but you're 
 in for a surprising ending. Even after that surprising ending, there is another secret ending, 
 which will surprise you furthermore.
  
  Overall, No More Heroes is a fun game and is definitely a game worthy to be inserted into your 
 Wii console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skippyj9
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 24, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes has some truly effed up bosses that are the shining part of the game. The boss fights 
 are fun and genuinely intense. If the boss fights are the high points of the game, the low points 
 are the motorcycle open-world parts, which, unfortunately are as common and longer than the boss-fights. 
 Bugginess in the open-world is so astounding that it's obvious no to little attention was given 
 to it and the game would be much better off without it.
  
  The story is razzie caliber. It's straightforward and when twists do show up they always come in 
 the form of a character that the game pretends you knew about all along (which you didn't) showing 
 up and then getting killed three seconds later. The storytelling is lazy and I wish I could say 
 that about the writing. Some of the lines Travis has in cutscenes made me truly embarassed to be 
 playing the game, they are that awfully corny (and not in a good way) .
  
  Suda is a game creator who likes to bring his games down to a level where things don't need to 
 make sense, they just need to look cool and be fun much like arcade games of the 80s. This approach 
 worked way better with Killer7 (a masterpiece) and ends up making No More Heroes look childish 
 and boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bornabuckeye
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 24, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  Best violent game on wii if thats your gig
  Graphics are different but cool at same time
  sand box
  
  Cons
  Sand box
  story 
  
 
  
  No more heroes has to be the most unique game on the market. You are either going to love it or 
 hate it, simple as that.
  
  The reason i listed the sand box twice is because having a game where one can explore a world will 
 appeal to someone who is salivating for a GTA game, but there is absolutely nothing to do in the 
 city really outside the story so it just makes the game longer by endlessly traveling around.
 
  
  The design of the game is definately unique, but good. I graphics and the world are like nothing 
 else you have ever seen before and a must experience.
  
  The control scheme is great and a joy to play. Slashing gallons of blood out of endless enimes 
 never gets old. 
  
  Problem here is the story never really makes any sense and after a couple bosses you have pretty 
 much expirienced everything that you will. 
  
  This game is a must try, but only if bought used or rented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tupaschoal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes, as the title says, is different of other games. The main character Travis Touchdown 
 is kinda otaku and has the objective to be the number 1 in Santa Destroy City and for this he'll 
 have to kill all the 10 ranked fighters. Associated with a handsome girl that he would like to 
 see naked, he earn money to pay for ranked fights and grow up on the city. A mix of Star Wars weapons 
 and wrestling moves in fights can make it quite cool. Besides that there are a lot of things to 
 do to: win money, like normal jobs (Coconut Collector) or Assassination Jobs (Kill more in a certain 
 time or kill the right person) . You spent this money working out to gain strenght and others, to 
 buy a bunch of clothes, to upgrade your weapon or even to buy tapes to learn more moves. CG's are 
 quite nice, you'll laugh alone sometimes, with mainly characters sayings or with side job's characters 
 ideology. If you aren't in Europe the game is 'highly blooded' so take care not to play in front 
 of your little brother or sister. After all I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karatedude007
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  This is a very good and creative game. I will come out of the open and say this is not a long game. 
 Its very short. You are a assassin named Travis Touchdown. He has to get up in the ranks to become 
 the number one assassin. You start off the game fighting the first assassin Death Metal. Each of 
 the bosses are very creative and each have there own fighting style and weapon. Your weapon is 
 a beam katana. Basicly a light saber. You are fighting through many bosses with the help of a mysterious 
 organization and a girl named Siliva. I think the story is very creative. The battle system is 
 just running around and slashing things. The attacks get old, but every time you kill someone it 
 is so satasfying. Between the ranked fights when you are in the town it gets dull and boring. This 
 game is not for everyone. If you have little kids this game has lots of lanugage. This game has 
 great humor. This game is worth the 30 dollar price tag. Depending on the type of game you enjoy. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  The Story of this game your trying to get your way up the ranks to be the greatest assassin, and 
 so you go on a killing spree with your Lazer Beam sword, and your just chopping all of these guys 
 in suits that are trying to stop you from getting to the Boss at the end of the level.
  
  The only really problem with this game is trying to find the next fight, but other then that I 
 think the Story is really great and enjoable, And also I can say is that this game really takes 
 it to the Bloodiest level, I have ever seen on the Wii, and the Controls are really great too, 
 I really am wondering if they are going to come out with a 2nd No More Heros, if so maybe have 
 a Muti-player mode, or something.
  
  Other then that This game is a really great game to let all of your anger out with, if your mad 
 at someone then I think this game would make you very happy after you fully done with this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeybladeMasta93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Ok the only bad thing to say about this game is that it's a little bit to short. Otherwise now 
 its proabably the best game ive played on the wii so far besides smash bros brawl and mario galaxy. 
 What could be more fun then mutilating bad guys with a beam sword by an anime loving, wrestling 
 fanatic. Much blood and gore can keep anybodys attention for a long time. With other activities 
 to do in the mean time while you raise money to take on the next big assassination job, you can 
 do little assassination jobs... or you can mow a lawn or sweep mines on the beach. Tired of your 
 outfit, buy a new one from a range of i think about 50 shirts and 30 jeans an 6 sunglasses. Change 
 the beam katana too if you want a much stronger one, believe me they get much cooler looking as 
 you go. So basically in a nutshell this game is just so amazing i think anybody who owns a Wii 
 should pick this up if they dont already have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  No More Heroes is simply one of the most unique games out there, and it also gets a badge for being 
 an over-the-top gorefest that feels really good.
  
  You are Travis Touchdown, a man who is strapped for cash so he decides to become an assassin. He 
 kills, and kills and kills until he gets 11th place in the top assassins chart. This then gets 
 him motivated to go up the ranks and become a Pokemon master, err, I mean, the #1 assassin.
  
  Accompanying you after every eventful match is sexy Frenchie Sylvia. She would taunt you with 
 her sultry charm and then blow you off in different, frequently humorous, ways.
  
  Enough about that, though, let's get on with the gameplay.
  
  Basically, you use the nunchuk's 
 analog to walk, the A button to slash, B to throw and the motion controls for finishing moves. 
 Yes, it's really that easy, but there's much more to it. Some times, you could be executing some 
 different wrestling moves, while in another you could be blasting enemies off into space in what 
 I call, Super Saiyan mode (which is earned when that jackpot-from-nowhere gets a match) . All of 
 this involves both button-mashing and mild waggling, and they're all executed to great, responsive 
 effect.
  
  All of those attacks you do with the beam katana, which is practically a light saber. Use it too 
 much, though, and you'll get the batteries drained. You can of course, charge this by pressing 
 the 1 button in the Wii remote and waggling as fast as possible (and frankly, see him do something 
 really suggestive) , or get an item.
  
  As if the game wasn't quirky enough, there are bosses who sing, dance, and even do magic! All of 
 them can be defeated quite easily enough because they're not particularly hard, but these guys 
 have some really cool cutscenes that hit you in a really dramatic effect that you'll even be intimidated! 
 Simply put, the developers put much, much thought into the boss battles, and them alone can really 
 put much viability for a purchase!
  
  There are also several minigames that are in the cover of assassination jobs and simply, jobs, 
 that you apply for to raise money for the next boss battle. The jobs are really fun to do, and 
 that's because they make real good use of the Wiimote's motion sensing. You'll mow lawns, check 
 for mines and shake palm trees to get coconuts!
  
  As for the assassination jobs, they're also really fun to do, and actually feels a bit like GTA 
 for some reason. For example, there will be hordes of subordinates when you have to kill just one 
 person, etc., and there will be times when some of the jobs put a sort of twist into them (e. g., 
 killing everybody using wrestling moves, killing everybody without getting hit even once, etc.) .
 
  
  They are all really well-crafted diversions, especially if you want to get ready for the next boss 
 battle.
  
  There is also a lot of customization and bonus content here as well. You can change clothes, accessories, 
 and even buy some movies!
  
  Plus, you can upgrade your beam katana, exercise in the gym and upgrade your stats overall.
  
 
  If this sounds a bit like GTA, it's probably because it also employs some sandboxing, but it's 
 not really much. I mean, you could remove these scenes where you would navigate to a specific place 
 and you'd still be able to get the full experience! And the bad thing is that you have to endure 
 these idle times of driving when you fail a mission. Always.
  
  It should be noted that, although the game is really, really enjoyable, unstable frame rates mar 
 the experience. OK, maybe most of the time I don't mind it, but if I'm killing like 100 people 
 stuck into the screen at the same time, it become all Matrix speed on you, and it's pretty annoying!
 
  
  There's not much to be said about the graphics, but the presentation of it is pretty decent and 
 unique as well. I mean, there is even a lot of 8-bit elements put into play such as the menu screens 
 and the life meter. But maybe that's just an indication that the developers KNEW that the graphics 
 aren't really meant to showcase a powerhouse.
  
  Overall, No More Heroes is DEFINITELY the game people were wanting for a very long time, which 
 is a mature one. It delivers with deliciously funny dialogue, humorous, almost B-movie like comedic 
 subtleties, as well as the really epic boss battles. Bottom line, if you've got a Wii, buy it. 
 NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmkkbb
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 4, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  Poor and overrated are the words coming to my mind once I've played to this mediocre game. The 
 fighting sequences are repetitive and boring and the system of slashing in the direction the arrow 
 tells you is just silly. What can I say of the moments riding the motorbike... They are terrible, 
 the way you crash, the way you hit people... 
  The city is far away from being credible... and the mini games in between bosses... hahahaha... 
 I thought it was a joke... I had to recollect cocos!!!! 
  Mmm... well, after all I think is the part I enjoyed the most...
  
  Anyway; I guess this game 
 is not my kind and I suppose there may be people who enjoy it, but it's not my case. Fortunately 
 I did not buy it just rent it, everybody is talking so good about No more heroes that I could have 
 fallen in the mistake of buying it without trying first. Do not believe the reviews you read (including 
 this) , just try the game before wasting your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wassup432
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Here is my review for No More Heroes:
  
  Pros:
  -Combat is very fun
  -You get a free roaming city
  -Side missions are fun
  
  Cons:
  -Graphics are really horrible
 
  -The free roaming is limited
  -Gets repetive
  
  Story:
  You play as Travis Touchdown, the protagonist of the game. He is an otaku (anime freak) who is 
 hired to be an assasin. It started when he met a chick at the bar. Travis liked her and she signed 
 Travis up for the UAA (United Assasins Association) . Travis killed some assasins and now, he is 
 ranked 10th best assasin. More assasins are after Travis now and to stop them, Travis must be number 
 1. The story is very well laid out and unique but there are parts that could confuse you. Overall, 
 the story did a good job. 9/10
  
  Gameplay:
  The most important part of a video game. The game is like a GTA free roam and hack and slash action. 
 You get a beam katana and you can upgrade them throughout the game. Also, you can perform wrestling 
 moves to take down enemies. The action is the best part of the game but gets repetive. Most of 
 the side missions are fun and enjoyable and sometimes, combat changes. The free roaming isn't that 
 great. Sure you could run people over but you can't really attack outside of combat unless you 
 stab your sword in the grass. There are several unlockables so if you are a perfectionist, this 
 game is for you. Aside from the repetiveness, the game is still fun to play. Now for the length 
 of the game. If you want to do all the side missions and other minor things, then the game takes 
 a while to beat. It takes about 10-20 hours to complete the story once. Once you are done, you 
 can replay the game to get even more unlockables. Overall, the gameplay suceeds. 9/10
  
  Graphics:
  Ok, this is where the game lacks. It uses cell shaded graphics. There is too much 
 shading on the characters and enviroment and the city doesn't look really nice. Character models 
 are nothing special and don't look that great. Aside from the textures and models, the blood in 
 the game is not bad at all. It is actually kind of nice. Also, the beam katanas look nice and Travis's 
 apartment isn't really a diaster. If more time was invested on the character models and textures, 
 then the graphics would be perfect. Overall, graphics are decent. 8/10
  
  Sound:
  The beam katanas sound like lightsabers. That is cool. Background music is nice to listen to and 
 the little combat theme is addicting and never gets old. The voice acting is excellent and top 
 notch. The sounds of blood are spot on and sound effects are wonderful. The sound is one on the 
 perfect aspects of this game. 10/10
  
  Value:
  This game should be about 30 dollars in stores today. Action fans will get a kick out of this unique 
 adventure so it is a must buy for the Wii. It can also be a good rental but the repetiveness tones 
 down the value a little. Overall, this is a good title to buy or rent. 9/10
  
  Tilt:
  With few mistakes, No More Heroes is still a great game. Sure it's repetive and the textures are 
 mediocre but you could have enough fun playing it over and over again. This is one of the Wii's 
 best titles to date. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Jeremy-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? This is one of if not the best Wii games ever made. No More Heroes throws in this 
 immersive world of insanity and assassination. You start off as Travis Touchdown who got caught 
 up with this girl in some bar. She has you doing these assassinations. Once you've finished the 
 first one you must go on. The game as a simple gameplay system. You tap the button and then wave 
 the Wii-Mote to finish them off. It is very simple but it is great at the same time. You will go 
 through hordes of enemies.
  
  Graphics are whatever. I don't even care really. This game is great. They are sort of a combination 
 of cel-shaded and artistic graphics. They look great for this game. Blood just splatters and it 
 just looks so awesome! 
  
  I can't say much. I could go into sooo much detail but I would rather just tell you to go out and 
 buy this. Be warned that if you can't handle crazy video games, don't buy this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fernan17893
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  
  To tell you the truth I didn't want to play this game. It looked like a normal form of entertainment 
 to me. But after a play through I have to say, i really enjoyed this game. And its all the better 
 because I got it by a fortunate mistake I made. See a friend recommended this game to me a while 
 back so i added it to my gamefly queue but left it in the end of the list, I was about to remove 
 because i really didn't care much for the game. But fortunately I forgot. I got the game through 
 the mail, and since I had not used my Wii in months I played it. And to my surprise the game was 
 great. The game features some of the greatest controls Ive seen in a Wii game, where you just simply 
 use the B button to stun enemies and the A button to slice em' up. After a chain of combos an arrow 
 appears on the screen move the wiimote in the direction of the arrow and the enemies will be cut 
 in half or beheaded. And the combat would lead you to think it'll get repetitive but it doesn't, 
 sometimes some fun minigames come in like swinging your wiimote to hit a flaming baseball and kill 
 your enemies. The game focuses on your rise in assasin ranks as you go from #11 to #1, and in order 
 to fight an assasin you must do side jobs until you get the required money to pay the fee to fight 
 your next higher ranking assasin. Not even the side quest get repetitve which feature a class system 
 which is judge by the jobs you've done and your'e skill in them. All this featuring character clothing, 
 funny dialogue, a cool story, and some awesome boss fights make this a must have for wii owners. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrcwood
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I was reali hyped for this game! but it was a real let down!
  
  Game play; Well first off y the hell is the A button the attack button! this is for the Wii! u 
 can't use the remote as the light sabre copy right thing! That poo! i was so mad at that i just 
 fell out with the game lol but another thing i didn't like was its arcadey! missions done in stages? 
 very dated! the AI is poo! the controls are dodgey! not good!
  
  Graphics; theirs very good! i like cell shaded looks cool only nintendo could pull that off :)
 
  
  Other; its a funny game for adults reali lol onli good thing! U can free roam on ur bike which 
 is fun for a while. 
  
  Wii feature; u do use the remote for some things in the game like recharing ur sword which looks 
 like ur jerking it off lol was funni u also move it up n down to change ur sword stance but its 
 poo reali.
  
  but i don't like this game total let down! so u like repeative easy basic beat them up games give 
 it a shot!
  
  cwood249 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaphack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: A+ graphics, all the character models are developed smoothly and evenly. But there is 
 a hell of a lot of shadowing in this game, if your wearing a dark T-shirt and Travis leans forward, 
 you won't see the T-shirt anymore. A lot of stuff in the game, like icons, are all in pixel form 
 giving the game an old school gaming twist. Which is just the coolest thing ever.
  
  SOUND: I love the music this game, it has a sort of old school feel to it, while also feeling a 
 bit like modern music. When you kill someone you can hear them scream their famous last words. 
 Such as "Mommy!" or "My spleen!!" Its hilarious and I could listen to it all day long.
  
  CONTROL: The controls for this game are great and I see no flaws in any of them. They all respond 
 great, not slippery or anything. But having a choice between pressing A to swing the katana or 
 swinging the remote, would have given it a much more realistic feel (and damaged a few more TVs) .
 
  
  REPLAY VALUE: This game's replay value is unbelievable. Its like Resident Evil 4, you don't know 
 why, but you just wanna play it over and over and over again. I've beaten it 5 times already. There's 
 two different endings so your gonna want to see both of them.
  
  COMMENTS: I recommend this game to anyone with a taste for blood and gore (not necessarily in the 
 literal sense) , because there's a lot of it in this game. I feel bad for people who live in Japan 
 or Europe though. They got the censored version where there is no blood, all the enemies just turn 
 to pixie dust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scaifism
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 23, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  If I came across a game that had a heavily shaded, anime-inspired art style and lightsabers that 
 removed heads from shoulders in a fountain of blood that more than likely made the main character's 
 dry-cleaning bill shoot up by several thousand dollars, I'd have thought I was in for a treat. 
 Well, sadly enough, that's what I thought when I first purchased No More Heroes and played through 
 it once, finding out that the game was no treat at all, and instead a repetitive yet stylish mess 
 being passed off by so many others as a great game. No More Heroes is not a great game, and its 
 uniqueness is all that keeps it in the category of an "okay game".
  
  The game began promisingly enough as the main character, an arrogant and otherwise unlikable nerd 
 laughably named Travis Touchdown, explained to me how a woman would climb into bed with him if 
 he killed the highest ranked assassins in the United States of America. His weapons of choice were 
 a "beam katana" about this close to a lawsuit and a variety of pro wrestling moves. Then he promptly 
 beheaded two bodyguards and the game began.
  
  Actually playing No More Heroes was where things went downhill. About half the game revolved around 
 combat with the beam katana or wrestling moves. In other words, mashing the A button until an arrow 
 popped up and swinging the Wii remote in that direction to decapitate the enemy in some way, or 
 pressing B if stars were above the opponent's head to perform a wrestling move. Things like high 
 and low moves gave the illusion that there was some depth to the combat, and I suppose it could 
 be played strategically that way, but button mashing got the job done just as well. Until the game 
 actually decided to mix things up in the last two levels, this was all I found myself doing on 
 the way to a boss battle. I won't say the combat wasn't satisfying, since the sheer brutality of 
 it all ensured that it was, but its novelty wore off not even a quarter of the way through the 
 game. It didn't help that all of the enemies I fought were basically brain-dead and waiting for 
 their turn to be cut into little bits of meat. To make matters worse, there were only two types 
 of enemies: ranged and close-combat, all dressed up in different skins for each level to make it 
 seem like I was facing new opponents but all fighting exactly the same (if they chose to fight 
 at all) .
  
  The boss battles were a bit better, since they were composed of some very colorful psychopath waiting 
 for their turn to unleash some crazy attacks. And while they were enjoyable, boss battles suffered 
 from the same repetition. They all fought differently but were all beaten the same way: finding 
 or creating an opening and then attacking as much as I could until the boss could magically block 
 all my attacks again, then repeating the cycle. But in defense of these little duels, many of the 
 boss characters were pretty memorable just because of how bizarre they were: some kind of murderous 
 magician, a superhero who shot a laser from his crotch, and a schoolgirl samurai just to name a 
 few.
  
  While combat made up half the game, the other half was composed of one of the most completely and 
 utterly awful overworlds I've ever come across. Every time I was finished slaughtering a boss and 
 his or her cronies, I was returned to Travis' home town of Santa Destroy (yes, that is its name) 
 and instructed to come up with the cash to enter the next fight. I would go about this by performing 
 some menial labor such as mowing grass, and then taking on the higher paying assassination missions 
 that were unlocked. Oddly enough, the menial labor was much more fun than the assassination missions, 
 although if there were a choice I wouldn't have done either of them at all. The actual jobs didn't 
 bore me out of my mind like the assassination gigs, but they weren't the most fun side quests I've 
 ever come across in a video game, either. The problem with the assassination missions was that 
 each and every one simply involved killing every person unfortunate enough to be there with several 
 variations in how I had to kill them and two variations in the setting (every single one of these 
 missions took place in the same couple settings over and over again.)
  
  There really wasn't much to do in the way of goofing off, either, which happens to be most of the 
 point the developers missed when making an open world environment. No ramps to jump off of, Travis' 
 bike could mow down trees but for some reason flipped over when it came into contact with anything 
 else, cars couldn't be crashed into, and there was only a handful of pedestrians in the whole town, 
 who simply got knocked over when hit by a cyberpunk motorcycle traveling at full speed. With all 
 the fun sucked out of being in an open world, all that was left to do was go to the stores, which 
 weren't particularly interesting either. One upgraded my powers, one let me learn new wrestling 
 moves, another offered beam katana upgrades, and the other changes of clothing. Oh, and there was 
 Travis' motel room, too, which didn't really offer anything interesting other than a save point.
 
  
  But strangely enough, for its long list of faults No More Heroes was interesting enough to see 
 through to the end. Even if it's not a very good game, there's no other game quite like No More 
 Heroes, which, strangely, makes it worth buying or at least renting, just to take a break from 
 all the grey and generic shooters out today. If there was a game that was best described by "better 
 than the sum of its parts", it would be No More Heroes, since against all odds it takes so many 
 bad design elements and brings them together into something better than what they would originally 
 appear to be, putting them into a game that's not terrible, still not good, but simply okay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 1:15 am PT
Review:  This was the mature action game that every Wii owner was waiting for, and while it may be quite 
 what anyone expected, it is still one of the more solid and original action games available. If 
 you're a Wii owner who is old enough to purchase this game, I'd say it's worth a rent at the very 
 least.
  
  The graphics may not be the most technically impressing, but they are certainly interesting. Some 
 people may not appreciate the style Grasshopper decided to go with here, but I really like it. 
 It's very colorful, and I would say different, but cel-shading has become somewhat common now. 
 It was a good way to make a game look good without exposing the weak hardware of the Wii. On the 
 more technical side, the load times are fairly quick, and not all that common thankfully. This 
 keeps you in the action, the less downtime in this game the better. There's some really bad collision 
 detection when driving, but it's absolutely fine when on-foot, which makes no sense to me. Some 
 of the animations could have been done better as well, again mostly when driving. There aren't 
 really any glitches or anything, but I have heard of people's games freezing, but I never experienced 
 this.
  
  The soundtrack is surprisingly good in this game. The songs are very catchy, if not a little repetitive. 
 I actually downloaded the soundtrack once I finished the game. The voice work is another nice surprise, 
 and is much better than initial trailers made it out to be. The sound effects themselves are pretty 
 solid, nothing really spectacular but they do their job. Well, I take that back. The screams of 
 your fallen enemies are pretty spectacular. 
  
  The game-play is by far the best part. It's very simple at it's core, but as you play more you 
 learn to string together combos to interrupt your enemies and basically make it so they can't even 
 hit you as you tear through them one by one. The finishing moves and wrestling moves are both very 
 satisfying to pull off, but I like the dismemberment the finishing moves provide the best. By the 
 way, this is a really gory game. You probably won't see more blood flying around on screen on another 
 game ever. Keep in mind the blood doesn't look real at all, but I felt I should mention it to remind 
 people that this game isn't for kids. It also contains a fair amount of swearing and some pretty 
 suggestive scenes. For those of us that are old enough, this is all a good thing and is a nice 
 escape from reality. As I mentioned before, the driving segments suck, but unless you want to take 
 forever to get from location to location they're pretty much mandatory. The game is fairly easy 
 up until the last 3 bosses, who can be quite a challenge. Speaking of bosses, they are awesome. 
 These are seriously some of the coolest and most fun bosses I have ever gone up against. The storyline, 
 while better than I was expecting it to be, is still pretty lackluster and doesn't make a whole 
 lot of sense. It is an action game though, and no one was truly expecting an engrossing story, 
 just lots of blood, death, and fun, and this game provides it.
  
  This game is just about having fun, pretty much what games were originally intended. I have a new 
 respect for Suda-51 and those at Grasshopper who worked on this game. They know how to make fun 
 games, plain and simple. They don't need fancy graphics or anything, they have what's most important: 
 game-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the strange world of no more heroes, where you play as Travis Touchdown a man with a 
 beam lightsaber in both hands and 10 assassins to take down! Yes Travis is a strange anime, gaming, wrestling 
 wierdo, some whats a bit more messed up stuff going to do? Well anyway the main plot of the story 
 is your an assassin now, after meeting this hot chick in a bar and are cutting guys and gals up 
 left and right to be NUMBER #1 or get some lady love in bed whatever gets you going I guess. Through 
 the game you will need to earn money to go to each assassination for unknown reasons doing small 
 quests and earning new clothes and stat boosts. You use the A button to attack, B to do kicks and 
 stuns and slash in the direction it tells you to finish off your enemy. Its basic... maybe a bit 
 to basic. The sounds are ok, but common enemy's sound annoying and repetitive and the music is 
 just ok, if anything its the great voice acting of the main cast that makes this game. To make 
 a long story short this game will entertain you for as long as it lasts, but don't expect alot 
 of replaying when in a way is mostly button mashing, besides a little skill in boss fights.
  
  Overall
  
  Gameplay 7/10 its weak, but good enough you will not get tired of it til the 
 end of the game.
  
  Graphics 9/10 it has a new style of graphics that look like a manga or comic book. Its good, but 
 not sure if is a thing I would like to see in every game.
  
  Sound 8/10 Great Voice Acting from the main cast
  
  Storyline 7/10 twisted ending and not that 
 amusing plot leaves you kinda thinking average. 
  
  Extra's and Replay 6/10 weak gameplay, so don't expect a second playthrough, does offer new swords, 
 clothes and such to add on. Also a real ending which is really as it says real ending but you got 
 to earn it sorta and hints at a sequel. 
  
  Total 75/10 for 7.5/10 Gamespot
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheeserific
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  when I first saw the preview of this game, way back sometime I was very impressed. I am personally 
 a fan of cel-shaded games, it is such an unused art style used in games in general. However, gameplay 
 is very solid in the game, each beam katana that is acquired not only adds strengths/weaknesses 
 but it adds new aesthetics (combo appearance) to the fighting system. Storyline is very good, sort 
 of. it is not really a storyline at all. But the character development, from Travis to Sylvia to 
 even the bosses are incredible. Voice acting and character design bring every single character 
 to life... literally. 
  
  The faults to this game are only framerate issues, which will only be encountered in the latter 
 portion of the game when fighting an onslaught on enemies. Also, boss battles are a little on the 
 tedious side, where the choice is kill him as fast as you can (thus increasing likelihood of death) 
 or taking it slowly. 
  
  Gameplay: 8.5
  I love the combat system, it would be very boring if there were no other "styles" of fighting. 
 But there is. Unfortunately boss battles are very long... basically hit-an-run the entire time.
 
  
  Graphics: 10
  Excellent cell shading. One of the best. His art design has made me of fan of Suda 51. 
  
  
 Story: 9
  Not really an good story, until the end. Where the game has the best dialogue that I have seen. 
 Actually the game's dialogue is superior, from the crazy Sylvia to the absolutely unique personas 
 of each boss.
  
  Overall 9
  Great game that is worth buying. I will be waiting for an impending sequel or perhaps Suda; s next 
 project. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdiamnz69
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  No More Heroes isnt your typical Mario Adventure game. You are Travis an assassin who is getting 
 into the chart of the best assassins in the world. Its your job to fight 11 tough Mutherfukers. 
 Thats the whole main part. But becomng number one doesnt pay off when you play on the real ending. 
 You also do extra missions for cash. You can cut grass, go around Santa Destroy collecting kittys 
 and much other things. There is also fighting missions where you have to kill all the enemies. 
 But, if you get hit, you fail. You can also customize Travis to look pimp. Their is much more things 
 in Santa Destroy that are just waiting for you. I love this game, mostly because of the real ending. 
 Killing the assassins are just a bonus, some fun. Overall, this is a great game with many fun and 
 spectacular things in it. Now if only their was a sequel..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archibald_83
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 14, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  No More Heroes is takes a lot of risks in its presentation and gameplay, and although they are 
 pulled off spectacularly, the game lacks that force that gets the ball rolling, or, more accurately, 
 it drags on and on and on and on and on between major segments of the game; Travis Touchdown, the 
 playable character must deal with plenty of mundane, tedious side-missions before he even gets 
 halfway through the plot. I'll begin with the basic synopsis, go somewhere, kill someone, get enough 
 money to afford to kill someone, go somewhere, kill someone, all this to become the highest ranked 
 assassin in Santa Destroy, the city where the game is set, just to get your way with some girl, 
 who, in all honesty, is a little "full on" if you catch my drift. If you think this is sounds repetitive, 
 don't worry, it is, and this game's extreme themes and goriness render it totally inappropriate 
 for young people, as you probably already gathered from this review.
  The actual action is excellent, you slash at people with a "beam katana" (READ: Lightsabre) in 
 two stances disarm opponents, throw things, and perform extravagant "death blows" that may activate 
 some awesome power ups in a fast paced though slightly repetitious combat system.
  Beauty is definitely in the eye of the beholder, and the graphics merits are debatable, as cel-shaded 
 shadows can look good to some, and bad to others, but it can't be denied that the graphics are 
 technically OK, ignoring the frame rate, customizing your character is a nice touch, and the game 
 sounds fairly good as well. 
  No More Heroes' presentation is abnormal, with a weird retro feel, but I like it, and most people 
 likely will to The overworld looks great, and is open for exploration, and searching for hidden 
 secrets passes the time well.
  Overall, some major storyline progression issues, unnecessary side-missions and excessive themes 
 conspire against the fun factor, but the game is saved by its superb, original presentation, immense 
 customizability and hectic action sequences.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBates
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes for the Wii might at first glance appear to be nothing more than a sub-par Japanese 
 approximation of the Grand Theft Auto series, with its small, shallow and glitchy open-world driving 
 environment and its penchant (in the US version) for fountains of toe-curdling blood and gore. 
 Appearances can be deceiving, however, and any passing resemblance to GTA is quickly seen to be 
 superficial after a few hours spent with the game.
  
  
  
  Directed by Killer 7 director Suda51, No More Heroes is every bit as wacky and subversive as his 
 last project. After he wins his very own "beam katana" in an internet auction (a weapon which looks 
 very much like a lightsaber) , the game's protagonist Travis Touchdown decides to become a paid 
 assassin, roaming the streets of Santa Destroy to earn money for his video game and porn addiction 
 (well, what else are you going to do with a beam katana?) . The game begins with Travis having been 
 inducted into the United Assassins Association, a kind of guild for expert hitmen. His mission: 
 to kill every other assassin in the UAA's top-ten list and become the world's No. 1 rated hitman. 
 It's as far-fetched and as ludicrous as it sounds.
  
  
  
  Rather than being a mission-based GTA-driving clone, No More Heroes is actually a fairly straightforward 
 action game, with our protagonist spending the majority of his time slashing and slicing his way 
 though a variety of stylised enemies on his way to each level's boss, or ranked assassin in the 
 guild. The game's best moments are to be found whist confronting these always interesting super-villains, 
 with each character possessing their own unique and often hilarious quirks and dialogue. The fighting 
 mechanics are satisfying and responsive, with the A button used to swing the beam katana and various 
 "finishing moves" being performed by way of moving the Wii remote quickly in the direction indicated 
 on-screen. Travis can earn new beam katanas over time, and, although the fighting plays similarly 
 no matter which weapon you are equipped with, the action never gets old or repetitive, and decapitating 
 enemies will make you squirm with delight even ten hours into the game.
  The action is fast and frantic as Travis is pitted against multiple enemies at a time, although 
 the game never becomes overly difficult with smartly-placed save points before each boss and an 
 abundance of life-restoring items scattered throughout each level.
  
  
  
  The sections of the game that require the player to drive around the city on Travis's motorcycle 
 can become somewhat tedious, as the city of Santa Destroy isn't the most well-realised or involving 
 sandbox-like environment you'll ever see, although you get the impression that the almost tacked-on 
 feel of the city has been in part intentional, in a wry Japanese jab at the preponderance of open-world 
 games made in America. Whilst this is amusing at first, the game makes you drive around this barren 
 city a little too often, as you earn cash between missions to pay for a "registration fee" necessary 
 to take on each new ranked assassin. Whilst the city offers various distractions that you can involve 
 yourself with, such as digging with your katana for cash and opening dumpsters to find new clothes, 
 they aren't enough to warrant the time spent engaged with such tasks.
  
  
  
  No More Heroes is a unique action game that injects a much-needed dose of surreal, adult-oriented 
 insanity to the Wii. The game should take roughly 12-15 hours to complete, depending on whether 
 you involve yourself with the activities outside of the main missions. No More Heroes has its ups 
 and downs, with some sections beginning to grate after a while, but the addictive and visceral 
 fighting and genuinely amusing dialogue nevertheless make this a game that is highly recommended.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PikaPikaboo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is the newest game from Suda-51 and Grasshopper studios, the developers of Killer7. 
 The quality that will attract most people is its unparalleled style that could only come from the 
 mind of Suda-51. No More Heroes offers a unique art style, some catchy tunes, but most important: 
 a sense of humor.
  
  In the world of No More Heroes, you, Travis Touchdown, are a stereotypical otaku that lives in 
 a motel in Santa Destroy. After winning a Beam Katana, which very much resembles and bares a similar 
 name to the Light Saber, he is ranked as the eleventh ranked assassin of the United Assassins Association 
 (UAA) . When Travis gets tricked into killing Number 10 by Sylvia Cristel, Travis' basic mission 
 hander, he becomes a target for assassinations. Because of this, he decides if he will be on an 
 assassination list anyways, he should be Number 1.
  
  The very first thing you will notice about this game is that the art style varies much from other 
 games you are now used to. The game uses a cell-shaded art style, and it works out fine for this 
 type of game. The design of the game is exceptional, however the characters not only look exciting 
 but really delivers as well. The city itself is very colorful, however there are problems with 
 it. You will encounter some framerate issues and the fluidity of the game slows down. Also some 
 buildings don't show their features such as doors, windows and signs until you actually get close 
 to it, which can sort of be annoying. The most interesting part of the visuals, in my opinion, 
 is the map. The map is produced in 8-bit, which brings back memories of the great NES days. Graphically, 
 the cell-shaded graphics and environments are very nice and although there are a few problems, 
 they will not affect the gameplay.
  
  As far as sound effects go, they are great. Much like No More Heroes' map, there are also some 
 old-school video game sound effects, such as "beeps" and "boops". Yeah, you know what I'm talking 
 about. One thing about the music really annoys me though. There is no music when you are exploring 
 the city of Santa Destroy, only car horns and what-not. Oh, wait! There is music... when Travis 
 is on his motorbike. Another gripe I have with this is the voice acting. Although, they are pretty 
 well done, they make every single boss assassin and Sylvia sound like stereotypical immigrants. 
 Sylvia has that annoying French accent, which you may or may not like. The first boss you encounter 
 is some English dude... and yes, with the British accent. There are pretty much no real problems 
 with sound at all, minus some of the voice acting and the lack of music in Santa Destroy.
  
  The game is divided to two different gameplay aspects, sandbox free roaming and hack and slash 
 battles. The latter is where the game shines with unique characters, humor and great boss battles. 
 Unfortunately the flipside isn't nearly as entertaining. Combat is simple and rewarding. Of course 
 the ranking battles are the most fun as you get to fight all the outrageous bosses of the game. 
 When you're not fighting the next ranked assassin, you will be doing several other things to keep 
 you occupied. You will have to do jobs in order to get money in order to pay for your next ranked 
 match. You will be doing a variety of missions in order to get this money such as lawn mowing, 
 collecting coconuts, and cleaning walls which are used to kill time but are not very entertaining. 
 Along with side-jobs, you can actually shop with the money that you earn if you do not want to 
 get into the next ranked battle just yet. You can buy new clothes, which may I add is too expensive, 
 work out, buy an upgrade for your beam katana, and even feed your cute little kitty, Jeane.
  
  When you think of sword-slashing on the Wii you think of waggle, waggle, waggle. This feature 
 came to be very annoying, and sometimes even caused some soreness. No More Heroes thinks of a brilliant 
 way to implement the motion controls without the onslaught of it either. To attack with the beam 
 katana, you basically button mash the A button and you do melee attacks with the B Button. In battle, 
 the motion controls are implemented as well as stated above. When an enemy is almost defeated, 
 No More Heroes gives you a chance to finish your opponent off with a "fatality" move of sorts. 
 A blinking arrow will appear on the screen where you must flick your Wii remote in to slash their 
 body in that direction. You can also use wrestling moves on your enemies, which also uses the on-screen 
 arrow, but instead uses both the Wii remote and nunchuk to activate. Motion controls are also activated 
 when you are riding your motorbike. You can flick the Wii remote upwards to perform a jump. There 
 is also a baseball mini game mission, where you swing your beam katana to kill enemies within the 
 ball's line of fire.
  
  When you play the game for the first time, you have two difficulty levels to choose from: sweet 
 and mild, your basic easy and normal. Once you've finished the game on either difficulty, you can 
 start a new game with a harder difficulty setting and keep all of your items from the previous 
 playthrough. As for the difficulty, excluding some of the boss battles, this game is fairly easy.
 
  
  If you are looking for a fun time where you can also look at something visually appealing at the 
 same time, this is the game to get. Especially with humorous dialogue and an overkill of blood 
 (in the US versions at least) , you will not want to put it down... that is unless you're doing 
 one of the boring side-missions. However, if you are looking for real challenge, you should look 
 somewhere else. This isn't a must-have for Wii owners, but it should be warranted to check out. 
 Rent it first, as some people do not enjoy this game, but if you do enjoy it, buy it.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Story: [8/10]
 
  Graphics: [9/10]
  Sound: [7.5/10]
  Gameplay: [9/10]
  Controls: [9/10]
  Overall: 8.5
  By Pikaboo
  
  
  For more reviews like this, check: http://Wiiniis-United. co. nr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freedom_Link
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  You play Travis Touchdown, On a mission to dress up as the most pillocky person you can. Not really 
 of course..
  You play a manga obsessed man who goes on an online auction site and buys a lightsaber (Yes it 
 is a lightsaber no matter what anyone tells you)
  
  Then starts to take up the task to become number one assasain, Like if you buy a BBQ you keep throwing 
 parties to prove it wasn't a waste of money I suppose.
  
  Your assasaination jobs first consist of coughing up the amount of money about the street equivalent 
 of three human organs. You can do this in many ways - my faverate being taking low paying jobs 
 around the city which makes fantastic use of the Wii controls, If these paid more Id pack in the 
 assasination gig altogther! hah
  
  No Im joking, The assasaination is fun. The bosses are coulorful and various. But usally are the 
 same routine of letting them attack, Stand back and **** them abit untill they die.
  
  Overall buy this game because your not going to play anything else like it, Its like Branston pickle 
 an amazing thing which only comes about once. God knows if you put Branston on 'No more Heroes' 
 the universe might explode.... AND IT WOULD BE AWESOME Thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nikki-No-Credit
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  this seriously has to be one of the best games i have played in a long time.
  I'm so glad i bought this game (even if i did get the pixie dust version) it's worth it for it's 
 quirky graphics, brilliant soundtrack and voice acting and of course, the best bit of the game, 
 the ranked battles.
  
  There's some nice little touches to this game like being able to change Travis' clothes and doing 
 little jobs on the side to raise money for the ranked battles
  
  The side jobs can appear to be mundane but the addition of a time limit and a rank at the end (gold, 
 silver or bronze) make them worth while.
  
  The Story is quite bizarre as is the whole concept of the game, with all it's twists and turns 
 and brutal killings (pixie dust style :P) make it a very engaging story.
  
  even with the basic structure of get money, get to assassin, fight in a ranked battle, this game 
 never appears dull or repetitive and is always surprising in the way of getting money, getting 
 to the battle and fighting it, it's always nice to see the different skills that the assassins 
 have.
  
  the controls are very simple to master and require only button mashing and wii remote slashing 
 which makes a good and original control system
  
  overall you should buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it!!!!! because it's bloody brilliant and is 
 so worth it for the engaging story and brilliant boss battles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RevolutionLink
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Describing No More Heroes is not the easiest thing to do, but to put it bluntly its an untraditional 
 Wii game. Suda 51, the man behind Killer 7, has come out with some of his best work yet in this 
 combination of insane blood work, light sabers, and Mexican wrestling. To be honest No More Heroes 
 is just the game that the Nintendo Wii needed; one that's suited to the hardcore and one that's 
 actually coming from a third party.
  
  You play the role of Travis Touchdown, the eleventh ranked assassin in Santa Destroy as you make 
 your way through the ten assassins above you to become number one. Obviously he has some motivation, 
 in the form of Sylvia Crystal who watches your progress through the rankings. Taking out these 
 assassins results in incredible boss fights all having their own style. Whether it be simply slashing 
 away or trying to avoid a huge laser beam these boss fights are some of the best. Obviously this 
 brings us on to the combat which is one of the best aspects of No More Heroes due to its great 
 creativity. Travis carries around his blood berry, a simple light saber, that can be upgraded into 
 faster and more powerful version as you progress through the game. He also gets a combination of 
 fighting moves, most notably Mexican wrestling moves. The number of moves you can perform increases 
 and they all involve using the Wii's motion functionality. The combat works out great and is one 
 of the strong points in this game especially as you decapitate your victim with a swish of the 
 Wii-mote. Some of this combat is played to death though, usually before a boss battle you'll be 
 met with a continuous swarm of enemies as you hack your way through, essentially using the same 
 moves encountering a few frame rate issues along the way. Overall the combat is some of the most 
 impressive on the Wii due to its originality and awesome use of the Wii-mote.
  
  There are many other things to do in Santa Destroy besides going through the story line. Your given 
 a sandbox style city that is extremely small in comparison to other sandbox titles and what you 
 can do is also limited. There are a few neat assassination mission and random tasks you can complete 
 but the majority are not memorable. The free roaming aspect is to the most part not justified as 
 it feels as if it doesn't fit well with this game. The game would have been better off focusing 
 on its unique combat and boss battles and not spend its time with a meager free roaming aspect.
 
  
  Visually No More Heroes is one of those Wii games that can't be seen as a great technical achievement 
 but more of an artistic one. The artistic look goes great with this game with a good combination 
 of cell-shading techniques and colour. There are a lot of rough edges, more noticeably in Santa 
 Destroy away from the main story line. The cars look down right pathetic, but again that's not 
 the focus of the game. No More Heroes doesn't try to push the Wii's hardware and nor should it, 
 the look goes great with the game and makes it a memorable experience. No More Heroes supports 
 a pretty small cast of characters, essentially Travis and Sylvia give the best dialogue in this 
 game with a few of the bosses having their own twisted story. Some of the minor characters throughout 
 the city can't even be understood, either by poor recording or poor translation. The music, a combination 
 of modern and old video game styles, is pretty neat has a uniqueness to it that stays fresh through 
 the entire game. 
  
  The main pull for No More Heroes is its creativity. The amazing boss battles, unique and addicting 
 combat, along with a look that no other game really has makes No More Heroes the best third party 
 and mature rated game on the Nintendo Wii hopefully setting the bar for future action games to 
 come.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CastlevaniaFan
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  This is gonna be a fun and violent game, right?
  Something new for nintendo?
  No.
  The game sells itsself on the violence, and portrays it terribly. The cutscenes resemble tamer 
 moments of the Bloodrayne games, and the actual game violence resembles a crappy cartoon turned 
 into a crappy video game. 
  The missions and fighting were alright while going through levels, watching people die.. at least 
 I think they were people. Boss battles were
  extremely boring and consisted of using a single combo (different for each boss) over and over 
 again until said boss is dead. You can play the game on easy, which is VERY easy. Or normal in 
 which it is still easy, but will take you at least 20-60 minutes just to beat one of the later 
 bosses.
  In the free mode, the "motorcycle" proves to be one of the worst aspects of the game. Side jobs 
 you must do are boring and control as bad (or worse) than the motorcycle.
  You get different weapons throughout the game, but they all have extreme weaknesses as well as 
 strengths, so it doesn't really matter if you buy a later model or not.
  All in all, this game is crap. My friend traded it to me for Red Steel. needless to say, I wanted 
 Red Steel back (and he was disappointed that No more Heroes was his problem again) .
  
  Gameplay- 6 (3 on free mode, 9 on missions)
  Kinda fun, but suffering through the entire game 
 is not worth it in the end
  
  Graphics- 8
  They are actually pretty good.. for cel shading..
  
  Replay Value- 0
  If you play through 
 this game more than once, you have WAY WAY WAY WAY WAY WAY WAY WAY too much free time.
  
  Overall- 4.5/10
  Not the worst game ever, but you should probably save your money for gas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Knight_00
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  Here are the impressions I gathered on No More Heroes.
  
  A quick premise: I played the european blood-less/slightly different version of the game. Also, 
 possible *spoilers* ahead.
  
  No More Heroes is a good game, it features a great character design, imaginative levels, generally 
 smooth controls, solid combat system, impressive bosses, great cutscenes, quality voice acting, 
 a lot of black humor and a good deal of extras. It is not free from its good share of flaws though, 
 even major ones.
  
  The plot is as simple as these things can get: otaku killer Travis Touchdown (yeah...) lives in 
 the city of Santa Destroy (... yeah...) , where he starts an escalade of the assassins ranking, aiming 
 to become the number one killer in america. On his way he'll have to fight the other killers forming 
 the top-ten. The duels are set up by a mysterious girl, who irresistibly attracts our dumb 'hero' 
 Travis.
  
  The game is divided in three main sections: driving, working (right, you have to work in games 
 too...) and fighting. In the driving section you basically ride your ginormous motorbike around 
 to reach the next battle or mission. This section was compared by many to Grand Theft Auto, but 
 I can't see many similarities apart from the fact that you drive a vehicle, run the the rare pedestrians 
 over and trample streetlamps and trees (yes, you can break trees, I think it's the first time I 
 see this in a 'sandbox' game) . The whole driving thing can be fun, you can call your bike wherever 
 you are and it'll be brought to you, you can speed boost and jump by waving the Wiimote and there 
 are several cameras available, but the collision detection just plain stinks: the vehicle will 
 often irreparably get stuck in corners, cars and benches, meaning you won't be able to unstuck 
 it and will have to walk away on foot and call it, which is annoying. Furthermore, the collision 
 box around objects is way too big and this will result in awkward situations.
  
  The working section consists in a series of minigames, ranging from collecting coconuts to killing 
 scorpions, retrieving lost cats and so on. The minigames are sometimes pretty fun, but most of 
 the time they're just tedious chores needed to unlock fighting missions essential to earn money. 
 This brings us to the fighting section, where the game gives its best: dozens of enemies will attack 
 you in groups of one to six at the time. You hold the Wiimote high or low to change stance and 
 tap the A button to swing your weapon -a weird lightsaber (the game is filled with Star Wars references) - 
 chain combos and then wave the Wiimote to perform finishing moves. It all works fine and it's really 
 enjoyable to play. My only complaint is that stronger enemies tend to block too much, but that's 
 no big deal.
  
  The enemies are weird: funny guys with paperbags on their heads, baseball players, bus drivers... 
 each level has his set of lunatics, but the bosses are the strangest, I leave it to you to find 
 out who they are, because discovering the next boss is the best part of the game. Sometimes they 
 are too hard and take too long to beat, having way too much life, but it just takes some perseverance. 
 The settings you'll fight in are also imaginative, again, I'll leave it up to you to find out.
 
  
  The graphics give me mixed feelings: the characters look grand, but the generic environments (city, 
 most levels...) are bland beyond belief, with blocky buildings and objects (the cars are horrible) 
 and blurry textures. The characters are cel-shaded (a style I personally like) , but the environments 
 are not, and this can leave you wondering why. I heard some people saying the game stutters when 
 there are many enemies around, but I never noticed any slowdown at all.
  
  The sound is competent, but what really shines is the voice acting; Travis sounds great and so 
 do all the bosses, while the mystery girl's french accent is annoying (listening to her telephone 
 rants fom the Wiimote speaker turns the great idea of using the controller as a mobile phone into 
 a nuisance) . The shop owners also sound ridiculous, I think they made it on purpose.
  
  My complaint about the game is that you need money to proceed: you need it (a lot of it) to unlock 
 the next boss fight, you need it to buy new (essential) weapon upgrades, you need it to go to the 
 gym and boost your stats, you need it for everything! You can also buy (expensive) clothes to change 
 Travis'outfit. To earn cash you can play the tedious minigames or play the fighting missions over 
 and over again, which grows old pretty fast. Thankfully you'll later on unlock some easy ones that 
 are also very rewarding.
  
  In conclusion, No More Heroes is an entertaining game that allows you to engage in furious and 
 visceral battles and have a good laugh with the black humor and absurd situations. It can be a 
 bit of a grind when going fo money and the driving feels like an afterthought, but it's a solid 
 game and a good addition to the Wii software library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xShR3Dx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics in No More Heros really create a great feel to the game. There are a little 
 less detail in some of the details in the city but other then that one good lookin Wii game. Keeps 
 the frame rate up very well and great style.
  9.5
  
  Music: Not to much here but the great retro sounds are great and the few songs there are are pretty 
 good. The voice acting is well done.
  
  8.5
  
  Gameplay: A great fighting system that seems to last through the whole game. Boss battles are diverse 
 and very exciteing. Mini games are veryed and well done. The side missions are not deep at all 
 but still fun to play. But there are a few flaws in the gameplay one is the motorcycle you drive 
 around the city with is pretty glichy. Also the town its self does not feel alive. Lastly there 
 is no retry in the pause menu which makes it very tedious at points.
  
  9.5
  
  Entertainment: This game is just straight up fun to play those little flaws dont even effect how 
 great and original this game is. Its funny, fun to play, does not get old, brutal, and great cut 
 scenes. If you own a Wii pick up this game it is amazeing. Dont let the minor flaws fool you.
 
  
  10
  
  OVERALL - 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 3, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  i'm a huge Killer 7 fan... played through it twice and loved every moment. So after hearing about 
 the annoucement of a 2nd Suda 51 title with the same style/design as Killer 7 i was hooked right 
 away. However, this game is very different.... for some thats a positive, for others its a negative. 
 The game plays sort of "old-school" with new gameplay mechanic twists. There is an open-world where 
 you can travel and search for hidden treasures, shop store and what not. The way it basically works 
 is you're a Rank 10 Assassin and have to work your way up to Rank 1. You have to kill the other 
 assassins before they kill you (however, they never come after you... you just go after them) . The 
 missions are linear, which isn't so bad... it makes things easier to follow and gets to the point. 
 However, the gameplay which starts off interesting... gets very boring. I have unlocked other abilities, 
 which you can buy from retailers... as well as develop your character through working out activities, 
 and other forms of progression. The graphics are HORRIBLE... Killer 7 is a nicer looking title, 
 not to mention a much better story. The story is very boring... so boring that i didn't even finish 
 the game. I got to Rank 4 and gave up. I had no intention of finishing the game, it couldn't keep 
 my interest... so i traded it in. For some it might be a great title, but i was pretty disappointed 
 in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MooncalfReviews
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Review by Mooncalf Reviews - gaming for the thinking player.
  
  
  !! DISCLAIMER!!
  It is not my intent to annoy people with this review. I am simply speaking my opinion, and putting 
 it in a sarcastic tone for the amusement of others of a similar mind. I honestly did not enjoy 
 this game at all, and as such, I wanted my review to reflect my dissatisfaction. Gamespot has once 
 deleted this review, but I have changed it to make it less offensive. Don't like this review? It's 
 no surprise to me. But you can't expect EVERYONE you ever meet to agree with you about everything. 
 I am NOT attempting to troll by posting this review; I just hate this game THAT much, seriously.
 
  
  ---
  
  I was baffled and appalled to read the shocking official Gamespot review of No More Heroes. Kevin 
 VanOrd gives an account of the game so far removed from the true picture, that I was left near-certain 
 that the man had picked up a copy of an entirely different game to the one that I was playing. 
 Or perhaps he just really, really, really likes tons of blood? But then, what modern gamer doesn't?
 
  
  Maybe I'm simply being unfair to the man. Perhaps, when he said about No More Heroes that it has 
 a "high-concept story", he was blind drunk while playing the game through? Maybe he clicked the 
 '+' button too much, and skipped the scenes that highlight the lacklustre story which involves 
 an assassin striving to be the number one assassin in the city? Or perhaps I overlooked a deeply 
 compelling "high-concept" spot of tongue-in-cheek allegory amidst the senseless clichd lines of 
 unfunny dialogue? That must be it. I must have somehow failed to comprehend the existential philosophical 
 gems to be found in the story about a man that wants to be number one. I did that with Pokemon, 
 too.
  
  Perhaps, too, Mr VanOrd, when he said "terrific use of motion controls", was  in actual fact  
 watching somebody else play it? A monkey, perhaps? After all, it would be unfair of me to judge 
 the man based on the hearsay of a monkey, who swung the wiimote back and forth with his large prehensile 
 toes while Mr VanOrd watched with awe? Maybe Mr Monkey's style of play made the game look as though 
 swinging the wiimote back and forward actually DID something, when in actual fact, Mr Monkey was 
 simply mashing the 'A' button and taking out everyone who swarmed around his on-screen counterpart. 
 That would account for Mr VanOrd's willingness to ignore the fact that  while No More Heroes promises 
 to fulfil the dreams of every sword wielding nut who bought a Wii for that sole purpose  the game 
 really does no such thing. Or maybe Mr VanOrd decided that the occasional slice to left or right 
 after hitting the 'A' button 12 times is a justified use of the Nintendo Wii's revolutionary motion 
 sensor equipment? Perhaps, in Mr VanOrd's dreams - in which he is a ninja - he has a magic 'A' 
 button on his sword hilt that does most of the fighting for him? Or maybe he just never had the 
 desire to actually have the Wii react to his movements in a realistic sword-fighting fashion? Some 
 people, after all, love their button mashing combos, especially when buckets of blood are involved. 
 Nothing wrong with that, if that's the kind of thing you like.
  
  It may be that I hold Mr VanOrd to too harsh a standard of my own making. Maybe, when he said that 
 the game possessed "plenty of drama and mature humor", my desire to introduce him to the subtleties 
 of ironic wit and parody were over-judgemental? Or perhaps it is I who lacks an appreciation of 
 TRUE humour? That must be it. After all, the repeated instances where the annoying protagonist 
 receives "humorous" phone calls regarding his overdue rented porn videos, was really a bout of 
 original comedic genius. Of course! I should have understood that when I first saw it. And the 
 Japanese guy telling you to strip naked and bend for your training, was totally NOT a cheap attempt 
 at humour through the use of sexual innuendoes that a four year old could get (and would likely 
 still not laugh at) . In fact, I understand now! No More Heroes takes its wicked sense of "humor" 
 from the "mature" anime tradition of guys falling over when they are embarrassed by something, 
 and tons of boobie jokes, which makes ME the unfunny one, and not the game! Shame on me for doubting 
 a Gamespot reviewer!
  
  And maybe, just maybe, No More Heroes received the "outstanding visual design" award because Mr 
 VanOrd was progressively loosing his eyesight as he played through such a brutally boring game. 
 That is the only explanation I can think of. Except  yes  that explains it! Mr VanOrd must be 
 a FAN of blurry, badly rendered, uninspired cell-shaded graphics ripped right out of Jet Set Radio 
 on the Dreamcast. He must have a taste for shaky animation and a poorly realised marriage of retro 
 8-bit graphics with  crap graphics. Understandably, beauty is in the eye of the beholder, after 
 all. In honesty, my eye wasn't captivated, it was repelled.
  
  Still, everyone has an opinion, and tastes vary. Different strokes, and all that. So, in fairness 
 to Mr VanOrd, I mean to offence. I also like some games that are purely about action, because it's 
 fun to switch off from time to time and just kill anything that moves. So if you're in the right 
 mood, No More Heroes can be entertaining, at a stretch. 
  
  And there are other good points. Despite being riddled with clichd anime trash, it has some nice 
 part time jobs and the wrestling moves are fairly well executed. Rent the game before buying it, 
 because if you're looking for a story-driven game that reacts realistically to your sword-wielding 
 movements, you might be disappointed. You might be totally different to me and this might end up 
 being your favourite game of all time, who knows. I generally dislike ALL anime, and games that 
 insert "maturity" for the sake of "maturity", so I suppose I was never going to like this game. 
 But if you're an anime fan, and love nothing more than blood-spewing madness, then go for it! You're 
 in for a treat!
  ---
  
  Score Breakdown 
  Based on the the Mooncalf Reviews scoring system as shown on this blog post:
  http://uk. gamespot. com/users/MooncalfReviews/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-25395842
 
  
  
      Story: 1
  Unoriginal and full of anime-logic. 'Kill all the assassins to be super number one assassin!' Yes, 
 very good, No More Heroes story writer. Don't give up your day job.
  
      Hook: 1
  I remained unhooked. Largely because the story lacked  well  a storyline? The only reason it 
 gets one point here is because you do actually wonder if Travis will ever bed the blonde chick. 
 Epic huh?
  
      Characters: 2
  Travis Touchdown is just plain annoying. One or two of the bosses are interesting, but short lived 
 and clichd.
  
      Originality: 2
  All of the characters, the settings, the storylines, even most of the mini-games are unoriginal. 
 It's basically just GTA mixed with Bully, with a lightsaber, but without the fun.
  
      Art: 3
  Blurry and clumsy graphics mixed with an 8-bit retro system might sound interesting, 
 but artistically it just fails. However, that's just my opinion, and the game does at least have 
 an artistic theme to it, that it sticks to throughout.
  
      Voice Acting and Script: 2
  All you'd expect from an R (18) rated anime: over the top and poorly performed. And that goes for 
 the humour, too.
  
      Music Score: 3
  Not too bad, if I remember. But none of the tracks jumped out at me.
  
      Fun: 3
  As much 
 fun as cutting hundreds of guys in half with the touch of a button can be. The missions are boring, 
 but the part-time jobs can be semi-entertaining the first couple of times.
  
      Freedom: 4
  You're free to do almost anything in this game. Except deviate from the set missions. 
 Doesn't help much if you're given limitless freedom in a lifeless, crap world though. It's like 
 somebody putting you on the moon alone and saying to you "you're free to do anything up here!"
 
  
      Lifespan: 3
  So-so. Not a great deal of replay-ability, unless you like chopping people up. Which, you probably 
 do, because you're on a games website.
  
      Multiplayer: 0
  (No multiplayer support)
  
  Total Points: 24
  
  Gamespot converted rating: 4.5
  
  
     Awards
  No More Heroes 
 receives the first honorary Mooncalf Reviews 'Braindead' award, in testament to its utter lack 
 of intelligence, and the sheer magnitude in which it has propagated the continuation of idiotic 
 mindless gaming well into the 21st century! Bravo!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScionofEntropy
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  A lot of action games try very hard to convince players to take them seriously. Resident Evil 4, 
 Heavenly Sword, and God of War are prime examples of this. Luckily, Ubisoft and SUDA-51's No More 
 Heroes is one of those games that doesn't care in the least if it's taken seriously, as it will 
 show you time and time again. Off-beat and irreverent humor abound, curses and excessive violence 
 galore, No More Heroes is one of the most over-the-top action titles ever conceived.
  
  The story centers around Travis Touchdown, a young man who's something of a loser to most. His 
 interests include anime, professional wrestling, kittens, and killing everything in sight with 
 an energy katana he purchased in an online auction. Off to a rollicking start already, aren't we? 
 Mr. Touchdown meets a girl in a bar and offers to buy her a drink; this leads him into a bloody 
 battle with the eleven top-ranked assassins in the world in a struggle to come out on top, and 
 if you think it's got a weird story now, just wait until you've actually started playing. At first, 
 Travis is reluctant, but upon the hint that he'll be compensated with sex should he become #1, 
 he decides that he has nothing else to do anyway and sets out to kill his superiors. Travis's adventures 
 will take him across the city of Santa Destroy to meet with a wild cast of antagonists, but of 
 course, not everything is what it seems to be in the Assassins Association, and Travis comes to 
 some startling realizations about who he's working for and why.
  
  The bulk of the gameplay amounts to a fairly simple formula: Make money, take some side missions 
 to burn time and gain cash, pay an entry fee and start killing hordes of enemies and eventually 
 the mission boss. Upon completing a ranked battle, you receive an increase to health or another 
 varied bonus on occasion, as well as an increase in rank. From there, you need to gain more money 
 in steadily increasing amounts to pay the entry fee to the next highest rank battle. To do this, 
 you'll be given various ordinary tasks like mowing lawns, finding lost kittens, and sweeping mines. 
 These tasks are all deceptively simple, and they make ample use of the Wii's unique control scheme, 
 making for a number of zany and hilarious outings in otherwise mundane tasks. You'll also have 
 various optional assassination missions scattered across the city, as well as sub-assassination 
 missions you can take to earn fairly large sums of money in exchange for offing a few thugs around 
 town.
  
  Insofar as combat goes, No More Heroes has a surprising amount to offer. First off, there are two 
 difficulties: an easy mode, and a hard mode, the latter of which makes guarding more complicated 
 and also elevates enemy strength and aggression. Obviously, you'll want to keep an eye on your 
 Health and Battery meters, considering it's Game Over if the former runs out, and your attacks 
 and guards will become utterly useless if the latter is depleted. For the most part, motion controls 
 are put on the backburner, in favor of a simpler kind of system. Gestures are still present and 
 are used to execute powerful finishing sword and wrestling moves, but the bulk of the combat is 
 controlled simply through the A button and B trigger. A controls Travis's sword attacks, and B 
 dictates brawling moves that are used to stun enemies-both of these occasionally also appear as 
 button prompts to execute bloody finishing moves and gesture-executed suplexes. You can also tilt 
 the Wii Remote up and down to execute high and low attacks, both of which will prove useful in 
 getting through an enemy's guard.
  
  On occasion, when you and an opponent launch an attack at the same time, the two of you will enter 
 a power struggle, in which you'll be required to spin the Remote rapidly and force them back. Should 
 you succeed, a prompt will come up indicating for you to flick the remote in a specific direction 
 to execute a violent finishing move. Another fairly uncommon occurrence is a random-chance sort 
 of transformation that is "rolled" after you kill any enemy; when these happen, you'll enter a 
 brief sort of 'god mode', in which attacks may immediately trigger finishers that require no specific 
 gestures, or you may gain the ability to instantly kill any enemy at the press of a button prompt. 
 A nice touch, but perhaps the downfall of this is that it is completely random, and you'll often 
 find yourself hitting the transformation with few to no enemies remaining alive.
  
  The boss fights are interesting and varied, and often terrain as well as the bosses' unique attacks 
 will come into play. One area, for instance, is littered with hidden holes you might fall into 
 and will have to make use of motion control gestures to clamber out of before being blown up. Another 
 boss arena requires you to coax the enemy into attacking certain flashing lights to cause him to 
 be struck and knocked to the ground. The fights themselves are pretty intense, and will require 
 you to use both high and low attacks, wrestling and sword moves, guarding, and so on. Some bosses' 
 attacks will also keep you guarding or essentially force you to dodge, or take a heavy amount of 
 damage with a strong knockback force. Some attacks will paralyze you, and others will, frustratingly 
 enough, instantly kill you. Fortunately, the attacks that instantly kill tend to be the easiest 
 to avoid, and it should only take you one time meeting with one to realize they're better to avoid.
 
  
  No More Heroes is a fairly open kind of game, with a city that's large enough that traversing it 
 on foot is generally impractical, which encourages you to use your motorcycle, the Schpeltiger, 
 a bit more frequently. Still, once you've been from one end of the city to the other so many times, 
 it does begin to feel somewhat constrained, though the amount of things you can do in Santa Destroy 
 and the length of many assassination missions available help to ease this and make the game seem 
 much larger. Also helping to increase the overall content is a healthy amount of sidequests and 
 optional items, like new wrestling techniques you can learn from a man named Lovikov in exchange 
 for seven of forty-nine Lovikov Balls per move, and there are also videos you can pick up from 
 a store up the street from your room, Beef Head Video, that will teach you new moves. Thunder Ryu's 
 dojo and gym allows you to use motion control exercises to increase stats like strength and vitality, 
 and even increase your beam katana's combo amount. Area 51 offers a wide variety of clothing at 
 varying prices to alter Travis's appearance to players' tastes, and in the way of weapons, Naomi's 
 Lab occasionally offers new weapons and weapon upgrades to increase your ability to dole out the 
 harshness to thugs around town. But, for those not interested in any of that kind of thing, you 
 can also just kick back in your apartment and mix-and-match outfits, or play with your kitten-No 
 More Heroes really does have something for everyone.
  
  Graphically, No More Heroes can be rather uneven. It has a great sense of style, and the cel-shading 
 is brilliantly done, kind of giving players the feeling that they're actually playing an action 
 anime at times. Still, sometimes the characters feet or appendages may appear a bit blocky, and 
 when you bump into someone on the streets, instead of them reacting in some way, they're sort of 
 shoved aside as if they're surrounded by some impermeable barrier. Aside from the minor graphical 
 blemishes, No More Heroes is a good-looking game, largely due to its unique sense of style, and 
 the glorious fountains of blood and gore you'll be seeing in no short supply-literally every time 
 you kill an enemy an explosion of blood comes gushing forth and spills across the ground before 
 dissipating. Particle attacks used by enemies, and lighting effects are nicely done. The environments 
 are typically very nice-looking, but there is a fairly good amount of graphical pop-in on distant 
 trees and buildings, and occasionally objects will look blocky as you go by. Still, animations 
 are clean and smooth, if wildly exaggerated, and the textures are almost all fantastically done. 
 All in all, the art direction and over-the-top style make up for any graphical discrepancies you 
 might find.
  
  The sound is just as wild as the dialog and the art direction of No More Heroes, all the insane 
 tracks fitting perfectly the ludicrous action in the battles. There's an interesting mix of hard 
 rock and electronic dance music used as the background for the game, and there's even some weird 
 bluegrass-type music thrown in on occasion. It's different, to be sure, but the crazy mix actually 
 works very well. The Wii Remote sound are also nicely done, from the lightsaber-esque whining and 
 groaning noises it emits when you attack to Sylvia's nutty phone calls-the latter of which sound 
 so real that you may even feel tempted to hold up the Remote as though it were a real phone. The 
 voice acting ranges from decent to fantastic, with familiar voice talents like Steve Blum and Quinton 
 Flynn providing voices for a couple of the game's crazy cast. Travis's immature tough guy taunts 
 and asides, Sylvia's dry humor, and even characters like Destroyman's insane ramblings and laughter 
 are all top-notch, if a little exaggerated at times-but really, the melodrama seems more intended, 
 because it contributes more to the dialog than hurts it in this case.
  
  No More Heroes isn't a particularly long game, but the first time through will take you about 12-15 
 hours of gameplay. Even though there isn't much else to do after the first time through the game, 
 other than trashing all the early missions and bosses with a fully upgraded weapon and a whole 
 host of new wrestling moves, but even that will bring many players back, if the other difficulty 
 setting doesn't. SUDA-51's latest creation is an off-beat roller coaster ride, and while it isn't 
 packed with a ton of heart, it's got a lot of guts to go along with its in-your-face style. This 
 is one title gamers looking for something different should definitely pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manhunt92
Rating: 7
Date: May 29, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  -A good story and character dialogues that will keep you entertained.
  -A good first impresion gameplay
  -Well disegned Characters.
  
  The Bad
  - The modest Santa 
 Destroy doesn't offer anything
  - The game continues always in the same pattern: collect money/ fight
  - The gameplay becomes 
 cheese after a while
  
  
  I really I'm not the kind of player that it's always triying to get into new series. I only buy 
 games I know will be good, for example a Grand Theft Auto, a Zelda, a Prince of Persia... and the 
 reason of this it's this same game. I readed the reviews, gamespot gave it a 9.0 and I was like 
 "man I gotta try this" well this is what I got in exchange
  
  Well the game isn't that bad but I just ddn't like it. Fist of all you got a well build Santa Destroy 
 city where you can't do ANYTHING I mean you can't interact with people (if you find people that 
 is...) you can't interact with nothing you barely see car or two in a while, and you can only use 
 your motorcycle to ride the city, the motorcycle's driving it's horrible it seems like a train 
 or something, really the city looks like a ghost town. Then the same pattern I mean collect money, 
 then fight the bad guy, then after that collect more money, fight another bad guy, collect more 
 money and fight again... c'mon.
  And it's not like collecting money it's fun, i mean they give some jobs that you need to do, they're 
 like some minigames but thy're boring, really.
  
  In other words I wasted 50 dollars of my money, I totally regret buying this game although i did 
 spend like 1 hour excited playing it then.. well you can imagine
  
  Other thing it's that I though I'll see more maturity in the fights, i mean blood, when you kill 
 a guy this little "blood" they call it goes and desappears, the body too.... 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sentinus333
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. It has great sound, great graphics and lots and lots of blood. Even though 
 I got the censored version (which is annoying) , it doesn't take a hardened Nintendo veteran to 
 see that this game tops all other games of it's genre. If you have the money, the stomach and the 
 brain to take on this game, then buy it.
  
  It takes a while to notice everything this game has to offer. From the fact you have different 
 fighting styles for each beam katana, to how the game's title appears in every save point. Boss 
 fights are also what make this game great. It seems like every indivisual boss could star in his 
 or her own game. Even though instant-death attacks can be a pain. The only flaw I can see with 
 this game is the GTA-esque gameplay as time passes. But I'd choose this of GTA any day. Besides, 
 what sounds cooler? A rocket launcher or a beam katana? Thought so.
  
  You'de be a fool to miss out on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nirron
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  When playing this game, I didn't go in expecting anything. I had never played killer7 (though now 
 I want to) and just knew from trailers that you killed people and were able to mow the grass. The 
 story is fairly basic, and obviously isn't the driving factor in here. You win a katana, you become 
 an assassin, and you slice people up. It's as simple as that.
  
  The main aspects of this game are its humor and gameplay. No More Heroes doesn't try to utilize 
 the Wiimote in a way many other games try to (ex. Red Steel) . Instead, you simply attack with A, 
 and swing the Wiimote in certain directions when prompted to perform wrestling moves or to recharge 
 your katana. The only gripe I have about the control is that it's not very sensitive to the motion. 
 You can basically swing the nunchuk and Wiimote in any direction frantically and the game will 
 acknowledge that you've done something and execute the move, even if that something was incorrect.
 
  
  Trying to create a pseudo-sandbox environment is interesting in No More Heroes. You don't really 
 interact with anyone save those who you buy things from or work for. The jobs I feel make up for 
 the real lack of sandbox play though. While pumping gas and picking up scorpions can be boring, 
 mowing a lawn or picking up trash can actually be fun while exploring the city of Santa Destroy. 
 The menial jobs are usually offset by side assassinations jobs. A lot of the humor in No More Heroes 
 happens in these sandbox and side areas. Travis performing menial tasks to pay his way to death, 
 and the dialogue of some of the employers and retailers of Santa Destroy can be rather humorous 
 and get you through the game.
  
  Overall, with good gameplay, graphics that aren't anything to complain about, and a game that is 
 just enjoyable from when you first pick it up until you bash your way through the hardest fight 
 on the hardest difficulty, No More Heroes was a good price at 50$, but is a necessity for any Wii 
 owner at 30$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  This is the UK review the version that features no blood just like the Japanese version. The game 
 was published by Rising Star games and it was a shame that the blood was removed but anyway this 
 game is still great.
  
  The game is all about Travis Touchdown a guy who loves Manga and wrestling he is an assassin who 
 must kill 10 other people to become the top guy. You play in a free rome city of Santa Destroy 
 to enter fights you have to gain money which is where side jobs come into play. In this game you 
 will be spending time earning money by going to the job centre and getting jobs such as Lawn Mowing, 
 garbage collecting, filling up cars at a gas station, collecting coconuts and there is more. The 
 other side job to the game is kill people to earn money this is at K Entertainment this will not 
 be included on your rank only it only gives you money. You can also go to the GYM to build up your 
 strength and thanks to the Wii control system it has been made fun. You also get shops where you 
 can buy clothes and videos to gain more wrestling moves. To help you get around the city is your 
 motorbike it looks good and has a bit of nitro to get you around a little more faster.
  
  The city looks rather dead not much happens but does it really matter not really. As for the controls 
 of the game they are very simple and totally makes great use out of the Wii control system specially 
 when your fighting people with your Katana.
  
  Travis really is a good character he is funny entertaining this whole thing is funny which is something 
 that keeps me playing. The weapon you have during the game is a Beam Katana which is a great way 
 to kill some enemies. The game is mixed in with anime style and a bit of retro stuff like at one 
 point you play this retro game leading on the way to the 4th rank person.
  
  Silvia Christel who Travis likes and she is part of tournament one of the main members who run 
 it. Silvia to me is boring I hate her French accent (not offending anyone here) and non other annoys 
 me Doctor Naomi would of been better to take her place she looks a whole lot better.
  
  The game does feature crazy enemies from a magician, model, postman, even a 18 year old school 
 girl. The people are funny the postman who is Destroyman is really funny one of my favorites in 
 the game you will battle all these to the death.
  
  In the UK version there is no decapitations or even blood instead you get black dust coming out 
 of the body with coins coming out takes away the great effect that the American version has but 
 no worries. The game still contains a whole load of swearing so this is not for your kids unless 
 you don't really care, but you should care. The UK and Japanese version have the music video by 
 Genki Rockets - Heavenly Star which is featured all the way in this game and good song to. This 
 game did sell poor in Japan this to my mind was due to the less blood effect as you see in most 
 Japanese movies they love blood.
  
  If you are looking for a wacky and crazy game pick up No More Heroes really it does not matter 
 if its the bloodless version or the blood version because this is still an awesome game anyway. 
 I just hope Goichi Suda aka Suda51 will make No More Heroes 2 cause Travis Touchdown is a fantastic 
 character which I hope to see more of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javrixx
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  So I had been reading the reviews and looking at the screen shots for No More Heroes. At my local 
 gamestop I noticed the price went down from $50 to $30 and I bought it instantly. Glad I'm did, 
 but hate myself for waiting so long.
  
  I'm going to say this game is for 18+ people who like to just have fun on some days. This game 
 isn't a big serious game, it kicks ass and it rocks, but at the same time it is hilarious and totally 
 enjoyable. This is for sure an adult game, so don't get this for your kids.
  
  Blood is everywhere. The first time I got a kill I split the guy in half. Blood went everywhere, 
 I laughed my ass off. The controls are great, the sound is great, the voice acting is superb.
 
  
  
  If you are in the market for some fun ass kicking and some big laughs while doing it, this game 
 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  I can start by saying that first impressions of this game were that it was perhaps one of the most 
 amazing looking, mature games available on the wii. It looks awesome, feels awesome, and plays 
 just as well. The integrated combat system (pressing A then ending by slashing with the remote) 
 works much better than I imagined it would, doing what so many other games have failed to do-make 
 the sword fighting enjoyable (red steel-i'm looking at you) . When handling a final slash with the 
 remote, it feels realistic, as if you're holding the beam katana in your hand, and the way the 
 combat plays out, pitching you against multiple enemies of varying levels of intelligence, demonstrates 
 completely what brilliant AI has been put into this game. The onyl glitch with the control system 
 is that sometimes, when performing a downward slash, the sensor doesn't always pick it up, thus 
 leaving you stood like a lemon in front of a large number of baddies. 
  Subtle touches in this game make it all the more enjoyable: for example, the way people whistle 
 when you perform a jump on the bike, the touchy feely moments when you play with your cat, Jean, 
 and the way Travis screams like a girl when he gets blown up. The game's humour relys on various 
 things, many of them slapstick, most of them cheesy one-liners and facial expressions as he spots 
 a 'hot girl', and the way Travis yanks his trousers down and relaxes on the toilet in order to 
 save the game. It pulls you in entirely, and when you think you've seen it all, it dumps a minigame 
 on you as you make your way to a boss battle. Clever additions liek this make this game a worthwhile 
 experience, adding to its replay value and forcing you to cringe, cry, or laugh at ridiculous antics 
 and painful battles. It enables you to feel frustrated when somebody kicks you down andbreaks your 
 chain (how many peole you kill without taking damage) , it bugs you when you hear the same song 
 blasting out of every shop's speakers whenever you go in to buy something, and it humours you when 
 you fail miserably at a job. 
  Which adds for another replay factor- the side-jobs you do in order to collect money give the game 
 some of its trademark humour. From simple jobs such as coconut collecting (Travis' stupid walk 
 when he carries them is well worth replaying the job for) to lawn mowing (his idiotic walk when 
 he trundles arund somebody's garden) , to sword-for-hire missions that have you killing 100 people 
 in four minutes, taking out people on a beach without taking damage, and murdering an innocent 
 employee of the pizza barn. These missions are carried out beautifully, drawing you in by the neck 
 and keeping you there until you finish, panting, arm aching. 
  With no problems to speak of, no errors in the storyline and no ridiculous foliage springing up 
 in frotn of you every five seconds (far cry vengeance) , this game is well worth playing and certainly 
 worth forty quid or however many dollars worth of your money.
  Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EchoHead
Rating: 1
Date: May 15, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  I hate this game!
  
  No wait, I love it!
  
  No wait, I was right the first time, I hate it.
  
  I hate it because it was mean to me.
  
 
  Picture the scene; I square off against my opponent in an abandoned school. She dashes forward, 
 her sword's razor edge glinting in the twilight. I deftly dart around her; with a quick thrust 
 of the nunchuck I push her blade aside, exposing her to an attack. I swing the Wii remote, and 
 deal her a mighty blow! Whoops! I had my wires crossed, that's Twilight Princess. What I actually 
 did was hold down Z, dodged awkwardly to one side as she attacked, crashed into a pillar that I 
 couldn't see thanks to the camera angle and got **** across the room by an attack that clearly 
 missed me by about six inches.
  
  No More Heroes is the latest avant-garde societal satire from Suda51, creator of the critically 
 acclaimed Killer7 and a load of games us gaijin didn't get to play. In a way, any review of No 
 More Heroes is a review of Suda51 as well, as he's something of the auteur, but having never having 
 played Killer7 I don't have much of a basis for comparison, so I guess he's off the hook. For now.
 
  
  Before we go any further, I'd just like to say that the art direction on No More Heroes is amazing. 
 The combination of cell shaded graphics and the gleeful addition of retro UI elements makes No 
 More Heroes a visual treat, if you can excuse the fairly low resolution compared to other consoles.
 
  
  Anyway, that's the one scrap of praise I have for No More Heroes out of the way. Let's get the 
 vitriol wagon rolling with the thing that got on my **** the most; the plot. No More Heroes casts 
 you as Travis Touchdown, an immature dickhead with all the social graces of a walrus in heat. After 
 buying a lightsabre on eBay, Travis decides that the best use of his time would be to murder a 
 lot of people for money. After killing a drifter, who happened to be the 11th best assassin in 
 the world, Travis gets wrapped up in killing the ten assassins above him to become number one. 
 For the first ten hours, that's all the plot you get, which is fine in its own way, but it certainly 
 isn't the razor sharp writing that other reviewers have been getting so excited about. The second 
 half of the game contains a more traditional narrative, but it relies heavily on an introductory 
 pamphlet that didn't make its way out of Japan. Without 'No More Heroes: Anime-Inspired Bollocks 
 Explained', the plot makes less sense than a custard jigsaw, but even if I had done the assigned 
 reading I'd still be annoyed. If you can't incorporate your back story into the game itself then 
 you need to try harder. Bioshock doesn't come with a novella, Deus Ex didn't come with homework 
 and Fallout did without an encyclopaedia, and No More Heroes is simpler than any of these titles. 
 To me, it's both lazy and arrogant and does nothing to endear me to the game. It also means that 
 the characters, which are supposedly sharp satires of the demons of society, are totally without 
 context. Not such a big deal with the ranked assassins, but trust me, you'll feel it later. The 
 icing on the cake is the game's ending, which is like taking a trip to non-sequitur village to 
 visit the king of the potato people and is such a kick in the balls, you'll wish you could erase 
 the last 20 hours from the fabric of time itself.
  
  The gameplay of No More Heroes is a much trickier beast to review. If you look at it critically, 
 No More Heroes is basically a collection of mini-games segued by retarded chimp button-mashing, 
 but nonetheless there is something compelling about it. Even when I had fallen out with the game, 
 which was about half way through, I still kept playing. Perhaps it's due to stubbornness, perhaps 
 I wanted to find out what was going on, or perhaps I wanted to be able to write a review based 
 on the whole game, but I played it through to the end. Let's get tangential for a moment. Before 
 Picasso started putting rectangular noses on oblong chins he was an accomplished classical painter. 
 "Logan, I'm perplexed," I hear you say, "What does the progenitor of Cubism have to do with No 
 More Heroes?" The answer to that question is **** All', but the point I'm laboriously working towards 
 is that before you try to re-invent an art form, you have to have the basics right and in this 
 regard No More Heroes falls more than a little short.
  
  The game is split between the ranked assassin battles and cruising around the town of Santa Destroy 
 on the slowest motorbike since Palaeolithic times earning money to enter the aforementioned ranked 
 battles. Santa Destroy is the worst attempt at a GTA clone that I have ever seen. There is almost 
 nothing that you can interact with, aside from kicking open dumpsters to find T-shirts or digging 
 for quantities of money that are so small they are inconsequential. It adds nothing to the experience 
 and should have been smothered to death with a beach towel before it ever got off the ideas board.
 
  
  The main body of the game is paradoxically Travis's struggle to make ends meet. The entry fee for 
 each of the ranked matches is the GDP of Holland plus a 10% tip and so Travis is always strapped 
 for cash. After each boss fight you unlock a new minimum wage job, which is one of the most bizarre 
 rewards in gaming history. Some of these jobs are quite fun and some of them involves scorpions, 
 but you end up doing them all at least once, as they unlock the much better paid 'assassination' 
 missions which boil down to beating people up in car parks and alleyways. There are two things 
 that I find aggravating about the part-time jobs. Firstly, they aren't part of the plot in any 
 way, shape or form. They make the game feel like Mario Party 9: Mario Earns A Pittance. Secondly, 
 the mini-games make much better use of the Wii controls than the combat, where the only good use 
 of the controls is when performing one of the many, many suplexes. With the sword fighting being 
 such a focus for the game, it's a shame they didn't make more of it, as the Wii is uniquely suited 
 to making sword-fighting games.
  
  The 'levels' that precede the ranked battles play like Golden Axe, except without the fun of kicking 
 gnomes to death. Each one is a is exactly the same, you fight wave after wave of identical enemies 
 all the time hoping that you get one of the 'dark side' powers so you can get through it all that 
 little bit quicker. These sections wouldn't be so bad if you didn't have to kill everything in 
 a room before you can move on and the few good ideas that appear in these sections are swamped 
 by enough repetitive dross to drown a brontosaurus. They can't even claim to be challenging as 
 every single one can be completed first time using only the most basic tactics. Fighting your way 
 to the ranked matches is like having an easy but boring job, possibly something in data entry or 
 retail.
  
  The ranked fights are a mixed bag. The first few are undeniably fun, but you get to a point when 
 fighting the next assassin becomes a chore. It's almost as if the game changes gear when the 'plot' 
 turns up. The tougher assassins will NEVER let you get a full combo off; you will be able to hit 
 them maybe three times before they start guarding. These fights are also plagued by some really 
 amateur mistakes. If a boss is in the middle of an animation, you can't hit them. Many times I 
 turned the air a rich cyan as my attacks rebounded off an armour-plated hairdo. The collision detection 
 is dreadful and you will routinely be damaged by attacks that clearly hit nothing but air. When 
 locked on, the camera seems to be firmly stapled to Travis right shoulder, meaning that any nearby 
 obstacle on his left hand side is practically invisible and as locking on is the only way to guard 
 effectively, you very quickly lose your bearings when the more agile bosses start leaping around 
 like kangaroos on pogo sticks. The game also has a fondness for difficult to dodge death blows 
 when the bosses are low on health. More than once, at the end of a long boss fight the game would 
 arbitrarily decide that I was close enough to be hit by one of these attacks and I would have to 
 start the whole sodding fight again. In conclusion, No More Heroes may be an amazingly spot-on 
 indictment of twenty-first century culture, but it's completely buried in a rubbish game. No More 
 Heroes is like a Christmas bauble, shiny to look at, but utterly hollow. It also has a string in 
 the top to hang it off the branches... or maybe not. My advice to Suda51 is to find someone who 
 isn't in awe of him and hire them to hit him in the head when he tries to impart some deep nugget 
 of truth at the expense of gameplay. I desperately want games LIKE this to do well, as it will 
 lead to deeper and more interesting games in the future, but I want THIS game to die in a gutter 
 like a drunken hobo.
  
  More like this can be found on www. pickledunicorn. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dibdibdobdobo
Rating: 6
Date: May 14, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  What can i say about this game! I read the reviews and thought "Hey this sounds great" then when 
 i got home i was dissapointed! many people said this game would blow me away! It did for a whole 
 10 minutes and then everything became repetitive and quite bland! 
  
  Graphically i enjoyed the game very much but it felt like i was in a Tom and Jerry programe as 
 the backdrops and surroundings where overused just like how Tom and Jerry use to run after each 
 other and it use to be the same background for 30 minutes! You go into the school and every corridor 
 looks the same, You go into the Train and every Carrage is exactly the same! Occasionally when 
 fighting and a wall was behind you, You would lose all visual of your character.
  
  The main Character reminded me of Johnny Knoxville in Cellshade form! The rest of the line up of 
 the characters where quite boring and seemed all so familiar to other characters from movies/games 
 or Comics! not very orignal to be honest.
  
  Gameplay was its biggest problem. Very repetitive gameplay with very little reward! After you learnt 
 to dodge enemies attacks and was not drunk out your mind to mess up which way to swing your arm 
 when the signs come on the screen to from arm up, down, left or right when chopping someones head 
 off or doing some wrestling move then you can pretty much say your set from then on.
  
  The best touch in the whole game where how you use the Speaker on your Wii-mote like a phone! Going 
 to the toilet to have a poo to save game made me laugh. The weird cartoon music video with something 
 to do with stars was probaly the highlight of the whole game for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drewquinn2
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  You are the perverted manga lover Travis Touchdown. You won a sweet beam katana in a online auction. 
 Your job, kick some ass with it! When you meat a hot girl, Sylvia, your life is changed. You join 
 the UAA (united assasions association) . You start out at rank 11 and you must kill the top 10 assasions 
 so you can be number 1. 
  
  People often asume Travis is a ruthless bloodthirsty killer, but how can he with his overlly cute 
 kitten Jeane? You can pet her or feed her by cliking on the icon in your apartment. You also have 
 a totally useless fridge, the cards you collect, and even customazable shirts , pants, belts, sunglasses, 
 and your jaket. You can even get a HUGE beam katana, but you get a better one thats... surprizing 
 when you first get it!
  
  One of my favorite games for the Wii. Has great game play, highly addictive, and just plane awesome! 
 I dont think it could be any better, the only way i can think of is it should be longer so you 
 can kick more ass with your beam katana! It has a surprizing ending and even a "real" ending where 
 you fight with- never mind your gonna half to get the game to figure it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masterbonus
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 9, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game and it have a lot of blood, is that bad? and it have very good graphics 
 but the bad things is that its very short and the idea of been the best assassin its great and 
 solid but the most important part of the game is that you need to beat the other asasins and you 
 are fighting to be the best assassins and thats all so if you want a gore game what are you waiting 
 for , buy it now and enjoy it and thats all. Mmm I dont like my review but... whay can I do ja ja 
 ja ja uju uju uju uju uju uju uju uju jajajajaj jajajaja jajajaja ujujuju jujujuj juju ujuj ujujuju 
 ajaja ja ja jaj aja jaja aaj aja ajja jaj ajaja ja jajs anjf djfsdj fsdf jdsf jdsjf sdfj fjs jdsfjsjfdsf 
 jdsfjds fjs ja js dj asjfd djf jd fjr gjt jt hjth jg fjg djf jg dj fjg dj gj dj fgjd jfg jd rj 
 hgtj hj (Im only making space) 
  Masterbonus at your service 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcalkenobi
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Every once in a while a game comes out and it is so weird and unique, its just great. No More Heroes 
 is what I would describe as a cult classic. This game probably won't even break a million. The 
 thing is that most people who have played this game love it and I would consider it a cult following. 
 While this game isn't hugely popular, it has everything a cult classic needs; Great characters 
 with great dialog, a really unique and obscure storyline, a very different art style, and most 
 of all, gameplay that is so over the top its funny. Everything in this game screams cult classic.
 
  
  This game is made up of a couple of main characters and a ton of minor ones. The main character's 
 name is Travis Touchdown and his story starts when he manages to win a lightsaber (called the beam 
 katana) off of the internet. He then realizes that he is out of money to buy video games. While 
 looking for a way to raise money, he runs into Silvia Christel, who tells him if he kills a drifter, 
 she can pay him money. He does this without realizing that he was killing the UAA's #11 assassin. 
 He is then pulled into the UAA, and decides that he wants to go for #1 (with Sylvia promising him 
 a little something special if he makes it) . This all takes place before the game starts. The game 
 starts with a very exciting and hilarious opening. The dialog is top notch in this game. Its flat-out 
 hilarious most times, but when time to be serious comes around, you really know it. The voice actors 
 do a spectacular job at bringing these characters to life. This is some of the best voice acting 
 in gamin history, even better than the likes of games such as Mass Effect. You really believe that 
 these characters are real an living just by listening to them. The story in game is pretty awesome 
 as well. The game has several twist to keep things very interesting. No spoilers, but the game 
 has one heck of an ending that will have you laughing like never before. As far as bringing characters 
 to life and having a great story, No More Heroes is some of the greatest on any console especially 
 the Wii. 
  
  The Art style is very unique. It is a game that is a bunch of cell shading that gives the game 
 a very trademark look. this cell shading by no means makes the game look even remotely kiddish. 
 This game is without a doubt one of if not the bloodiest game on the Wii. This game isn't like 
 most bloody or gory games, but it makes all the violence and blood so ridiculas that its funny. 
 Blood sprays all over the place for every kill along with tons of coins and money you earn for 
 each kill. You can cut people in half in a few different ways depending on which beam katana you 
 are using. The only thing I can really compare No More Heroes to in terms of violence and action 
 is Kill Bill. It is very over the top with blood just like Kill Bill. To say the least, its just 
 awesome. The problem with the art style is that if you do not like cell shading, you may not like 
 the game. If graphics can really turn you off and you don't like cell shaded games, you may have 
 a problem. It doesn't bother me at all, and in fact I really like the art style, but I know there 
 are some people who don't. So if you don't like cell shaded games, and graphics can make or break 
 a game for you, this might not be your cup of tea. I highly recommend that you at least try the 
 game even if you don't like the art style.
  
  The combat in this game is definitely another high point. You use the A button for swinging the 
 Katana until the final blow when you use the Wii remote. On the finishing attack, instead of using 
 A you use gestures to cut your enemy in half. It really works perfectly. I have so far only had 
 one instance where the controller did not respond right, and I think it had to do with the low 
 batteries, not the game. Another great thing about the combat is the wresting moves that you learn 
 throughout the game. During the game you learn wresting moves that you can use when your enemy 
 is stunned. You use the gesture that shows up on the screen, and for each different move is a different 
 gesture. It really is quite effective. It does a lot of damage to opponents and especially comes 
 in handy while fighting bosses. Bosses in No More Heroes are some of the best I've ever fought. 
 They each have a very unique feel to them. These bosses aren't easy either. On several of the bosses 
 I dies more than once. Each one of the bosses has a type of weakness, so you never fight the same 
 boss twice.
  
  With all these great things No More Heroes has to offer, you'd wonder why there is no perfect score. 
 While this game excels in the main game, it fails in all of the things that happen in between missions 
 that move the story along. The city, which I think is trying to feel like a sandbox game, fails 
 horribly. It is extremely bland and boring. Almost all of the buildings are copied multiple times 
 all over the city except for a few that side missions use. The bike riding merely makes the game 
 longer and is more of an annoyance than actual fun. you can not attack any of the people or jack 
 any of the cars. The city looks like it should function like a GTA game, but it does not at all. 
 Then you have the side missions. With the side missions, its a hit or miss type of thing. Some 
 of them are fun, while some of them are not. The side missions consist mostly of odd jobs such 
 as delivering coconuts, rescuing cats, and collecting scorpions. some of these are fun, but can 
 be very repetitive and more of a chore than fun. Then you have the assassin missions that are actually 
 pretty fun, but there are too few of them. So while the main story and the main game is amazing, 
 the in between parts really suck. Not all of the overworld is a complete failure. You can go to 
 the gym and up your stats by working out, or buy new swords and wresting moves. That is about the 
 best thing of the open world game. Sometimes it feels like 2 games. 1 is an awesome over the top 
 action game, while the other is a dry boring wantabee GTA.
  
  When you put everything together, the great completely out ways the bad. This game definitely has 
 its flaws, but the awesome game at its core makes the game worth the price you pay for it. If you 
 own a Wii and want a Mature game, then don't think twice about No More Heroes. It has everything 
 Mature games have in them, violence, language, and heavy sexual implications and humor. No More 
 Heroes easily justifies that $30 you pay for it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony_Narutendo
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  People saying Wii needs to prove it's self, I feel the Wii has proven it's self with many genres 
 but is not being noted.
  
  If it's anything that shows what Action is on Wii it's this game. You play as Travis Touchdown; 
 a dopey Otaku, who get's a beam Katana online and only motivation is to be #1. Travis want's to 
 be the number one assasin in America so he enters this game of some sorts hosted by a mysterious 
 named Silvia Crystel. On his way to number 1 Travis is inthralled in this bloody fight to prove 
 him self.
  
  Let me say, the way to #1 is worth it, never have I played a game so fast so satisfying and cool, 
 it felt like I was on a roller coaster ride with no roller coaster. This game is delivered to you 
 in such a unique fashion, that it's a revolution in gaming that will be widely unseen. 
  
  The brilliance in this game comes from the fact that it is a mesh of so many things, this great 
 and colorfulcast of characters, the side jobs, the motive. This game is carried by great dialog, 
 great voice acting, and the great delievery of the cut-scenes. Not in such a long time have I played 
 a game to hear what has to be said next. Travis is not your average big bulky one liner delivering 
 game character thats rampant in gaming today, your femenine Japanese RPG guy, or your annoying 
 chosen one guy. Travis is a fast, smart guy who actually says meaningful stuff and doesnt let emotion 
 get in his way, and this drives the game on perfectly.
  
  But the game biggest flaw is the length, short... You will get through No More Heroes in about 
 some small hours if you get the correct sword updates and character powerups. But this game leaves 
 you begging for more. These characters need more light, this town known as Santa Destroy needs 
 the be dwelved on deeper.
  
  The best Wii game I have played yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_GundamRX78
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Granted I don't have all that many games for the Wii, but I also can't say that I've seen all that 
 many that have really interested me much. I've played Resident Evil for the Wii, Metroid and various 
 other action games (and, of course, I own Wii Sports, Wii Play, Metal of Honor: Vanguard, and Hot 
 Wheels) ; but I have to say that so far, "No More Heroes" has made it to my top favorite game currently 
 out for the Wii.
  
  Believe me, I was skeptical at first. I'd been pondering about buying it ever since the game launched. 
 I read reviews, I read feedback, I asked around about it, and while mainly word about it was good, 
 I was still skeptical about how much I'd actually enjoy the game. It looked alright, but was it 
 really what I wanted?
  Long-story-short, roughly two weeks ago I broke down and decided to buy it. I'm glad I did. 
 
  
  No More Heroes is, simply put, brutal and bloodthirsty, good old fun. Sure, the story isn't all 
 that hot, but the game itself more than makes up for that. There's just so much to do and see around 
 the game. The missions are fun and even the part-time jobs are fun. It's got a load of crude humor 
 that's entertaining; combat is fast and furious, and it doesn't depend on the Wii's motion sensors 
 to make the game fun. Yes, NMH does use the motion sensors in its gameplay, but unlike many other 
 Wii games it doesn't use that as its main function in hopes to make the game "fun" and "interactive". 
 It uses the sensors just enough, in my opinion, for this type of a game. 
  
  Character customization is another major plus for this game. While you can't change your character's 
 hair, shoes or wristbands (unfortunately) , you are able to change his shirt, pants, jacket, glasses 
 and belt. And there are so many options available that you can really make an outfit that fits 
 your personality. I myself have a darker outfit with a brightly-colored shirt that features an 
 anime girl on it, which also matches the colors of the outfit.
  The ability to create a unique look gives this a feeling of it being "your game". 
  
  The game 
 is humorous and fun. Travis is, of course, an Otaku (anime fan) which adds a certain sense of humor 
 to the game in itself, but also adds a bit of believability to the game as well. It makes it seem 
 that Travis isn't just some random guy who goes around killing for no real reason, but makes him 
 seem a bit deeper and more "alive", that he has interests and obsessions that many other people 
 (including myself) have -- being an anime fan.
  
  Now, the game is rather bloody, there's no doubt about that. When you kill a character his blood 
 will spurt out all over the screen. However, the blood is all but "icky" or "gross". Believe me, 
 I can't stand the sight of gore, but I can easily stomach this game. The blood is cartoony and 
 inhuman. The enemies spurt gallons of blood, much more than someone would in reality. The blood 
 doesn't really even look all that real, just sheets of red color. But that's also how the graphics 
 are in the game.
  The graphics aren't what you'd call state-of-the-art or ultra-realistic. They're done in an almost 
 cell-shaded fashion, which I think really adds to the game. 
  Though there's a lot of foul language in the game so it's definitely not one to play with small 
 children around.
  
  To end this review, which is a lot longer than I'd originally intended, I'll just say that "No 
 More Heroes" is a very fun game, and a game that the Wii has very much needed. It's one of the 
 only Wii games that I have very few complaints about (though I haven't beaten the game yet, I guess 
 I'll see how that turns out when I beat it) . It's addicting, challenging, humorous and fun. Well 
 worth $50. What more could you ask for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TravellinJack
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  Even after beating No More Heroes, I don't think I could tell you exactly what it was about. The 
 Epic ( and often ridiculous ) adventure of Travis Touchdown is still a must play for any mature 
 Wii owner. 
  
  Although No More Heroes hasn't really accomplished anything new at a technical standpoint, it is 
 still an incredibly smooth game. The Motion controls blend seamlessly into the combat, and I would 
 be lying if I told you that I didn't stand to play it, just to over exaggerate my swings. Although 
 the side jobs often felt just like the chores that really were, I still feel that they lent the 
 game some charm.
  
  The Graphics in NMH certainly pale in comparison to other next gen games, but the style in which 
 they are presented Is unparalleled. All of the bosses have an incredibly unique feel, and just 
 looking at some of them can serve to spur you into blood lust. Speaking of which, the amount of 
 blood in the game is ridiculous, which may just be Suda-51 attempt at making up for all of the 
 other blood-less Wii titles.
  
  The in game sound is also quite stylized. Although to many it may seem dated, the retro 80's noises 
 present throughout the game add even more to its charm. All of the characters are voiced fantastically, 
 and the vicious hum of the beam katana makes 
  swinging it all the more fun.
  
  The most compelling aspect of No More Heroes is the story. Although confusing and seemingly nonsensical, 
 I can't help but think there is a lot of social commentary ( although it is mostly transparent to 
 me) . It is the story that will keep you slicing and dicing to the end and will of course leave 
 you wanting a bit more.
  
  If you own a Wii and are a fan of violence, it is imperative that you buy No More Heroes, its unique 
 sense of style and humor combine to make a game that is truly a gem.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3-over-360
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 3, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  well, action games arent wii times, especially for wii
  
  The problem when critiquing a satirical video game is that when you encounter a flaw in the gameplay, 
 or something irks you, you are never sure whether that is what was intended by the creator. Of 
 course, a game should never sacrifice gameplay for some deeper message or hidden meaning and, well, 
 No More Heroes doesnt, for the most part. It manages to hold on to its allegory whilst being a 
 very enjoyable slash-em-up. Still, there are those annoyances which keep No More Heroes from elevating 
 to instant class-ic status.
  
  
  
  The characters, too, ooze with style and humour. All of the bosses were an absolute joy to battle, 
 even when they killed me again and again. I couldnt help but feel the cast would work well in a 
 beat-em-up, and sorely wished that I could play as each and every one. Although  
 was the method for the fodder enemies, it was a helluva lot more tactical (and therefore challenging) 
 with the bosses.
  
  The sound effects and music was godly, and reminiscent of a variety of other video games; space 
 invaders, grand theft auto... I swear the in game menu had stuff from Wind Waker. It all added 
 up to create a great sense of nostalgia, something that I imagine is very difficult for a brand 
 new IP to do. You have to give No More Heroes the respect that it deserves for creating such an 
 immersive single player campaign that keeps you hanging until the end.
  
  
  Overall, No More Heroes is a satisfying game if you can get over the fact Suda51 placed more emphasis 
 on style and meaning, rather than substance. Unfortunately, I couldnt quite do that, hence the 
 lower score.
  
  PROS
  -Graphics and characters absolutely ooze with style.
  -The sound effects and music are simply fantastic.
  -Tonnes to collect, and an extreme difficulty 
 mode to unlock.
  -Pop culture references will keep you smiling.
  -Fantastic gameplay and use of motion controlls.
  -Great pacing between minigames, assasinations 
 and ranked fights.
  
  CONS
  -Aspects of game sacrificed due to satirical nature of game.
  -Overworld is considerably empty, 
 and serves as a "hub".
  -Cheesy dialogue. And lots of it.
  -Style outweighs substance, which is a tad disappointing.
  
  OVERALL - 7.5/10 
  Rate this 
 Review: Yes No Track Author Report Abuse 
  previous review next review 
  More Player Reviews 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humantnt
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes, Suda-51's Second Game so far, A Great Upgrade From Killer 7, easily one of the 
 best wii games to date
  It is a immense single-player storyline, funny well made cutscenes, great combat system, not repetitive 
 at the slightest, cool, funny and quite odd characters make this game a must buy for the wii.
  
  the only cons to this game is maybe the graphics of the city which are quite noticeable, but 
 arent bad enough to not make u want to play this game, as it is that fun ,funny and unique, no 
 more heroes isnt for everyone, but except for the hating weirdos then no more heroes is excellent, 
 always leaving u with something too do..
  
  u can go play with ur adorable cat, buy clothes, wear clothes, look through dumpsters for clothes 
 or cash, search for lovikov balls to get some new moves, dig up coins and so much more
  
  The great thing about this game is it doesnt dragg on like some other titles i may not mention..."Cough 
 *HALO* Cough"... and instead of getting a next mission u choose in which way u want to make money 
 for ur next mission
  or u can just free roam ur bike around the city, ur choice
  The Letdown of this game is The fact that its incredibly easy on any difficulty, i found a few 
 challenges every now and then but overall i breezed Through this game, I left the game with my 
 bro and i went for about 3 hours and i came back and he had beaten rank 9 and rank 8 assasian by 
 himself on medium difficulty, then again my little 6 yr old bro is a pro on games hes probably 
 one of the best junior gamers on the planet , no word of a lie, he finished the game the warriors 
 on hardest difficulty by himself i was astounded!!... Anyways.... This game is Still Great :)
  
  To rap it up.
  
  no more heroes is a decent length, intense 3rd person Action game
  Its 
 Got Plenty Too do, Great Storyline, Weird and wacky characters which will always keep u laughing 
 or wanting to kill them =]
  
  No More heroes is one of the best wii titles to date and it will never be forgotten......
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: despa1r_fact0r
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  No More Heores
  Nintendo Wii
  
  Story --- Protagonist Travis Touchdown is hired by a woman in a bar to kill "the drifter." Upon 
 doing this assassination, Travis has ranked 11th in the UAA, and the mysterious woman offer to 
 "do it" with Travis once he ranks 1st in UAA.
  
  Graphics --- No More Heroes offers some great cel shading in this game, although this game looks 
 more like a last gen game. The cel shaded showering blood is very comical.
  
  Sound --- I have to say that No More Heroes offers a superb voice acting, and a killer soundtrack. 
 
  
  Controls --- Travis's main weapon is a beam katana that was won on an online auction site, and 
 you control this katana with the Wii-mote. Unlike many games out on the Wii where a sword is your 
 main weapon, No More Heroes isn't just a continuous Wii-mote shaker. Instead you mash the "A" button 
 until an arrow appears on the screen for you to swing the Wii-mote in that directions in order 
 for Travis to swing the katana. This action is also used for the wrestling moves but instead of 
 the "A", you mash the "B" button.
  
  Game Play --- No More Heroes offers an open ended world between ranked matches. This allows Travis 
 to get a part time job to pay for your next match. These jobs are mini games that you complete 
 for pay, but in order to keeping the game from getting stale, you also take on payed assassination 
 jobs. Once these are completed these become free missions, which are a little difficult to complete. 
 Also in the open world you can train to build strength, buy clothes to wear, buy movies to learn 
 new wrestling moves, and buy new weapons to fight with.
  
  Over All --- When your targeting an enemy (hold the "Z" button down) you can rest the camera position 
 (tapping the "C" button) and your off screen, this doesn't happen often but it is aggravating when 
 it does. Another problem is the showering blood blocks your view when fighting and you seem to 
 take a hit, but again this isn't often. Now that I got the bad out of the way, I have to say that 
 this game is awesome! No More Heroes pays a great homage to Star Wars, that right Dark Star (Darth 
 Vader or Death Star) who looks like Darth Vader tells Travis that he is his father. Also in the 
 Beef Head Video Store there is a poster that looks like Episode 2. With a superb soundtrack, excellent 
 controls, great humor, and just a good amount of WOW factor, No More Heroes is a must have for 
 any Wii onewr! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Let's begin with the fun stuff. The boss fights are really fun and some of the dialogs are simply 
 hilarious (in a strange, weird way) .
  
  However, the pace of the game is all wrong. To get to the boss fights, you have to get money. Which 
 means you have to go to the job centers (normal job or assassination) , pick up a job, run to the 
 client, do the job, and then return to the job centers to get another one. I could understand that 
 the first time a new job is offered, you have to go to the job center, but after that, you should 
 be able to re-do a job without having to go back to the job center and re-do the whole process. 
 It gets very boring. After 2 hours of this, you just do the job that gives you the more money in 
 the least time over and over again because you simply want to move on.
  
  If you want power-up, guess what, you need more money. Go to the job center, get a job, go to the 
 job, do the job, etc...
  
  If you want training... (take a guess) , you need more money again. Go to the job center, get a 
 job, go to the job, do th.... 
  
  If at least there was something interesting in the city... but no, the city is very boring. Nothing 
 happens, no side quests, only a small treasure hunt where you find balls to get new techniques 
 or find money by hitting the ground with your katana.
  
  Graphics are not what I expected. Of course it's running on the Wii (not on the PS3 or 360) , so 
 don't expect something in the GTA IV style, but I was expecting something more Manga or Anime. 
 Sound is OK, but that's it.
  
  It's too bad that the US version does not have the Heavenly Stars video. Instead, it has a trailer 
 for the game. After seeing the Heavenly Stars video on You Tube, I wished it could have been in 
 the US version instead of an uninspired trailer.
  
  In conclusion, the only things that save this game are the boss fights and the weird humor. I would 
 recommend renting this game first before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keymaster92
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is a 3rd person swordfighting game developed by Suda 51. The same people who made 
 Killer 7. You play as Travis Touchdown, a cool, cocky, guy who wins a beam katana at an auction 
 and uses it to kill assassin's on his way to become the number 1 ranked assassin in Santa Destroy. 
 Here is the review.
  
  Pros- Excellent use of motion sensing controls, lots of mature humor to keep you laughing, great 
 storyline, characters have alot of detail in the storyline, awesome boss battles, you are allowed 
 to change Travis's clothing to make him look like a cool assassin and you can buy different beam 
 katanas to replace the first one, it's fun to roam around the city in Travis's big motorcycly.
 
  
  Cons- When doing a death blow it can hit other enemies slowing down the gameplay and framerate, 
 roaming around the city can be boring, can't face one of the assassin battles, 3rd ranked assassin 
 battle doesn't allow you to fight the assassin by yourself (but a gory ending to the battle) .
 
  
  
  No More Heroes gets a 9 out of 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Ah, the beautiful scenery of California is amazing, right? The brilliant sunshine, the hustle and 
 bustle of urban lifestyles and the local Pizza Butt always has your favorite choice of pizza. Santa 
 Destroy, California is one hell of a city, and Travis Touchdown is the city's own personal demon. 
 Living at the No More Heroes motel, Travis isn't just some hotheaded otaku with a love for porn, 
 video games, and luchador masks that are in his apartment. Nope, Travis has a Beam Katana and an 
 unstoppable perseverance to be the #1 assassin. Welcome to No More Heroes, the latest incarnation 
 from famed gaming designer SUDA-51, one of gaming's most alternative of game developers.
  
  In No More Heroes, Travis is the protagonist, though calling him the hero wouldn't be correct. 
 He's a porn-loving, game-playing, anime-watching, Beam Katana-wielding poster child for immaturity, 
 and he's got a taste for blood. In the beginning, you see Travis bust into a random mansion to 
 off the 10th assassin, Death Metal. But defeating Death Metal is only the beginning; Travis's true 
 motive is to kill all ten assassins to reach the coveted #1 rank. Led by the seductive Sylvia Christel, 
 Travis must earn money to participate in the fights and then take out the many different and elegantly 
 absurd bosses to advance to the ultimate prize. From the absolute start, you'll no doubt be captivated 
 to see each of the different assassins' motives, storyline, and monologues. The story is full of 
 adult humor and plenty of violence, but no fight manages to abandon such charm and hilarious nature. 
 And don't think that each boss is simple. No, right when you think everything is figured out, out 
 comes a plot twist to change your well-fortified plans. If you're looking for high-quality storytelling, 
 No More Heroes delivers, but SUDA-51's nasty brand of clever humor makes the story a wild rollercoaster 
 ride, where practically anything can (and possibly will) happen.
  
  The story will draw you in, but you'll stay for the combat, which thankfully doesn't involve waving 
 the Wii Remote constantly like many other games before it. Instead, pressing the A button lets 
 you attack, where finishing a combo must be executed by swinging the Wii Remote in a shown direction. 
 Travis can also perform kicks and punches with the B-Trigger (or pull off a cool Wii Remote and 
 Nunchuk wrestling combo against dazed enemies) and can dodge using the D-Pad. The combo system 
 is fun and visually stunning; Travis's attacks explode with blood and currency and the entire combat 
 system is exceptionally stylized. Along with the simple controls, a slot machine spins after a 
 solid combo. Match up three of a kind and Travis goes into Darkside mode, which depending upon 
 the icon matched up, can be a multitude of different powerups. Try a quick button-pressing multi-kill 
 or a Dragon Ball Z-style transformation. Finally, you'll need to recharge the battery on the Beam 
 Katana occasionally, which involves holding the 1 button and shaking the Wii Remote. When brought 
 together, the different abilities produce a smooth and stylized combat system that puts the simple 
 "wave the Wii-mote randomly" combat system to shame. 
  
  Along the way, Travis is required to earn money to participate in each ranked match. So what's 
 your everyday assassin going to do about that? Odd jobs. In Santa Destroy, Travis can visit the 
 job center to get assignments to earn money which in turn can be used to enter the next ranked 
 match. These jobs range from the casual like mowing lawns to the incredibly strange like tracking 
 land mines on the beach. These different minigames make great use of the Wii Remote, although they 
 aren't entirely time-consuming. Also, there's only a handful, and while they're not the best minigames 
 seen on the Wii, they are fun and worth returning to. Also, the cash can be spent in a number of 
 ways. If you don't feel like blazing through the ranked matches, there's a good amount of things 
 to do with your hard earned funds. You can talk to your fighting coach to increase stats in the 
 gym, purchase a video from the video store to learn new wrestling moves, or simply pick up some 
 new threads to fight in. You do need to travel from different buildings in Santa Destroy, and it 
 can be a bit of a hassle sometimes. None of these missions are particularly deep or particularly 
 long, and having to return all the way back to the job center when you fail is a chore, but they're 
 clever diversions that have enough charm to be worth checking out.
  
  So now you have the cash and skills to challenge one of the ranked assassins in a fierce one-on-one 
 battle. Prepare to be shocked, because the boss battles are just plain crazy. The assassins can 
 range from a samurai schoolgirl to a senior-citizen with a shopping cart. Not only are the battles 
 fun, but no boss battle is like the others. Earned skills and combos are put to good use along 
 with some light puzzle solving to spice up the already intense battles. The fights can be a thorough 
 challenge, as well, although nearby health and battery powerups to provide a balance. Even better 
 is they're downright unpredictable. Right when you think you have an edge, the bosses will do something 
 so over-the-top, you'll need to pause the game just to regain your composure. It's that cool.
 
  
  The presentation is rich and undeniably alternative. Like Killer 7 before it, there's some striking 
 cel-shading mixed in with some creative character designs. The dim lighting effects look great 
 and the blood explosions look extremely visceral. Aside from some light frame rate slowdowns, the 
 graphics are some of the best-looking on the Wii. The cutscenes are great to watch not only because 
 they're good-looking, but well voiced. The voice acting is a thrill to watch; each character is 
 presented in an incredibly fitting way, from Travis's devil-may-care attitude to Sylvia's seductive 
 accent. The music is upbeat with excellent themes and the sound effects match every attack perfectly. 
 You won't find a game on the Wii with such an incredible presentation as No More Heroes; from the 
 visceral blood explosions to the rockin' soundtrack, it all is portrayed amazingly and unforgettably. 
 
  
  Pros
  + Combat is smooth and functional
  + Boss fights are full of weird and creatively-designed challenges
  + Unique controls don't abuse 
 the Wii Remote's motion-sensing features
  + Slick graphic style makes combat look great
  + Story and voice acting are hilariously entertaining
  
  Cons
  - Returning to job center 
 or mission building after failing a mission gets old quick
  - Not enough jobs to complete
  - Frame rate can get a bit cluttered
  
  No More Heroes is an incredibly unique game that strides 
 far past the Wii's collection of simple action titles and delivers an undeniably clever, remarkably 
 brutal, and plenty fun action romp that must be played to be believed. The game, from start to 
 finish, is an amazing mix of SUDA-51's rambunctious action style and smooth gameplay sequences, 
 forming a game that really can't be duplicated. The storyline will captivate and shock at many 
 points throughout and will be a prime incentive to persevere through the game's few annoying moments. 
 An accessible combat system compliments the game's bottomless reserve of style, showing a unique 
 approach to the long-used Wii Remote controls. Blatantly mature, remarkably complex, and undeniably 
 stylized, No More Heroes could well be the first amazing action title for Nintendo's newest system. 
 If you're of proper age, exploring No More Heroes is worth your valued gaming time and is a blast 
 to battle through.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HailToTheGun
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  
  Hey You, Holding The Wii Remote
  
  What do you get when you mix together Quentin Tarantino's "Kill Bill" (Volume 1 and/or 2, your 
 choice) , anime, outrageous dialogue, a little bit of 70s-style Kung Fu movies and the brilliance 
 that is SUDA-51? In three words: No More Heroes. And the culmination of that unholy concoction 
 is known as Travis Touchdown. Travis is a uniquely original character created from the mind of 
 famed developer Goichi Suda (more commonly known as SUDA-51) ; Travis is a typical Japanese Otaku, 
 though he is by no means Japanese. His obsessions include anime, sex, and violence - in no particular 
 order. What makes Travis so endearing, if I may use that word lightly, is that he's such a likeable 
 guy. He's got charisma, he's got personality, he's got heart. And he frequently breaks the fourth 
 wall, directly acknowledging the player. How can you not love that?
  
  No More Heroes' premise is simple, traditional, but oh so addicting. Being the Otaku that he is, 
 Travis orders a beam katana (think: lightsaber) via the internet. A chance encounter at a bar one 
 night, at which time Travis may or may not have been under the influence, accepts a proposition 
 from a beautiful stranger. What does she ask him to do? Kill someone for her. Simple enough. The 
 thing is, the person he kills is an Assassin - the 11th ranked member of the UAA - United Assassins 
 Association. As a result, Travis is now officially a member of the UAA. So what does he do? He 
 vows to become the number 1 ranked Assassin. Comedy, violence, and pure awesome ensues.
  
  STRAWBERRY ON THE SHORTCAKE
  
  No, that was not a random comment - although in a sense, it's 
 entirely random even in the context of the game. No More Heroes' combat is purely a visceral hack-and-slash. 
 But it strays from repetition with the small intricacies of the Wii Remote. You press A to swing 
 his beam katana and B to use wrestling moves - yes, wrestling moves. Depending on the angle you're 
 holding the Remote when you press the A button, Travis will perform a series of low or high attacks, 
 respectively. The motion controls don't end there, however. When you get into a deadlock against 
 an enemy's weapon, an icon will appear on screen which prompts you to swing the Remote frantically 
 so as to gain the upper hand. For the Wrestling moves, you'll be required to perform simultaneous 
 movements with both the Nunchuk and The Wii Remote. For example, to perform a Tombstone Piledriver, 
 you swing the Nunchuk and Remote Sideways first to flip the opponent over, and then swing the controllers 
 downward to drop the enemy on their head.
  
  And for the coup de grace; the beam katana operates on a "battery" mechanic. The more you use it, 
 the more the battery is drained. But fret not, for you can easily recharge the battery at anytime 
 via picking up battery power-ups, or the more important way - rapidly swinging the beam katana 
 up and down in between your legs in a very suggestive manner. And of course you simulate this by 
 doing a similar motion with the Wii Remote. How's that for absurd?
  
  Now, let's get to the question you probably asked yourself when you first got to the combat section. 
 "What the hell does strawberry shortcake have to do with anything?" Well, No More Heroes features 
 an automatic slot machine device that spins after killing an enemy. Matching certain symbols earns 
 you specific rewards, but the most ludicrous ones that occur take the form of special moves available 
 to Travis. Bullet-speed movement, shooting fire from your beam katana, and various others. The 
 interesting thing to note about them is that when activated, Travis will randomly shout various 
 pastries and desserts. "Strawberry on the shortcake!" is one of them, as is "Blueberry Cheesecake 
 Brownie!" Performing the moves is just as entertaining as hearing Travis scream these absurdities.
 
  
  Ohdid I mention that when you kill an enemy, Travis performs a specialized beam katana-swing which 
 decapitates them and sprays a fountain of cell shaded blood over the entire battlefield? Tarantino, 
 eat your heart out.
  
  Cell Shading At Its Bloodiest
  
  Cell shaded graphics are an artistic brilliance in my opinion, and games that use these types of 
 visuals are usually the ones that catch my interest over the realistically-rendered, high-definition 
 nonsense. That's not to say the latter is bad - not at all. But here's not the time to debate the 
 two. No More Heroes is a spiritual follow-up to SUDA-51's prior success, Killer7, for the Gamecube. 
 The two feature similarly-stylized visuals with a touch of more color and flair present in No More 
 Heroes. The game uses a uniquely nostalgic, though obviously visually-dated mechanic to display 
 health points, locations on the map, and the entire pause menu in general. They're all rendered 
 in tiny, separate cell-shaded squares like a mural. It looks cool, but it's definitely not the 
 most appealing feature. That award goes to the game's pre-rendered cutscenes with the various assassins. 
 They're both a breath of fresh air and a gory sight to behold. 
  
  Taking The Exploration Out of The Sandbox
  
  No More Heroes is only partially a hack-and-slash; 
 in fact, a larger majority of the game's time will be devoted to being spent in between each ranked 
 Assassin match. To enter into the next ranked match, you need to fork up a large sum of cash. To 
 get that cash, you'll continually perform various odd-jobs in the form of mini-games around the 
 semi-open world (a la Grand Theft Auto) . One such game will have you mowing your lawn, another 
 looking for missing kittens, and another cleaning up graffiti around the city. Each of these mini-games 
 will utilize the Wii Remote and Nunchuk's motion capabilities in various ways, and they can all 
 be repeated as many times as you like. The reward for these are minor, but they are fun enough 
 to justify a second attempt. The real cash comes in the form of secondary-assassination missions 
 excluded from your Ranked battles in the UAA. These will have you battling hoards of bag-wearing, 
 baseball-throwing, pizza-delivering assassins. There as fun as they are bloody, but they can get 
 very repetitive by mid-game. Every assassination side-mission is virtually the same as the one 
 before it; kill a lot of enemies before the time runs out.
  
  As I mentioned before, No More Heroes is a somewhat open-world game. You can explore the town of 
 Santa Destroy (awesome name, I know) using Travis' high-speed motorcycle called the Schpeltiger; 
 you can visit various shops to purchase different attire for Travis, buy VHS Tapes from the local 
 rental store (which allow Travis to learn new wrestling moves) , work out at the gym to increase 
 his stats, and various other mini-games related to Travis' overall performance. But that's where 
 the sandbox end. The exploration aspect is merely there to allow you to get from point A to point 
 B. You can't interact with other people in the streets, you can't interact with cars (crash into 
 them) . If the only point of the open-world was for transportation, it could have just as easily 
 been done with a simple menu selection. It would've saved a tremendous amount of time. Of course, 
 driving around the city could have been fun if it weren't for all of the technical issues. The 
 collision detection is skewed; Travis will consistently crash into invisible walls surrounding 
 cars and other objects, clearly a good distance away from it. The town itself isn't particularly 
 remarkable looking, either.
  
  
  The game offers very little on the side of replay value. There's no incentive to start the game 
 over except to try it on a new, harder difficulty which is unlocked upon the first completion. 
 No More Heroes also offers two slightly varied endings (with one admittedly being more satisfying 
 then the other) , but you can easily witness either ending of the game after the last assassination 
 mission by visiting your bathroom. Which brings me to my last point, possibly the best part of 
 the game, and the single greatest implementation of a save feature ever. Just visit a bathroom 
 and Travis will squat down on the toilet, prompting you to save your progress.
  
  SUDA-52 Strikes A Perfect Note
  
  The sound of the game is brilliant, and stands toe-to-toe 
 with the game's raw, visceral, exhilarating, combat. The music is a fresh blend of Techno cyber 
 grind with a tiny bit of orchestrated classical thrown in every once in a while for good measure. 
 It's really as diverse a soundtrack as you could imagine for such a unique game. Hitting those 
 slot-machine power ups to fast paced techno while decapitating enemy after enemy after enemy has 
 never been more enjoyable. Aside from the music, the voice acting is exceptionally well delivered 
 given the game's outrageous dialogue. Travis will oft respond to one of the assassin's bizarre 
 catch phrases with a little wit of his own, and when Travis speaks, it's blissful. I think the 
 only thing more satisfying than impaling enemies with a makeshift light saber is hearing Travis 
 say, "If I become number one, will you do it with me?" to the game's foreign female lead. Ah, Travis. 
 What a guy.
  
  And The Verdict Is
  
  No More Heroes is one of the most unique games to come out in a long time; it's also one of the 
 most violent ones, especially gracing Nintendo's usually-family friendly console. But to those 
 looking for a raw, entertaining, wholly satisfying and brilliantly delivered mature game for the 
 Wii, look no further than No More Heroes.
  
  Pros: Brilliant voice acting and music; exceptionally well - albeit extremely exaggerated - dialogue; 
 a simple but very satisfying and gory combat system; entertaining mini-games in between the story-driven 
 battles
  
  Cons: Open-world lacks the exploration part and the fun of being open-world; sub-assassination 
 missions can get repetitive, despite the game's great combat; little replay value; sometimes the 
 visuals can feel dated
  
  The Final Verdict: 9/10
  No More Heroes is a brilliant game, but the derivativeness of the secondary missions and obvious 
 oversight of the town of Santa Destroy holds it back from being a truly flawless game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoddyman
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  In the bizarre California metropolis of Santa Destroy, your trainer encourages you to get naked 
 for your workout, and hired goons bemoan the loss of their spleen when cleaved in two. If you've 
 played any of director SUDA-51's previous games, especially 2005's Killer 7, this kind of irreverent 
 and ironic humor won't come as a shock. What may surprise you, however, is that while No More Heroes 
 brandishes a similarly high-concept story as its love-it-or-hate-it forebear, it features plenty 
 of rewarding, visceral action to complement the intrigue. The eccentricities guarantee that you've 
 never played a game quite like this before -- but it's the exciting, blood-spewing combat that will 
 keep you constantly enthralled. 
  
  If you need further proof of this game's nuttiness, consider the story. As Travis Touchdown -- an 
 action-figure owning, porn-collecting, card-collecting obsessive -- you find yourself caught up in 
 the melodrama of a real-life assassination leaderboard. Armed with your trusty beam katana (obviously 
 meant to approximate a Star Wars lightsaber) , you slice your way through a dozen killers in your 
 quest to earn the number one rank. Narrowing things down to such a simple description doesn't really 
 do the narrative justice, though, since the absurdity of the premise permeates every aspect of 
 the game -- its characters, its references, even its gameplay. The sexy, sophisticated Sylvia taunts 
 Travis with her French accent and feminine curves over and over, only to leave him high and dry; 
 boss characters sing lounge music in baseball fields and attack you with killer shopping carts 
 and prosthetic legs; and you earn side money by mowing lawns and filling gas tanks at the local 
 service station. It's pure insanity, but you won't be able to avert your eyes. 
  
  
  
  
  Travis' dry-cleaning bill must be through the roof.
  No More Heroes' combat is its shining 
 star, and not enough can be said about its over-the-top, cheerful violence. Armed with your weapon 
 of choice (you can upgrade your katana or purchase new ones, provided you earn enough coinage) , 
 you'll take on a decent number of mercenaries on any given mission. You'd think that since you're 
 brandishing a lightsaber, the game would force you to swing the Wii Remote to approximate the experience. 
 Instead, basic combat is on the simple side: You swing your weapon using the A button, and perform 
 hand-to-hand moves using the B button. Remote-waggling is reserved for finishing moves, but it's 
 important to note that every kill is finished with such a move, so there's no shortage of wrist 
 movement here. If you deliver your final blow with your katana, it may be as simple as a flick 
 to the side, while at other times, you can jerk both the Nunchuk and the remote for a theatrical, 
 painful-looking wrestling move. The combination of old-fashioned button-mashing and high-energy 
 yanks and waggles makes for fun, often breathless encounters, and while the same basic movements 
 account for the bulk of the action, it rarely feels repetitive. 
  
  Much of this has to do with the exuberance of No More Heroes' brutality. Each enemy spurts seemingly 
 endless showers of blood and coins, so expect to see your screen filled with red streams and golden 
 glitter when you manage a sideswipe through multiple foes at once. It's quite cartoonish, actually: 
 Everything kicks into subtle slow motion when you divide a foe in two, a ring of stars rotates 
 above a stunned enemy's head to the sound of bird chirps, and a small slot machine spins at the 
 bottom of the screen after every finishing move. It's not just for show, though -- earn a triple 
 match, and you activate one of your darkside powers. In one case, the entire screen goes gray, 
 and a single button press allows you to attack each foe, one at a time, with a spectacular, stylish 
 thrust. In another, your foes slow to a crawl, allowing you to carve them up with greater ease. 
 These temporary power-ups are awesome to watch and an exhilarating reward for successful combat 
 maneuvers. 
  
  There are some subtleties to the combat. When you are locked onto an enemy, you can block attacks 
 and deflect bullets, and use the control pad to dodge. You'll take a higher or lower stance depending 
 on how you hold the remote, may need to stun enemies with a kick before you can damage them, and 
 in some cases, have to defeat them by using alternative means. For example, in several side missions, 
 baseball players clad in Warriors uniforms pitch baseballs at you, and you have to bat them through 
 an entire row to defeat them. You also need to pay attention to how much electricity your katana 
 has, as well as your own health. You can find power-ups to fully recharge your saber, though you 
 can also charge it up by holding the 1 button and shaking the remote up and down (which also results 
 in a pretty lewd-looking act onscreen -- and in real life, for that matter) . You'll find plenty of 
 health chests scattered about when needed, though apart from boss fights, you'll rarely need them: 
 As fun as the combat is, you won't often find yourself teetering on the verge of death. 
  
  The crux of the action is found in No More Heroes' numerous and impressive boss encounters, where 
 you'll use these subtleties to your advantage, though they don't usually present a foreboding challenge 
 until the final few fights. Yet they're still enormously entertaining, thanks to your opponents' 
 melodramatic (and often hysterical) soliloquizing, interesting attacks, and pure wackiness. Holly 
 Summers launches missiles at you from her fake leg, while Stage magician Harvey Moiseiwitsch Volodarskii 
 locks you up in the box used for his disappearing act -- an attack that kills you instantly if your 
 Nunchuk-flailing skills aren't up to par. Bad karaoke, thinly veiled Star Wars references, and 
 killer hand buzzers are among the many highlights, and just when you think that things couldn't 
 get any stranger -- well -- you're forced to reevaluate. 
  
  When you aren't fighting, you can roam about Santa Destroy on your motorcycle in a free-roaming, 
 Grand Theft Auto-inspired manner. You shouldn't expect the kind of spirited freedom a GTA title 
 provides, though. While there are some traffic and pedestrians, the city is really your key to 
 moving from one mission to the next, and doesn't reward you with any meaningful surprises. That 
 isn't to say there isn't anything to do outside of combat, though. In fact, to stay in top form, 
 you'll need to go out on the town. There, you can make some purely cosmetic purchases, such as 
 some new T-shirts or a spiffy new jacket, though your money is better spent on more impactful upgrades. 
 A trip to the gym, presided over by the creepy Thunder Ryu, will reward you with a few minigames 
 and a stronger body. You can purchase new katanas and upgrades from Doctor Naomi, or videotapes 
 that teach you new wrestling moves from the local rental shop. Once you're done shopping, you can 
 perform more side missions, or head back to your apartment where you can pet your cat, save your 
 game by sitting on the toilet, or try on your new clothes. 
  
  The mission structure isn't as fully fleshed out as it could have been. Generally speaking, after 
 each boss fight, you unlock only two new missions, and while you can revisit any mission as many 
 times as you want, many of them are identical, so you may wish for a little more variety -- especially 
 when most enemies you face in a mission are the same. Still, there is plenty of diversity to be 
 found. For example, in some missions you may need to slay every enemy without taking a single hit, 
 while others may occur entirely in dark mode, or may allow you to only use wrestling moves. The 
 crazy side jobs that you need to take before unlocking new missions are also nutty enough to keep 
 you fascinated. You'll deliver coconuts that apparently weigh a hundred pounds, wash graffiti off 
 of walls, and scour the beach for hidden mines. They're simple tasks, to be sure, but they use 
 the motion controls well and are just crazy enough to make you wonder what weird job you'll be 
 taking the next time around. 
  
  In keeping with the stylish combat and crazy dialogue, No More Heroes' visual design is brimming 
 with strong color choices and benefits from some crisp cel-shading and well-done shadows. Clean 
 textures and exaggerated animations are among the many visual highlights, and some of the kookier 
 boss designs are terrifically insane. There are some graphical issues, however, found mostly in 
 the frame rate, which has a tendency to slow down a bit when you're zooming around on your bike 
 or dicing up a half-dozen foes at once. Nor is the game a technical powerhouse, relying on its 
 powerful art design to carry the load and content to leave its edges jagged. In fact, No More Heroes 
 seems keenly aware of its technical shortcomings: Its minimap and health indicator are pixelated 
 by design, and the menus themselves hearken back to the 8-bit days, as if to embrace the game's 
 focus on style over technical prowess. 
  
  
  
  
  It's every Star Wars geek's dream come true.
  The sound design is terrific across the board, 
 however. Not only is the off-kilter soundtrack the perfect complement to the ongoing zaniness, 
 but the sound of combat is loud and quirky, down to the bloodcurdling cries of your delimbed opponents 
 and the tinkling flow of coins into your coffers. The remote's speaker is used quite well here, 
 emanating the prototypical groans of your katana to fantastic effect. The speaker is also used 
 to simulate a call on Travis' cell phone, and done so well you will probably hold the remote up 
 to your ear as if it were an actual receiver. The voice acting is pitch-perfect in most cases, 
 down to Sylvia's lugubrious French sarcasm and Travis' immature bloodthirstiness. 
  
  A fairly standard play-through will probably net you around 12 hours of gameplay your first time 
 through, though you could blow through it quicker if your goal is simply to get to the end as quickly 
 as possible. But even with the element of surprise removed, the fantastic combat is more than enough 
 reason to revisit No More Heroes. This time, SUDA-51 has delivered a game that can match its absurd 
 premise with equally stimulating gameplay, making for one of the most unique and satisfying action 
 games in recent memory. 
  and I can't beat travis bro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kramzy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes on the Wii is a good game. The story is all about you being the best hitman out 
 there and killing all of the best hitmen to get to number one. So the story is nothin new but the 
 combat system is one of the bloodies on the wii when you perform combos the blood goes splattering 
 all over the screen so the frame rate gest a little eractic. The sound in the game is great. The 
 game has a little swearing now and then and I think that this is the only wii game that anyone 
 saied the F word. The gameplay is good too you got a little GTA style gameplay roaming through 
 the city completing side missions which isn't all that fun. so overall I can say this:
  
  Gameplay 7/10
  Sound 8/10
  Graphics 810
  
  so go rent the game or go and buy it you can 
 complete the game in i dont know aproximatelly 20h so yeah go and play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majadamus
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Gamers play the same type of games over and over again. The continuing releases of the next installment 
 of a popular franchise keeps gamers satisfied. However, every now and then there are games like 
 these that push gaming forward and open up doors for new ideas to flourish in the gaming universe..
 
  
  SOUND: Excellent. The voice work, although very reptitive, is well acted. There's a lot of recognizable 
 voice talent behind this game, and it shows. The sound effects are great. The light... err.. beam 
 katanas clashing against other weapons give off nice clank sounds that come out of your Wii mote. 
 It really sucks you into the fight. The music is very good as well, if you're into electronic music. 
 
  
  GRAPHICS: Well done. Technicallly this game isn't going to stand out much among others of this 
 generation, or even games for the Wii. Artisitically this game is gorgeous, and will outshine a 
 lot of dull looking games that try to impress through realism /w no where as much artistic input. 
 The retro style mixed in with the cel shaded go together perfectly. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Lots of fun. The control scheme, and fighting does seem shallow at first. The motion 
 control is implemented into the game in a way that adds a more depth to the fighting. Players have 
 to hold the controller in a certain way to block attacks, or connect with an attack on the enemies. 
 Also, the player needs to have decent reflexes to get through the campaign. Sometimes weapons will 
 clash, and the player will have to perform a swirling motion. It isn't just that simple either. 
 Watching for how the characters on the screen are shifting is key on overpowering your opponent. 
 Sounds like fun? Well, there's more. Travis Touchdown is able to perform wrestling moves as well. 
 The Wii Mote has to be used in certain ways to pull off the moves. They are a riot to watch after 
 being exectued. 
  
  Side Missions are short, and are very easy to gain money from. They're a nice distraction from 
 the main story as players will meet other oddball characters. I, personally, enjoyed the baseball 
 assasin mission the most. Nothing like hitting a ball into a row of people's faces. Boss battles 
 are all very unique. None have ever been dull. 
  
  The game isn't without flaws. No More Heroes has some bad glitches. While driving Travis's motorcylce, 
 I got caught into trees, buildings, houses, people, and cars too often. Other than that there really 
 isn't thing else worth complaining about. 
  
  BOTTOM-LINE: It's a must buy for Wii owners tired of the "kiddy games" and looking for some bloodthirsty 
 action. People buy the Wii for Wii Sports alone, so this game is reason enough to own a Wii because 
 you will not get an experience like this on any other system. There's been a price drop recently 
 so it costs maybe 30-40 bucks now. Unless you're a minor, or just can't stand the site of animated 
 blood, there really isn't a reason to not own this game. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thimitry
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  When i thought about buying this game, i was thinking that it would be boring using the same weapon 
 all the time and killing people with it. I also listened to all the comments on the free-roaming 
 feature letting the game down... 
  
  But I bought the game anyway.
  
  And it turned out to be alright at first, then after a while it became very very enjoyable and 
 the even addictive to the point where i would keep playing till i won the boss fight no matter 
 how long it took.
  
  At first i had to get used to the controls, as most wii games have full on use of the hand movements 
 (which would make you look stupid if this game was) . Although, in the end the controls were very 
 comfortable and became a huge part of the game.
  
  I'll have to say that the free roaming feature wasn't up to standard but that didn't let the game 
 down. So i still found the 18 hours i spent playing it on mild mode very fun!
  
  Altogether i found it a fantastic game and would be just a little better if it was longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefMrBam
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is an excellent and mature action game for the Wii that mixes one part Grand Theft 
 Auto to one part Hack and Slash for an engaging experience that anyone old enough to play should 
 at least try.
  
  NMH has only two truly notable flaws. The first is the overly repetitive nature of the between 
 mission activities in the game. Between each main assassination level, you are tasked with gaining 
 a sum of money, which buys your entrance to the level proper. To do this you run around the city 
 of Santa Destroy taking odd jobs and assassination contracts. The assassination missions consist 
 of simply going from point A to point B engaging the enemies at point B and killing them all in 
 a certain time limit. The first few times this happens it is fine but the amount of times necessary 
 to do these missions over the course of the game is ridiculously high with little variation to 
 be found.
  
  The second flaw is the city of Santa Destroy itself. Santa Destroy features some interesting locations 
 such as a gym you can go to power up Travis, and a video store where you can buy wrestling tapes. 
 Various collectibles like new t-shirts and balls, which can be traded for new skills, are also 
 hidden around the city. Despite all the interesting collectibles and locations, the city feels 
 lifeless with no civilians and only an occasional vehicle. To add to this while Travis rides around 
 the city on his trusty motorcycle the visual quality of the game drops quite noticeably. 
  
  Barring the empty city and somewhat repetitive nature of the game, it is still a blast to play. 
 Combat is standard hack and slash with simple motion controls implemented for very satisfying finishing 
 moves, which end in some form of dismemberment. The system is simple to learn but has enough nuances 
 to keep it interesting throughout the game. Melee combat consists of wrestling moves, which follow 
 the same gesture commands as normal finishing moves and provide some very entertaining animations. 
 The games bosses are plentiful and memorable.
  
  The odd jobs earlier mentioned are also a shining point. Activities like mowing lawns, pumping 
 gas, and cleaning graffiti from walls are among the various jobs to be completed the majority of 
 which are fun to play. It would have been nice to have a few more of these types of missions and 
 a few less between level assassination games. 
  
  The visuals are highly stylistic and look good (except when going fast on the motorbike) , the story 
 is entertaining with a cast of memorable and ridiculous characters, and the combat is simple but 
 never boring thanks to the constant streams of blood shooting all over the place and well-implemented 
 controls. Despite the repetitive nature of the between mission segments the good greatly outweighs 
 the negative with No More Heroes and any Wii owner looking for a solid action game should give 
 it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7fold
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Definatly a most own in my opinion for the wii. I really enjoyed the game, if you havent had the 
 pleasure of playing the game it reminded me of kill boy kinda. Your job is to bulit up money via 
 Grand theft auto style missons in order to face each boss. I think there was a total of 10 bosses 
 overall. The strengths of this game is the controller. Its fun to use it as a sword and I never 
 felt it got boring, it actually made some repetive missions less boring because of the controller. 
 The bosses where well done, each have there own unique powers, voices, and flares. The biggest 
 strength is definatly the boss battles as I said each one is different in attacks and difficulty 
 from the previous bosses. Of course even the best games has its share of weaknesses. For no more 
 heroes the biggest weakness is by far the graphics. The art I felt was first rate anime, and characters 
 where nice, but the enviroments where lacking visually. Also the Grand theft part wasnt as good 
 as it could have been. For instance your motorcycle to get around on, gets old fast, .... The ending 
 was a tad dissapointing as well to me. I kinda new what was going to happen and the whole game 
 is fairly predictable. Although awesome they could have had even more fun with the story. There 
 just wasnt that much going on in between missions and you never really feel attached to your character. 
 Overall I give this game a 8.5 Better story add .05, better graphics .05, add to the story .05.,,,,,,,,,,, 
 But as I said this is a must buy for wii owners, and even being a PC Gamer and 360 gamer I advice 
 anyone if they get a chance to play this game, it is really awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XD5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  From start to finish this game will keep you enthralled, there's plenty to keep you going and some 
 great boss fights, some of which are a little annoying at first but once you figure there moves 
 and weaknesses out you will soon overcome them and move on to the next.
  
  The learning curve to the game is very swift you'll be knocking them out of the park (literally 
 later on) in no time. 
  
  There's a lot to the game especially later on when you get to use the motorbike as part of the 
 actual boss levels. If you own a Wii and you are after a game that you can actually finish. (It 
 took me around 13 hours and I have been away from gaming for a long time until the Wii was launched) 
 then I would say this is it.
  
  You can now pick this game up a lot cheaper than it's original launch price, so what you waiting 
 for.. go get it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  Ah, No More Heros, a game doomed to obsscurity as are all things this unique. But does that make 
 it bad? No. NMH is one of the BEST games I have played in forever, and it is far from perfect. 
 The storyline is just base simple at first, you want to be the number one assasin in the world 
 after winning a beam katana on an online auction, and why do you want to become to the number assasin? 
 Why, to get laid of course.
  
  Now, really there is more to it, but believe me, it gets WEIRD, but it's a grand game.
  
  Gamplay- 
 8.5/10 The gameplay is great, some of the best on the Wii. Instead of making you wave the Wii-mote 
 like an idiot, you only swing it for finishers. Normal attacks are done with the A button, and 
 pointing it up or down. The various Darkside mode effects (determined by slots after finishers) 
 and the ability to charge up attacks. Now, outside of combat is a diffirent story. You either walk 
 everywhere or ride on your motorcycle, the Schepal Tiger. And It is not good. You will crash and 
 fall off alot. And the pointless jump. But meh. You can the ability to run later, but I believe 
 you should have had this from the outset. Then you have the minigame controls, I actually like 
 these controls, as well as the minigames, for they did not bother me in the least. I also found 
 all but the second boss fight fun and unique.
  At first I thought gaining money would be trickey, but some missions pay out so much its no big 
 deal. There are collectibles in the way of T-shirts, and in the second playthrough you can find 
 cards buried in certin spots.
  
  Graphics- 8/10 I will allow style to trump the graphical defects in the game. it is pretty, but 
 not the best. The colors in game are very crisp and viscreal, and in the US at least, a lot of 
 nice red blood. The detail is there where it counts, and it has quite a unique look at the world. 
 Not quite western, not quite eastern. And wrestling masks everywhere. most of the bosses have a 
 unique design and I thought the animation was great!
  
  Sound- 7/10 *sigh* IMO the weak point of the game. While the dialouge is steller, the music is 
 repetitive, theres not enough tracks, and enemies repeat the same line to often. Standered sword 
 whooses, and drowned out motorcycle sounds.
  
  Hold- 9.5/10 The game was a decent length, 12 hours for me, and you have unlockables in the second 
 playthrough which I am currently going through at a higher difficulty, as well as the "real" ending.
 
  
  All in all a great package with excellent action and a great sense of humor. One of the most fun 
 and unique games I have played in a long while, and it brought me to try out Killer 7. Not bad 
 for game whose main character is based off Johnny Knoxville. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grindsofine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  I'm sure I'm not alone, but when I was looking into buying my Wii, there was a factor that almost 
 held me back - the lack of maturity and diversity in Wii games.
  
  Sure the Nintendo games like Super Mario Galaxy are amazing, but it tends to get old playing with 
 the same characters in every game you buy. The sports games that take advantage of the Wiimote 
 are highly innovative and it's usually what my friends and family pick to play against eachother 
 - but ENOUGH already with the repetitive sports games.
  
  For me, No More Heroes was a godsend. Finally, a mature game that was fun to play and was completely 
 original.
  
  When I started to play, I was surprised by how easy it was to get in to. Though the graphics weren't 
 the best, it had it's own charm. Since I bought an HDTV, I have been extremely picky about graphics, 
 but I love the colors, and the characters style and the whole theme of the game.
  
  The exaggerated blood, the beam katana, the coins, and the excellent controls made the killing 
 sprees really fun and really addictive. 
  
  The game play sometimes got repetitive, but it never really got old. For me, it was somewhat reminiscent 
 of retro gaming - just in the simplicity of what you have to/can do to beat the game. The story 
 itself was really entertaining. I "LOL"ed quite a few times watching the cut scenes - the characters 
 were really interesting and though it was mature comedy, it didn't get too sleazy like some games 
 do. AND, there were times when Travis would get called on his cell phone in the game, and the call 
 would come through on the WIimote's speaker - if your volume is turned down on it, you'll have 
 to hold your Wiimote up to your ear like a cell phone and I got the biggest kick out of it.
  
  It doesn't take very long to beat, but you get to play enough to be satisfied - until NMH2 
 (hopefully) .
  
  I'd recommend this game to absolutely anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 16, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that i really wanted to play after seeing the video review on Gamespot. However 
 living in the UK I was unaware of the fact that a different game was being shipped to our country 
 than the one on show in the review.
  
  This game is all about style and a lot of that is about the anime style blood flow that occurred 
 when you kill an enemy. This to my absolute horror!! has been taken out of the game. So what in 
 essence was a game made for a more adult audience has being diluted into a bland and dull experience. 
 
  
  The Graphics are very sketchy and dull, had the blood been there to contrast it, then it would 
 not have been noticeable. Now however, blood is replaced by black smoke and it just doesn't go 
 with the theme of the game. 
  
  With no blood combat is lack lustre and ultimately pointless. Lets face it if you're buying a game 
 that about killing for no particular reason then you're gonna want to see them bleed!! 
  
  While it could have been a good game if left in its original format it has been butchered by censorship, 
 and the fact they don't even let the buyer know they've done this is contemptible.
  
  For that reason i am giving it 1/10 - note for the European version only mainly because they're 
 are cheating us by giving us a different game than what is advertised!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfLink95
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  WOW I never thought this game would be soamazing. I was a tiny bit worryed about it at first since 
 I never really liked Killer7 but you do NOT have to like Killer7 to like this game because they 
 are not alike AT ALL.
  
  Story: Well how the story starts out is that you are Travis Touchdown, and you have JUST gotten 
 a beam katana from 
  Ebay. You meet a woman named Sylvia and you are now trying to become the number one assassination. 
 
  
  Controls: The controls are AWSOME. To attack you have to just push the A button and to finsh off 
 the bad guys you swing the WII remote to get a WONDERFUL blood filled kill. To run around you just 
 move the joy stick on the remote, and to ride your bike you push the A button, move left and right 
 with the joy stick and for a speed up just push Z.
  
  Graphics: The graphics you either like them, or hate them. If you like VERY real looked graphics 
 thenthis game is not really for you. But if you do not mind the cartoon style then give this game 
 a try because the graphics are 100% cartoony. The colorers are good (mostly the blood red) and 
 really fits the gameplay.
  
  Sound: The sound is rather good. If you have the remote speaker on you can hear the beam kantana 
 swing and turn on, AND before every boss fight Sylvia calls you and she talks out of the WII remote, 
 a VERY nice touch. The only thing I DON'T like about the sound is that it can sound a TINY bit 
 to loud at times.
  
  Value: This game has LOTS of y value in it. You can hunt down clouths, get powerups, get trading 
 cards and try to JUST unlock everything you can.
  
  How Hard: The bad guys in this game ARE rather easy to beat, but some of the bosses take time after 
 time to try and beat. And don't forget bitter mode. UGH
  
  One good thing about this game: Best thing about it: The best thing about this game is how everyone 
 dies in this game, get cut in hald, heads flying off, getting cut up with buzz saws just AWSOME. 
 
  
  One Bad thing about this game: Well the ONLY thing that bothers the CRAP out of me is some guys 
 have guns and it makes your beam katanas power go WAY down and you have a hard time attacking other 
 people. 
  
  Overall: Over all this game is AMAZING. It's not at ALL for kids (NO ONE UNDER 17 SHOULD PLAY THIS 
 GAME) and if your looking for a nice bloody ride, or are a star wars fan get this game and SCREW 
 the rental!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 11:36 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is different. That's the first thing you should know before getting into this game. 
 The moment Grasshopper's logo comes up with the words "punk's not dead" written around it, you 
 should know you're in for a hell of a rollercoaster ride. In fact, calling No More Heroes a rollercoaster 
 might just be the best way to describe it. It has it's highs and it's lows but despite all that, 
 when it's over you'll still be thinking of it as a badass ride. Yeah, badass, because that's what 
 No More Heroes is. In fact, to not use a bit of coarse language on Suda 51's latest game would 
 be doing it an injustice.
  
  The premise of No More Heroes sets the mood for the rest of the game. You're Travis Touchdown, 
 an otaku and a gamer, and you meet a smoking hot babe by the name of Sylvia Christel. For reasons 
 unknown to you at the beginning of the game, she somehow managed to get you to kill the 11th ranked 
 assassin, Helter Skelter, with a beam katana that you won on an internet auction, and now the only 
 way to go is up to rank number one! Of course, your main motivation for doing this is to have sex 
 with Sylvia "just once."
  
  The game is blatantly sexual, provides a teensy bit of profanity and copious amounts of blood and 
 gore. All of this is apparent right from the first minute of the game. But that's what makes No 
 More Heroes so glorious. This isn't a game that tries to be classy, and yet, it still gives off 
 it's own charm that makes it better than most games. No More Heroes has soul, this isn't the kind 
 of game that wants to stand out as a work of post-modern art or anything. It's a game and it knows 
 it's a game. You'll find hilarious references to anime and videogames throughout; it even pokes 
 fun at Duke Nukem as well as itself.
  
  Despite the absurdity of the game's premise, the gameplay feels a bit more traditional than the 
 likes of Killer 7. This isn't an experimental game or anything, it's a straight up action game 
 and it is the best one on the Wii, in fact, as it stands right now, No More Heroes is the best 
 action game of the current console generation. The first thing to know is that this isn't Twilight 
 Princess or Red Steel combat, you attack with the A button, not by waggling the Wii remote. Admittedly, 
 your weapon is a beam katana (read: lightsaber for Star Wars fans) and the idea of swinging it 
 around and having it make sounds may cross your mind, but it's when you realize the genius of the 
 combat and how Suda 51 beat LucasArts to the punch on lightsaber combat. You see, you will attack 
 with the A button for sword slashes, but should you deal enough damage the game will give you the 
 option of slicing your opponent with the blade, in which case the action slows down and you swing 
 the Wii remote, cutting enemies in half and watching fountains of blood and coins spurt forth while 
 they scream out about their spleens.
  
  Admittedly, there are two sides to No More Heroes as a game, and this is where the rollercoaster 
 part comes in. You see, No More Heroes shines at it's brightest when you're fighting the game's 
 various bosses/assassins. The game is more intense in that it fully emphasizes the one-on-one showdown 
 at stake, a life or death battle, and in No More Heroes, the deaths are brutal. But the game slows 
 down, it doesn't come to a stop, but it slows down when you get to the open-world portion of it. 
 There are entry fees for your battles, and you do need to do odd jobs to make money. Admittedly, 
 the money comes rather easily, so you will have to do a few part-time jobs and assassinations to 
 raise money, but most gamers won't spend too much time in No More Heroes' empty sandbox world.
 
  
  But the two conflicting game ideas can also be interpreted as a theme or even a message to the 
 gamer, that when you play a game you get taken to these fantastical worlds and locales and the 
 impossible becomes possible and when you're done, you're grounded back in reality. In a decision 
 about games as art, art can't sacrifice the fun, and No More Heroes is fun to play. The game is 
 full of spunk, sass, and moxie during the main assassin showdowns, even the parts leading up to 
 them. Honestly, having a duel with two swords, even if yours is a beam katana, in an abandoned 
 building is just so reminiscent of samurai movies and the game is aware of that when Travis shouts 
 out, "You've been watching too many Samurai movies!" It's the kind of game that when you fight 
 each assassin it becomes clear that No More Heroes was a labor of love, that no idea, no matter 
 how absurd or off the wall wasn't considered. No More Heroes is a game, it's just a game and that's 
 what makes it so special.
  
  It isn't about proper driving mechanics or anything like that. No More Heroes doesn't try and make 
 gray your favorite color with "realistic" visuals or anything. The game is so plain and washed 
 out looking, but that's what gives it it's charm. The game is over-the-top, from character designs 
 to ideas to even the visual style. From a model with a prosthetic leg who wants to kick your ass 
 to a mailman who thinks he's a superhero, No More Heroes pushes the limits and breaks through with 
 flying colors on all fronts. 
  
  While the sound itself isn't anything special, it gets the job done. Footsteps are heard when you 
 run and so forth. But the dialogue is a different story. Everything flows, no matter how wacky 
 it all sounds. And the music, damn it all, sometimes the music just sounds damn sexy, especially 
 during the latter few fights in the game.
  
  Suda 51 and Grasshopper have created a one of a kind experience. A game like No More Heroes can 
 only be done on the Wii, and the fact that it works, that every part of it works is just a testament 
 to his talent as a developer. Games like No More Heroes don't come around too often and when they 
 do they help to remind gamers why they play games in the first place. No More Heroes is a game 
 and that's why it's so damn good. 
  
  But enough of the fancy talk, here's to describing No More Heroes the only way it truly deserves 
 to be described: f'ing badass!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  
  
  No More Heroes' pacing can easily be compared to Assassin's Creed. The game's structure is pretty 
 predictable. You go around the town of Santa Destroya taking on side jobs to earn cash for your 
 next ranked battle. These side jobs are pretty much in two different categories. The first is part 
 time jobs where you go around town doing random mini games (because it seems to be law that all 
 Wii games MUST have mini games of some sort) . The other way to earn cash is to take on assassionation 
 gigs, which have you kill people under special conditions. Once you've finished a rank fight you 
 go back to town to repeat this process again. It goes with out saying that it's a some what repetitive 
 process, but for the most part the game is fun enough to see it through to the end. The combat 
 system is excelent really. It's like a modified version of the Kingdom Hearts 2 battle system. 
 It's lightning fast and it doesn't abuse the Wii's motion sensing controls either. You'll automatically 
 block attack when locked on (not while attacking though) and based on weather your holding your 
 Wiimote high or low will decide what attacks you can block. You use the A button to attacks but 
 finishing moves are done by making a slicing motion with the wiimote in a direction indicated by 
 an arow that will show up. There also super forms that are activated randomly which can be fun, 
 but unfortunatly they seem to really enjoy to activate right after youve killed the last enemy 
 in the area. Beyond the main stuff theres also the optional stuff like Lovikov ball collcting (taking 
 them to some guy will teach you new attacks) , training with Thunder Ryu, collecting sumo masks 
 and cards, buying new weapons and customizing your outfit
  
  No More Heroes is really a mixed bag here when it comes to graphics. From an artistic stand point, 
 No More Heroes can be a really pretty game. The graphics are cell shaded and are remenisant of 
 Sin City, the character look excelent and the game is very stylish. Unfortunatly, a good amount 
 of the time the game just looks dated. The sky doesn't really look convincing. It looks like a 
 giant still frame image. Clouds never move. The water and particle effect are just flat out horrible. 
 Fire looks more like globs of orange, dust looks like a glitch really. And textures look dirty. 
 The town of santa destroya is truly the victim of dirty texture here, where theres constant late 
 loading textures, the draw distance isnt to good either and object will randomly pop up as you 
 go through town. Some times this game just feels like it should be on the Dreamcast.
  
  
  No More Heroes has a decent soundtrack. There are a few memorable tracks here and there and it 
 does get the job done, but it's nothing amazing. The voice acting is retty good especialy froum 
 out main character Travis Touchdown.
  
  No More Heroes is a decent legnth. Around Ten or twelve hours, fifteen to seventeen if you do all 
 the optional stuff. After you beat it you can play through again with all the stuff you had from 
 your last play through and you can play on the new harder difficulty setting: Bitter.
  
  No More Heroes is a pretty good game and I suggest it to anyone who has a Wii and arent sure what 
 to get. It can get reptitive, but the story is pretty interesting and the combat is rock solid. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darnydb
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 3:37 am PT
Review:  I'll admit... when I first launched this in my Wii I thought I was onto the next big thing. The 
 story and characters seemed so fresh and edgy I figured nintendo was finally growing up. However 
 after playing through the first mission I quickly became bored with the overall repetitiveness 
 of the game.
  
  At this point in the Wii's existance (roughly 1.5 years out of the gate) I believe it's time that 
 developers broke away from the 'swing the wii like a sword' control scheme. Not only is it patronizing 
 to hard-core gamers, it rarely translates to a meaningful game experience. That being said, NMH 
 is chock full of this. I must have dispatched fifty or so suit-wearing baddies in the first mission 
 alone by wildly swinging the wiimote in haphazard fashion. The game does include special 'finishing 
 moves' which require more tuned motions, but they're arbitrary and are not based on anything related 
 to fighting or the game itself. When I did make it to the boss, I took him out by running circles 
 around him and sticking and moving. I never did make it to the start of the 2nd mission (got bored) 
 but I can't imagine any of the boss battles breaking out of this.
  
  My next big gripe with the game is the graphics. Dark, grey, sketchy.... not pleasing at all. The 
 cut scenes were done well, but if I want to spend my gaming time watching cartoons I'll pop in 
 Dragon's Lair on DVD (go Dirk) . The framerate is often lacking as well, graphical glitches are 
 the norm in this title.
  
  The game does save itself by being utterly unique, if repetitive. To learn more about how innovative 
 this title can be please see the gushing reviews of others. I don't need to rehash what has already 
 been said over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rexCo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to be perfectly honest; No More Heroes can be a pretty entertaining game. The combat, 
 at least at first, is very unique and oddly satisfying. The boss fights usually resort to the same 
 thing, but overall are unique and pretty fun. The cutscenes, filled with Suda51's unique graphical 
 style, can be pretty entertaining, and at times, almost compelling. There's a ton of potential 
 in this game; but ultimately, NMH falls short of reaching any of it. 
  
  The story contains quite a few interesting twists, and has the odd hint of character development; 
 but in the end, it falls flat on its face. There's a couple of points in the game I actually thought 
 that Travis Touchdown might end up a well developed character, and a few other points that I thought 
 things might get interesting; but never did my hunger for satisfaction within NMH's plot ever become 
 satisfied. Many things just don't make sense and it seems Suda51 never even imagined explaining 
 them. Also plaguing the game is a real lack of backstory; so though it suggests some relationships 
 between Travis and some of Santa Destroy's characters/places, you're never really told anything 
 and are just left to assume things. In fact, I really wonder why Santa Destroy had to be so big; 
 90% of the locales don't mean anything nor have the slightest amount of significance nor interaction. 
 It's a lot of wasted potential. 
  
  The game's #1 ranking battle and final sequence shaped up to be quite the ending; and despite a 
 final twist or two (both of which weren't even that interesting) , I was left hanging. They actually 
 managed to really muck up a few things, and leave many others unexplained. They even throw in a 
 few pointless things, for no apparent reason other than to make it seem like they're more dynamic 
 plot twists; which they're not. 
  
  The game's visuals, despite looking very unique and even good in cut scenes, are very sub-par overall. 
 This game doesn't push many polygons nor have that much detail; making the shoddy framerates and 
 severe pop-up issues inexcusable on the Wii's hardware. And I know the lame menus and "award" screens, 
 etc are all done purposely attempting a certain "style", but when this "style" seems more like 
 an excuse for laziness I can't help but really dislike them. That's not to say the entire game's 
 style was a disappointment; but certain aspects of it are very unappealing. 
  
  The missions you have to go through in order to get to the next Ranking Battle can be fun, but 
 really aren't that rewarding, whether they're a mini-game aka a part time job or an assassination 
 mission. Travelling throughout Santa Destroy (the game's overworld city) can really suck, seeing 
 as Travis' super cool bike isn't very responsive and can get stuck in many retarded places. I recall 
 many instances where I crossed in front of a car by about a metre, yet both the car and I just 
 got stuck for a few moments. It's points like that (and travelling Santa Destroy in general) that 
 really make NMH's lack of polish reveal itself. 
  
  Despite all it's downfalls though, I can't say I wasn't slightly entertained throughout NMH's romp. 
 I enjoyed the combat thoroughly, perhaps even to the very end, and the game makes pretty good use 
 of the Wii controls. Doing the "pro wrestling moves" were oddly satisfying. Overall though, there 
 isn't really much depth to the combat; so you're lucky NMH isn't too long. 
  Little things here and there I thought were actually really cool; particularly the game's use of 
 the Wii Remote's speaker. 
  
  I was ultimately pushed enough to simply get through the story, even though it disappointed me 
 in the end. There are some optional things you may want to do throughout the game, like upgrade 
 your beamsword or do workouts etc, but I never really found them much worth it. 
  And assuming you do make it through NMH and become #1, I really don't see you ever wanting to play 
 through it again, meaning there's pretty much no replay value here. 
  
  However, there really isn't anything quite like No More Heroes, even if it is a little disappointing. 
 I suggest giving it a try, because some people have really enjoyed it; but give it a rent/borrow 
 first before you make your decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kungphooey
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This is by far, one of the most unusual games ever put on the wii platform. This game is unusual 
 in every way, from looks to controls to gameplay. 
  
  For looks, this game is a mix. In the freeroam city, things look awful. The shading never really 
 works out, the textures don't mix, and there are some glitches here and there. In the missions 
 however, things look crisp and clear, the beam sword action looks great, and the enemy deaths look 
 spectacular. 
  
  The gameplay is so simple, it's amazing no one has ever thought of it before. The button mashing 
 is brought to life through the gory finisher moves and enemy voice acting. Aside from the spectacular 
 combat, you'll be doing side jobs or driving around the city, which isn't nearly as fun, but can 
 still have some humor in it. 
  
  The only problem, aside from the graphics in the city, is that there are some little bugs here 
 and there that will irritate you. Your bike will get stuck on fire hydrants, cars, trees and other 
 things when your driving around, and sometimes the crates and treasure chests won't registure when 
 you hit them, and the little things like that bring down the game a little. 
  
  However, lovable characters and a great story bring this game to life, even if it twisted beyond 
 anything you can Imagen.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaxxo
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  *NOTE : I have only played the censored version of this game*
  
  --STORY --
  
  Travis Touchdown has decided to join some "killer organisation" his job is to take out the other 
 ten killers above him. More simply said your job is to kill, kill, kill and kill some more.
  
  -GAME-PLAY --
  
  You start of in a fight sequence here you must kill all the bad guys and 
 move to the next room until you get to the ranked battle (the boss) .
  After that you get to freely move around in your town Santa Destroy, gather some cash and move 
 to the next fight sequence.
  In Santa Destroy you must as said get a load of cash, you can do that by randomly stabbing your 
 beam katana in the ground or by completing side missions. You can then use the money for new swords, 
 training, clothing, new wrestling moves and the next battle.
  
  --MUSIC --
  
  Is good, but you won't notice it most of the times when you're in the heat of a battle.
  
  
 --JAXXO'S SCORE --
  
  This game is an awesome game for the Wii, I highly recommend it.
  This game get's a 9 / 10
  (The censored version get's a 8 / 10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikos21982
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  The Wii needed a good action title, and this one's a really good try. But as i keep playing this 
 game, i can't stop thinking that it could have been much better.
  Action games are all about adrenaline, thus they require bad language and violence. I have the 
 eu version of the game, and although it contains the bad language, the developers "forgot" to add 
 the blood. So, instead of killing human beings, i have the feeling that i kill vampires, which 
 turn to ash instead of meat and bones.
  At least, even without blood, the combat system is one of the best i've seen in action fighting 
 games. It's fun to watch and even funnier to play it yourself.
  WIthout being complex, it gives you a choice of attacks. So, first u decide your stance which can 
 be high or low, and it depends on the way you are holding the wiimote. A high stance, delivers high 
 attacks, while a low stance, delivers low attacks. Then, you can either start smashing the A button 
 for a fancy combo, hold and release the A button for a charged attack, or press the B button to 
 stun your enemy. If you manage to stun him, you can grab him by waving the nunchuk and the wiimote 
 in the direction that is shown you on the screen, to smash your foe's head on the floor. If you 
 choose the combo option, you can finish off your opponent by waving the wiimote as shown in the 
 screen. This, results in a lightsaber move so fancy, that Luke Skywalker would be proud of.
  So, the combat itself is lightning-speed, and results in complete on-screen-mayhem. But, you always 
 have a feeling that you want more and more. The game is responsible for that, because you spend 
 half of the time on your bike. Yes, that's right, the developers tried to add some grand-theft-auto 
 feel in the game, but that's where they screwed up. Roaming around the city with your bike, is 
 boring and tiresome, cause all you can do is go from point A to B, and find some collectables. 
 Here is a typical day of your hero: He gets on his bike, and he drives around the city to visit 
 the various shops one by one. There are 4-5 shops, where you can train in the gym, buy some video 
 tapes to learn some moves, buy some fancy clothes, upgrade your beam-katana, or deliver some balls 
 that you find scattered in the city, in exchange of some nice new moves. After your hero spends 
 about 5-10 mins doing shopping therapy, he goes to get a job , like collecting scorpions, coconuts, 
 kitties, pumping fuel to cars etc... These jobs are nice for a change, and each one takes about 
 2 mins, plus another 2 mins on your bike to reach the area where the mission takes place. Afterwards, 
 you can take 2 assasination missions. They last 1-2 mins, and all you have to do is kill some poor 
 guys. When your adrenaline starts to rise, the mission ends. Then, you have to ride your bike again, 
 and go to the ATM to pay some cash to enter the main stage. The main stage, lasts about 20 mins 
 including the boss fight (boss fights in this game are uber btw) , and if u succeed, you return 
 to your hotel, and a new day starts for Travis Touchdown.
  About the graphics now: They are not next-gen, they are not fancy, instead you get a comic feel 
 as you play. I didn't experience slowdowns in the movement, but the graphics could have been better.
 
  The dialogs are funny and well written, the sound affects remind you of old arcade games and star 
 wars which adds to the game's atmosphere, but the music is repeatably boring.
  So, what we have here, is a decent action fighting game, which will keep you playing 10-20 hours, 
 but the combat itself, like all good things, is too short to make you go on a hail-and-kill orgasm. It 
 has a good base to make a better sepuel.
  8/5 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remmbermytitans
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  So, here I was, waiting for Super Smash Brothers Brawl to come out, and getting bored of my Wii, 
 when I decided to rent No More Heroes. I wasn't expecting much from it, the few videos I saw, made 
 me interested, and I'm glad they did. This game is what the Wii was made for. Crazy, fun, wacky 
 games, that offer something different. 
  
  So here's this guy, Travis Touchdown, who lives in a motel, equipped with only a beam katana. Just 
 to let you guys know, this "beam katana" is really a light-saber, and let me tell you now, if you're 
 a Star Wars fan like I am, you'll notice a few things that resemble the Star Wars universe. For 
 example, in the video store, there's a poster of something that looks awfully a lot like Darth 
 Vader, and Princess Leia. But anyway, back to the game. 
  
  It's definitely a mature game, you'll occasionally get a phone call from the video store, telling 
 you that you're late in returning some porno, or the porno you ordered, is now in store. But before 
 you go running off to buy the game thinking there's porn in it, I'll tell you right now, no there's 
 not. (At least, I don't think so) Also, the main woman character likes to dress in really skimpy 
 outfits, and likes to annoy the crap out of you. But let's get into the game a bit. 
  
  Sticking to the adult theme, this game is bloody, but it's so overdone, that it adds that feeling 
 of satisfaction when you land a combo and take someone's head right off. The combat in this game 
 is very well done, and not hard to master at all. You basically hit buttons to hit your opponent, 
 and as you prepare to do a finishing move, the game slows down, and you swing you're Wii Remote 
 either, up, down, left, or right, each which finish your opponent in a different way. However, 
 the only problem with this game is GETTING to the actual combat. You see, you have to do some mindless 
 task, to open up a fighting-ring type thing, where you get money for completing a mission. After 
 you gain enough money, you go to a boss' lair and you fight their minions until you finally get 
 to the boss. Now I must say, that compared to the pathetic bosses of Super Mario Galaxy and The 
 Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, these bosses can actually stand up for themselves and give 
 you a bit of a fight. There was this one boss in particular that almost made me go back and give 
 the game back to Blockbuster. Yet, I liked the game so much, that I wanted to finish it, and see 
 what else there was in this crazy game. 
  
  After finally completing this game, I felt glad that there are still developers out there that 
 are willing to take a shot and create something totally different. Still though, I would have liked 
 it if the game wasn't so linear, and maybe had just a bit more depth. In the end, this game was 
 very good, it's very fun to pick up and play for a few hours, and it's definitely at least worth 
 a rental.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azazel005
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Style can carry a lot of shortcomings, and No more Heroes lets it's style carry more then its fair 
 share. Despite not having any glaring problems it's a great game that really fails to come together.
 
  
  Nobody resident of "Santa Destroy", Travis Touchdown after purchasing a nifty energy beam katana 
 on an online auction has forgone his normal lifestyle of anime obsession to become the number one 
 ranked assassin, to impress a girl. The game develops an amusing and wonderfully stylized parody 
 of video games, anime and the indie culture surrounding those things managing to poke fun and play 
 homage all at the same time.
  
  In this quest, you are thrown into an open world to travel around make money and unless your re-mote 
 driven blade in a flurry of destruction. The gameplay is a good deal of fun, and while it only 
 implements the swinging blade/Wii-mote at the end of combos, with normal slashes bound to the A 
 button, it feels tighter that way. For all its fun however it's not very deep, thus after a while 
 without much depth the fun starts to become a chore. Travis can do all the things you'd expect, 
 slash, block, dodge, charge attacks and even wrestling suplexes they are all wonderfully animated 
 and lively though after a considerable hours it all begins to feel tired, while you can learn new 
 moves and power up, it doesn't seem to have a very satisfying effect and from start to finish your 
 never going to be more "wow"'ed then in the first hour.
  
  Additionally you are subject to a collection of mini-games to help you earn cash. Yet just as you'd 
 expect the mini-games are just a series of timed movements or button mashing and while novel and 
 sometimes very funny the first time around really do become "work" very quickly.
  
  Its biggest problem from a gameplay standpoint is the farcical open world. Santa Destroy is a very 
 drab in lifeless place for the most part, and No More Heroes illustrates precisely that the novelty 
 of open world can really be a severe waste of time. Half of your gaming time will likely be relegated 
 to driving your motorcycle from place to place, in a world with nothing to see, no consequences 
 or even reactions from running down civilians or property it really feels like a long interactive 
 loading sequence and is just a poignant. The time and resources invested into the open world are 
 completely wasted and could have been much better spent on any and all the other areas of the game.
 
  
  Visually as far as the Wii goes it's serviceable, but even with HD cables if your used to the higher 
 end machines NMH is going to look very outdated. The design is exceptional though; each character 
 is suitably over the top colorful both and really delivers something exciting. They are all voiced 
 well and each confrontation with your assassin enemies will stick out in your memory, the fights 
 here are often great fun with little twists whether that's a suitable reward for the tedium of 
 getting there is another question entirely.
  
  The story that ties it all together starts of with some potentially, yet in typical anime style 
 devolves into an un-finished and abrupt ending, really hurting the replay value, after experiencing 
 all it has to offer once you'll don't feel motivated to go through it all again.
  
  No more heroes is a fun romp, but in terms of entertainment that romp is shorter then the game 
 that's strung together, greats moments split up by periods of boring time sinks leave you looking 
 onto it less fondly then you'd like to.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueresident87
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 7, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  There really isn't much I liked about this game, so I'll get right to it.
  
  Graphics: 3/10
  --Arguably the worst part of the game and I just can't believe how bad it really 
 is. Some people might fool themselves into thinking the game has style with the way it looks, but 
 it doesn't. The graphical style is sloppy and poorly executed. The game does not look smooth, and 
 when moving around objects seem to 'appear' in the distance. The animations are terrible. GTA San 
 Andreas looks and runs 100x better and it is on a supposedly weaker system.
  
  Gameplay and Control: 1/10
  --I say the graphics are arguably the worst part of this game because 
 the controls are the worst I've seen in a long time from any game. Targeting is only worth trying 
 if you are against a single enemy, and trying to drive around in the city is a joke. Collision 
 detection is almost non-existent as you can hit another car while still being several feet away 
 from it. The fact that the character's bike can get stuck completely on a lightpost is insulting. 
 The camera angles also feel stiff and archaic, but since this game looks and plays like it belongs 
 on a system of the past maybe that's what they wanted.
  
  Fighting can be fun for a few minutes, but unless the player has amnesia it becomes boring after 
 an hour. Every time you want to kill someone, you have to swing the wii-mote in some arbitrary 
 direction to do some flashy finishing attack. The camera slows down and it takes too long. Tapping 
 the A and B buttons a bunch of times to do attacks would be fine, if the damn missions weren't 
 mirror-images of each other. There is no variety in this stupid game.
  
  The entire object of this game is to raise money (by repeating quests) to unlock a new boss level. 
 In between boss levels you can buy movies and cloths and things, but new items only become available 
 after you beat a boss. Each boss level is basically a terribly long hallway full of enemies, which 
 barely vary from one level to the next. You basically do the same thing over and over and over. 
 Beat boss, buy stuff, get money, beat boss, buy stuff, get money... The lack of imagination is 
 stupifying...
  
  
  Story: 4/10
  --The storyline is not very good. Seems to take a lot from Anime, and the characters and blood 
 showers seem to hammer that point home. However, no imagination employed in the characters' development 
 or their interactions with each other. The dialogue suffers from translation issues, but not too 
 bad. This is probably the best part of the game, and I like the idea of assasins being ranked amongst 
 themselves. That's all I like though.
  
  
  Sound: 4/10
  --The music is forgettable. The characters voices are ok, but not worth mentioning. I only gave 
 it a four because it doesn't take away from the game like the control and the graphics. It doesn't 
 add anything to the game either.
  
  
  I think I'm mostly still in shock over how poor this game is. I expected quite a bit, only to get 
 a dissapointing title on an increasingly dissapointing system.
  
  Overall Score: 3/10, and I feel generous about that... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WPxPaladin
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This game really surprised me. Not that it was easy on the eyes, not that it was smooth and fun 
 to play, not even that the story was interesting and compelling.
  
  What surprised me is the level of mature content and the sheer amount of laughs that is had from 
 this game. On top of sounding, looking, and playing FANTASTIC, the story can be down right hilarious 
 and filled with passive jokes about sex.
  
  That might not sound all that compelling huh? Well consider this:
  
  The graphics are cartoony, 
 but with an anime twist to them. The motions of everyone and thing are quite smooth and enjoyable 
 to look at. The world is very vivid and enjoyable to look at. 
  
  Framerate is pretty solid most the time, which is nice because the over the top killing you do 
 really gets the blood flowing... literally. Think Kill Bill - thats how over the top killing someone 
 is. All the movements and wii mote controlls are solid and spot on too - which surprised me after 
 playing that terrible Ninja Breadman game.
  
  Sounds are great, the sound track is very solid and fits really well with the whole theme of the 
 game, and to top it off it has an interesting story filled with sex, money, and drugs.... well mostly 
 just sex and money.
  
  This is not a serious ninja karate man game, this game was created for you to sit back and enjoy 
 its light hearted comedy and its fantastic controlls. If you can't stand sexual humor or excessive 
 gore, this game is not for you. But if you can't stand sexual humor and excessive gore then I guess 
 the only games you really play are Mario and Zelda eh?
  
  All around, this game is solid. The fact that you "masterbate" to recharge your power sword in 
 itself is enough to atleast try this game. If you don't laugh, you need to call 411 and find yourself 
 a sense of humor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dualmask
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is an exclusive, M-rated game for the Wii. It is an action-adventure game where 
 you play as Travis Touchdown, a violent, smart mouthed, yet honorable otaku guy who loves swordfighting, 
 pro wrestling, and porn. He wields his 'beam katana' and cuts foes to ribbons, takes down assassins 
 and scores of thugs, does odd jobs on the side to make extra cash in the city of Santa Destroy 
 and drives a motorcycle larger than most cars. It's crazy, weird, sometimes crude, sometimes funny, 
 sometimes clever, and always fun.
  
  Okay, where to start? Graphics... well, it's hard to say whether the graphics are good or bad. By 
 now we all know that the Wii's hardware isn't as powerful as the 360 or the PS3, so flaming Wii 
 games for weak graphics is pointless and moot. However, we also know that very few games on the 
 Wii take advantage of the power the console DOES have, which is greater than any console of last 
 generation. That said, No More Heroes (hereafter, NMH) features stylized art direction that features 
 angular looking characters and heavy shadows. One might even define everything as 'blocky' but 
 that's not giving credit where it's due. NMH may be the first third-party game developed the right 
 way for the Wii, focusing less on hardware power and more on utilizing the Wii's unique control 
 scheme in most aspects of the gameplay. The graphics get the point across. They're not the best 
 ever, not even on the Wii, as far as lighting and detail, but the art direction is unique enough 
 that it's hard to compare it to anything else. The character animation is good enough, not phenomenal, 
 but definitely gets the job done.
  
  On the audio side, I never heard any tune in the game that stood out to me (except some of the 
 boss themes, particularly the dramatic, Kill Bill-esque theme that plays when you take on Shinobu) , 
 but none of the music annoyed me either. Even the little beat that plays while you cruise around 
 on the bike is just low-key enough to stay out of the way. The voice work is pretty good too. Even 
 the foul language, given the kinds of characters we're dealing with here, seems to work in context.
 
  
  Okay, gameplay... there are a number of facets to the game. There is a very deliberate process the 
 game flows through. Go make money, pay entry fee to next stage, proceed through stage, fight boss, 
 repeat. The meat of the game is of course combat. Gameplay takes place in third person; you use 
 the analog stick (on the Nunchuk) to move Travis. Z locks onto a target and automatically blocks. 
 C centers the camera (Z also does this if no enemies are around) . On the Wiimote, A swings the 
 beam katana, B executes a melee attack (or grabs a staggered enemy) . After hurting an enemy enough, 
 you either swing the Wiimote in an indicated direction to finish a foe (in a bloody explosion) , 
 or use both the Wiimote and the Nunchuk to execute a wrestling move (also indicated on screen) . 
 Both beam katana attacks and melee moves can be 'charged' for greater damage, but there's rarely 
 an opportunity to use these techniques as you get further in the game. Travis also possesses a 
 defensive roll, the ability to switch to a high or low fighting stance (which varies his moves) 
 and as the game goes on, opportunities to upgrade his fighting skills and beam katana present themselves.
 
  
  The "ranking battles" are the highlight of the game. Travis proceeds through a stage, slaying numerous 
 goons, before making his way to one of the game's imaginative and deadly boss assassins (preceded 
 by a very authentic feeling "phone call" that vibrates and then speaks through the Wiimote speaker) . 
 Some bosses may appear silly, from a guy who dresses up like a superhero to an old lady with a 
 massive beam cannon, but all have their own form of deadliness. The stages often have some sort 
 of gimmick too. There's one stage where a goon activates the sprinkler system, shorting out Travis' 
 beam katana and forcing him to run to the shut-off switch in a hilarious, jerky sprint, and another 
 stage where, inexplicably, the player is required to play a space shooting game with the Wiimote 
 turned to the side.
  
  That leads to the second facet of the gameplay. Santa Destroy is an open world, of sorts, that 
 has a few locales Travis can visit to buy items, upgrade skills or take on jobs for money. He gets 
 around on foot and on a superbike that can turbo boost, drift-turn and jump, and never gets damaged 
 no matter how hard you crash. By no means is NMH comparable to GTA in this respect, but it has 
 similar properties, such as hidden items scattered throughout the city (examine dumpsters, for 
 example, for T-shirts and money) . There are part-time jobs such as lawn mowing and garbage clean-up, 
 as well as assassination missions. Some of these minigames are tedious, others are fun. I particularly 
 like the 100-man kill quest. Travis will also gain various upgrades to his skills by finding and 
 cashing in 'Lovikov' balls... including getting a high-speed dash, extra combat maneuvers, and more. 
 As the game goes on, Travis will be able to purchase upgrades to his beam katana, increasing damage 
 and power management, as well as other abilities.
  
  I could say more about NMH; about outfit buying, getting more wrestling moves, the strange story, 
 his cat, the fact that he takes a dump to save the game... but really, NMH is a game that should 
 be experienced, not simply read about.
  
  No More Heroes is a deceptive game that has a lot of depth to it. If there's anything wrong with 
 it, I guess the graphics would be a point to whine about. But seriously, if you want the best graphics 
 in the world, buy a PS3 or a 360. I'm not saying NMH is better than any game on another console. 
 But for the Wii, it's one of a kind; full of depth, great gameplay, rarely dull and highly original. 
 Give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario4zelda
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  No More Heroes is a Sandbox open world game. You play as the world's biggest loser, Travis Touchdown. 
 When he meets Sylvia Christel, he must become an assassin and take out the top ten killers ranked 
 above him on Americas assassin leaderboard to win Sylvia's heart.
  
  Graphics
  
  Graphics are very nice and kind of anime. It definetly one of the most stylish games on Wii with 
 all the menu screens with a great 8-bit look. If you like the strange, you will love this.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Gameplay is very hack and slash. It does a mix of buttons and Wii control. 
 It work very well. It can get repetitve but in a good way. The same moves manage to thrill one 
 more time. The sandbox part of the game is also very fun. The minigames are fun and you can also 
 buy new things like clothes and beam katana upgrades. You also get a cool bike.
  
  Music
  
  Music is very nice. The tunes are strange just like the overall feel of the game. Also has 
 some nice 8-bit sound effects.
  
  Overall
  
  Overall it is one of the best games on Wii. Hardcore gamers will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Santhin
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best titles available for the Wii, hands down. Like many of Suda 51s titles, 
 it has a lot of artistic merit, but unlike some of his previous ones, this one has some solid gameplay 
 to back it up.
  
  The game really loves the fact that its a game, as opposed to trying to be a movie. The graphics 
 are a mix of old and new, falling back on using bleeps and bloops for audio and pixels for health, 
 but the decidedly retro artstyle is ambitious and works, its clearly made by people who used to 
 spend time in arcades (as opposed to the people who simulate arcade style in movies and have obviously 
 never thumbed a joystick.)
  
  The storyline is ludicrously brilliant, and once you suspend belief and just accept that its a 
 game, you'll find yourself drawn into Travis's quest. He's the very definition of an Anti-Hero, 
 with almost no redeemable qualities, but somehow you can't help but like him, he's well written, 
 well voiced, and he's never short on personality. The supporting cast is great too, each character 
 feeling both stereotypical and well fleshed out at the same time.
  
  The gameplay is solid, making nice use of the Wiimote by not using it for the whole of combat but 
 keeping it constantly incorporated. Your hands will be in motion just enough to keep you immersed, 
 while the important timing restrictions are kept with button presses. The gameplay isn't always 
 perfect, and its not the most in depth that it could be, but it has a pleasently open feel to it, 
 and slaughtering foes with over the top moves never gets tiring.
  
  If you have a Wii and you're an adult, you owe it to yourself to try out the game, especially if 
 you have a bit of the taste for the absurd, its definitely a game for gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zophar53
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun, but its a difficult one to recommend to most people. Its a very back and forth 
 type of game. As in, some parts are really cool, some parts are totally lame. Fighting with your 
 laser sword is really fun and NEVER gets old, even though it is pretty repetitive and gets a little 
 close to being button-mashey. There is swearing and blood galore, the visual style is very stylized, 
 and the story, while a bit sparse and not very deep so far, is mature and surprisingly interesting. 
 Its quite possibly the most mature themed game on the Wii, which is great! I love all the little 
 sound effects and the look of the menu screens because they remind you of the little beeps and 
 bloops from the video games of the 80s. Also, everything has really awesome names. Your character's 
 name is Travis Touchdown, the city is Santa Destroy, there's a place called Pizza Butt, and it 
 just goes on from there.
  
  On the down side, riding around the city on your funky motorcycle is extremely clunky and the little 
 map is almost completely useless. The blockiness works fine for the menus but should not have been 
 used for the map as well. These sequences are so bad that they're just no fun at all and you'll 
 find yourself wanting to get from one place to another as quickly as possible just to get to another 
 fighting sequence. Also, the stupid little jobs you have to take to make money in between the assassination 
 and combat missions (coconut collecting, lawn mowing, etc) play almost as bad as the bike riding 
 and are really boring.
  
  No More Heroes is definitely a game that you should rent before you buy. To play this game is to 
 repeatedly go back and forth between being really into in and being really not into it. If you 
 are able to put up with the awful parts, you will have some wickedly mature fun with the sword 
 fighting and watching the storyline.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  No more heroes puts you as an assassin climbing the ranks from eleven to one. The story is interesting 
 and there's some excellent character dialogue. The concept is cool but there are a few flaws in 
 game play can ruin the experience. The environments that you fight the bosses in are terrible. 
 Many have obstacles that prevent you from getting at them or dodging their attacks. This leaves 
 you wide open to take massive damage. Many times the enemies will stay in a corner or against a 
 wall making it difficult to attack or dodge. I thought most of the boss fights were a bit cheap 
 and take several tries to beat them. The camera angles aren't the best, you often get blinded. 
 What many reviews don't tell you is that this is not an easy game. It's about timing and trial 
 and error. A few of the boss fights are considerably difficult and will take time to master. Most 
 players won't beat them on the first try. I played on the normal difficulty setting. The easy setting 
 may be different. 
  
  You have to constantly hold down the Z button down to lock on and block attacks. I found holding 
 this position constantly to be uncomfortable. My trigger finger kept getting sore. To attack you 
 mash the A & B buttons while following the onscreen icons to slash to finish off enemies. You can 
 stun enemies and grab them; then you follow the icons on the screen swinging the remote and numb 
 chuck in certain directions. These are the wrestling moves and they are cool for disposing of enemies 
 quickly or getting some extra damage in on a boss. 
  
  Between boss fights you drive your hot rod type motorcycle around the city on your way to do odds 
 jobs like mowing lawns or picking up garbage to make money. You have to pay yes pay to go on your 
 next mission. These odd jobs are pretty boring and you'll need to do them a few times to fund your 
 missions and weapon upgrades. If you do the odd jobs well enough, it opens some odd assassin missions 
 you can undertake for money. These are short and not too difficult and a bit more profitable than 
 the odd jobs. After each mission you can also go to the gym and do exercises to upgrade strength 
 and stamina. These are short actions that have you mashing buttons or moving the remote around. 
 
  
  Driving thru the city gets boring as there's not much to do but go from point a to point b. The 
 mini map looks like it came from the 80s Atari games. Sometimes you'll be driving along and disappear 
 into a blue screen for a few seconds. It's easy to get stuck against a wall or other vehicle and 
 not be able to move. 
  
  To summarize, No More Heroes at times feels like a linear experience. You go on a mission then 
 do some odd jobs or assassinations to collect money, go to a mission, then watch some cool scenes, 
 fight a cheap or difficult boss. It's the story and great humor that really keeps you wanting to 
 play. Depending on how good you are and how many side missions you take this game will take 10-20 
 hours to complete. If you want there's more stuff to collect in a replay and you can try a harder 
 difficulty level. This is a fun game despite its quirks. 
  
  Good
  Story 
  Characters are interesting and have great voice talent.
  Concept and fighting is fun
  Some 
 stuff to collect around town
  
  Bad
  Graphics especiallly on mini map
  To much reliance on the Z button 
  Bad camera angle creates blind spots 
  Poor environments 
 make some of boss fights seem cheap.
  Some boss fights are a bit long 
  Repeating side missions to fund missions and to buy expensive weapons/upgrades gets tedious
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: St_muscat
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is one of those rare games which although has some major shortcomings you (or at 
 least me) can easy over these, while in other games you probably cant. Sound weird? Hell yeah, 
 but once the game starts and you are immediately thrown into battle against some thugs you will 
 realize just how great the combat in this game is. Note its not like DMC or NG where you rack up 
 giant combos and within about 3 seconds you have 4 or 5 hits on an enemy, all while fighting in 
 the air it. No NMH is a much lower paced game when compared to those games in terms of its combat, 
 but it doesn't mean it's not as much fun either. But what really makes this game great is not the 
 fountains of blood that comes from killing your enemies (I have the Euro version) it's the depth 
 to the fighting. Sure you run up to an enemy and mash on the A button until you perform a finishing 
 blow by slashing the wii more, which might I add is really fun and never gets old, and I have played 
 the game twice and still love doing them. Its much more because, you can do this in either a high 
 or low status, note some enemies can block your high attack or low attack you then have to attack 
 them with the other height stance instead, plus the countless wrestling moves you can do on enemies 
 and kicks and punches and special attacks with you randomly get make the game's overall combat 
 is really fun and never really does get repetitive, which is surprising since the game is all about 
 slicing and dicing people.
  
  The other parts of the game though that don't fair as well is the games job mini games (not the 
 side missions [assassination missions] which are actually quite fun, even if very short) these 
 jobs while ok aren't all that much fun because what's fun about mowing lawns and washing graffiti 
 off walls. Another compliant is that when you do these missions for the jobs you have to go to 
 one place to apply for jobs and another for assassination missions but, after choosing one of these 
 missions/jobs you then have to drive to them which takes sometimes minutes to get there and then 
 after completing it or failing it in order to do it again or another mission you have to drive 
 back to the place to apply for the same or another job/mission and then drive out to that one, 
 which really gets annoying. This is because of the stupidly big open world which barely deserves 
 the free roaming aspect and really is a hub, but then it's about 2 times too big to be a hub.
 
  
  My final issue with the game is that all the assassination missions (ranked battles) before the 
 last one are great and all offer some great gameplay and sometimes retro awesomess, rank 4 were 
 all looking at you. But rank 1 on the other hand to me just felt too weird, even for this game 
 and the entire level is pretty bland and disappointing, even the boss fight and final assassination 
 just wasn't as good as the other ones in the game before this. This was mainly because it felt 
 rushed and was uninteresting, plus you couldn't use wrestling moves on the boss. It was just too 
 random and fake (play and know what I mean) and kind of ruined the end of a wonderful game. SPOILERS* 
 But if you see the real ending and fight the real boss that makes up for it as it like the game 
 before it is just pure awesomess END SPOILERS*. 
  
  Apart from these issues as long as you are expecting NMH to look like a early to mid GC game with 
 lots and lots of style (which makes the game look a lot better than it should thanks to some brilliant 
 shadow work) you should be fine. Also note that it has some serious and I mean serious pop in, 
 in the open world and a somewhat bad framerate when you kill say 5 people in one shot, but apart 
 from that I don't think there's anything else wrong with NMH's presentation. NMH one the bright 
 side though offers something most actions games don't offer, a good story and NMH while not epic 
 tale, it still has a funny and intertaining story with some great writing, voice acting and good 
 balance of dark and non dark humor. It's original enough and makes the game so much more enjoyable 
 and kind of makes you forget the games issues as you wonder what's going to happen next. The games 
 audio and soundtrack has a retro fell to it with all the 8 bit beeps and a hip hop style soundtrack 
 which I really enjoy and while not terribly great was still memorable and probably deserves around 
 an 8/10.
  The games also benefits from having a great wii control scheme that uses the wii mote well and 
 makes the game better than if it was if done on a standard game pad and the finishing moves, hell 
 yeah love that wii mote.
  
  The difficulty in this game is fairly low, even on the hardest mode, bitter. Although this mode 
 isn't available to begin with as only sweet (the easiest) and mild (medium difficulty) are there 
 to begin with. This is kind of disappointing as only the final 2 bosses SPOILERS* (final 3 if you 
 play the real ending) END SPOILERS* are remotely challenging, and that's on your first try, because, 
 once you have beaten them you their moves and tactics so when you get a chance play them again 
 in bitter mode they will probably be easier than last time, even if you played though it on sweet 
 mode first. For some people this isn't a problem and it doesn't ruin the game in anyway, but it 
 could have a bit harder, just like LOZ: TP and SMG could have as well. 
  
  Overall buy NMH because, Suda 51 needs your help to make more great games like this and if you 
 remotely like action games and a good story and also a good laugh then you should definitely pick 
 up NMH, or even you are just looking for a good wii game or a good mature wii pick up NMH as well 
 because, you will have a blast with it. Plus some awesome replay valve means you can play though 
 this game many times and still enjoy every last minute of it, and good thing as the SP only takes 
 about 10 hours to complete on your first play though and since there's no multiplayer to think 
 off thank god it has some great replay valve, so what are you doing? You there reading this review 
 if haven't brought NMH yet go out and buy it now, and if already brought it buy it again for Suda, 
 I know I have *looks at a pile of 23 copies of NMH* .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenPezHead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Ah, No More Heros, a game doomed to obsscurity as are all things this unique. But does that make 
 it bad? No. NMH is one of the BEST games I have played in forever, and it is far from perfect. 
 The storyline is just base simple at first, you want to be the number one assasin in the world 
 after winning a beam katana on an online auction, and why do you want to become to the number assasin? 
 Why, to get laid of course.
  
  Now, really there is more to it, but believe me, it gets WEIRD, but it's a grand game.
  
  Gamplay- 
 8.5/10 The gameplay is great, some of the best on the Wii. Instead of making you wave the Wii-mote 
 like an idiot, you only swing it for finishers. Normal attacks are done with the A button, and 
 pointing it up or down. The various Darkside mode effects (determined by slots after finishers) 
 and the ability to charge up attacks. Now, outside of combat is a diffirent story. You either walk 
 everywhere or ride on your motorcycle, the Schepal Tiger. And It is not good. You will crash and 
 fall off alot. And the pointless jump. But meh. You can the ability to run later, but I believe 
 you should have had this from the outset. Then you have the minigame controls, I actually like 
 these controls, as well as the minigames, for they did not bother me in the least. I also found 
 all but the second boss fight fun and unique. 
  At first I thought gaining money would be trickey, but some missions pay out so much its no big 
 deal. There are collectibles in the way of T-shirts, and in the second playthrough you can find 
 cards buried in certin spots.
  
  Graphics- 8/10 I will allow style to trump the graphical defects in the game. it is pretty, but 
 not the best. The colors in game are very crisp and viscreal, and in the US at least, a lot of 
 nice red blood. The detail is there where it counts, and it has quite a unique look at the world. 
 Not quite western, not quite eastern. And wrestling masks everywhere. most of the bosses have a 
 unique design and I thought the animation was great!
  
  Sound- 7/10 *sigh* IMO the weak point of the game. While the dialouge is steller, the music is 
 repetitive, theres not enough tracks, and enemies repeat the same line to often. Standered sword 
 whooses, and drowned out motorcycle sounds.
  
  Hold- 9.5/10 The game was a decent length, 12 hours for me, and you have unlockables in the second 
 playthrough which I am currently going through at a higher difficulty, as well as the "real" ending.
 
  
  All in all a great package with excellent action and a great sense of humor. One of the most fun 
 and unique games I have played in a long while, and it brought me to try out Killer 7. Not bad 
 for game whose main charcter is based off Johnny Knoxville.
  
  Total- 8.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeromeerome
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  I really don't understand all the love this game is receiving from game reviews. Especially the 
 ones here on Gamespot. If it wasn't for the fact that I was holding a Wiimote in my hand for the 
 occasional motion gesture during battle I could swear I was playing a Dreamcast game. Let me explain. 
 
  
  This game is Jekyl and Hyde all the way with a great side and terrible side. I will start with 
 what works for this game. The combat system is a lot of fun. NMH is a button masher where A attacks 
 with your saber and B grabs your opponent for a wrestling move. The wrestling moves are simply 
 executed with a wiimote gesture or two. When attacking with the saber each enemy receives a finishing 
 move with a wiimote gesture of slashing. For this you are rewarded with gracious fountains of blood 
 spewing all over the screen. If you keep your attacks up long enough and build up combos as you 
 mow down a room full of baddies you are automatically entered into "Dark Mode". This is essentially 
 a burst of invincibility combined with video filters distorting your view as your character executes 
 special kills in one swipe. All of this combined makes the action parts of the game a blast to 
 play. Your goal is to work your way up the ranks to be the Number One Assassin in all the land. 
 There are 10 assassins above you with plenty of minions between you and them.
  
  Now for the terrible stuff in the game. After defeating each assassin the game throws you into 
 this horrible copycat GTA clone overworld to grind your way through meaningless side jobs for cash. 
 You need lots of cash to enter the next round of fighting against the next assassin. You get cash 
 by taking BORING side jobs like collecting coconuts or picking up litter. This opens up battles 
 on your map where you clear a room of bad guys for cash. That part is obviously more fun than the 
 side jobs and fortunately generates cash quicker. When you finally have enough for the next round 
 you take on the next assassin. Then rinse and repeat.
  
  The graphics of the game are drab, blurrly, low resolution, low polygon crap that would have been 
 frowned upon for a Dreamcast game 10 years ago. The physics are no better. The motorcycle, your 
 only form of transportation, handles poorly. If you come within the 10 foot invisible bubble around 
 any vehicle on the road your bike instantly stops. It can also get stuck in random locations thanks 
 to all the glitches in the overworld game. There is no interaction in the overworld map with the 
 exception of only a few buildings. A clothes store to play dress up. A video store that rents you 
 videos to teach you new wrestling moves. This turns out to be pointless since the game randomly 
 chooses what move you do. A building for your side jobs. A building for your battles. A building 
 for weapon upgrades that are mostly pointless. And your Motel room that serves as home base. There 
 are no side quests or missions in the game. Just the long grinds for cash. The game does offer 
 one fetch quest involving collecting glowing Pokemon balls scattered around the map. These are 
 traded in for new abilities. A couple which are useful.
  
  The only thing that kept me playing this game was the action sections. It was enough to carry me 
 through the 10 hours of gameplay leading to an ending that was extremely unsatisfying. Making those 
 last 10 hours seem completely pointless and meaningless. 
  
  If you can stomach the money grind long enough to reach the battles you will probably enjoy this 
 game. Otherwise don't believe the hype about how wonderful this game is. 
  
  RENT IT ONLY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbertoML
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Wow! Honestly, that's the only thing I can say about this game. As an avid Killer7 fan, I had high 
 hopes for this game but fortunately I was not disappointed. You control Travis Touchdown, an otaku 
 assassin with a beam katana XD for a weapon, who wants to become the #1 assassin. In order to achieve 
 this, he must earn some cash by doing local sidejobs - such as catching lost cats, filling up cars 
 with gas or cleaning up graffittis - to challenge the next ranking assassing, kill some baddies 
 to warm up and defeat the ranking assassin to repeat the formula. It's a little repetitive, but 
 never has repetition been so fun.
  
  Going straight to the good stuff, the combat, it's very well executed. You move with the stick 
 of the Nunchuck but the actual combat isn't done with Wiimote motions, but rather with just mashing 
 the A and B buttons. You can perform some kick-@$$ combos this way, but when you diminish all of 
 your enemy's health, you can perform a finishing move with your katana, which is done by flicking 
 the remote in the direction that appears on screen, and it's very gory and satisfying, it feels 
 terriffic, and it doesn't feel forced. Occassionally the game won't respond to the flicking but 
 it isn't very common. Also, you can perform wrestling moves against your enemies that are done 
 by moving the Wiimote and Nunchuck simultaneously in different directions as cued on screen, and 
 this is very cool as well.
  
  While doing the sidejobs, you'll use the Wiimote to do your tasks, and it's very creative. You 
 can scrub walls to clean up graffittis by shaking the remote, or pick up trash with a stick by 
 performing a quick lifting motion with it too, and it looks dull just by looking but doing it feels 
 much more compelling. You can also work out in a gym to upgrade your strength points and your health 
 by moving the Wiimote and Nunchuck as if you were exercising.
  
  You travel from location to location in an free-roam open world, like in GTA, and you can walk 
 or use your Schpeltiger (your kick-@$$ bike) but it's a little hard to do so because you crash 
 constantly and you fall off your bike, and the controls here are a little hard to learn but once 
 you learn them you won't fall off that often. Also, you can fight quick missions here to practice 
 but they're really cheap as one hit will cancel the mission altogether, and there's no retry option, 
 and this goes for sidejobs as well, you have to travel all the way back to where you mission is 
 assigned just to replay it.
  
  Now talking about the game technically, it feels like it needed some extra time to polish it. Framerate 
 is very irregular and it slows down when killing lots of enemies simultaneously. Also, the game 
 looks somewhat blurry, as if the graphics had vaseline smeared all over the screen; it's bugging 
 at first - especially if you just played a technically proficient game such as Mario Galaxy - but 
 you get used to it. Also, textures are a little lo-res. It could have been done in the GameCube 
 easily (at least graphically) .
  
  But despite of the fact that the game isn't technically proficient, graphics are really awesome. 
 Style over substance, actually. But when the style is so proficiently applied, you can forgive 
 the technical shortcomings. The cel-shaded graphics look great, and combined with the punk look 
 of characters and load screens look really awesome. Also, the menus and interfaces have - on purpose 
 - an 8-bit retro look, with big pixels representing your health, and the Pause menu is also made 
 of big pixels. Sadly, when you're navigating the open world, there's lots of pop up in the form 
 of both polygons and textures.
  
  The same is applied for sound, as there are lots of 8-bit sound effects when picking up items or 
 when performing certain actions. The music is really terriffic, even when the NMH theme is recycled 
 again and again. The rest of the themes are pretty good as well. One aspect that is worth saying 
 is that voice acting is excellent, all actors do a remarkable job bringing their characters to 
 life and very convincingly, especially Travis's crude, sarcastic humor. Also, some sound effects 
 come out of the Wiimote, such as when you draw your katana.
  
  Unlike Killer7, the story is a little less confusing - although in common fashion, it goes wild 
 at the end. Nevertheless, it's intriguing and will keep you hooked on, but it has a less serious 
 theme than K7. Also, something in common with K7 is that the game IS NOT FOR KIDS; there's lots 
 of swearing and sexual innuendo, and LOTS of violence and gore. So if you were looking for a mature 
 Wii game, you've found it.
  
  It's a 1-Player game, but just for the sake of replaying it (and understanding a little more the 
 story) will you go back, and besides, you still have to unlock and upgrade your weapons, collect 
 clothes and trading cards.
  
  Overall, it's a great game on its own that makes great and inventive use of the Wii's unique qualities. 
 It's not perfect, because it has its technical shortcomings, and definately it could have used 
 some more time to be polished graphically, but what is satisfying is that controls are as polished 
 as ever, and the cool style that emanates from the game makes you forgive all of this.
  
  Presentation: 9/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Lasting Value: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  To make it clear, I had zero intention of purchasing this game till the reviews started piling 
 in and averaging in the low 9's. 
  
  I was not looking forward to it, I had barely read into it, and from what I had seen I was not 
 overly interested. After the positives I was almost forced into picking it up as January is normally 
 a graveyard for terrible games that have been pushed out of the Holiday season so they can die 
 a slow death in January. 
  
  As soon as I put it into the console the first thing that struck me as odd was how "un-Nintendo" 
 the game was. Not to say Nintendo cannot be enjoyed by people of all ages but its not often that 
 a title on a Nintendo console will be full of swearing and violence. 
  
  I was pretty impressed with the game play right out of the gates, not the same sort of mind numbing 
 Wii-Mote swinging that a game like Red Steel offered. 
  
  The standard attack was a push button, with the finishing move being a swing of the Wii-Mote which 
 was very call and result in my not grabbing my wrist in pain at the end of levels like I did in 
 Red Steel. 
  
  The level layouts are often fairly odd, but they do suit the games sometimes strange art house 
 mentality. The combat levels are excellent and I think very few people playing through the first 
 combat stage would take any issue with the game itself. 
  
  Where the game "falls down" is the clearly tacked on traveling the city mode, where you can interact 
 with no one aside from a few shopkeepers and is pretty well solely in play so you can travel from 
 point A to point B in your often hard to navigate motorcycle thingy. 
  
  Then if the commuting was not bad enough, we run into a situation where you need to raise money 
 in order to get into the next combat stage and this consists of a series of awkward and sometime 
 just plain ridiculous fetch quests. Which feel like they were added on solely to make the gaming 
 experience longer. 
  
  Had the combat streamed from level to level without this middle portion, I would have been much 
 more pleased with the game, but these fetch quests take me back to the days where if I wanted an 
 Ice Cream cone I needed to do chores around the house first, If I wanted Fetch Quests I would have 
 played an RPG. 
  
  Graphically, it's really interested what was done. Sort of like Okami but not. 
  Wii cannot compete 
 with PS3 and 360 graphically so to avoid comparisons the game is done in sort of a cool comic book 
 style. Its pretty well over the top in every aspect from blood to bosses. 
  
  You will find yourself fighting the same thug over and over again in various levels but because 
 of the type of game and the atmosphere that is helped by the graphics you tend not to care, the 
 game is fun and interesting to look at but its not Gears of War, graphically. 
  
  The Voice acting and sound aspect of the game were really well done, the over the top voice acting 
 of the bosses and your colleagues was wonderful, and the use of the Wii-Mote as a Cell phone was 
 brilliant. 
  
  The developers truly understood how to develop an "atmosphere" which is something that in a world 
 of "graphics, graphics, and more graphics" we tend to see less and less of, its an over the top 
 story which is much like a cheesey action movie of the 80's but it takes a lot of work to give 
 a game that sort of cheesey atmosphere on purpose so kudos for that!
  
  When I look at the replay value of a game such as this, I have to ask myself two questions. 
 
  
  Was finishing it Fun? And was it Fun ENOUGH to finish again? 
  
  For me the answer is, 
  Sort of, and not really. 
  
  Once you have a series of saves prior 
 to cool combat levels and have gone through the fetch quest aspect I could see myself going back 
 and playing some of the more bloody and fun levels, but from start to finish again I just don't 
 see it. 
  
  No More Heroes is a great game, and a game you truly do owe it to yourself to play and make your 
 own judgments on, but based on what I have seen its not as good as you would be led to believe. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteel13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  No More Heroes: i was not really intrested in the game untill when the game kept on apearing on 
 peoples blogs so i checked it out and i said to myself how can i not know that there is a assasin 
 game coming out on the WII. So i brought it yesterday, i knew it was coming out way before i brought 
 it dont think to yourself that i only knew about it the day before i buyed it. Well here is what 
 i think about it.
  
  Story: It had a very good griping story line to this game but it was a bit unusaul in the beginning 
 how he got ranked the 11th best assasin by just killing one person. This is probably one of the 
 most easiest story to understand as a assasin game.9/10
  
  Characters: All of the characters in this game are all well presented especially the bosses.9/10
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics was not all that in this game but dont always have to be to make a great 
 game if it does not have it in the graphics.7/10
  
  Action: The action in this game is so good fighting after fighting which never left me bored expecially 
 the higher ranked assasins. You can also do wrestling moves which are exelent you can learn new 
 ones after a while. The side jobs can be a bit boring but always fun to do the first time untill 
 you start to fail.10/10
  
  Overall: Overall this game in my opinion deserves 9.0/10 it was really good in some places but a 
 little bit not good in other places. A really exiting game so far, i am ranked 7.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTHAWx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  First thing first, No More Heroes is an awesome game. The gameplay is great, the violence is just 
 right and the comedy dialogue will have you in stiches in no time at all. It really does suck you 
 in and keep you playing for the duration. Also the additional collectables that you can earn in 
 the second run through does allow for some replayablity.
  
  However, there are some noticeable flaws which let the game down a little. Some people may find 
 the combat a bit repetitive, especially those in Europe, who don't have the bloodshed that the 
 American version carries in swathes. 
  
  Also, I was a little let down by the city of Santa Destroy. Suda 51 could have taken some influences 
 from Rockstar's GTA series a bit further. Once you play the game you'll see that Santa Destroy 
 is heavily influenced by the GTA games. However, GTA has a lot of game mechanisms that No More 
 Heroes could have taken advantage of. For example, when you bump into someone in NMH they just 
 get pushed aside, with no animation, they just levitate out of the way. In GTA the person actually 
 reacts to the collision, and may even yell out at the player character.
  
  Whilst these mechanisms aren't necessary to actually make the game really fun and enjoyable, they 
 would have added to the overall atmosphere of the game. When compared to many current games, it 
 seems like an obvious step to take. 
  
  Also the game seemed pretty easy, although th running about doing side missions to gain the money 
 needed to access the next mission/buy new stuff, will result in many hours of fun. I still haven't 
 played the hardest mode yet, which apparently increases the difficulty to a much more challenging 
 level!
  
  Overall, No More Heroes is a fantastic game, with great Wiimote controls, cool wrestling moves 
 and brutal combat. While the initial run through might seem easy, the game will provide over 10 
 hours of gameplay, with the opportunity to replay on a higher setting with extra stuff to find. 
 However, some players might find some niggling flaws which should have been addressed in the games 
 development. Still you should buy this for your Wii.
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sora_998
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  
  The story centers around a dude named Travis Touchdown, who is a stereotypical otaku living in 
 a place called Santa Destroy. After Travis wins a beam katana in an internet auction he becomes 
 an assassin. When he runs out of money to buy video games and wrestling videos, he accepts a job 
 to kill an assasin called ''Helter Skelter'' and succesfully kills him. This earns him the 11th 
 rank in the United Assassins. Realizing that he is now marked as a target for assassins, he sets 
 out to secure himself the position of ''Number 1'' assassin in the UAA. 
  
  The good:
  
  Exciting boss fights, sharp controls, lots of action, good story and humor.
  
  The bad:
 
  
  Side missions are rather short.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The combat is the part where it shines. You control Travis. Armed with a Beam Katana (which you 
 can upgrade to MK-II/MK-III and make it stronger) You must battle your way through a lot of goons, 
 ranked assassins etc. You don't have to swing your wii-mote to slash, instead you use the A button 
 to slash and the B button to punch to make your enemy dizzy and to kick. When your enemy is almost 
 dead or you win a dead-lock you must use a ''death blow'', which, as the name suggests kills your 
 opponent (except for bosses) and you have to swing to the direction (left, right, up, down) . After you 
 do a death blow, a slot machine spins at the bottom of the screen and if a triple match occurs, 
 you enter one of the 4-5 Dark Side modes. In one Dark side mode you have to press on a different 
 button to kill your opponents, and in one dark side mode you are able to shoot some kind of energy 
 balls with your beam katana. Each power up are awesome to watch as well as to do. When your opponent 
 is in a dizzy state, you can use a wrestling move, which also requires movement with the wii-mote. 
 You learn a wrestling move before each boss fight or by purchasing a video at a store named ''Beef 
 Head''. Slashing your opponent to bits, cutting them in half and using wrestling moves on them, 
 never gets old and it is so much fun to do. Unless you buy the expensive energy saving III, every 
 Katana has batteries, which goes empty after repeated use. When it's empty, you must hold the 1 
 button while going up and down rapidly with the wii-mote to recharge it. Before you go into a rank 
 battle, you must earn money to pay the entrance fee. How do we do that? Simple! We do side jobs 
 and assassination missions. There's a variety of jobs and assassination missions that are fun to 
 do. Even though working for money sounds boring, it definitely isn't in this game, especially assassination 
 missions. Slashing enemy up for money? How cool is that! You get to bash your enemy's up and get 
 money for it. Nice, huh? You can also customize the clothes of Travis, you can buy new clothes 
 at a shop called ''Area 51'' (sounds familiar...) , there's a wide selection of jackets, jeans, belts, 
 you name it. There are also mini games you can do when your tired of all the missions and stuff.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  This game has terrific graphics. The visual design is full with strong color choices, cell shading 
 and good done shadows. The designs of the Schpeltiger, the clothes you can buy and the bosses are 
 awesomely done. The minimap and health indicator are pixelated by design and the menu resembles 
 8-bits. The enemy cut in half and the blood etc is also well done.
  
  Sounds:
  
  The game provides great sound effects and sounds overall. The voice acting is well-done and they 
 resemble their character well, such as Sylvia's french accent and Travis' bloodthirstiness. The 
 boss battle musics are also great, they give you the feeling that your in a heated battle and it 
 powers you up and gives you the urge to beat the boss. 
  
  My opinion:
  
  Aside of the around 15 hours of gameplay (I myself finished it on 14 hours) , it is a very solid 
 action game and it is the mature action game you should get. I myself had a lot of fun playing 
 this game from the beginning to the end and I am sure you will, too. So i'd say: Buy the game, 
 it's definitely worth it, trust me! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi487
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that No More Heroes is one of the most violent games I have seen, (and 
 one of the bloodiest) but hey I like blood and violence (who doesn't) . The story is simple your 
 Travis Touchdown, an Otaku who likes to collect anime and watch mexican wrestling videos. and he 
 wants to be the no. 1 assassin in the United States, simple enough right, well you'd be wrong, 
 it turns out that you have to pay your way to be able to fight these assassins but the assassins 
 themselves are wonderfully done whether your fighting a pscho girl with a bat, or your fighting 
 a magician, to ne able to pay your way through to the next ranked assassin you have to do some 
 odd jobs like mowing lawns, or remove scorpions from the town. There are some assassasination missions 
 but the fact that you have to get at least a silver medal on the normal jobs to be able to unlock 
 all the assassaniation missions is a bit of a downer since the normal jobs are so boring, the assassaination 
 missions will be the jobs you do to get money. The fighting mechanics in No More Heroes are perfect 
 for the Wii. to swing your trusty Beam Katana you simple press the A button and when you deal the 
 last blow to your oppenent you are prompted to swing the remote in the direction the arrow is facing 
 to unleash the death move on your opponent that deals out fountains of blood (that's the best part 
 in this game) , and to perform wrestling moves you first have to get your oppoennet dazed and then 
 press the B button and follow the corresponding arrows with remote and nunchuk to unleash your 
 wrestling move , when your in the town your options are to mainly try to get enough money to get 
 to the next assassins, but you can go and shop for new clothes, go to the gym (the guy in charge 
 of the gym is gay) , buy videos to learn new wrestling moves, and buy new Beam Katanas.
  
  In conclusion pick up No More Heroes you won't be dissapointed 
  This game is rated M for a reason, 
 people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RK-Mara
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2009 11:59 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is the latest game from Suda-51 (Goichi) and Grasshopper studios, developers of 
 Killer7, and it offers the same kind of humor and art style as its spiritual predecessor did.
 
  
  You are Travis Touchdown, a stereotypical otaku, living in the only motel of Santa Destroy, California. 
 After winning a beam katana on Ebay, Travis starts a new life as a hitman and is soon the eleventh 
 ranked assassin in the United States. Of course, there are always other hired guns wishing to make 
 it to the top ten and Travis becomes a target for assassinations. With the persuasion of a particular 
 girl, Travis starts his journey to make it to the top.
  
  The game is divided to two different gameplay aspects: Grand Theft Auto free-roaming and hack 'n 
 slash ranking battles. The latter is where the game shines with unique characters, humor and great 
 boss battles. Unfortunately the flipside isn't nearly as good.
  
  Combat is simple and rewarding. A button is used to attack with your beam katana and B button to 
 do beat attacks and wrestling moves. Changing your Wiimote to face upwards or downwards switches 
 between the two different slashing modes. Use one mode for too long and your opponents will learn 
 to parry your blows. Once your opponent's health nears zero, the game slows down and gives you 
 a chance to do a finishing move by swinging the Wiimote to the direction shown on the screen. Nothing 
 is more rewarding than seeing the blood of your opponents splatter all over the screen and hear 
 the tingling of coins fill your pockets. Sadly the blood is exclusive to the US version and we 
 Euros have to settle for potato chips.
  
  To unlock a new boss, you have to pay them and the only way to earn money is doing various side 
 missions in the open world. After every ranking battle a new side-job opens up which vary from 
 lawn mowing to catching kitties, cleaning walls and collecting coconuts. After clearing a side-job, 
 a couple more assassination jobs and free missions unlock. 
  
  Free missions appear randomly all over the city but if something, they should have been left out 
 of the game. The drill is the same in every free mission, kill all your opponents within the time 
 limit. As an annoying detail, you aren't allowed to take any damage at all. Let even one enemy 
 sneak behind your back and attack from your blindspot and it's an automatic mission failure. Especially 
 between ranks eleven and six, you tend to fail these missions all the time and there is no way 
 to retry. Whether you complete the task or not, the mission portal disappears afterwards and you 
 have to take a drive to the nearest portal if you want to take another one. The best thing you 
 can do is stay away from them altogether until you get one of the more powerful weapons in the 
 game.
  
  Assassination missions have a bit more variety but even they could use plenty more. You pick up 
 a mission at point A, go to point B where you swing your sabre for a minute or two, go back to 
 point A and repeat until you have enough money for the next ranking battle. Fun the first time 
 you do it, but according to Suda, repetition is a hot word in the world of assassins. Again, the 
 only thing that changes is the reward and the hardiness of the clone army you are facing.
  
  The assassination jobs would still be bearable if you didn't have to run between where you 
 pick up the jobs and the mission locations all the time. Goichi Suda wants to take everything to 
 the extremes but he should have thought twice before making the town of Santa Destroy extremely 
 bland. Minimal NPC interaction, pop-in and invisible walls everywhere and massive frame rate problems 
 make Santa Destroy a more horrendous place to be in than Silent Hill. It's easy to see that the 
 open world was tacked on at the last minute to appeal to the Grand Theft Auto crowd, but as it 
 is, it's a complete failure. Exploring isn't necessary but if you want to, you can search garbage 
 bins for new outfits (who throws away good t-shirts?) and alleyways for Lovikov's balls, which 
 unlock new finishing techniques. 
  
  From the protagonist to random shop vendors, every character in the game is unique and well-written. 
 The urge to see what kind of crazy character you'll face the next time keeps you going from boss 
 battle to boss battle. You already think at many points that Suda has outdone himself but loonier 
 and loonier bosses keep appearing after another. Not only are the characters a joy to listen to, 
 but also to look at. Even if NMH isn't a technical masterpiece, the graphical design is one of 
 the better ones on the market. The open world could still use plenty of polish but not much could 
 have been done better when it comes to the bosses.
  
  When you play the game for the first time, you can choose between sweet and mild difficulty settings. 
 Once you've finished the game on either difficulty, you can start a new game with bitter difficulty 
 and keep all of your items from the previous playthrough. On mild the game is fairly easy except 
 for some of the boss battles. If you are looking for real challenge, you should look somewhere 
 else. Or be ready to play the game twice.
  
  The first playthrough took me good 12 hours and a masochist who wants to collect every t-shirt 
 and Lovikov's ball in the game could probably play the game for couple hours longer. The quirky 
 characters and extra difficulty can be a good reason for someone to play the game again.
  
  Extremely fun and rewarding ranking battles make the game worth a purchase for every hardcore gamer 
 but the huge overall lack of polish in the open world makes No More Heroes a problematic choice 
 for anyone looking for the best bang for buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  No More Heroes
  Wii
  
  No More Heroes is the first mature game on the Wii. Well the story is you play as Travis Touchdown 
 (awsome name) who is the big loser in the world and you meet a cute fench wemon called Sylvia Christel 
 who is in USA assassin assassin, she makes a deal that she would go out with Travis if he comes 
 the number one rank assassin. So you go out and kill the 11th assassin and you start from there. 
 The game makes good use of the Wii controls, when you think of a sword game on the Wii you think 
 that you have to swing the Wii remote to attack but no you push press A the onlt time swing the 
 remote is when you do the finishing move. The Boss fights are fun and sometimes you think its to 
 easy to get up to them and start up a big combo.
  
  Your main weapon is a beam katanas whitch is a basicly a lightsaber but with batterys. In No More 
 Heroes you get freerom around Santa Destory this is a nice feature for the player to do after each 
 battle, as you go around town you have your weird bike to go around town with but it get stock 
 radomly against a tree. This game is'nt all serouis it got some comdey to go with the gameplay. 
 After you complete the game there is still alot to do like collect all the clothes, Cards and base 
 ball so you will keep coming bzck to play this game. Overall No More Heroes is one of the most 
 mature games on the Wii so if you are treid of someone the childish games on the Wii then this 
 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shad0ki11
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  At least Ubisoft made this game one step above Red Steel. I became too bored with this game to 
 finish it.
  
  Okay...
  
  The Experience:
  
  Okay, so I thought I'd go to my local Blockbuster and rent this game to see if it was good enough 
 to consider buying. I was very disappointed with the lack of violence. The only positive thing 
 I have to say about this game is that the cutscences were well-made and the voice acting was good. 
 
  
  What I had been expecting was fast-paced slice-and-dice gameplay. You are able to make combos up 
 until the point where you are stopped and are forced to perform a movement with the wiimote and/or 
 nunchuk so that you can pull off a special move. That alone killed the game for me. I couldn't 
 believe how much that slowed down the action.
  
  Final thoughts: 
  
  Rent it, then decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QueenOfGaming
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  This is a game about an assassin trying to get to be the #1 rank so he has to kill all the assassins 
 in his way. The style of the game is artistic but part of me felt the graphics seemed a bit blurry 
 and discolored because of what the designers tried to do and I would have just settled for the 
 norm over artsy. You collect the health and coins, and you get special finishing moves where you 
 have to swing the wii remote in a certain direction like the God of war type games. Then you can 
 travel around town on your bike with your trusty map with keys and do missions for money like GTA. 
 When it comes down to hunting down the assassins you have to slash them up with your sword. It 
 is an amusing game too, definitely for an older crowd. If you want a slash em up game, with a bit 
 of God of war, GTA, the oddness of things popping up around you during fights like Warioware, then 
 you will like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wael_rajab
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game when I first heard about it a couple months ago. I would say that 
 it meant almost all of those hopes. It is fast-paced, gory (a real emphasis on being cheesy though) , 
 funny, and just plain over the top. The controls are simple to learn and there is enough there 
 to keep you interested throughout. The story has yet to make complete sense to me, but its still 
 fun to hear the characters go on their rants about whatever the hell they think is going on.
  
  So far I only see two setbacks with this game. The graphics are not exactly next-gen in terms 
 of technicality. They make up for this in style though. Also, the game says that its free-roaming, 
 which it is. But the world kind of feels like a glorified menu. I'm not done with the game so maybe 
 there is something that happens later on to bring a little more life to it.
  
  All in all, this game is awesome. Play it now. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguinparadise
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  Wow. That the word I have for this not that it was the best game I have ever played just that it's 
 very strange. Take the story. You are Travis Tuchdown and you enter this thing to kill all of the 
 assassins ahead of you with your beam katana witch looks a lot like a litesaber as you can see. 
 If you get to the top you get to do it with the girl who helps you find the next assassin. This 
 game is very easy also. The boss are a cake walk only if they are not girls. For some reason they 
 are very hard. In order to get to the next assassin who have to do these jobs but they are easy 
 and you will end up doing the same one over again. The graphics are not very detailed but make 
 the game look pretty cool in some way. Overall it's fun and last a good lengh. This will be one 
 of the funnest games you will play for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freek666
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes tells the story of Travis Touchdown, a stereotypical otaku (a person with an obsession 
 with anime) and gaming nerd living in the fictional city of Santa Destroy, USA. After winning a 
 beam katana off of the internet in online auction he goes on a series of assassinations at the 
 command of the sexy and seductive Sylvia Cristel and the UAA, the United Assassins Association. 
 This sets us up for one incredible and bizarre adventure.
  
  Graphics:
  The game uses the cel shaded art style and it uses it well. The shadows are just right, such as 
 when he bends over you can't see some of his t shirt (if you even have him wearing one) . The city 
 of Santa Destroy is very colourful but there are some problems with the sandbox city. When speeding 
 along on your motorbike, the Schpeltiger, there a a few framerate issues and the fluidity of the 
 game slows down. This same problem occurs during combat. While the problem is small it is noticeable 
 and occasionally annoying. Also some buildings don't show their features such as doors, windows 
 and signs until your about two seconds away. One thing I would point out are the symbols on the 
 map and in the world for certain destinations. These look like old game logos, such as Naomi's 
 symbols is actually the sword from the old 2D Legend of Zelda games.
  
  Also while the city is colourful it has its colour limits and it feels like your going through 
 the same place again when your not, its just the colours being re used. Another few problems I 
 encountered in the overworld is that cars seem to have an invisible force field around them which 
 can be detrimental to your riding and if you go slow enough, the pedestrians will just go through 
 your bike instead of falling over. One final problem I have is that when Travis rides the bus for 
 certain missions, there is no driver! Now I know the game is not very realistic, but you need someone 
 to be driving the freaking bus! Overall the cel shaded graphics are very nice for a change and 
 the environments are nice, and although the few bugs and problems I mentioned can be annoying they 
 wont affect your gameplay too much. It get an 8.5.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is just right for this game. The voice acting is okay, but theres only so many times 
 you can hear Sylvia say "Trust your force and enter the garden... of madness!" The dialouge is 
 very cheesy, but thats the angle that its going for and it feels like your watching an old japanese 
 film, the kind thats got stupid dialouge but you cant help but watch because its awesome all the 
 same. The enemies you face usually say something before they attack and scream once you kill then. 
 The speaker in the wiimote is used very well for phonecalls before your boss battle and hearing 
 you beam katana power up before a fight. Travis himself says things such as "sweet" whenever he 
 finds a new t shirt, money or wrestling trading card. Even when cruising around the city and you 
 hit a pedestrian ther will be a bit of a cry and a thud. The music in the game isnt annoying, but 
 when your running around Santa Destroy there is no music unless your on your bike. Also when you 
 go to Thunder Ryu's gym a generic version of Eye of the Tiger is playing, so that is very smart. 
 There are a lot of old school game sounds in this game and they make you smile when you hear them. 
 There are no real problems with sound at all. It gets a 9.0.
  
  Gameplay:
  Ahh, the big one. When The Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess came out we were all excited at the 
 thought of using motion sensing for sword slashing. However, waggling as it came to be known, made 
 for annoying attacks. No More Heroes takes the waggle (for basic fighting) and shoves it up its 
 own arse. And although it is a bit of a button masher, that doesnt mean there is no depth to it. 
 To attack with the beam katana the A button is used and to use a melee attack such as a punch or 
 a kick the B button is used. However that doesnt mean that motion sensing action has been taken 
 out. When your opponent is dizzy or nearing their end a series of motion controls that the screen 
 puts up for you is used. For the finishing blow you will have to swing your wiimote either up, 
 down, left or right. Also Travis has a vareity of wrestling moves, and these usually have two stages. 
 So you will have to put both nunchuck and wiimote left and then down when told to pull off a Tombstone 
 Piledriver. While most of the ranking battles leading up to the boss are the same "cut down all 
 the minions to get there", some have a twist, such as riding around a baseball field on your motorbike 
 running down minions, or racing down a freeway dodging enemies on their own motorcycles and ramming 
 them off the road.
  
  When your not fighting assassins and their minions and you need extra cash for clothes, training, 
 weapons or videos, you can take up part time jobs such as mowing the lawn, collecting cats or washing 
 graffiti off the buildings and also get some small assassination gigs such as killing a certain 
 amount of enemies in 3 minutes and you recieve $3000 for each kill. These are enjoyable the first 
 time, but you will find that when you need more money you will need to do some more than once. 
 Some you could not be bothered doing, but some you will find are enjoyable, such as jumping off 
 a ramp on your bike.
  
  A lot of people complained about the city of Santa Destroy, saying its empty and nothing to do. 
 Well I believe it to be just right the way it is. You only need to get from point A to point B, 
 and sometimes C when you need extra cash. The empty streets are good for when your rushing to get 
 to you next ranking and there are enough pedestrians for those people who like to run them down. 
 Another thing I will mention is that for those people who like to collect all the things in games, 
 there are plenty of t shirts, lovikov balls and other goodies that you can spend time looking for 
 all over the city. Overall the gameplay gets a 9.5.
  
  Final Verdict:
  The game is awesome. It is just the right difficulty on Mild/Medium and it is fun to play. You 
 will fall in love with the art style. The controls will surprise you. The dialouge will make you 
 laugh or make you angry. The ending will be bizarre. You will not be able to put it down. I know 
 I couldnt. It should definately be in any Wii owners library of games. The game recieves a 9.0, 
 but the real score is a 9.2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:41 am PT
Review:  Story
  
  The story follows Travis Touchdown, who is a stereotypical otaku  his motel room decorated with 
 professional wrestling and anime collectibles  living in near poverty in the No More Heroes motel 
 of the fictional town of Santa Destroy. After winning a beam katana in an internet auction he becomes 
 a hitman. When he runs out of money to buy video games and wrestling videos he accepts a job to 
 kill Helter Skelter, also known as "the Drifter," which earns him rank 11 by the United Assassins 
 Association, a governing body of assassins. Realizing that he has now made himself a target for 
 aspiring assassins, he sets out to secure himself the coveted position of number one hitman in 
 the UAA.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Soooo repetative. Make money in the very boring city so you can fight the next highest ranked assassin. 
 I guess what makes this game so addictive is the tremendous amount of blood, the cool levels, and 
 the amazing boss fights.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics
  
  No More Heros graphic system really annoys me. I really not a big fan of this type of cell-shading.
 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Control
  
  The control is great! Motion controls without overdoing it. I like it. Block with B, attack with 
 A. The motion control for the finishing slices are very responsive. I like them a lot.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound
  
  Not much to say here. The motorcycle sounds good, the beam katana sounds good, when you cut an 
 opponent it sounds good, and their mout moves well with the words that come out.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall
  
  Honestly a great game for hardcore gamers and people with an appetite for a bloody video game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selkey
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is a very fun game filled with over the top violence, a great story and easy game 
 play.
  
  The graphics are the obvious weakness, but they are stylized to where they look good and feel right.
 
  
  The game play is easy to pick up and a blast. Finishing moves and combos are just great fun. The 
 Wii remote plus nunchuk responds great.
  
  The story is open world style and features many mini games along with the main story line. These 
 are shallow GTA style missions but are pretty fun. It's always fun to take a break from hacking 
 heads to mow the lawn or collect coconuts for money. The assassin missions are all a blast and 
 there is great variety in the tasks you perform. Things never get boring.
  
  The sound is great and compliments the retro graphics well.
  
  Overall this game is great. 
 I like it better than Killer 7 because you have more freedom and it's less repetitive. If you liked 
 Killer 7 definitely get this game. If not you still may like it because it's like a shallow GTA 
 with lightsabers and more blood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spiff_Rocks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is a game out of the ordinary, a game that should be rewarded just for being there, 
 despite the flaws. You take the role of the average everyday assassin wielding a "lightsaber" in 
 true hack 'n' slash fashion. The name; Travis Touchdown, the protagonist with some attitude, and 
 a serious problem with returning his ol' porn videos to the store on time.
  
  Story : First of all, this story is compelling from start to finish. It sucks me in, wondering 
 whos gonna be killed next, what each new characters gonna bring. It doesn't feel like the storys 
 just been added at a last ditch atempt to salvage the gameplay, or if the gameplay was built around 
 the plot concept. It works well together, just does. As i said, you play as Travis Touchdown. Won 
 a Beam Katana on a 'net auction, most likley ebay. Lives in a motel called No More Heroes and makes 
 a living from part time jobs and killing. The plot revolves around you meeting this hot girl called 
 Sylvia Christel and her being part of the UAA, something about assassins. Somewhere along the line 
 she introduces you to Ranked fighting, where Travis wants to be number one. I got completely lost 
 after seeing Sylvia half naked so please excuse me. So from then on you pay **** loads of money 
 to get to ranked matches to be number one.
  
  Gameplay: No More Heroes experiments with all criteria of the Wii remotes functions. Requiering 
 different actions, and even holding the Wii-mote sideways, which really mixes it up. Makes a difference 
 to the same ol' gameplay most games are getting into the hang of. The combat for starters is an 
 intense buttons mashing, arm waving madness of blood and money on the screen. Pressing the A button 
 will start you off on your sword combo, when an enemies health reaches "zero", you enterdeath blow 
 mode or somethin'. Now a big flashing arrow appears on screen, which decyphers as a movment of 
 the Wii-mote. This is just a great feature, not too complicated or tirering. Then theres the "beam" 
 attacks.; stuns an enemy for some time which gives you time for an grab move. This is followed 
 by 2 arrows, indicating you to move both the nunchuck and Wii-mote in a certain direction, to pull 
 of deadly wrestling moves. When your not brutally killing people with your katana, theres the choice 
 of your jobs to make you mountains of money. This can be quite frustrating, especially when you 
 don't get enough money, the controls feel awkward, you don't get enough money..... but then the 
 controls feel similar the the real life interpretation in my opinion. Theres alot more to go on 
 about, but if your waiting to buy it, i leave it to you.
  
  Graphics: Stunning, beautiful, shocking. As this being on Wii, i wasn't expecting the smoothest 
 textures, best character models or animations, But my god, these are amazing. Being cell shaded, 
 i guess they can do alot more with the content. There's a whole open world to explore, full of 
 treasure and shops. The drawdistance won't bother you nor the plain textures. It's just the smooth 
 frame rate, almost anywhere. Apart from about a dozen enmeies dieing infront of you, the frame 
 rate stays constant throughout. I'm not sure what to say. Just that the screen shots don't do this 
 game any justice, watch a few gamplay videos and you'll see how good they are.
  
  Overall: Like i said, No More Heroes is a game all to its self. Brings a new dish to the table. 
 It's one of the most mature on the Wii to date and is certain to entertain. With 2 difficulty levels 
 and collectables, even the most hardcore could probably spend 10 hours on this game. I know i'm 
 approaching the 10 hour mark, and i can't stop playing! So yes, this is a must buy for any 16+ 
 Wii owner, sets itself aside from the childplay and childrens games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephiroth171
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  What can I say about this game that hasn't already been said. The control is smooth, albeit a little 
 frustrating at times, with multiple sharp angle turns, and the only visual i found weird was power 
 sliding on your bike, and then a sudden snap back to driving straight, but other than that this 
 game is stellar. Hilarious characters you cant help but fall in love with, even if you have to 
 kill them. A amazing soundtrack, plus great voice-over work. The graphics may seem a bit, out dated, 
 but its the Wii so we cant really expect to much. Now as to the odd jobs, all I can say is, "Hilarious." 
 Unlike games like GTA where your given an open city, and all your odd jobs consist of killing individuals, 
 or going to a strip club, No More Heroes has you mowing lawns and pumping gas, for pocket money. 
 Hilarious. Now getting to the killing, its awesome. Spurts of blood and coins, and a complete sense 
 of gratification when you hear Travis yell "F*** You!" whilst killing an enemy. Its so good to 
 see when Nintendo grows a pair of balls. Truly it is. Plus a smooth mixture of katana wielding 
 and wrestling suplexs and smooth combination of button mashing and Wii remote movement makes for 
 a great game play experience. Overall an amazing game, only bogged down by slight tediousness, 
 and small graphic flaws. Highly recommended as a pick up, I know I did, and I don't regret it for 
 a second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mojothebaboon
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  No More Heroes is one of a kind, its not a type of game you will get to see every 6 month or so. 
 Its has a really satisfying gameplay, but has its flaws a whole handfull of them.
  
  In No More Heroes you incarnate the role of Travis Touchdown , a twisted guy who need money to 
 buy some more video games and what is the easiest way to earn money, well assassination of course! 
 The only purpose of this game is to create bloodbath with your beam-katana you ordered from an 
 internet auction site. What makes this game unique are the boss battle i have rarely seen such 
 uniqueness in bosses, they are always very fun to kill and a pleasure to discover, but they might 
 also be a pain to get to since its a hack and slash game you always find yourself doing the same 
 thing over and over again . The motion control are very well done instead of always swinging you 
 Wii remote around you only use it as a "finisher" as the name suggest to finish enemies.
  
  
  Let's face it this game isn't a powerhouse the graphics aren't polished, but I think its part 
 of the game charm, every menu in-game are in 8-bit format (to those who have no idea what that 
 is think super mario bros....) Instead of focusing on graphic they went for nostalgia and style. 
 That being said it has its fair shares of problem such as an horrible sand-box type city that could 
 have been removed and would have raised the overall quality of the game, also you will notice quite 
 a bit of frame rate issue especially while navigating through santa destroy.
  
  No more Heroes is a unique game, if you are looking for some twisted/sick gaming experience this 
 is the game for you.
  
  PS: If you are a parent reading this DO NOT buy this for your children, if you do you are a bad 
 parent
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tailscoolio
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  Watching this game on a trailer isn't quite the same as playing it, a trailer can't show you that 
 the game needs to be played by a more patient audience than you might think. The game is played 
 from Travis Touchdown's point of view; a guy who's broke and takes a casual look at killing, he's 
 a weird character, mixing cool with geeky. When gets tired of casual killing he decides to become 
 an assasin taking out other assasins to become number one...
  
  The game is cel-shaded and although i'm not a big fan of the style, this game carries it well and 
 you tend not to notice it after a couple of minutes. As for the controls, i wish i could say that 
 you'll find all sorts of combos and ways of hacking through enemies with your "beam-katana". But 
 sadly, there's very little imagination when it comes to fighting choices, the only consellation 
 is that the few killing styles are creative and nicely worked out.
  
  The side-quests put into the game slow-down the game rather than make it more fun, and are so short 
 they're more likely to be considered mini-games than side quests. The main reason? the travel time 
 to get to the side-quest area, or "temp-job" is moreover longer than the side-quest itself.
  
  The game has something much like special powers where Travis goes into "Darkness mode", however 
 these things are rare and totally randow being activated by killing enemies in certain ways and 
 then having a chance of getting a special hen slots come up and "could" give you a special. I was 
 unimpressed because it was dissapointing to activate one at the last enemy and then have a cutscene 
 cut my special short. Although to be honest the special abilities don't really help much because 
 they only last for a short amount of time before stopping.
  
  The killing spree missions do make the open environment worth travelling around for though, killing 
 small army of people at a meeting point may seem a bit pointless for them as they're all going 
 to die but thats just the natural assumption we can make with any game character.
  
  All i've said in this review must sound really bad for the game, but its not without its good points; 
 the game has a frantic motion to fighting enemies, and although it takes a while to raise enough 
 money for the next assasination, the fights are very fast and adrenaline pumping. And the inclusion 
 of small jokes that, although might be a little too weird for some gamers, are funny to the rest 
 of us none-the-rest. 
  And with the "take your time" relaxed gameplay style its a good game in short bursts, which is 
 half-way to being a "pick up and play" game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jewcolin
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This one pretty cool game. This is what you should expect from the developers of Killer 7. This 
 game stands out from all other Wii games and really even PS3 and Xbox 360 games. The controls for 
 the game are really easy to get into. The game doesn't over do the wii remote's motion control. 
 The parts that do use the motion control are very responsive. The content in the game is pretty 
 cool. THis is one of the wierdest and bloodiest games i've seen in a while. It is always fun to 
 see the heads of the enimies get slashed off. the one bad thing i found about the game was the 
 replayibility. After you beat it once or twice it probably will get boring and you will never play 
 it again. This game can also be funny at times. Atleast for the people that understand the jokes. 
 Overall, I believe this game is for all wii gamers looking for one freaking, awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlucardsFate
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  "Enjoy your kiddie machine!" Thats what more then one 360phile told me when I purchased my Wii. 
 "Enjoy your kids games!" Well I used to tell them, "I hope you like shooters... cause thats all 
 you have" but now I have an actual case for the Wii being a machine for older gamers as well. No 
 More Heroes is that case. This game is absolutely not for children. It has almost every bad word 
 outside of the ever dreaded "# ( (%^@#^ () $) &*#^." (Isn't that the worst word you've ever seen?) As 
 your protaganist, Travis Touchdown opens his mouth and lets the curses fly on his journey to the 
 top. 
  
  To the top of what? The top of "The United Assasins Association" of course! He'll fight and boy 
 will he kill, his way to the #1 spot. In hand will be the beam katana (think lightsaber) he won 
 in an online auction. And this is where the fun begins. From the opening stage your sent to make 
 your first kill, but in order to do that, you have to do many other kills beforehand. How? Swing 
 your Wiimote like a sword? No not quite. Grasshopper played it very smart, unlike a lot of Wii 
 developers, and didn't desing the entire game around the remote. Just give it simple, yet effective 
 functions. You press A for your slashing combos, only swinging the remote when your foe's energy 
 is low to deal the finishing strike, which will undoubtably chop off some part of their body and 
 when you have the right weapon and attacks... you may just completely liquify them. Either way, 
 the blood will fly and when I say fly... I mean like the movie Kill Bill... FLY.
  
  A simple as the controls sound, they work rather well will dodge moves mapped to the Wii D-Pad. 
 And very shortly, you'll have most of what you need down so you don't need to fumble over the remote. 
 Though their is one minor control flaw however, riding your oversized motorcycle. It almost feels 
 like it turns a second or two after you tilt the analog stick a slight annoyance but nothing game 
 destroying. 
  
  Speaking of the motorcycle, your going to be spending a rather large amount of time riding it. 
 In between ranking fights, you'll need to do part time jobs and various other missions to aqquire 
 the cash to enter the next ranked battle. While these missions do have you doing a variety of things, 
 from cleaning up graffiti to killing mounds of hitmen, the in between sections can sometimes drag 
 on, leaving you to replay missions you've already completed in order to make the increasingly large 
 fees. 
  
  For all that gory, fun action, you must be asking, how does it look? The answer, fantastic! The 
 game's look has a very comic book feel to it, which works quite well with the violent but unserious 
 attitude the game provides. The dialouge is humorous and sometimes brilliant, aided by the fantastic 
 voice actors delivering the lines. A lot of the humor comes in particular from the French accented 
 Silvia Christel, who aside from screwing with you constantly, (one of the best game touches is 
 holding your Wiimote like a cell phone every time she calls you... only to berate and insult you) 
 she is also the one who sets up all of your ranking matches, keeping those large fees for herself. 
 
  
  At its heart, No More Heroes is a game that focuses on style and simple fun over super deep substance, 
 a focus that works incredibly well. It also holds up as a argument as to what kind of games can 
 exist on the Wii in terms of gameplay, but moreso in terms of age group. It makes an attempt at 
 selling the idea that Nintendo isn't just for kids anymore, and while this is a very good way to 
 start that arguement, it will take more support to finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Warning: No More Heroes may contain content that is innapropriate for everyone. 
  
  Blood will flow. Strange sexual references will be made. Human limbs will littler the ground. It's 
 pure, outrageous genious.
  
  The story of No More Heroes is a very simple one. Travis Touchdown, the antihero of the game, goes 
 out for a drink one night and ends up killing the eleventh best assassin in his hometown of Santa 
 Destroy. Now officially a ranked assassin in the UAA (or something like that...) Travis must kill 
 off the ten assassins ranked higher than him and take his place as the top ranked assassin in Santa 
 Destroy. Led along by a seductive French woman from the UAA, Travis carves a bloody path through 
 his rivals in hopes of (and here's what really ties the plot together) getting laid. Yes, Travis 
 kills all of these people mostly in pursuit of getting a little tail. Of course, once you've finished 
 beating down your sixth or seventh victim, you can't help but get the suspicion that maybe everything 
 is going too smoothly...
  
  Combat in NMH is simple but fun. Like in Zelda, the Z button locks on to enemies. From here, pressing 
 the A button will attack with Travis' beam katana and pressing B will execute physical attacks 
 like wrestling moves. Motion control is smartly implemented only in Travis' finishing moves, which 
 send heads flying more often than not. All in all, combat is easy to learn and fun to master thanks 
 to a two button control scheme similar to a Super Smash game. Everything outside of combat kind 
 of suffers, though. Movement control is a bit stiff, but easy to get used to. Worse than the movement 
 control is the open world wandering that occurs between missions. Travis drives a motorcycle from 
 mission to mission in an open world format, but the motorcycle controls very stiffly and collision 
 detection with other vehicles is abysmal. It's still preferable to navigating a bunch of menus, 
 but it's far from polished. Side missions such as mowing lawns and lower-ranked assassination missions 
 are available, and while none are bad, none really stand out either.
  
  A wickedly unique graphical style can't save NMH's graphics score from mediocrity. In fact, at 
 times the graphical style actually makes the graphics look worse. Objects can look blurry or undefined, 
 and pop in is frequent in the open world segments. Cutscenes still look decent. Character design 
 is often fantastic and sometimes bizzare. 
  
  "F***heads!" This is one of the first words you will hear Travis say as he beheads two grunts. 
 If that doesn't really strike your fancy, you may want to mute some of the dialouge in NMH. Honestly, 
 though, despite the somewhat meatheaded introduction, NMH has simply brilliant dialouge. Brilliant 
 in a crazy way. This game manages to be hilarious, wacky, and maybe a bit gross all at once thanks 
 to a great script delivered by good voice actors. Simply put, the sound matches up with the game 
 very well. There is rarely any music in NMH save for a few guitar licks every once in a while. 
 
  
  To put it simply, No More Heroes is a game with its own unique sensibilities, and quite frankly 
 it doesn't give a crap if you like it or not. The weird, 100% entertaining cutscenes are really 
 what make No More Heroes one of the best Wii games yet. 
  
  Brushed your teeth lately? Need to shave? Then what are you waiting for? Buy No More Heroes, and 
 head towards the Garden of Madness! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Ever since it came out, many Wii fans have been clamoring for more mature titles to offset the 
 deluge of games aimed at family-oriented audiences. The fans have also been hoping for a lightsaber 
 game that uses the Wii-mote. What more fun could you have than slicing off heads and limbs with 
 an electric sword by swinging your arm? Finally, the fans have been screaming for more hardcore 
 games that have gameplay depth, instead of minigame collections. At first glance, "No More Heroes" 
 seems like a dream come true, because it looks like a solution to all of these problems. It is 
 unabashedly adult-oriented and bloody, the main character carries a laser sword, and it has a full-fledged 
 fighting system with some open-ended GTA-style exploration thrown in for good measure. However, 
 if you build this game up as the one that you have been waiting for, than you might be disappointed. 
 It has a few big problems, and they will spoil some of your enjoyment for the game. Still, it is 
 better than a solid game, and it is at least worth a rental if the wacky, bloody subject matter 
 appeals to you.
  
  No More Heroes is a hard game to describe, and it's even harder to describe why it's fun, because 
 so many parts of it don't work very well. At its core, it is a button mashing beat-em-up that takes 
 place in an open-ended city. You play as Travis Touchdown, a gamer who is out to become the world's 
 number one assassin. You accomplish this goal by defeating the assassins ranked ahead of you one-by-one 
 in a series of boss battles. You drive from mission-to-mission on your motorcycle, and you make 
 extra money to gain entry to the big battles by taking missions on the side.
  
  If the premise of the game sounds silly, then that is because it is. No More Heroes never takes 
 itself seriously, and it constantly wears its absurdity on its sleeve. Battles are over-the-top, 
 bloody affairs where you behead enemies and slice them vertically as they emit showers of blood. 
 The battles in this game make the Japanese restaurant scene in "Kill Bill" look tame by comparison. 
 The bosses that you face are all colorful, eccentric characters, like an angry postal worker who 
 transforms into a masked, caped superhero.
  
  The game constantly reminds you that you are playing a game, with numerous visual and audio references 
 to gaming in arcades and the 8-bit era. The writing is very good, so much that you will be looking 
 forward to the corny exchanges of dialog in the cut scenes right before a boss battle. The humor 
 is decidedly adult-oriented self-referential to video games. For example, you recharge your sword 
 by waving the Wii-mote, and Travis makes a decidedly jack-offish looking motion on the screen while 
 you do this. A subtle joke about the phallic nature of huge swords in Japanese RPGs, perhaps? You 
 decide. For some reason, the game also makes numerous references to Star Wars. The humorous style 
 of No More Heroes is a major part of why the game is fun. The occasional smiles or laughs that 
 you get out of it help it overcome its rough patches.
  
  These rough patches show up aplenty in the gameplay for No More Heroes. The boss battles are usually 
 wonderful, the true highlight of the game. The segments leading up to those battles, however, are 
 awfully boring and repetitive. In No More Heroes, you will fight one henchman in 11 different skins 
 a thousand times. Beyond the bosses, there is almost no enemy variety whatsoever in this game. 
 By the time you complete the tutorial, you will have experienced most of the enemy tactics that 
 there are to experience. They even all use the same three or four sound bites. You will hear the 
 words "Are you prepared, huh?" and "Oh my spleen!" until your ears are ready to explode. You will 
 also hear the same music track over and over again.
  
  These problems are magnified by the game's boring and unimaginative level design, which has you 
 constantly slogging down empty, copy-and-paste hallways where one exit opens up after you have 
 killed off the last guy. Right before the boss battle, there is a save point and an opportunity 
 to learn a new move. Some of the hunts take place in interesting places, like a baseball stadium 
 or a high school, but these locations are never exploited to their fullest potential. Occasionally, 
 there is a twist, like a baseball minigame where you knock over enemies by batting a ball at them. 
 Unfortunately, these changes of pace are way to rare to have much of an impact. It is a shame that 
 the imagination that was put into the boss battles is so absent in the parts that lead up to them.
 
  
  A couple of the bosses in the game have some outrageously irritating quirks to them too. Namely, 
 two of them have one shot, insta-kill attacks that they unleash on you out of nowhere when you 
 are winning a battle and have whittled them down to less than half their health. I cannot tell 
 you how frustrating it is to spend 10-15 minutes at a time, plugging away at a boss only to be 
 cheaply insta-killed and having to start over again without having done anything wrong. Who would 
 make an idiotic design decision like this? Who sits in a room and says "You know what would make 
 this game more fun? Let's give this boss a one hit kill sneak attack that completely catches the 
 player off guard and forces them to replay the battle! Yeah, that will be fun!" It wasn't enough 
 to ruin the game for me, but it left a bad taste in my mouth.
  
  At least the fighting mechanics are satisfying, although they aren't quite what you would have 
 hoped for. You use the "A", "B", and "Z" buttons to perform the usual actions of attacking, blocking, 
 and breaking a block. You can also grapple stunned enemies with the "B" button to perform a special 
 wrestling move. To perform a finishing move or a wrestling move, you move the Wii-mote and/or the 
 nunchuck in accordance with arrows on the screen. The Wii-mote motion controls add a unique flavor, 
 but they feel a bit tacked on. The primary method of defeating most enemies is still to mash the 
 "A" button until it's time to perform a finishing move, which isn't integrated into the game as 
 smoothly as you might wish. Body slamming and pile driving enemies is fun, and so is watching Travis 
 cut a guy in half to produce copious sprays of blood. The disappointment with combat is that motion 
 control isn't integral to it. You don't get to do much with the Wii-mote that comes naturally or 
 is intuitive. The combat in No More Heroes almost feels as if it were designed for a conventional 
 controller, with the Wii-mote just functioning as a different version of a button sequence. This 
 is not a big complaint though; combat is an asset to the game.
  
  When you aren't hunting bosses, you can perform side missions to earn extra money. These side missions 
 aren't really optional, since you need money as an entry fee for each boss battle. The side missions 
 are either quick, one-level assassination hits or minigames. They do add a little bit of variety 
 to the game's repetitive combat, even though they are pretty shallow. All of the missions are connected 
 by the game's open-ended, GTA-inspired city, which is another feature that feels tacked on. Driving 
 around and exploring isn't much fun, because there is nothing to do, outside of your mission and 
 one or two points of interest. This feature is kind of a cheap imitation of a Grand Theft Auto, 
 without the details that make the GTA games so much fun.
  
  No More Heroes sports a slick cel-shaded style that, for the most part, makes the game look pretty 
 good (for a Wii game) . The cartoony style accentuates the game's wholly unorthodox approach. Travis 
 and the bosses that he fights look great and are impressively animated. The legions of henchman 
 though, are as repetitive to watch as they are to fight. The GTA-style outdoor areas don't fare 
 very well either. The Wii's lack of graphical prowess really sticks out here. The screen has bad 
 aliasing all over, a problem that shows up a lot worse with the small shapes on screen when you 
 are driving around the city. Additionally, the buildings are mostly blocky and dull looking, and 
 texture pop-in is horrible.
  
  It is difficult to describe what makes No More Heroes an enjoyable game to play, because it does 
 have a handful of significant problems. Great boss battles, great humor, quirky style, and decent 
 use of the Wii-mote work together to make the game more than the sum of its parts. This is a fun 
 game, but I don't see it at all as being a killer app for the Wii. It is being touted as such, 
 but if you are expecting this level of fun or quality, you will probably be disappointed. Keep 
 your expectations reasonable, however, and you have a great rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bouncer2088
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  A fun game with alot of scatological humor that seemed misplaced at certain times. Controls are 
 sharp, easy to get used to and feel solid throughout the "on-foot" portions. The story was funny 
 and kept you wanting to play. All of the boss fights had their own little quirks which kept you 
 on your toes. Most other elements outside of fighting however were very shallow. The town could 
 have been much more detailed, sometimes I would feel like a was playing an early GTA knock-off. 
 Travis' bike controls were a bit sloppy, slighty confusing, and unresponsive some times leaving 
 it a good idea that should have spent a bit more time on the being developed and worked on. It 
 would have been a good idea to throw in fights with those in the slots underneath your ranks. Despite 
 that it was a pretty good game and it kept me entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloManiac123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is simply one of the best games that I've played. It has controls that are tighter 
 than most other third party games on the Wii and a great art style that more than makes up for 
 the Wiis lack of graphical power. The game is funny as hell and serious at the same time, and at 
 all the right moments. There are lots of things to do, collect and upgrade. There are lots of side 
 missions that, though simmilar and mildly repetitive, are fun nonetheless. Athough there isn't 
 much to do in the town of Santa Destroy other that take missions and buy clothes and weapons, it 
 is a good recreation of a Californa desert town in the off season. If you have kids though, this 
 is a game to avoid letting them see or have. Travis Touchdown is a bit of an anti hero and seems 
 to get a large thrill out of brutalizing his opponents. He also is, throughout the game, trying 
 to score and gettiong messages from Beef Head videos about how his sex position and "how to please 
 a woman" videos are overdue. It is also extremely violent. There is blood on a Quinten Terantino 
 scale and every kill is a finishing move with Travis either vertically bisecting or decapitating 
 his opponents. The swearing is few and far between (that you can make out) but when it dose come 
 it is always a few very strong words. Overall, one of the best game for the Wii and you should 
 go and get it, like now, right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottghelfi
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 7, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure how much of the game the GS reviewer actually played through. But this is definitely 
 not a 9 title.
  
  We'll start with the bad . . .
  
  The graphics are trash. Really. The jaggies are out of control, popup is terrible. Textures are 
 nearly non-existent (oh right, cell shading. . .) I can not emphasize enough how bad the graphics 
 are. If you have invested any money at all in a high definition TV or component cables, it will 
 just make this game look all the worse by comparison. It doesn't hold much of a candle to most 
 N64 titles, let alone the current crop of Wii games (even the bad ones) .
  
  The gameplay is not much better. You have a lock on button (Z) and an attack button (A) . You hold 
 down the lock on button and mash the attack button. Rinse and repeat. Only at the very end of the 
 game does the learning curve slam you into a brick wall, when this strategy no longer works because 
 enemies now magically walk and dodge right through your attacks unless you hit them at exactly 
 the right time. So be prepared to spend a few hours mastering the intricacies of combat using nothing 
 but 2 buttons and a control stick so you can beat the game's final two bosses. By the way, if you 
 are the kind of gamer to do this, you are precisely the type of person this game is ripping on 
 from beginning to end.
  
  Boss cutscenes are cool. Boss fights are long, overwrought and tedious. Every boss fight has a 
 chest with a full health replenish in it. . . because the designers must have realized they gave 
 their bosses way more health than they needed to. And expect cheap deaths at the very end of boss 
 fights later on in the game.
  
  So what gave this game such high reviews? Basically, the story. The story is one long, satirical 
 tirade against what a bunch of twits gamers are. The main character is a pr0n renting, part time 
 job working otaku who never gets laid. Apart from that, the game is a whole lot of cliches and 
 references thrown together into something kind of resembling a plot, but not really. Plot "twists" 
 are thrown in for the hell of it, but they amount for nothing because the game doesn't take itself 
 or the player seriously. 
  
  In the end, I can't help but feel this game is a big middle finger to video gamers. To the casual 
 gamer, because its crap production values and lousy gameplay make it a tough title to recommend 
 to pick up for fun. And to the hardcore gamer, Suda pretty much thinks you are a bunch of losers, 
 are he can sell you a turd comprised of nothing but a bunch of random and irrelevant cliches and 
 you'll pat yourself on the back for playing such a meta, self-deprecating game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyDagger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  No More Heroes is a SUDA-51 game that can get pretty chaotic and weird at a few points throughout 
 your experience. Along with Super Mario Galaxy this one of the few amazing Wii games to come out 
 so far with SSBB probably being the next one.
  
  Graphics:
  
  With superb artistic visual design, No More Heroes clearly stands out among most games on the Wii 
 by far. Great affects and lots of stylized blood squirting and coin showers add to the outstanding 
 visual design of the game. The game enjoys showing off its style rather than graphical power using 
 8-bit design for menus among other things. The only graphic problem is the frame rate, it slows 
 down when your chopping up a group of enemies or riding your motorcycle around Santa Destroy. But 
 that's only a small problem and it doesn't happen that often anyways.
  
  Audio:
  
  The audio in the game is flawless right down to the wacky voice-overs. The music suits the game 
 very well, from the shredding metal to the mellow lounge music. The sound affects are especially 
 well done including the enemies' screams after being sliced in half. The voice-overs are great 
 and the scripts make the v/o that more entertaining.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  No More Heroes really shines in the gameplay department, mostly thanks to the great controls and 
 awesome story. The controls for the game work exceptionally well, when swinging your beam katana 
 all you have to do is press the A button, swinging the remote around is used for finishing moves 
 which you will have to do after injuring an enemy so there will be plenty of wii mote waving during 
 the game. The side missions are pretty fun and the controls are implemented very well BUT, there's 
 not much diversity in the side missions. You can free roam Santa Destroy whilst going to the gym, 
 buying new clothes, buying a new beam katana or buying new wrestling moves. The story is great 
 mostly due to the humour and great v/o. The bosses are inventive, challenging, and at times disturbing, 
 especially when one of them shoots a laser beam out of his crotch.
  
  Overall:
  
  With a great story, outstanding visual design and excellent gameplay, No More Heroes will certainly 
 satisfy any mature Wii gamer, and pretty much anyone in general.... parents, not so much. Anyways 
 I recommend picking this game up right away unless you don't like this kind of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaarajab
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Our hero, Travis Touchdown, is a motel-dwelling, action figure-collecting, anime-obsessing videogamer 
 who wins a lightsaber in an online auction and sets off in a mission to become the world's number 
 one hitman so he can get the girls. From minute one, you're cast into the thick of the action, 
 where a whistle-stop cutscene brings you up to date on the story so far and a click of the A button 
 drops you straight on the front doorstep of Hitman #10.
  
  A quick tutorial shows you how to fight and the rest is up to you - the world's greatest assassins 
 guard themselves with legions of freaks who'll do their best to slow you down, but they're sword 
 fodder to be chewed up and spat out before facing the assassins themselves, every one of them completely 
 out of their mind.
  
  When Travis saves, he saves on the toilet; when his batteries run low, he holds the handle at waist 
 height and cranks on it until it fires back up; when love interest Sylvia bends over, he checks 
 out her behind.
  
  He's a simple man with a simple mission, and his world is infected with insanity - villains include 
 British body-mod fetishist Death Metal; Virtual Boy-wearing Letz Shake; and Destroy Man, with his 
 laser-firing crotch. They are, by far, gaming's strangest bosses, and every one fights a very different 
 fight.
  
  Between carrying out the different assassinations, Travis is free to explore the GTA-styled city, 
 earning the entrance fees he needs for his next fights. Look around and you'll find a jagged-edged 
 world and a framerate which favours hovering around the twenties once you hit high speeds on Travis' 
 bike, but the minor technical faults will be picked on by only the most joyless of non-gamers.
 
  
  No More Heroes makes no attempt to ape reality, and instead embraces all the things only a game 
 can do, constantly using and tossing away new ideas as if innovation were cheap.
  
  Never before have we played a game that felt so completely in love with being a game - text is 
 rendered in an eighties pixellated font, your map's a sloppy digital display, the whole HUD ripped 
 from Grand Theft Auto without mercy or apology; the ten best assassins table is the high score 
 chart from a 1984 coin-op and the pause menu is like a scene from Tron.
  
  Need money? Smash open a chest. Need to save? Head towards the big flashing 'S' icon. Where to 
 go? Follow the giant exclamation mark. Where else could you slice through an army, pause the action 
 and swing your remote to tear a man through his centre? Where else could a click of the B button 
 incapacitate your foes ready for a pro wrestling move? Where else could you pull off a horrifically 
 violent fatality with an eBayed lightsaber?
  
  No More Heroes is always true to its own perverse logic - always proud to be a videogame, always 
 stealing liberally from the best of other genres, always loud and obnoxious. The mishmash of visual 
 styles, music and the world's most flamboyant dialogue has no comparison to anything else; it's 
 impossible to put the game in a box, except to say that it is unquestionably, undeniably, unequivocally 
 No More Heroes, and you have never played anything like this before.
  
  You've already showed your friends Super Mario Galaxy. It gave you the same feeling as when you 
 saw Ridge Racer on the PSOne, or Super Mario 64 on N64, or Soul Calibur on the Dreamcast - games 
 that you could stick on your telly and say "look - this is a brilliant, brilliant game." Well, 
 No More Heroes is another game like that; something that will awe people.
  
  Anywhere else and No More Heroes would still be hatstand chicken-punching bonkers, but nowhere 
 else would it be so entirely at home than on the console with the crazy split-in-two controller 
 and the arm-flapping games. Like the Wii, none of it should work, but like the Wii, everything 
 does. Brilliantly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Overrated_Hero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Since it's been released the Wii has been plagued by bad third party games and terrible ports. 
 Now SUDA-51 the director of Killer 7 is here for another go around with wacky characters and just 
 all out crazy story. Does this game bring us the uniqueness if Killer 7, is this the messiah of 
 third party Wii games or is this game a one for the gutters? All this and more will be answered 
 during the following review. 
  
  No More Heroes is basically the younger brother to Killer 7 and the father SUDA-51. Even though 
 a generation apart the game shares its similarities such as style and humor, No More Heroes puts 
 you in the hands of a Travis Touchdown who's a fellow porn addict, anime fan, and likes to watch 
 wrestling videos. But that's not the only thing Travis likes he's into killing as well. After winning 
 a Beam Katana in an Internet auction, after killing Helter Skelter Travis is now ranked 11th best 
 assassin and now must kill the rest with your trusty Bloody Berry to be #1. 
  
  Gameplay in No More Heroes is smooth, responsive and just plain great all around. When you're fighting 
 off enemies you press the A button to swing your Beam Katana and deliverer combos as well a bloody 
 finishing move. Bloody that word is in understatement for this game whenever you kill an enemy 
 he will splatter with stylized blood and coins galore. But don't think this game has over the top 
 blood and violent for the sake of being violent the game is uses violence in a good way such as 
 movies like No Country for Old Men. When you deliverer the final blow the enemy a slot machine 
 will pop up get all three of the same symbol and you'll enter Dark Side Mode where you will use 
 a deadly attack for a short period of time. You'll also pull off melee moves with the B button 
 as well as the occasional wrestling move where you would move the Wiimote and Nunchuck as directed. 
 
  
  When you do get to a boss stage you'll follow a path that will lead you to some goons, kill them 
 then repeat until you're at the boss. While this might seem repetitive a most each boss arena throws 
 a new and fun challenge. Boss fights are a blast to play each new boss has bizarre personality, 
 and has there unique attacks and move sets. When your not killing on a mission or a ranked battle 
 you can get a job, each new one will get you some cash but after each one you finish you will have 
 a new set of mission killing jobs you can take on. You can also hang out at your Motel: No More 
 Heroes if you want to want to save, go watch some videos, or hang out with your cat Jeane. New 
 stores and places will open up in Santa Destroy such as
  
  1. Naomi's Laboratory for buying new Beam Kanata or parts
  2. Area 51 if you want to customize 
 what Travis is wearing
  3. Thunder Dragon you will have a work out that will boost your attacks and health
  4. Gold Town 
 where you could trade in 7 Lovikov Balls for a new combat move. 
  
  And various others during your journey. 
  
  
  
  
  But don't think Santa Destroy is going 
 to be a blast besides jobs, collecting Lovikov Balls, missions and stores Santa Destroy is just 
 boring, empty and ugly that should be taken has a hub rather than a city and something that should 
 have been worked on a lot more.
  
  Like Killer 7, No More Heroes supports the same style of graphics as it. Although don't be fooled 
 it's not last generation graphics, No More Heroes takes what Killer 7 did and made it better the 
 game has a good shade of colors and detail. Although the game has some issues with the frame rate 
 that will sometimes slow down on you when there is too much enemies on screen that you're killing 
 and such other, as well the game supports some few jaggy parts in the game. Besides these issues 
 and Santa Destroy the game has a great style and is one of the better looking Wii games. 
  
  Sound in No More Heroes has a great soundtrack; music will get you pumped up and has a weird 
 yet fun feel to it. The sound of slashing your enemies into five has never sounded better and the 
 voice acting is amazing. Voice acting is great and supports a great attitude to each player and 
 there voices support there theme such as Travis's badass voice or Silvia Crystal clean but seductive 
 French accent, overall sound is a great part in the game and Bad Girl's theme is just too awesome. 
 
  
  As stated before No More Heroes has a great deal of bizarre characters, each with there own conflict 
 stories and weird attitude. During one ranked match you'll have this hardcore rocker then the next 
 you'll have a psychotic crazy alcohol girl in a Beautiful Lolita costume. No More Heroes doesn't 
 waste a second of making a clever joke. As well have dirty satire and a lot of references to other 
 games, movies and our world.
  
  No More Heroes is a great game to the Wii's 2008 line up and one of if not best third party game 
 around for the Wii. Fans of Killer 7 will have some fresh air to breath, and Wii gamers as a whole 
 will instantly love this not only for the combat, gore, bizarre characters or the story but pretty 
 much the sums of the game and all there is it can offer. If you're the gamer that's not the fan 
 of the free roaming, action game or even gore I suggest a rent at first but make no mistake No 
 More Heroes is a great game to add to any Wii gamers collection no matter who you are. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chroniclehobbit
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 1:53 am PT
Review:  This game puts you in the role of Travis Touchdown, the 11th best hit man working for a syndicate 
 in a town called Santa Destroy. Travis' goal is to become #1 hit man by defeating hiring ranking 
 hit men. along the way you must take on odd jobs to earn money in order to fight in a ranking match 
 to increase rank and become #1. It is filled with adult humor, and almost feels like GTA with it's 
 free-to-roam game play. There is plenty to do in between missions. The sound could use some work 
 however. The music is great, but lacks a lot of variety during missions. The voice acting ( as 
 great as it is) still contains a very goofy tone, almost as if it were trying to be an Anime. The 
 graphics are awesome, given the style is very similar to Killer 7's. The problem is that you can't 
 interact with some things that would be destructible in reality. 
  
  Over all, it's an awesome game to have, if and when you get a hold of a wii.
  
  Enjoy! 
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerman235
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is an experience like none before it on the Wii. Only owning a Wii myself I believe 
 No More Heroes will hopefully open doors in the future for more serious games to appear on the 
 Wii. This game is great for people who like senseless killing for almost no apparent reason. At 
 the same time this is why many should avoid this title. Some of the content will prove offensive 
 to many, so don't attempt it if you don't like seeing gore flying across your screen. No More Heroes 
 has two game styles, one of which is the core in the game and the other which may be enough to 
 make many stay away. No More Heroes scores points in its combat and boss battles, which is the 
 core of the game. It also attempts an open-world that disappoints and frustrates. The open-world 
 may be a reason to rent, not buy.
  No More Heroes starts off with Travis Touchdown telling you that gamers are impatient. The voice 
 actor for Travis was perfect and the humor he brings is a great reward in the game. Travis is just 
 a guy who bought a light saber off the internet, which you will use to hack off the heads of countless 
 enemies. He got an assassination job, completes the mission, and finds out the guy he has killed 
 was the eleventh ranked assassin in the U. S. By killing him he becomes the eleventh ranked assassin. 
 It's now your job to help him ascend in the ranks to number 1. The story line is interesting and 
 funny, but the ending will disappoint some who will want more. Not to give anything away, but towards 
 the end the game opens all these lose ends and then throws it in your face in the last minute by 
 saying you're the protagonist, you figure out what is going on. So all in all the story will interest 
 many with its humor, but will turn away some with its lack of ending and lose ends. But, all in 
 all this shouldn't be enough to turn away the majority of players.
  I personally loved the graphical style of the game. You will always have an array of blood and 
 c. d.-like coins flying across your screen. It makes for interesting art style that I believed paid 
 off. Where graphics were disappointing for me was in some of the backgrounds. Take for instance 
 the first level, every wall looks the same. But overall the graphics are a plus for No More Heroes. 
 The best part of No More Heroes is undeniably the amazing combat. Combat will involve pressing 
 the "A" button on the Wii remote and then completing the move by swinging the remote in a certain 
 direction. You will be rewarded after finishing the attack but getting the array of blood and c. d.'s 
 that I spoke of earlier exploding into the sky. Any problem of button mashing is usually solved 
 by the fact that you'll just want to kill more. The blood and gore will make you come back for 
 more combat. While the combat isn't necessarily hard, it will not bore. Combat will also take new 
 heights in the amazing boss battles of No More Heroes. These characters you fight will have you 
 engaged in the fight. It was enough to get me to keep playing non-stop until I beat the game. No 
 More Heroes in essence is great boss battles. Where No More Heroes triumphs in graphics and combat, 
 it fails in most of the open world which it has you in. 
  The open-world of No More Heroes at first reminds one of Grand Theft Auto. You will soon discover 
 that this is not the case. While you drive around on your trusty motor cycle you go from shop to 
 shop and from mission to mission. The disappointment is the lack of polish overall on the open 
 world. Many times you'll lose all your momentum while riding your bike because of difficult controls 
 and you'll fly off your bike. Then also when you run into a car you never actually hit it, you 
 stop moving what looks about 2 feet in front of the actual car. The biggest disappointment of the 
 open-world is the fight challenges. Fight challenges will pit you against many enemies, which you 
 will have to defeat without ever taking damage. The problem, once you fight the battle and get 
 hit there's NO RETRY OPTION. This is the most annoying thing in the world, and you'll wonder why 
 in the world the game hates you so much. Overall the open world just kills momentum and a simple 
 level select would've sufficed.
  I completed No More Heroes in less than twelve hours on Mild. I played non-stop from beginning 
 to end so you can tack on an extra hour or two if you don't plan on doing this. Overall it's great 
 game. The open-world will be annoying to some, but if you're a hard-core gamer, and haven't been 
 impressed with the Wii's commitment to casual gaming and younger audience, this is a must buy for 
 you. For all others, it's a good game if you don't find the content offensive, but rent before 
 you buy because its annoyances may be enough to hurt your possibilities of finding a great game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is a gory action game for the Wii in which you take on the life of an assassin named 
 Travis Touchdown. You fight enemies with a light saber inspired beam katana that can be upgraded 
 throughout the game. You earn money by completing side job mini-games and assassin missions, and 
 you use the money to buy clothes, videos, or to enter the next ranked match. The ranked matches 
 consist of 10 assassins: from rank 10 to rank 1. Each has their unique way of acting and attacking, 
 and they really show the variety of the game. Unfortunately, the world at which you travel in, 
 a city called Santa Destroy, does not have much variety. It is basically a hub that takes you from 
 one place to the next. There are garbage dumps that you can interact with, and you can travel by 
 using this odd-looking motorcycle, but the interactions with the pedestrians and other vehicles 
 is rather mute. The open world sandbox-style gameplay is a fresh breath from the on-rails restricted 
 Killer 7, but the graphics of No More Heroes do not have that cel-shaded charm that made Killer 
 7 so attractive. If you have a Wii and want an action game to play, No More Heroes is one of your 
 first bets. Bring on the pain! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuramak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I did like the game , but I didn ' t find it nothing extraordinary .
  It is great because it's on of the firsts WII adult games ( we really need many more ) , it is 
 kind of disturbing and kind of funny (in a disturbing way ) .
  Depending on what you buy side quest can be really boring, because you will have to re-do than 
 many time to earn the money and most of the time you will be traveling from the agency to the quest. 
 ( you could re-do the quest just by going to the place ) .
  I really did like the anime fan apartment and the many anime stuff on the game, but the game is 
 not a anime ( like Tales of Symphonia ) , what is really nice.
  It should have more moves .
  The bosses are really cool , cool in the weirdest way , they did 
 really work on the character creation , what make this game unique .
  This is sure one good game for WII, with a lot of blood, death and kind of a romance .
  
  See 
 ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fasteddy_1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Worth every penny, of course if you're over 17 years of age, or have a cool older brother. Get 
 this game if you haven't!
  
  Yeah, the camera isn't perfect, but thats a minor thing. It doesn't have 1080p graphics, but this 
 is still one of the coolest games ever. The story is unique with twists, love, betrayal, and vengence. 
 
  
  If you're openminded, and want to try something different from the ordinary, then this might hit 
 that spot just right. I enjoyed every minute of this game. The boss battles were awesome, except 
 you get cheated on one, lol. You'll know what I'm talking about when you get to that battle about 
 half way through the game.
  
  Yeah, the side missions are a little short, but there's a lot of them to keep you busy. Also, finding 
 all the Y. Balls for the drunk encourages you to explore the city.
  
  Again, Awesome Game! Many props for Ubisoft for publishing this one!
  
  
  Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stonetowerghost
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent combat makes great use of the Wii Remote; Funny, engaging story...
  
  The Bad: The City of Santa Destroy is a boring, GTA rip-off; The graphics and framerate are horrendous...
 
  
  No More Heroes is an excellent combination of combat, humor, gore, and a somewhat disturbing story. 
 You play as Travis Touchdown. He's a sociopath who enjoys to kill, and he uses that trait to fearlessly 
 and remorselessly enter an assassin ranking competition. Travis must hunt down each assassin in 
 the order of their rank, defeat them, and raise his rank even higher. In short, the story really 
 just follows a linear pattern, and there isn't much here aside from sick humor. However, that doesn't 
 stop it from being entertaining. 
  
  Putting the story aside, you are about to hear about one of the coolest combat systems in recent 
 memory. You fight with a lightsaber-style weapon, but you barely swing the remote. You will use 
 the A button for melee attacks, while the B button will serve as your wrestling/knockout moves. 
 You'll press these buttons in conjunction with tilting the remote upward and downward, which will 
 determine whether your attack is high or low. When you deplete an enemy's HP, an arrow will appear, 
 and you'll swing the remote in the direction of the arrow for a satisfying finisher. Granted, this 
 movement will lag or won't respond at times, but it's never frequent enough to matter. You won't 
 die over it. 
  
  This may sound slightly repetitive, and to be honest, it is. However, the combat is just so satisfying 
 that you won't care how often you repeat the same move. To mix things up, Suda 51 added a powerup-like 
 feature that allows Travis to use special attacks via a slot machine. Realistically, this is more 
 of an interesting diversion than a help, because most of the game's challenge comes from the excellent 
 boss fights. 
  
  Don't take the bosses lightly - They know their skills, and I highly recommend easy-mode for beginners. 
 Each boss is a fellow assassin like Travis, and they all have their own range of attacks and skills. 
 You will honestly love each and every one of these fights, and they are really what makes this 
 game so worth playing. From the Katana wielding anime-style chick, to the Cosplay boss that brings 
 back memories of The Incredibles, there's just never a dull moment. 
  
  Of course, there's some very odd choices here, too. There's a particular boss that you won't even 
 get to fight, and as you get farther into the game, the pacing gets a bit off. Rather than facing 
 hordes of enemies in large environments, you'll play minigames and race on your bike. This is either 
 a hit or a miss. If you enjoy those things, then great. If you'd rather fight the entire way, then 
 you'll get most of your kicks from the game's beginning, and each boss. 
  
  Exploration is handled very poorly. You'll wander around the city of Santa Destroy, looking for 
 a job that will earn you cash, and you'll immediately notice that it's a shameless Grand Theft 
 Auto clone. Unfortunately, the streets of Santa Destroy are barren and boring, and you're unable 
 to wreak any havoc unless you're in the frey. The most damage you can do is knock over streetlamps; 
 you'll do this often, because Travis' motorbike controls like a piece of crap. Suda 51 obviously 
 decided that this game wasn't based on GTA, but wouldn't it have been better to leave out the ugly 
 city and settle for pure combat?
  
  Speaking of ugly, these graphics have almost zero texture work. They took the cel shading from 
 Wind Waker, and just slapped it with the ugly stick. The draw distance is terrible, and the amount 
 of jaggies are just unacceptable. This doesn't make the game unplayable, but it's sad to know that 
 the best eye candy this game has to offer is pools of blood. 
  
  The framerate is very erratic during encounters with multiple enemies, but non-boss fights are 
 so easy that it's hard to notice. This will never be the death of you, but it makes you wonder 
 what Suda 51 was thinking. 
  
  There's also the sound, and while some tunes might be great, they just repeat them far too often. 
 You will always hear the same score during combat, as catchy as it may be, and it just comes off 
 as half-assed. I'm not expecting a Zelda in terms of epic tunes, but looking at the great combat, 
 you'd think that they'd try a bit more to get the blood pumping. 
  
  Despite the largely negative portions here, you'll find a lot to like from No More Heroes. It's 
 a fairly lengthy game with great combat and an excellent sense of humor. The 3 difficulty modes 
 and varied missions make for a good replay value, and everything falls into place despite the flaws. 
 The game has hinted at a sequel, and I'll gladly accept it. I just hope Suda 51 cleans out the 
 dirt this time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario2BM5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  This is the game made by the same developers who made Killer 7. This is also the most violent game 
 on the Wii so far and one of the most wierdest too. Youre this character named Travis Touchdown 
 who bought a Beam Katana off from the internet. When a man tries to kill him Travis fights back 
 and kills him but then realizes he just killed a ranked 11 assasian. With the help of this woman 
 (i just forgot her name) Travis decides to kill the rest of the assasian to rank #1. The gameplay 
 actually works well. You press A to slash your beam katana and swing the Wii-mote in the direction 
 that the arrow is pointing at to do a finishing move. Its very satisfying and never gets old niether 
 repetitive. Its just so fun. The boss battles are wierd but impressive. The map is not really fun 
 at all. Its just boring and it's just there for transportation. You cant kill pedestrians (but 
 theres barely any) and hit a car your motor cycle just bounces back. But you can do objectives 
 like cleaning graffiti off of walls, mowing lawns, pumping gas, and deliever things. Travis's apartment 
 is amazing! You can play with his cat, watch wreslting and learn how to do them, and change your 
 shirts. This game deserves your attention and is great. I gave it a 9.5/10. This game awsome and 
 I recommend buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SevenSorrows
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Travis Touchdown has a pretty rough life. Living in the fairly average town of Santa Destroy, Travis 
 lives in the No More Heroes hotel alone. Both his parents are dead, and the only family member 
 he lives with is his cat Jeane. But Travis isn't your typical teenage anime, video game loving 
 nerd. After buying a beam katana online, Travis Touchdown is on his way to becoming the world's 
 greatest assassin. 
  
  No More Heroes is a brutal, intense, and very mature action game for the Wii. I suggest that if 
 you have $50, that you go to your local Gamestop (or wherever you get your games) and buy No More 
 Heroes immediately, before you run the risk of Travis Touchdown barging into your house, piledriving 
 your head into the ground, and stabbing you through the chest with his Tsubaki Mk III beam katana. 
 But seriously, No More Heroes is the best Wii title to be released since the near perfect Super 
 Mario Galaxy, and is worth every penny you spend to get it. 
  
  So you're probably wondering, just why is No More Heroes so awesome? It's the brutal, outrageous 
 combat. Combat isn't too motion driven; You swing your beam katana by pushing the A button, and 
 perform hand-to-hand combat and wrestling moves (I'll get more in depth later) by pushing the B 
 button. You can lock on to a foe by pushing and holding the Z button, so it's easier to hit your 
 target. While targeting a foe, you'll instantly block anything, but your beam katana's energy meter 
 will slowly decrease for every move you block. So how do you recharge your beam katana? Push the 
 1 button and shake the Wiimote and watch Travis charge his beam katana in a very sexually hilarious 
 way Anyways, the Wii motion controls are implemented in special situations. When you deplete an 
 enemy's health meter, a directional arrow appears on the screen. Swing the Wiimote in that direction 
 and watch Travis brutally obliterate his foe with his katana. When you stun your foe with melee 
 attacks, you can grab your foe with the B button and perform an over the top wrestling move by 
 swinging the Wiimote and Nunchuk in the directions on-screen. My personal favorite is when Travis 
 piledrives his foe into the ground and his beam katana flies from the air and slices the foe in 
 half. Combat is easy to pick up and play, a lot of fun, and never gets old. 
  
  Travis Touchdown's long road to becoming the world's greatest assassin won't Actually, it's not 
 that bad. No More Heroes isn't a walk in the park by any means, but it's not brutally difficult 
 either. Most of the time you'll arrive at the end of a level with a fair amount of health; You 
 won't be fighting for your life that often. However, the game keeps itself from being too easy 
 with challenging boss fights and many difficult side jobs and assassinations (more on those later) . 
 Travis' goal is to become the world's greatest assassin, but the only way to become number one 
 is to kill every assassin one by one. Each assassin Travis must kill has their own unique fighting 
 style and specific way to beat him/ her. For example, one of the bosses, Bad Girl, whacks cloned 
 humans at you with a baseball bat. If you time it right, you can actually hit some of the humans 
 back at her.
  
  If there are any problems in No More Heroes, it's the time spent in between assassinations at the 
 town of Santa Destroy. For some odd reason (later you find out that it's pointless) , in order for 
 the next assassination to be arranged, you have to collect a certain amount of in-game currency 
 (LBs) . How do you collect LBs? Travis has to do meaningless part time jobs so that he can eventually 
 have access to quick assassination missions. And when I say meaningless, I mean MEANINGLESS. I'm 
 talking the most dumb side missions I've ever played, yet for some reason, they're kind of fun 
 to play. Picking up garbage, mowing lawns, and filling cars up with gas has never been this much 
 fun. In Santa Destroy you can also buy videos to learn new wrestling moves, buy new beam katanas, 
 clothes, and train in the gym to power-up. Your means of travel in Santa Destroy is a motorcycle, 
 and oh my god does it have some terrible controls. If I was Travis, I would rather tie myself to 
 a bus and have it drag me across Santa Destroy then ride the crappy motorcycle that is provided. 
 It has really sloppy handling, and pointless maneuvers like the powerslide and the wheelie jump 
 just don't have enough room to be performed, and result in a crash almost all the time. And why 
 is it that when you drive headfirst into a car, you just kind of swerve out of the way, but when 
 you lightly bump into a wall you crash and burn? Another major annoyance is the side assassinations. 
 Don't get me wrong, some of these missions are fun, but if you fail one of these missions, you 
 have to go all the way back to the K-Entertainment building (which is usually pretty far away from 
 your assassination) just to pick the mission again, and then you have to go all the way back to 
 try it again. 
  
  No More Heroes may have its minor faults, and it may seem really weird at first, but No More Heroes 
 is an amazing Wii game that shouldn't be missed. No More Heroes is the perfect blend of unique 
 visuals, funny humor, and entertaining combat, and excels as an action game. Now quick, hurry to 
 your local game store, or you could end up next on Travis Touchdown's kill list.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Review: No More Heroes (Wii)
  
  After seeing the preview for this game at last year's E3 I knew I wanted to play this game, especially 
 since I really enjoyed Suda 51's "Killer 7" despite the somewhat lame control. Will "No More Heroes" 
 prove to be the game I hoped it would be or completely disappoint?
  
  Story:
  Meet Travis Touchdown, Otaku, Pro Wrestler, Kitty lover, and Assassin (after winning a Beam Katana 
 in an online auction) . After meeting this hot chick at the local bar, he gets convinced to fight 
 his way to become the best assassin in order to score with the flirtatious female. But is there 
 more to this than it seems? Has Travis stepped into a trap? Is he the only normal assassin in the 
 top 10? Hack and Slash your way to the top to find out!
  
  Graphics:
  By comparison to the greatest looking games on the Wii, No More Heroes will not be winning any 
 awards, but the graphics are far from the worst that I have seen on the system, or on any system 
 this year, or at least in the past few months. What they do achieve is the desired look and unique 
 style that blends cell shading, with more standard character design and look. Though as some of 
 my friends pointed out it looks like something that could be done on the Dreamcast, and while I 
 don't question that statement from them, I also believe that Dreamcast could not handle the level 
 of detail displayed here, besides it is more about the style of the game not the optimum of graphical 
 quality.
  
  Music & Sound:
  The composer of Suda 51's last major title "Killer 7", and the composer of "Godhand", Masafumi 
 Takada, returns and has cooked up another killer sound track for No More Heroes, no pun intended. 
 The music is amazingly catchy, and I have caught my self humming at work on more than one occasion. 
 The voice acting is great, and the script is hilarious so you will want to hear the voice acting 
 as much as possible when you get to a cut scene just to catch the next odd thing the cast may say.
 
  
  Control & Game play:
  This is where this game review actually gets complicated, in that the assassin and fighting missions, 
 control feels great and are amazingly fun to play, but the over world missions control clunky and 
 feel unfinished. Fortunately most of the game consists of the fun fighting and assassin missions 
 and not time wasting over world missions. But even the baser controls of the over world can't take 
 way from what ends up becoming some of the best uses of the Wii Mote available from any game.
 
  
  Design & Fun Factor:
  With the exception of the over world stages, this game is a sheer blast to play! How much so? Usually 
 I have friends over and they get bored and fidgety if I play a single player game, but thy all 
 stuck around to see what would happen next, I think that conveys the amount of time and quality 
 poured into this game. and there are other things to do in the game like purchase new clothing, 
 or find things to collect, but those are always optional, if there is a real downside to this game 
 it is that it is short, with out taking care of all of the collecting quests this game can be completed 
 in a little over 11 hours, which may take some people right out of it, but to be honest the comedy 
 will keep you focused on this game, and make you want to play it again, just to see it again. And 
 after my friends saw me play they all wanted to play.
  
  Suda 51 made paid homage to action movies in general with this game and did a bang up job. This 
 game is worth the money, but you may want to rent first if you have any reservations.
  
  
  Graphics
  7/10
  
  Game play
  7/10
  
  Sound
  10/10
  
  Fun factor
  10/10
 
  
  Tilt
  10/10
  
  Average score
  8.8
  
  
  No More Heroes:
  
  
  Pros:
  Hilarious story!
  Great stages!
  Friends will enjoy watching you play this game
  Great use 
 of the Wii Controls
  High Replay Value
  
  Cons:
  Controls in the over world could have used more tweaking
  Might weird some of you out
  Kind 
 of short (if you just strictly do the story) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAB991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes' premise should let you know what you're getting into. You play as Travis Touchdown 
 as he goes on a quest towards becoming the #1 ranked assassin with hopes of getting into the pants 
 of some girl. It's ridiculous; it's goofy. Fortunetly, goofiness equates to lovability as No More 
 Heroes is one of the most fun games available for the Wii.
  
  The positives are overwhelming. The characters and dialogue are flat-out great. It's filled with 
 witty double-entendres, characters that are unlike any found elsewhere and a premise that only 
 can only be executed in the hands of a true master like Suda 51. Combat has the motion-controlling 
 you always wanted since the Wii was announced, but the way it does it is surprising. The basic 
 attack is done with pressing the A-button while motion is used for lethal final blows and wrestling 
 moves. The fact that the A-button is used for attacking really makes it feal great when you finally 
 get to swing your Wiimote and slice your foe (or foes) into glorious bloody fountain (or fountains) .
 
  
  Did I mention blood? Because a single frame of gameplay from NMH has the potential of housing gallons 
 of it. Slicing foes in half is commonplace in this game. You even split enemies the impressive 
 way: vertically. The blood isn't gratuitous even. It's almost cartoony and adds perfectly to the 
 style of NMH. It's cel-shaded (which also masks any technical deficiencies the game may have) and 
 hardly any enemies look human while manyseem to possess unheard of powers or super body parts and 
 limbs. The occasionally normal looking character manage to be the most diabolical of them all. 
 The bad guys in this game are truly evil and can only be describe of as being completely effed 
 up.
  
  Another extremely redeeming and memorable part of No More Heroes is its sound. Though it doesn't 
 push the limits of sound on a technical level, the music in the game is still something that'll 
 pop into your mind once you're done. The music from stores or from missions are completely memorable. 
 The mental image of Travis taking out his beam katana is accompanied with the great music that 
 pops out with the hilarious lightsaber knock-off. The voice acting is great and I hope come the 
 end of the year people particularly remember, and hopefully honor, the actress who voiced French 
 sexpot Sylvia Cristal as she really puts the voice acting into the highest tier. All other actors 
 do marvelous work and recalling Travis' voice, the blips of voices from store employess, and even 
 the voices of enemies only fought once are all easy tasks. The minor touchs to sound are also wonderful. 
 Standard enemies that you'll fight hundreds of all scream hilarious death cries once attacked. 
 "My spleen!" is the most memorable of them all.
  
  Unfortunatly, there is one looming problem that prevents No More Heroes from reaching the level 
 of a true masterpiece. This is its overworld. Between missions where Travis can go up in ranking, 
 he must perform odd jobs or assassinations in order to earn enough money to qualify. These tasks 
 aren't all fun and I found myself repeating one over and over again in order to get back to the 
 the best part of the game: the rank battles. The overworld also suffers from a lack of interactivity 
 as there are only a few places you could enter and simple things like fences can't be knocked down 
 regardless of how fast you drive your motorcycle into them. I found myself driving into them constantly, 
 expecting that they should be destructable. There is also a frame-rate issue, but in a game like 
 NMH where style greatly outweighs substance, it's not very troublesome.
  
  Overall, No More Heroes is a truly great game. The combat system is extremely fun. Hopefully there'll 
 be a sequel announced where Travis tries to become the #1 ranked assassin in the world and maybe 
 online fighting will be included to add more combat time. In the mean time, I know I'll be replaying 
 NMH since there's nothing else like it and the amount of fun provided by it is just too overwhelming 
 to even try to ignore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mao6542
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  I pretty much all around enjoyed this game period. After debating to sell my Wii (due to lack of 
 titles that interested me while also having a 360 and ps3) , this game kept my Wii interest alive. 
 An all around fun game based on gameplay and not on graphics. Its unique fighting system along 
 with an crazy yet addicting story line contributed for a real fun play. I was reluctant to purchase 
 it at first due to my hearing it was a knock off Grand Theft Auto however it certainly is not. 
 This is its own game with many different side missions and odd jobs to complete along the way. 
 Travis Touchdown makes for a solid lead character and that has access to many sources, weapons, 
 and upgrades that help you along the way. As always, I feel a monetary system contributes greatly 
 to the game. A real addicting game for those who were craving an exclusive mature blood game for 
 the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brawlx
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  No more heroes can be considered like a GTA title for the wii but with a galactic sword.
  
  The story is just amazing the characters are cool and the way you use the saber y very interesting.
 
  You are travis touchdown a guy that for a girl becomes asassin and must get to rank 1 to have 
 a nice night with her.
  
  You can collect sumo- cards and tapes , buy clothes and new swords.
  
  The game is divided 
 in 10 parts each part is a rank.
  The best things are the boss fights because they have a lot of action. There is a whole city to 
 explore , find cards , tapes do some jobs for cash ,buy items...
  
  You can upgrade your character going to the gym and buying some sabers that will unlock while you 
 play the main story.
  
  You will have your own room with lots of objects and fun.
  
  Buy this game is pretty cool , I recomend it to all people who wants a mature game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stabbed
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  No More Heroes is unlike anything... blah blah blah. I've already said this. The great thing about 
 this game is how quirky it is and how crazy the story line is. It is not overly dramatic or complicated, 
 though it does not really explain much. It leaves a lot to the imagination in the way of how the 
 main character, Travis Touchdown (who has nothing to do with football) , got a light saber (or as 
 the game calls it, a "beam katana") or exactly why he kills in the first place (though that's sort 
 of explained, not really though) . Something that ties into both the story line and the game play 
 is the humor of it. This game is one of the funniest games I have ever played. With humor ranging 
 from porn movie names to taking a dump (which is how you save your game) , the game always pleases. 
 The game play is amazingly simple. You have a light saber and a Wiimote. I guess you'll be swinging 
 the Wiimote around to attack. As Lex Luthor said, "WRONG!!!!" It's a very simple button mashing 
 game that also uses the Wiimote to perform finishing moves, as well as wrestling moves. The way 
 the game uses the button mashing makes it never grow old. This is mainly because of the art design. 
 The cell shaded design should be familiar to anybody who has played Killer 7. I never did. I did, 
 however, play Crackdown (which is cell shaded) and Cell Damage (which is essentially a really silly, 
 cell shaded version of Twisted Metal) , as well as Team Fortress 2. I would say that the graphics 
 for this game are most like Team Fortress 2. They are very cartoony, but realistic at the same 
 time... sort of. It looks like what cell shaded games should look like. This brings me to the next 
 category (and I call this a category) : the violence. This game has the most unrealistic violence 
 that is just wonderful. When performing finishing moves, you decapitate people, slice people vertically 
 in half, and many more gruesome deaths. This violence, however, is just blood. When you slice somebody 
 in half, only black shows for the inside of their bodies. Blood rockets out like a broken fire 
 hydrant, however. Blood will fill the screen and is cartoon looking, so it won't make you feel 
 sick, like in Manhunt (or make you happy, if you're like that) , but will almost make you laugh. 
 The exaggerated violence is part of the humor of the game. There is also a bit of a mellow drama 
 in the deaths of the bosses you fight. They cry for forgiveness from family members who have shunned 
 them for years, reflect upon life, etc. You almost feel a little guilty in killing them. It balances 
 the humor perfectly, however, because there is only 10 bosses and many more humorous parts. Another 
 good thing about this game is the way the Wiimote is used. You can use it to work out in a gym 
 (with a guy who wants you to take your pants off) , scrub graffiti, and throw somebody to the ground 
 in a WWE fashion. One particular thing I loved about the Wiimote use was the way it used the speaker. 
 The lady who gets you to fight (forget her name) calls you before each boss fight and her voice 
 comes out of the Wiimote speaker. This is one of the most unique ways I've seen the Wiimote being 
 used, as this has only been used in Wario Ware, but not for an entire phone conversation. Overall, 
 this game offers much great game play and a hilarious story line that will satisfy until Brawl 
 comes out. That's honestly the only reason I play video games at this point. This is a good game, 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomoto5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  OK gamespot the se is my review for the game No more heroes For the WII. For the begining whe habe 
 the great animetion in these game and the srtange style like a old game (atari) and the extremadly 
 blood in these game.
  The moviment of the swor and the sound is like Star wars XD and i see the final and the final habe 
 a strange parecido at star wars i thing the creator of these game was a lazy japanese because in 
 the final not say any story and embes de eso put a acelerator jajaj is so funny and in the middle 
 of the game where and srtange mini games like grave coconuts and others.
  the characters are very funny especialy the protagnist the aspect is like the singer of O zone 
 and his strange for to chanes his personaliti is so funny ,
  the chik is really sexy and evil with him and his mentor is so pervert he ay to him to desbestirce 
 jajaja for the other things is really cool and original de battle mode is really cool and entretain 
 i recomend these game for all people ho really like the originals wii game. these is all these 
 is my review for the game No more heroes for the wii BYE BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Breakadawn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  The game "No More Heroes" is like insurance. Why you ask? Simple. Since Ubisoft published the game 
 "Red Steel" which was a massive waste of money, This new game comes out and brings back the name 
 of "Ubisoft".
  
  Now onto the game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics of No More Heroes perfectly blend 8-bit and 3D together into one eye bleedingly 
 good package. (If you compare it to other Wii games) The blood is like paint and spreads all over 
 the ground nicely. The textures could use a little work though. (Maybe that's because I don't own 
 a HD tv) Collision detection during free roam mode could really have used a lot of improvement. 
 The models are highly detailed and have a unique touch to each of them, excluding the pedestrians.
 
  
  Overall, the graphics of No More Heroes gets a 8.8 out of 10.
  
  Sound: The sound is very detailed wherever you go. When you kill, you can hear slashes and flowing 
 fountains and not to mention a symphony of screams. When you walk around the city, the ambient 
 sounds make you feel like your actually there. The soundtrack is also excellent with many differing 
 genres in it.
  
  Overall, the sound of No More Heroes gets a 9.5 out of 10
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is the shining diamond in the rough in this game. You are rewarded hours 
 and hours of fun that get old very slow. This game makes violence enjoyable EVEN for peace-loving 
 hippies. The gameplay is also very diverse, including numerous mini games and side missions. The 
 controls fit snugly into this game since pulling off acts of decapitation has become very realistic 
 and puts you right in the game. THAT is excactly how good the controls are.
  
  Overall, the gameplay of No More Heroes gets a 10 out of 10.
  
  This game is one of the many 
 things that the Wii should fully support, which is fast-paced games geared towards hardcore gamers 
 instead of 5 year old pansies that don't know anything about whats fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkraush
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  I say arguably because most people, including myself, would give that title to Mario Galaxy, but 
 as for NMH...
  
  I don't have much to add to the positive reviews except to say that the people giving this game 
 a low rating were probably expecting this game to be something it isn't and never claimed to be. 
 NMH is supposed to be a fast paced, arcade style slasher, that causes blood to rain from your Wii 
 as never before. And it kicks ass.
  
  NMH has a lot of the elements I loved so much about Killer7. The most prominent being the emphasis 
 on style over realism in the graphics. This is an absolute necessity for the Wii, which cannot 
 compete on any level graphically with the 360 or ps3. I also loved the humor in this game. Very 
 few games can make me laugh because they're actually trying to be funny, usually it's in that "it's 
 so bad I'm laughing to keep myself from crying" way (see NBA Live 08 for the wii) . I was also reminded 
 of Killer7 in the way that even when the gameplay does eventually start to feel repetitive, it's 
 so cool to watch, and you want to see how the story unfolds so badly, that it doesn't really get 
 boring.
  
  The glaring negative is the overall crappiness of the driving around town mode, which doesn't really 
 take away from the game, but it just doesn't make sense why it would be so poorly done in a game 
 that is so sleek otherwise.
  
  I feel I should also point out that the motion controls are very well done. They always seem to 
 work as intended for me, and really do add to the game.
  
  I haven't finished NMH yet but I can already sense that I'm going to wish it were longer. I can't 
 wait for the next game from this crew, I'd love to see their unique flavor applied to a more complex 
 game; but for now, No More Heroes is more than enough to keep me satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timebandit11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  I've never reviewed a game before, but with this one I felt compelled to do so. A lot of people 
 don't seem to "get" this game; it has a very quirky, old-school feel, complete with low-res menu 
 graphics, extreme "Kill-Bill" style sword action and gore, and a sweet 16-bit era techno soundtrack. 
 Technical graphics take a backseat to artistic creativity, gameplay and dark humor. Some of the 
 side quests occasionally feel repetitive, but you can always break it up and find something else 
 to do. I got the feeling that the developers intentionally made a lot of the enemies look alike 
 to help give it an old-school feel. In my opinion, it never gets boring. The meat of this game 
 is the ranked assassin boss fights, which really allow the fighting engine in this game to shine. 
 The bosses are colorful and creative and each have personality and a unique fighting style of their 
 own. As a longtime gamer, I love the way this game alludes to games of the past, but is still able 
 to feel unique and refreshing. I wish more developers would take chances like this, and I am excited 
 by the fact that Suda-51 wants to make a sequel. Understand that this game isn't for everyone, 
 but if you love video "games" and not just pretty graphics, this one is well worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skacsa
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Repetition is very present in this game. You do a boring side quest and then a killing mission 
 (which is always the same 2 levels) then you hope you have enough money to go to the next ranking 
 assassination. This is the only thing valuable here, the little cinematic between and after the 
 fights. You do a boring side quest and then a killing mission (which is always the same 2 levels) 
 then you hope you have enough money to go to the next ranking assassination. You do a boring side 
 quest and then a killing mission (which is always the same 2 levels) then you hope you have enough 
 money to go to the next ranking assassination. You do a boring side quest and then a killing mission 
 (which is always the same 2 levels) then you hope you have enough money to go to the next ranking 
 assassination. Repetition is very present in this game. You do a boring side quest and then a killing 
 mission (which is always the same 2 levels) then you hope you have enough money to go to the next 
 ranking assassination. This is the only thing valuable here, the little cinematic between and after 
 the fights. You do a boring side quest and then a killing mission (which is always the same 2 levels) 
 then you hope you have enough money to go to the next ranking assassination. You do a boring side 
 quest and then a killing mission (which is always the same 2 levels) then you hope you have enough 
 money to go to the next ranking assassination. You do a boring side quest and then a killing mission 
 (which is always the same 2 levels) then you hope you have enough money to go to the next ranking 
 assassination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david_canada
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 20, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  What a bad game ! Game-play is so poor. A lot of A button, a few dodging, and one wiimote strike 
 a the end. The wiimote strike would be interesting if a bit of technics were necessary to get there. 
 It is not the case. As a result, all the fights are boring and desperately easy. No challenge, 
 no pride of doing something well.
  Travis is so stupid that I felt sick playing this character.
  Visual are stylish... but so poor. 
 The town is empty ; You fight in corridor, again in corridors, again in corridors, then in empty 
 warehouses... ; Travis runs like a monkey at best.
  Sound is not bad as there is barely no sound. No music for instance. Only some "ah, ah, ah" when 
 you use your weapon. Not exactly thrilling.
  The mini-games to make money... we knew they would be bad, but not to that extent ! You press B 
 to fill a car with gaz, you press A to get a coconut... Boring, boring, boring. 
  
  After a few hours of playing (i would say 7) , I am now rank 5 (I still have to kill 4-3-2-1) . I 
 really want to finish this bad game to play another game ! Quick, quick, quick.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdsteffen
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I've just finished this game, and after looking back on it, this is the most fun I've had on a 
 hack n slash game in a long time. It steals bit's and pieces of some of the best games over the 
 past 10 years, and puts them into a very satisifying game.
  
  The best part of the game overall is obviously the combat and action system of the game. Wielding 
 the beam katiana becomes a piece of cake once you get the hang of it. The powerups you get towards 
 teh end of the game add some nice strategy to fighting the bosses. The gore from each combo and 
 finishing hit is a nice added touch. The added wrestling moves adds to the game so that it doesn't 
 just sit as swinging your sword the entire game.
  
  The bosses from each mission make finishing the game that much more challenging and exciting. The 
 gradual difficulty of each boss was done nearly to perfection. 
  
  The plot for the story is designed to be humorous enough to keep you laughing, and serious enough 
 to still make it seem like an action game. 
  
  The overall map of the game is fairly small, but that doesn't necessarily matter due to the fact 
 that the game isn't made to be a GTA. The side missions are ok, but if you want to finish the game 
 with every powerup, you may find yourself stuck going through the side missions more than once 
 just to have the money to finish the game. The other complaint I have about the side missions is 
 that after the first round of them, you just end up doing them again at a harder difficulty. For 
 as many side missions as there are, they could have come up with a few more then what they did.
 
  
  Graphics were about as good as you will see for an action game on the wii to this point.
  Like 
 I mentioned before, the combat system and bosses are by far the best part. The rest of the game 
 feels like it was made to be overlooked.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scara828
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  God, this game took away around 50% of my sanity, I can't tell when to laugh and when to feel sick, 
 this game is just too good.
  Lets start the review:
  The Graphics: Well they are good, specially the artistic design of every killer, and every scenario, 
 not to be surprised though but they are not bad. Here is a 7.5
  The story: Man, your mind will explode whit this one, you are at the border of your sit at every 
 second, trying to wonder most of the things will make your head ache, its somehow deep, absurd 
 and funny, I can tell for sure it deserves a 10 in here
  The controls: Even it is a hack-and-slash game it didn't follow the disastrous controls of Soul 
 Calibur Legends, indeed, its pretty comfortable, every motion action responds pretty good to the 
 control, every move is really precise to what you want to do. Here is a 9
  The Game-play: What can I say, it suck you in, the lock-on system is good enough to attack the 
 objective and everything around, resulting in entire clouds of dripping blood that won't let you 
 see whats happening, but who cares, the only thing you know is that your sword is slicing something. 
 It gets somehow hard when in your motorcycle, the turns are sometimes really sharp and sometimes 
 it gets slow, not to mention that is you hit anything at all you will be sent flying making you 
 lose time and patience. 8 in here.
  The extras are a lot, trying to get all the shirts and hidden bonus will be taking you back to 
 the action, but it wont really last cause it doesn't has a good replay value, but if you start 
 playing it again you will finish it for sure, so the game is a must-have and the overall for me 
 is 8.8. Nice killing!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skakillers
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes has a unique flare to it. A definite change to the usual WII games. The mechanics 
 of the game are very straightforward. The main character, Travis Touchdown, wants to become the 
 worlds best assassin so he methodically kills everyone who is ranked higher then himself. In between 
 death matches you have to raise money for both upgrades and the next fight in a world that looks 
 a lot like a GTA game. In the end, the game does get a little repetitive but the game-play is short 
 enough that it does not feel like it drags on. Money can be raised through various assassin missions 
 or hard labor which are interesting in the beginning. 
  The game has a really nice punk rock feel to it (from the scenery to the clothes that Travis wears) . 
 The voice acting is dead on for almost all the characters and the dialog is enough to keep to interested. 
 The story line isn't all that interesting from the surface but by the end it becomes rather funny. 
 There are a few plot twists here and there but nothing surprising. If you like B movies like "Army 
 of Darkness" then the story line will definitely amuse you as well.
  The WII-mote works well as the control scheme. However, after mortally wounding an opponent shaking 
 the WII-mote in the right direction (indicated by on-screen directions) launches Travis into a 
 finishing move. Although this is cool at first, after taking on 100 enemies it gets old having 
 to stop and do a special move after each kill. 
  
  Bottom Line: No More Heroes is a don't miss game. If you are looking a great hack and slash like 
 Devil May Cry then you have got the wrong game but if you are looking for a mature themed game 
 with punk rock attitude then look no further. No More Heroes is not the greatest game but it is 
 definitely entertaining.
  
  
  **I don't want to give any of the story away but pay close attention to the dialog before the end 
 fight for a nice stitch at Duke Nukem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enoilgat
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is very repetitive. Sure its fun to slice up five enemies at once with your katana, 
 but it gets boring pretty quickly. The boss battles are pretty boring because you are basically 
 using the same moves over and over again. Basically you perform a few small side missions that 
 are mostly like chores, then you move onto the boss battles. But, before you go into the boss battles 
 you have to kill about 50 enemies. Once you defeat all of the enemies, you finally get to the boss. 
 This entire time I am just thinking to myself, "how many more enemies until I finally get to this 
 boss?" Then, I finally make it to the boss, and since the controls are so limited, the boss battles 
 gets old quickly. 
  
  Honstly, I was excited for this game, but I just couldn't get into after the first few hours of 
 playing it. I would probably recommend this as a rental but it's not worth purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 1:00 am PT
Review:  (5 out of 5) Story: You play as Travis Touchdown, the 11th rank assassin in the world, and he wants 
 to be number 1. So how is he going to do that, by killing the other top ten assassins duh. A pretty 
 straight forward story, it's a simple tale of being the best and somehow its intriguing, wow who 
 uses the word intriguing. Every assassin you meet has a different personality, different fighting 
 styles, and different ambitions. This makes the game's story more compelling and makes you want 
 to find out who you will kill next. Add in a hot and mysterious vixen named Sylvia Christel and 
 you got yourself one addicting storyline. Even though No More Heroes doesn't have the EPIC feeling 
 of a story like God of War games, it uses a bunch of other things like characters and dialogue 
 to make the story feel more interesting then it normally is.
  
  (5 out of 5) Gameplay: Well since Travis is an assassin, you will spend most of your time, well.. assassinating 
 people. Don't mix this game with Assassin's Creed's type of gameplay, both of the games are entirely 
 different. You won't be sneaking around and silently stabbing people, no, real assassins like Travis 
 go around and beat the crap out of people with light sabers, whoops, I mean beam katanas. You will 
 spend most of your time mashing the A button, and after you get the enemies life bar low you can 
 perform a finishing blow by swinging the Wii Remote in the right direction. You can also perform 
 a series of wrestling moves by following the commands on screen if you're not in the mood in slicing 
 and dicing your enemies. Even though the fighting system is simple, it is extremely satisfying. 
 I can't put my finger on it, but the mixture of blood and coins that come out of enemies' bodies 
 is a sight to behold. You will basically be fighting your way through a level, to get to the Assassin, 
 or boss of the level. Each boss requires a different approach to them, but in the end you will 
 always end up swinging your beam katana until you actually hit them. If you are not assassinating 
 people you perform odd jobs like mowing the lawn, disarming land mines, and cleaning graffiti off 
 the walls, they may sound like menial tasks but they are surprisingly fun. There are multiple things 
 you can do in the game from exercising to increase your health, to shopping for new clothes and 
 upgrading your katana. The frame rate can sometimes lag if you kill a bunch of enemies all at once, 
 and the lack of a retry button can cause some serious frustrations if you are just trying to earn 
 a lot of money or if you failed a mission. Those flaws can be excused though since the game is 
 INCREDIBLY fun!
  
  (3.5 out of 5) Graphics: I will admit that No More Heroes is NOT a perfect game, and the graphics 
 help prove my point. The game's graphics look blurry at times, and the level designs look plain 
 and dull, you will find yourself wandering the same looking rooms over and over, but luckily the 
 gameplay saves it. There are a lot of noticeable glitches when you are exploring the over world, 
 Santa Destroy, and there are some collision problems. You can knock over ten trees in a row but 
 you can't know over a small chair, WorkTimeFun! It feels like Suda 51 got too lazy with the graphics. 
 They could have at least let people die when you run them over with a motorcycle, is that too much 
 to ask for? What saves the game from being a graphical disaster though is the unique personality, 
 look, and feel of the game's graphics. The block looking map, the toilet saving bathrooms, the 
 game just has a unique feeling to it. 
  
  (5 out of 5) Sound: The voice acting and scripting is phenomenal. The voice actors have really 
 out done themselves, and the scripting in the game is psychotic, funny, and very serious all at 
 the same time. It's just so crazy what the characters say in the game, you become very interested 
 and very excited to hear what they will say next. The music in the game gets very catchy, and very 
 fast. I just can't seem to get the battle tune out of my head anymore, and that is a good thing. 
 
  
  Overall: Despite the some problems with the graphics, No More Heroes is another GOOD reason to 
 fight someone for the ownership of a Nintendo Wii. The gameplay is so satisfying, the characters 
 are interesting, and the story just gets better as you go, this could possibly be a candidate for 
 Game of the Year, POSSIBLY. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackenedSky719
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  No More Hero's really is a unique game, a compilation of light sabers, losers, assassins, and lunatics 
 its very near perfection. There is no chance that this game will ever win an award for best in 
 game graphics but its graphics are still enjoyable and really seem to do the game justice. 
  
  Reading that you might be asking well if its lacking in graphics how could this game boarder 
 on perfection, well thats easily answered. The game play itself along with characters like Travis 
 Touchdown and ten remarkably memorable targets that you have to fight and kill to reach number 
 one on a list of the ten highest rank assassins. It that wasn't cool enough your weapon of choice 
 just happens to be a light saber that Travis ordered off the internet. 
  
  All in all with ten very different bosses to fight and levels to play and more side missions and 
 kills than you could ask for this game is really all anyone with a Wii could ask for. I've already 
 played this game twice around and there isn't a single person I wouldn't recommend it to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The phrase "the whole is greater than the sum of it's parts" is the perfect way to describe how 
 No More Heroes became of the must have games for the Wii.
  
  Imagine trying to tell a friend about this new game your playing and you rattle off a few tidbits 
 about the game: The graphics aren't even last-gen caliber; lightsaber bought on the 'net; pathetic, 
 recluse antihero; demented enemies... You get the point. It's not until you have experienced all 
 these elements, mixed with a heaping serving of mature content (language and suggestive material) 
 and mixed with a dynamite control scheme can someone fully understand this game.
  
  Starting with controls, NMH strikes a balance between using the Wii controls to be different but 
 not jamming them down our throats. The game opens by plopping us down directly into the overarching 
 story while teaching us the many controls used to foil the enemy. After this, it is up to you on 
 how you want to dispatch your MANY foes.
  
  The protagonist, Travis Touchdown is a likable loser with a serious adult movie addiction. He is 
 more interested in number one than anything else. All he wants it be number one and to make it 
 with Sylvia. To do this, he must progress through the 10 most deadly assassin's (in the local vicinity) 
 as ranked by the UAA. Along the way you will train to become stronger and purchase weapons, all 
 funded by collecting part-time job assignments and a sprinkling of less-than-upright assassination 
 missions.
  
  Graphically, the game can be divided into two parts (as most games can) the realtime world graphic 
 presentation and the cutscenes. The realtime graphics hardly impress but this seems to have been 
 by design. Make the game gorgeous and you lose the emphasis on the characters and the story. During 
 the cutscenes, we are treated to a great graphical style used previously by Suda 51 in another 
 of his titles.
  
  After enjoying every minute of NMH, I can truly say that this game is better than the sum of its 
 parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msi276
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the most original game for the Wii since Super Mario Galaxy.
  The Premise is simple a Otaku Assassin fights to become number 1 so he can um "make it" with his 
 boss. 
  
  Lets start with whats good about this game. The graphics are extremely unique and refreshing. The 
 combat is the main point of this game its over the top, bloody, and simple which make it more fun. 
 The soundtrack is excellent. The Beam Katanas in this game are better than George Lucas himself 
 could imagine. The game has enough twists to keep you involved in the story but not enough to confuse 
 you. Finally this is the funniest game I've played in a long time. 
  
  Now the bad. The open world environment is a great idea but it gets left behind by the poor control 
 of your bike. And the boss fights are just too easy. Lastly the game can be completed in around 
 9 hrs if you rush. 
  
  In the sequel hopefully they can improve on these things and make the game even closer to perfection. 
 
  
  In short if you can get this game and love original games. Pick this up ASAP. 
  
  Thx for reading
  msi276 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FvaFshX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Attention to all Wii owners who have been with Nintendo since the NES in 1985: We finally have 
 a game made specifically for us and it's No More Heroes! It's bloody and over the top while still 
 retaining a heavy dose of nostalgia. It also has some great nods to those of us who belong to the 
 Otaku crowd (Every anime/wrestling/video game nerd reading this review should stand up now and 
 salute their wall scroll) . Despite its great mature theme, bloody combat, and intentionally ridiculous 
 story, it's also hard to deny the fact there are several unpolished elements to the game that really 
 hold it back. 
  
  
  Let's start with the story. No More Heroes is the tale of porn-loving, wrestling obsessed otaku 
 game nerd Travis Touchdown. One day in a bar he meets a hot French chick who hasn't mastered buttoning 
 up a blouse and she gives him a job to kill an assassin. Since he's got nothing better to do and 
 craves to be a tough guy, Travis goes out and kills the guy successfully with a beam katana he 
 bought on a bidding website. He then learns there are eleven other assassins out there and each 
 time he kills one he takes over their rank. That's pretty much the basic layout of the story as 
 the game follows Travis as he takes down each assassin and does the ground work to prepare for 
 each mission (which just involves making money, working out, and buying new upgrades) . That may 
 sound a bit repetitive and like, Assassins Creed, there will be some who will probably hate the 
 structure which is totally understandable. However, what helps No More Heroes stay fresh is its 
 amazing combat and the wacky and distinct personalities of each assassin. However, regarding those 
 assassins, killing them usually boils down to a slash fest with some unique attacks to avoid. I 
 would have preferred a bit more of a Metal Gear Solid or even Killer7 influence and had a different 
 way of defeating each one, but its not a big deal since several of the later bosses really make 
 you work for your victory.
  
  
  The game starts off with a bang as you're thrown right into an assassination mission. Here you 
 are introduced the fantastic combo system. Tilt the wiimote up or down for high or low attacks, 
 hit the A button to attack, and the B button delivers melee attacks. This sounds simple at first, 
 but you forget this is a Wii game so there has to be some movement in some way. After you've emptied 
 a bad guy's health bar, a direction arrow appears on screen and you move the wiimote to the side. 
 Doing so unleashes the unbelievably brutal and cool death blows to your helpless enemies. Heads 
 fly off, torsos fly, and bodies are cut in half as fountains of blood and coins fill the screen. 
 Words can't describe how exhilarating this is towards the end of the game when you're powered up 
 Beam Katana can decimate a crowd of 5-6 guys in front of or surrounding you. Additionally, if you 
 stun an enemy with a melee attack you can do some nifty wrestling moves that are emulated perfectly 
 with a few wrist movements. It's kind of sad in a way that this game has better wrestling controls 
 (and more wrestling moves) than Smackdown vs Raw 2008, but that's a review for another time. 
 
  
  
  So obviously the combat is the star of the show, but how does the rest of the game hold up? Well, 
 it has its ups and downs. After each mission you are sent to an open world which is basically a 
 hub to go to the gym, side assassination missions, side jobs, weapons shop, clothing store, and 
 video store. The hub serves its purpose fine and the city is small enough that each location is 
 really only a few minutes away. Additionally, scattered all over the city are dig spots where you 
 can find some excess cash or t-shirts buried. However, the city is pretty barren overall and even 
 though it only takes a few minutes to drive somewhere, some side missions can be over in a matter 
 of seconds. This brings me to the biggest flaw of the game: No Quick Restart!! 
  
  
  The GTA games and the recent Burnout Paradise also lacked a quick restart, but at least in those 
 games theres more than enough activity to keep you busy in other locations. Instead, in No More 
 Heroes, a few times you will accept a job at the assassination HQ to play one quick baseball/assassination 
 mini game or kill all enemies without being hit. Its possible to fail these missions in a matter 
 of seconds, so now you'll have to go from that location all the way back to the HQ, then back to 
 the location again. Its rather mind boggling to have such an oversight in the game, when a simple 
 warp to the HQ or job site would have done wonders. That way you can cut out at least one trip. 
 This really becomes a chore for the later assassination missions when you may need to do some missions 
 several times to earn enough cash to take on your next assassin (especially if you've gone on a 
 shopping spree previously) . 
  
  
  The sound and graphics are really a mixed bag overall. Both really stick to the style over substance 
 technique but they do have some faults on the technical side. Starting off with the graphics, the 
 game uses a cell shaded technique similar to Killer7. No More Heroes is slightly sharper than its 
 Gamecube predecessor and uses more detail in the facial movements, but its not going to appeal 
 to everyone. Specifically, the overworld has a lot of texture pop ins and the framerate stutters 
 occasionally when there's a lot of activity on screen (Its kind of forgivable sometimes though 
 when you've just taken out seven guys with one death blow) . The menu screens and other various 
 HUDs are all pixilated in 8 bit style but, if you're like me, you'll kind of appreciate the throwback 
 to the NES days. 
  The sound is slightly less forgivable due to the fact that the music tends to get old quite fast. 
 There's a spyish theme that serves as the main theme of the game, but you will hear it from the 
 very first area to the very last. Also, a few shops share the same pop song and you might get tired 
 of the motorcycle riding theme really quickly. Other than that, the game uses the wii speaker perfectly 
 for the buzz of your Beam Katana. Perhaps my favorite aspect to the sound is the phone call you 
 get from Sylvia before each boss. You only hear her voice through the wii speaker so you'll actually 
 have to hold the wiimote up to your ear to hear everything she's saying, which is also great if 
 she decides to start yelling as you'll quickly pull the wiimote away from your ear a bit. 
  
  
  Overall, if you're over 18 and own a Wii, this game is a must rent at first. For me it 
 was a must buy because I knew I would get into this kind of game, but I know for a fact it will 
 not appeal to everyone. Barring the gameplay flaws, the game also has incredibly crude humor, quite 
 a bit of profanity, and tons of stylized but still gory action. Again, none of those things bothered 
 me at all, but some might not enjoy it. Basically, this game deserves to at least be played by 
 everyone of the right age group.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  Ok well first of all you should have this and whoever doesnt have just means their saving up because 
 this is the best Wii game of 08. But the only fun things in this game are the fighting. I mean 
 really people who wants to do minigames like mowing a lawn or pumping cars with gas ( these really 
 are minigames in this game) . But aside from all of that the fighting is really fun. You just cant 
 have enough fun with cutting people in half and seeing blood fly everywhere. Theres good use of 
 the Wii remote. Now I personally dont like using the wii remote because Red Steels control was teribble. 
 Anyway the use of the Wii remote is for a finishing move. Like after you hit a person intill he 
 gets dizzy hit him one more time and then an arrow will apear either Left, right, up, down. If 
 left or right you move your Wii remote that way and their will come of and if up or down you move 
 the wii remote that direction and yhey will split in half and the blood flys! Although its not 
 the best game out there it is a must buy for anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes plays like an old arcade game, even down to the menu screens in between ranking 
 battles and the cartoon jingles. But don't let this lighthearted approach fool you, as the game 
 packs it's share of punches.
  If you are looking for a Mature based, sword/light saber fighting game then I definitely highly 
 recommend this game.
  The graphics aren't the most amazing thing, but they never really hold it back and the game runs 
 very smoothly.
  The fighting is intense, and the boss battles can really heat up, although sometimes they can be 
 a touch repetitive. 
  In between boss battles, the inclusion of side quests (collecting balls for a drunkard) , jobs (mowing 
 patches of grass ,etc.) and hidden pockets of money stashed around the town really give you something 
 to keep playing for. Think of it like Grand Theft Auto, where there is a mini map that shows you 
 where to go, and you can choose to go there, or perform smaller side quests for extra money and 
 even moves.
  In short, "No More Heroes" is a really breathtaking game, and while it may take some time to get 
 used to the humor, the game play, or the fighting style, there is a lot to do and a lot of fun 
 to be had.
  All in all, I give "No More Heroes" an 8.5, and highly recommend it to anyone looking to get a 
 little more out of their Wii than just Mario and Link games and Virtual Console re-releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGBIZ_42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo only come out with a M rated game every once and a while, and this one is one of the best. 
 its just like having STAR WARS, WWE, and RIVER CITY RANSOM all role up into a game and it works. 
 tone of the game may feel childish but, that feeling change through out the game as your rank goes 
 up. my only problems with the game were that you really can't explore the city in depth like in 
 other games, like gta. and IT WAS JUST TOO SHORT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! i played this game while 
 i was play two other game at the same time and i still beat this game in less than a week. the 
 difficult was perfect, but could they just made the game a little bit longer. but its an overall 
 great game and a must have for MATURE wii owners. the story line is straight forward, the graphic 
 are some what unique (looks like killer 7, but up graded) , and the game play is fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haziqonfire
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Wii owners have constantly been complaining about lack of quality third party titles. Another thing 
 that they've been complaining about is the lack of good hardcore/mature titles. Well, fear no more, 
 No more heroes has arrived ... and its awesome.
  
  No more heroes starts off with you, playing as Travis Touchdown. A regular gaming/anime guy. He 
 wins a 'Beam Katana' (Light Saber) off of eBay and is met by a girl, Sylvia Crystal, who tells 
 him he can become the #1 assassin in Santa Destroy, the fictional city of no more heroes. So now 
 you have two goals: Become rank 1 and have 'do' Sylvia Crystal. I wont go into too much detail, 
 because i really dont want to spoil the game. Theres two different endings you can unlock based 
 on what difficulty you play on (Sweet, Mild, Bitter) . Bitter gets unlocked after beating the game 
 once.
  
  Now, how does this game play? Fear not, there is no 'Wii Waggle' a la Twilight Princess. You simply 
 press the A button to attack with your beam katana, yet you can press the B button to kick/punch 
 and ultimately stun the enemy for a wrestling move (Travis is a big wrestling fan) . With the wreslting 
 moves, you have to use a combination of the nunchuk and Wii remote to pull of the move (Such as 
 moving both of them upwards) . There are also finisher moves with the beam katana, where something 
 will come on screen that tells you what direction (Up, down, left, right) to swing the Wii remote. 
 In the end, these finishers are more fun to pull of than a simple button press.
  
  The game also features an 'Over World' which is sort of free roam, but dont expect anything like 
 the Grand Theft Auto series. Its much more linear and smaller and it has a lot of technical problems 
 with the frame rate. Overall this is my only real complaint about the game, but its not a big one. 
 You also cant steal cars or anything, only ride your bike (which is awesome) but controls might 
 be a bit funny to some people (it doesnt use motion controls, the steering is a big off.)
  
  Besides the main game you can also do odd jobs like a coconut collector, garbage man, or even 
 mowing lawns. Each have different controls for them, but ultimately you'll be finding yourself 
 doing Killing missions more so than these odd jobs. 
  
  Those looking for a GTA like title on the Wii, no more heroes will not fulfill your needs. Those 
 looking for a quality, niche like, third party mature title, look no further than no more heroes. 
 Its a great game that really needs some recognition. Go out, and get yourself a copy. You wont 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jak_two_ratchet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  I Rented No more Heroes like two weeks ago and completed it then, but my internet at home isnt 
 working so I couldn't write a review. Anyways, where do I start? This game was fun to play me and 
 my friends were hooked. The story is, a little corny, but hey who cares!? I mean, this game does 
 have it's flaws, but how can you notice somthing like that when your running and/or driving around 
 with a light saberish katana, slicing n' dicing countless enemies? I did obviously, but I don't 
 care, it was a fun game! and that's all that matters. The only thing I can't ignore is how lame 
 and un-fun some of the side missions were, example: scorpion catching, filling up cars with gas, 
 coconut gathering, etc. *sigh*. It was a Bada$s game and I think the best thing they could do is 
 make a sequel that takes place in like Japan or Germany, somthing like that... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  The good: Splendid, fast-paced action; Hilarious dialogue and themes; Great boss battles; Refreshing 
 control scheme; About as bad-ass as a game could be.
  The bad: Lame graphics with annoying pop-ups that occasionally affect gameplay; Empty city with 
 not enough to do; Battling may be repetitive to some.
  
  No More Heroes seemed like a very "iffy" title up to the moment of its release. It's a type of 
 game that hasn't been tapped on the Wii as of yet; nor has it really been tried on any system ever. 
 However, Suda51 delivered what could be considered a revolutionary title, with some of the best 
 action on any system this gen.
  
  The gameplay will be a question mark to anyone when they start playing it. Why take out motion 
 controls for the A and B buttons? However, NMH did an amazing job by cutting out the sometimes 
 over-used waggle, and reserving it for very satisfying finishing moves. It controls very well, 
 and really couldn't be done on anything but the Wii. Gameplay is everything in NMH. The battling 
 will be fresh to start with, but for some, it may very well get repetitive when doing the same 
 missions over and over. Personally, I couldn't get enough of tearing opponents' heads off so much 
 that Travis isn't visible on the screen due to blood. The boss battles were amazing and creative, 
 and ranged from a guy with a laser crotch to a girl with landmines. All were fast-paced and fun, 
 and all had gory (and sometimes disturbing) endings. The only problem was that most were killed 
 in the most obvious of ways; strike hard after they miss you. It could get repetitive, but it wasn't 
 uncommon for bosses to fight differently the more they were hurt, though that's been done for years. 
 By the end of the game, the boss battles are very quick paced and worthy of remembrance for years 
 to comes, especially the climatic final battle. There were numerous minigames to do between battles, 
 including training. The controls were about what you'd expect: Button-mashing or waggle. They're 
 done well, though fairly banal. Driving through the empty city was quite boring, and the controls 
 for the motorcycle were messed up for the most part, forcing me to twist in the opposite direction 
 of where I wanted to go when I quick-turned, and that could mess up as well. There are some missions 
 you can do freely in the city, but they usually consist of you fighting until you're hit once, 
 which is frustrating and not worth the time. The game's difficulty is light, and enemies aren't 
 difficult, but higher difficulty levels mostly help that out. So overall, while the core of the 
 game was quite amazing, the rest had many flaws and was ordinary.
  
  The graphics were much the opposite of the gameplay in the fact that they were nothing like the 
 gameplay (lol) . The cell-shaded characters and enviroments were decent at times, and obviously 
 best in battle, but most of the game was completely textureless, and not pleasant to look at. I 
 give Suda props for the art style, which really was cool, but the textures were bad even for Wii's 
 hardware, and would be bad for even the PS2's as well. The art style really doesn't do much to 
 cover up the game's weakness as intended, and neither does the 8-bit parts of the game, which are 
 cool, but uncared for. The city itself is very empty, with few cars and people on the street, and 
 with little going on, it is surprising that the frame rate actually stutters at times. I would 
 get into the AI of the city people, but they're so bad it would be wasting my time. If you run 
 over them, no matter how hard, they just stumble and run away. Luckily, during battles, the graphics 
 are less noticeable. Impossible amounts of blood fly everywhere after every kill and is satisfying, 
 as the enemies squirm in pieces on the ground. So much blood that the entire screen could be covered 
 at a time, while you continue to battle it out with more people. The game can capture a decent 
 amount of moving enemies at one time, usually about a half dozen. The frame rate dips a bit at 
 that time, but it doesn't affect the gameplay at all. The animations are crisp and awesome to watch. 
 Watching Travis swirling the light saber around before beheading an enemy never gets old, and feels 
 like watching a Star Wars movie. The enemy AI is obviously weak, as you have to come right into 
 view before they see you and attack, and they don't fight good to top it off. It looks stupid, 
 but doesn't affect the game that much. The only real problem with the graphics is the pop-ups, 
 which can hurt gameplay at times. You can see it while driving through the city, and it's quite 
 a shame on Wii hardware. One particular type of battle hurts, and that's when you have to bat a 
 baseball thrown at you and hit the people lined up in front. Because of the pop-up, you usually 
 can't see the ball until it's right on top of you, making it annoying, though still easily possible. 
 The customization to Travis is a welcome addition. You can find plenty of T-shirts, buy jackets, 
 pants, belts, etc, and get some of the best looking ligh sabers/beam katanas ever (move over Star 
 Wars) .
  
  The sound effects are well done in the game, and obviously the katanas sound like light sabers 
 from Star Wars. It all blends in to be funny and satisfying, especially when you cut an enemy down 
 the middle and he's screaming "My spleen!" while on the ground with the sound of light saber bouncing 
 off of steel. The voice acting is good, but the enemies can be repetitive in what they say. From 
 Travis's immature thuggish voice, to Sylvia's French-accented taunts, to the video game store clerk's 
 Latino voice, it all comes together well. The remote speaker is used well for Sylvia call before 
 battles, and sounds similar to the calls made in missions in Red Steel. The music is decent for 
 the action, but nothing when listening to your enemies' blood-curling screams of pain.
  
  Probably the second best aspect of the game is its story. Brilliant, hilarious, vicious, random, 
 insane... all could be used to describe it. The characters are bloodthirsty and crazy, and there's 
 little room for most of them to develop... because Travis slaughters them like chicken in the fast-food 
 industry. Aspiring to be the world's best assassin (or to get in bed with Sylvia?) , Travis fights 
 his way up to the top, slicing his opponents to pieces to give them their "paradise". It's hilarious, 
 and creepy for some characters like your master, but it gives the game a great attitude that it 
 would miss if it had less sexual themes. The Star Wars jokes are great, and so is Sylvia's regular 
 pep talks before battles. An interesting twist at the end tops it off, but it keeps growing in 
 insanity from there. 
  
  No More Heroes is one of the best accomplishments on the Wii to date. There are no games truly 
 like it, and little violence on the Wii, so those of you looking for some blood, you'll get all 
 you want for years in this game. It'll take you a bit over 12 hours, maybe more if you keep doing 
 missions, your first time through, but this is the type of game that is worth playing through a 
 second time. Definitely worth the $50 for any Wii owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sai-lucard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Highly addictive gameplay, great characters, funny as hell dialogues and unforgettable combats 
 make "No More Heroes" one of the finest games Ive ever played. 
  
  Being an Otaku and a Lucha Libre fan myself, I enjoyed the spicy wrestling moves, the many japanese 
 figures in Travis house and I LOVED the 
  bonus cards containing luchadores masks.
  
  The little "jobs" you can get in the game are like funny simple minigames that will give you something 
 else to do besides chopping people in tiny little 
  pieces (which is also very fun) . The slot machine feature, and the different special powers it 
 gives, fill the combats a unique versatility. 
  
  The bosses are colorful and joyful characters that will represent a new and harder challenge as 
 you keep going through the game.
  
  The graphics are appealing and seductive, and the excesive amount of blood in the game would make 
 Quentin Tarantino to blush providing the game of some awesome funky looking kills.
  
  For all those reasons and many more, "No More Heroes" should be a MUST in your Wii Game list.
 
  
  Hell, I hadnt had such a great time since Chrono Trigger! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  The sad fact is the Wii is deprived of original triple-A third-party efforts. Zack & Wiki remains 
 the one exception. Now make that two. No More Heroes is Suda 51's latest directorial effort and 
 it's easily his best outing. Combining the absurdity and style that Suda 51 games are known for 
 with solid gameplay makes No More Heroes a great way to kick off the new year.
  
  If you've played Suda 51's previous games, like Killer7, you should have a good idea of what to 
 expect in terms of how off-kilter it can get. For everyone else, grab a seat. No More Heroes takes 
 place in the fictional California city of Santa Destroy and you assume the role of Travis Touchdown 
  a gamer and otaku who is now totally broke. So, he takes up a part-time job to kill "The Drifter". 
 Wielding a beam katana that Travis won in an internet auction, he accomplishes his task and unintentionally 
 becomes the eleventh ranked assassin of the UAA  United Assassins Association. A sultry femme 
 fatale, Sylvia Christel (who works for the UAA) , offers Travis the option to defend his title and 
 eventually climb to the top. Travis willingly accepts and the bloodshed begins. It's a bizarre 
 premise no doubt and everything mentioned above is capped in a five-minute intro, so it might be 
 a lot to take in. However, the benefit of this is that you're thrust immediately into the game, 
 and that you'll get to the combat all the more sooner.
  
  Combat is in a couple words, fast, stupidly violent and immensely satisfying. You'd think a Wii 
 game that uses a sword for combat will relegate swinging to arm-shattering waggle, but Grasshopper 
 wisely maps it to the A-button. Instead, motion comes into play when you're about to initiate the 
 final blow. Once you whittle down the punk's health, an on-screen arrow pops up, telling you which 
 way to swing your remote. The result is a hilariously awesome crimson shower, with flecks of gold 
 and silver coins that conveniently warp into your coffers. And after every death blow, a mini-slot 
 machine will play in the bottom of your screen. Get three of a kind and you'll net one of five 
 awesome power-ups that let you wreak devastatingly satisfying havoc for a small period of time. 
 Bone-crunching wrestling moves are also at your disposal; once you stun an opponent, you'll be 
 able to grab the clown and an on-screen indicator will again tell you which direction you have 
 to swing your remote and nunchuck. The only drawback is that you won't initiate the mini-slots 
 with wrestling moves, but the benefit is that the enemy is open for a quick death.
  
  The combat initially seems simplistic, but its complexities reveal themselves and even become almost 
 mandatory as the game progresses. Mastering the circle dodge is easily the most important things 
 you'll learn, as it'll prove to be invaluable during the last stretch of the game and in the many 
 side-missions. Still, it remains simple, with its various subtleties being optional (though it'll 
 make life easier) . So, what ultimately makes the combat fantastic is because of how visually frenetic 
 it is. Every hit carries a satisfying "oomph", what seems like lightning bolts flash across the 
 screen and every kill is just so bloody beautiful that there are times when blood overwhelms the 
 screen, making it impossible to see what the hell you're doing. It looks absolutely amazing and 
 jaw-droppingly stylish that, even when you realize you're hammering the A and B buttons over and 
 over again, it really doesn't matter. The combat's just too fun.
  
  The other third of the game however, is hit-and-miss. After every ranked match, you must pay the 
 entry fee to get into the next rankings match. This means you'll take up some weird part-time jobs 
 and minor assassination gigs to pay up. The part-time jobs range from picking up coconuts to washing 
 the graffiti scum that infect the city walls. These are definitely fun and are a nice change of 
 pace, but they're one-time affairs for the most part; you probably won't want to do them again. 
 You'll probably have more fun doing the assassination gigs. The missions have variables like, using 
 wrestling moves only or better yet, a hundred-man kill spree that will send your framerate into 
 a nosedive (that's a good thing) .
  
  The city of Santa Destroy is an open world, so you'll get from point to point on your slick Schpeltiger. 
 The driving is sketchy, not because the Schpeltiger is unwieldy, but because of wonky collision 
 detection. You'll bump into cars that you clearly haven't made contact with, accidentally wipe 
 out because you could've sworn the park bench was out of harm's way and very rarely you'll get 
 your bike stuck, with the only solution being to call for it again by running a great distance 
 away from it. These are relatively minor issues, but issues nonetheless. For the most part though, 
 driving around the city is actually fun once you learn how to do the various motion control tricks. 
 The city itself is quite small, so getting to your destination can take less than a minute once 
 you become a skilled driver.
  
  It does pay to actually stop by the few buildings that you can enter, though. They're mostly there 
 to upgrade your stats, learn new wrestling moves and even net new beam katanas that have their 
 own unique animations and strengths/weaknesses. Traveling on-foot also has its own rewards; the 
 backalleys have trash cans that you can kick open for some really stylish digs, and the titular 
 lovikov balls that you can give to a Russian drunk will grant you invaluable abilities for both 
 combat and on-foot travel. And there's your motel, where you can change your clothes, take a dump 
 to save progress and even play with your super-cute cat, Jeane.
  
  The star of No More Heroes, though, is the ranked matches. Besides the fact that it's here when 
 your combat wits are put into full use, the assassins themselves are great characters. From the 
 bloodthirsty, bat-wielding psycho chick to the fifty-something hag that carries around a shopping 
 cart that duals a destructive laser gun, they're all very weird, bizarre and ultimately memorable. 
 It's a shame they're given so little screen-time, but every moment of their existence is stock 
 full of sharp writing, slick cut-scenes, excellent voice acting and tough battles. And it's worth 
 mentioning that Touchdown is one cool assassin, too, even if he can turn into a bloodthirsty monster 
 just like the other ten. He's a great protagonist, and his simple goals and motivations prove to 
 be endearing.
  
  And last but not least, No More Heroes brims and eventually floods with style. The 8-bit inspired 
 interface, flashy combat, kick-ass cut-scenes and slick (really, really slick) load screens has 
 the Grasshopper touch. The 99 t-shirts throughout Santa Destroy will also inspire treasure hunts, 
 because these are really worth getting. It's hard to believe Grasshopper came up with all the designs, 
 because they're good enough for retail. The game also makes numerous references to movies and games, 
 like Back to the Future and Duke Nukem Forever that keeps things care-free and funny, making No 
 More Heroes all the more charming. The game in general has an oddball sense of humor; sometimes 
 it's blacker than night and other times it's just straight up funny.
  
  The visuals have a lot to do with the style. The art design has a pseudo-realistic/cel-shaded look 
 that looks quite nice for the most part. The framerate has a tendency to hit the low-twenties when 
 more than two goons meet their fate at the same time, but it accentuates the violence, strangely 
 enough; it's like an unintentional slow-motion effect. The game looks its worse when you're cruising 
 around in Santa Destroy; the framerate is never consistent (or its consistently low) , pop-in is 
 a common occurrence and it generally isn't very interesting to look at. Overall though, the visual 
 package is still quite strong and much of that has to do with the outstanding art direction.
  
  The aural package, on the other hand, is practically flawless. Grasshopper's previous audio 
 works, like Killer7, were masterfully done, so it shouldn't come as much of a surprise. The voice 
 acting is terrific across the board and the sound effects, like the 8-bit beeps and bloops, will 
 evoke moments of nostalgia for older players. The Wii's speaker is utilized well for the first 
 time ever; the low hum of the katanas sound great on the low-quality speakers and the phone calls 
 you receive from Sylvia are great touch, and the low-quality speaker quality makes it sound like 
 a actual cell phone conversation. To top it all off, the soundtrack is unique and positively great. 
 Special kudos to the simple, melodic tune that plays whenever you're in combat with generic thugs; 
 it never ceases to be catchy, no matter how many variations of it plays in the background.
  
  No More Heroes should take around 10-15 hours, depending on how much exploring you do. Once 
 you reach its mind-blowing conclusion, No More Heroes is easily the best third-party effort on 
 the Wii and one of the best January games ever. The combat is satisfying, the challenge is high 
 and Suda 51's writing and stylistic choices make No More Heroes one hell of an original action 
 game, by any measure. This is what happens when a team of developers ignore outside influences. 
 When a developer doesn't take the market into consideration, when a developer doesn't conform what 
 is perceived as sensible, when a developer doesn't give a crap about what you think. That's when 
 games like No More Heroes happen. Pick this bad boy up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkthemaniac
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  Twilight Princess's controls, in my opinion, were pretty crappy. The waggle interface the the sword 
 was driven on wasn't fun to use. Enter Goichi Suda, a punkish game developer with a predisposition 
 to the deranged. He says that waggle doesn't make good gameplay. With this in mind, he makes a 
 game so crazy, so absolutely demented that it will make Hannibal Lector cringe. Welcome to Santa 
 Destroy, No More Heroes, and the best mature game on the Wii.
  
  The story is pretty bizarre in itself. You play as Travis Touchdown, an anime geek that has watched 
 too many decapitations on TV, who happens to come across a beam katana (You can't sue, George Lucas!) 
 being soldon eBay. He then buys it, as I'm sure most of us would. He then begins his journey to 
 the top of the UAA, or United Assassins Association, by killing the top ten assassins in order.
 
  
  The story wouldn't work for crap if it weren't for one very crucial thing: the characters that 
 it encompasses. Travis Touchdown, hands down, deserves the best new character award this year. 
 He's perverted, twisted, and hilarious. The dialogue between him and his foxey Russian contact 
 at the UAA will make you laugh until you cry. This is not an understatement. The dialogue is superb, 
 and while the voice acting is crazy at times, it's all great and fitting.
  
  The combat in this game, however, is the shining star. When I learned that you don't swing the 
 lightsab..... beam katana..... by swinging the Wiimote, I was very distraught. Let me tell you now 
 that this game may have the best swordfighting controls yet on any system. Basic attacks are done 
 via the A button, but your attacks vary depending on if you're holding the Wiimote upright or flat. 
 Also, you can hold down the B button to perform a charge attack. Regular B is your melee attack, 
 but when someone's stunned, it acts as you grab. all of Travis's grabs are wrestling moves, and 
 you learn more throughout the game. If you get someone down to low enough health, you are told 
 to swing the Wiimote in any of the four basic directions, which will result in a killing blow. 
 These killing blows, in all seriousness, might be the funniest part of the game, which sounds very 
 demented, but you have to see it. You either decapitate them, cut them in half across, or, my favorite, 
 halve them from head to toe. Either way you do it, you'll get a catastrophic amount of blood to 
 shower in. It really puzzles me how this game got through Jack Thompson's reach, with the amount 
 of blood in it. Maybe it works like this: if you have enough blood, there's no way anyone could 
 take it seriously, so it goes by. Maybe Manhunt 2 should have taken that to heart. Anyways, the 
 combat is fluid and joyous, and while it may be repetitive, it's still good fun, and is a great 
 throwback to the beat-em-up days of yore.
  
  The next great aspect here is the boss fights. You fight a mailman that shoots lasers out of his 
 crotch. Satisfied? The combat here takes alot of skill to get down, and will see you changing stances 
 on the fly quite often. It works marvelously. Also, the wonderful characters apply here as well.
 
  
  The one drawback is the overworld. The only time you spend here, really, is going from mission 
 to mission, and to find Lovikov balls, which get you upgrades. You can also go to the gym, weapon-maker, 
 video store and clothes store to make your guy all the sweeter. There are texture pop-ins a lot 
 here and poor collision detection, but these will only affect your enjoyment of the game if you 
 play the game like GTA. This is not a clone of GTA in any way and shouldn't be treated thusly. 
 Other than that, the game looks great and has a great retro style, as well as clean, cel-shaded 
 graphics. 
  
  With it's great control, characters and dialogue, and with a hefty amount of blood, you'll be sure 
 to enjoy this one. This game plays to the mantra of "Creativity over technical prowess" at every 
 turn, and it has the creativity to back it up. It's one of the most unique games in years, and 
 is worth every penny that it costs. So, in the words of Travis Touchdown, "If I get to the top, 
 will ya do it with me?" Well, that's pretty irrelevent, but anyways, it's one of the best games 
 you can play in the new generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BJesse
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a GREAT Wii game for adults! Very retro gaming feel to game, but with updated gameplay 
 and ideas. Combat is visceral and satisfying and bosses are just the right challenge and not "cheap". 
 Odd, very Japanese feel to game and extra goodies are cool! Very unique and a must play game for 
 long time video game players, Do not expect fancy graphics, they are about ps1 level, but this 
 adds to uniqueness of the game. Sounds and music are great and are a mix of retro sounds and new 
 music. Odd side jobs- mow grass, gas up cars, pick up trash , just adds to cool weirdness of game. 
 - So I am 5th best assasin in the US, but i have to pump gas to earn extra $$ and earn rep to open 
 assassin missions ? Loony but fun and addictive!
  Great use of Wiimote and nunchuck. You attack with "a" button and swing control to do finishing 
 moves, kick with "b" button to stun enemies then use b button to grab them and move nunchuck and 
 wiimote to execute wrestling moves. the cool part is that the moves you need to execute show on 
 screen and you mimic those quickly to execute special moves.
  Good use of speaker in Wiimote, your "boss" call you before each boss battle to taunt you and ask 
 you if you need bathroom break (you save game by sitting on toliet and taking a dump) and asking 
 if you need to pop any blackheads etc - the cell phone call comes thru on wiimote speaker.
  Instead of palying a sequel or a popular game clone, give this a shot. You will not be dissapointed!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianack96
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  No more heroes is an amazing, humorous, and goary masterpiece. It fits for the wii. It would not 
 be good on one of those good graphic consoles like PS3. The story to this game is hilarious. Maybe 
 you can call it great. When you beat the game there is an extra end thats one of the funniest things 
 I have ever seen. The graphics to this game are pretty good if you like cartoons. How ever you 
 need to have a good wii sensor bar and remote during play. This game has a very hard time picking 
 up signals. You might want to sit next to the tv or else it will get stress ful. Other than that 
 the gameplay is very good. This game is a game that you should buy, not rent. Hope you enjoy it. 
 g g g g g g g gg gggrg t grt gt grt gt rg h yh y juj u juy j hy hy hy h g tg 54g 5g 5h 5h 5h 56 
 h54 y 6 hyh tylktlkh tylkh lh ylhliojgok egjktehmtk ehkyhykhoyklh moklyokhyklhy mhlkyhmyoklh myekhmyok 
 ehmykelhmykl y oy yr o yrioe o4 io4 54 32 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abstract_Choas
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  At first glance No More Heroes appears to be a beat em' up done with cell shaded graphics. But 
 it is oh so much more. Your name is Travis Touchdown and your on a mission to become the number 
 one assassin in all Santa Destroy, and oh what a mind captivating journey it will be. The fighting 
 controls could not be done better, definitely does not abuse the wiimote, but rather utilizes it 
 perfectly. 
  
  There is so much to be said about the Boss fights, these fights are what truly make No More Heroes 
 worth Playing. 
  
  On the other hand the overworld of Santa Destroy does not have much to boast, it is really a bland 
 excuse for a city. Finding tee-shirts in dumpsters and digging up hidden treasures in pretty much 
 the extent. You can do some really repetitive and remedial tasks through the job center, just to 
 make a few extra bucks, but really your assassination missions are the best place to get the money. 
 But in order to unlock more assassination missions you have to do the part-time jobs.
  
  all in all No More Heroes is the mature title to own on the Wii, the excessive use of blood, gore, 
 sex, violence and cussing make it a definite no-no for younger kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afriendofnayru
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is an excellent title for the wii, as well as a breath of fresh air. The game is 
 different and addicting. In the american version, the blood, heads, and severed body parts flying 
 about were amusing, but at the same time it's extremely violent. For someone of a mature age, it's 
 quite amusing, and not the slightest bit disgusting. You also can customize your character, and 
 pay dues by doing honest side jobs. The replay value is high as well. The game comes with an easy 
 and a medium difficulty unlocked, but if you defeat it, you get to play it on a harder difficulty 
 with tougher enemies and tougher boss levels. No More Heroes is definately an overnight classic, 
 and the cutscenes are priceless. If you like games that leave you wondering what the hell was going 
 on, you're in for a big treat! Other than the fact that some of the bosses seem to be real easy, 
 this game is perfect. The gameplay seems a little bit repetitive as well, but any game you encounter 
 out there is going to be like that if you truely review and analyze it. I recommend going out and 
 buying it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunar52
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  I bought No More Heroes on Saturday (February 8th 2008) and I had no idea I was in for 14.5 hours 
 of game play in just 2 days. You may think, "Hey that's olny 2 days so It's not worth it." Well 
 you are wrong. I'm actually playing my second play-thru right now! It's the replay value of this 
 game that makes it a must buy.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  
  The graphics are so artistic and anime-ish which I love. It isn't about how technical they are, 
 because they aren't. It's how much style is put into this game. The shading is awesome, the 8-bit 
 style of maps and menus is awesome IMO. I just love it so much. Some people may not like them but 
 I really do! The only flaw is that the frame rate gets a little bit slow at times.
  
  Game Play/Controls: 10
  
  Game play and controls is what makes this game so f'ing addicting. 
 I really can't stop playing at times. When I first bought this on Saturday I played for about 7.5 
 hours because I just couldn't put the damn Wii Remote and Nunchuke down. Yesterday I played for 
 another 7.5-8 hours because I just could not put the controls down.
  
  Sound: 9.5
  
  The sound in this game is awesome. It has a lot of new sound effects mixed with 8-bit stuff. It's 
 incredible. I can't say anything else. Oh and when you get a call from Sylvia you have to put the 
 Wii Remote up to your ear like a cell phone which is really cool. But sometimes the sound can get 
 a little bit staticy which is the only flaw.
  
  Value: 10
  
  This game has amazing replay value. It's the game play and controls that keep you wanting more.
 
  
  Overall Score: 9.5
  
  No More Heroes is a near perfect game but with a few sound and graphic flaws it keeps it from being 
 a perfect 10. Don't let that stop you from buying this extraordinarily amazing game.
  
  Thank you for reading my review.
  
  -Lunar52 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broncosfan375
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  You enter a room and turn your beam katana on. Suddenly you are surrounded by enemies. The only 
 thing to do is fire up your sword and slice their heads off. This is No More Heroes for the wii, 
 and it is one of the best out there. No more heroes is an action game that puts you in the shoes 
 of Travis Touchdown, a would be assain who wants to be on the top, and the only way to get their? 
 Kill all of your competition. The story isnt to plot worthy but you still get it. The developers 
 didn't hammer on motion controls. Which is a good thing. The controls for fighting are perfect 
 and if they make sequels to this game they shouldnt change it. This is an open world game that 
 takes place in Santa Destroy. Its a beauty to look at. The cell shaded graphics make this game all 
 the better. The crazy side jobs and assasin jobs are fun. This game also has an excellent sense 
 of humor. Their is also collectibles and upgrades and stuff like that. Overall this is one of the 
 best wii games out their. With its great gameplay excellent sense of humor, i have no other choice 
 but to give it a ten out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spleenm
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  What to say about this game... first, I thoroughly enjoyed it. It's the video game the movie Kill 
 Bill vols I & II would have been with copious gratuitous blood splatter and wailing complaints 
 about your enemies' spleens. It gives the Wii some gritty teeth and something to break out of the 
 mold of mushroom castles and puffy clouds and really puts the unique control set the Wii has to 
 offer to good work.
  
  Graphically, it is not the greatest graphics or interface ever. The programmers got a little lazy 
 on physics and clipping, but it only occasionally irked me as something that could have made the 
 game a little better.
  
  It's strong point has to be an intriguing storyline that presses your chase to be #1, with bits 
 of adult humor spattered inbetween. Each boss-battle is unique in story and execution and I definitely 
 found some 1-1 matches I didn't expect and looked forward to finding out what was next each time. 
 The free-missions, on the other hand, do get a bit monotonous if you have to grind out some cash, 
 but I do give credit for the options between assassination/kill missions and civilian-type missions 
 that do have a unique touch. 
  
  This one is probably one to rent. I did myself and it was well worth my money. I hope you enjoy 
 it! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cabbs02
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 10, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is good, to say the least, but it is so glitchy. Driving is just impossible so i just 
 collected the balls and got the ability to run. The bike cant turn for you know what and it just 
 randomly jumps. You can take down a pole or a tree, but if u run into a fence you've gone too far?
 
  
  Onto combat, its the same thing over and over again, even with the powerups, which are relatively 
 fun, but it seems i always get them on the last guy. The wrestling moves are pointless, u cant 
 even get a powerup from them.
  
  The minigames are ok... they get really boring really fast. The side missions are always in the 
 same place. I can tell they didnt have alot of ideas for the side misions. They were always in 
 the same place, and many repeats such as "kill till u die".
  
  This game should NOT be for the wii. They should have made it for the 360 and added alot better 
 combos and GTA style, steal cars and anything else drivable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodlay
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes was created by the company that brought you the flashy Killer 7 for the Gamecube. 
 This game accomplished what it mainly wanted to, flashy graphics and gameplay, but it was not really 
 a strong game overall in my opinion. So with a similar type of game on the Wii by the same company, 
 its the same old story, right? Well im glad to tell you that, that assumption is brutally wrong.
 
  
  The main character of No More Heroes is Travis Touchdown, a gamer and a former professional wrestler. 
 He meets a woman named Sylvia who convinces Travis to kill this assassin, and it turns out when 
 Travis does this, he becomes the 11th ranked assassin in the country and he has to continue fighting 
 so he can become number 1 and so he won't become the hunted. Travis lives in Santa Destroy, this 
 is basically your overworld that you will go from mission to mission in, its where you'll buy new 
 clothes for Travis, new weapons and upgrades for his sword, and its where you can access side jobs 
 and go to the gym and work out to up your stamina and strength.
  
  Santa Destroy is a big and open city, the problem is, is that there isn't that much to do while 
 you're driving around, every street looks the same, you'll pass by the same 5 or 6 cars and the 
 same pedestrians walking across the street. The framerate will also drop a lot while you are riding 
 around. The entire game has a whole Grand Theft Auto feel to it, its just a shame that the overworld 
 doesn't as well.
  
  The best thing about No More Heroes is the fantastic and intuitive combat. You use the A button 
 to swing the sword, and you can tilt the remote upward or downward to do high or low attacks. The 
 B button is used for kicks and punches. If you daze someone from a kick or punch you can then press 
 B again to grapple the enemy and Travis will return to his wrestling days and use a wrestling move 
 on them. As the game progresses he will "remember" his more complex moves. The Z button is used 
 for targeting and lock-on, the lock-on system works extremely well and you can strafe around enemies. 
 The D-pad is used for dodging, this works extremely well when you are locked onto an enemy then 
 you can dodge and strafe around them to hit a sweet spot.
  
  But this is a Wii game, so you ask, where are the hidden mini-games in the combat? Well, there 
 are some, but they are used very cleverly and wisely. When you are about to kill an enemy, the 
 game will go into slow motion and a direction will pop up on the screen, this is your queue to 
 swing the Wii remote in the direction corresponding on the screen. This will give the enemy a devastating 
 finishing blow. It also applies to wrestling moves, except you use the nunchuk as well. I cannot 
 explain how satisfying the combat is. The over the top gore and words that are used in this game 
 will just blow your mind, in a good way.
  
  The cut scenes are done fantastically well and the game tells a solid, unpredictable story. The 
 graphics have a cel-shaded look to them and the game pulls off the look well. However, the framerate 
 does have some serious problems and when faced with many enemies on screen at once, the games framerate 
 will drop extremely fast. The game has a lot of unpredictable humor in the game and if you aren't 
 old enough, you probably won't pick up on it. The dialogue is great, and at some times hilarious. 
 The different assassins that you will be meeting on your journey are all completely different, 
 and they are all fantastic. They all have different abilities and tactics that they will try to 
 use to kill you.
  
  So while thats all fantastic and good, there is one thing that will drive you crazy when trying 
 to grind out the cash to be able to access the next ranked fight : irrelevant side-jobs. These 
 side jobs include lawn mowing, filling up cars with gas, capturing poisonous scorpions, erasing 
 graffiti from street walls, and yes, rescuing adorable cats. They are fun at first, but they get 
 old fast, and you'll want to get back to cutting off heads, fast. There are also killing side missions 
 but these are fine, and they fit the games pace well.
  
  I could go on and on about the amazing characters, fantastic combat, fantastic cut-scenes and the 
 crazy dialogue and story, but the fact of the matter is, this game is a must play. Everything is 
 just absolutely ridiculous and over the top and thats what makes the game original. There is nothing 
 like this game out there right now, except maybe the other crazy games that Suda 51 has made. While 
 No More Heroes isn't without its fair share of short comings, its amazing and satisfying combat, 
 interesting and great characters, solid graphics and music make it a must play for anyone with 
 a Wii.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever heard of Suda 51? No? Wiki him. For those of you who have, you'd know just what kind 
 of whacko this guy is. He's a story teller that likes to tell stories in his games with a very 
 bizarre and colorful visual style, with about as much blood as the Hoover Dam holds water. Killer7 
 -Suda 51's previous work on the GameCube and PS2 - was just an inkling into what his mind is really 
 like.
  
  Enter No More Heroes for the Wii. Continuting the same crazy cel-shaded visual style chock full 
 of more detail, a brand new story is born, pumped up with much more substantial gameplay this time 
 around. You play as an assassin by the name of Travis Touchdown, a man who seems to have a penchant 
 for pornographic films, and an absent mind for returning them. 
  
  Porn isn't the only thing he's into. He's into killing. A lot. In fact, his weapon of choice is 
 a beam katana, reminiscient of a light sabre, that he won off an Internet auction, and he wants 
 to use it to become the number one ranked assassin in all the land.
  
  Let's back up a bit, shall we? Slyvia Christel, a very stunning and intriguing woman, meets our 
 hero Travis in a bar, and offers him a very interesting proposition: a chance to enter a tournament 
 of assassins with the possiblity of becoming number one. Travis obviously can't seem to keep his 
 focus off Slyvia's curvaceously toned body, and makes a move, only to be slapped, and promised 
 that if he becomes number one, he'll have a shot with her. So, lots of killing and then getting 
 the girl in the end? How's an assaassin supposed to say no to that? So our hero ventures off to 
 fight the 11th ranked assassin, and he has to kill all sorts of brainless katana fodder to get 
 there. 
  
  The game puts you in a brief training mission to get acquainted with the controls and combat system 
 before letting you continue on. If you think you're going to swing your katana by waggling the 
 controller all the time, it's not really quite like that. Instead, you press the A button to do 
 your simple attacks, and then Travis will start executing a combo. At the end of the combo, an 
 arrow will flash on screen, and that's when you'll swing your remote accordingly. If you're doing 
 a vertical slash, you'll cut right through anything infront of you, and if you do a horizontal 
 slash, you'll mince up everything around you. Each finishing slash you do will be adorned with 
 massive blood sprays followed by plumes of blood as the bodies vaporize into a crimson mist. Oh, 
 and there are showers of coins, too.
  
  Coins? Yup. Each enemy you kill nets you a little pocket change. What's also crazy is that there's 
 this whole kinda... sorta .. slot machine thingy that spins around each time you off a baddie. 
 If you happen to match up some symbols, the screen wil become dark, you'll then go into a berserk 
 mode aptly called Dark Side. There are differnet kinds of Dark Side modes, and they're dependant 
 on what kind of symbols you match up. One Dark Side will have you launching sonic projectiles at 
 the enemies, while another one will have you moving at light speed. One such Dark Side will flash 
 button icons on the screen where a press of each button will deliver a grissly one hit kill. Dark 
 Side will last you until you this big cat on your screen reaches a goal line, but there seems to 
 be a tendency of Dark Side turning on right when you kill the last enemy in the area, meaning there's 
 a lot of times where this mode is completely wasted.
  
  The action's also not as straightforward as tapping A and then swinging the remote. Your enemies 
 like to block a lot, and to get around this, you can raise or lower your remote to go into a high 
 or low stance and counter their defensive positions. You also have a stunning manuever, which will 
 then allow you to keep slashing unabated, or you can grab them and perform a wrestling take down 
 by moving the nunchuck and remote to the corresponding on-screen arrows (and you'll be able to 
 learn, find and purchase more moves, by the way) . Then, while they're laying broken on the ground, 
 follow it up with a lethal ground attack and that's that.
  
  All this senseless killing is a build up to the game's most promising aspects: the boss fights. 
 Just as with Killer7, they are inventive, intimidating, stylish and just damned cool. Their character 
 designs are so awesome and unique, you can easily see them belonging to some obscure anime film 
 burried under a pile of more bland movies that for some reason are more popular. They're also very 
 well voice acted for that matter. 
  
  When you're actually fighting the bosses, the gameplay really gets fired up. It's old-school hardcore 
 action here, which means it's all about analyzation, pattern recognition and lighting-fast reflexes. 
 They are all very engaging fights, and you manage to survive and win, you're treated to an awesome 
 closing cutscene of Travis having one last talk with his target while he dispatches them.
  
  What lay inbetween all the fighting, though, is unfortunately not that exciting. The world 
 of No More Heroes is set in the city of Santa Destory, and is an open-ended environment much like 
 that of Grand Theft Auto. However, instead of paying homage to the aforementioned sandbox franchise, 
 it seems more akin to a high-schooler's computer programming project that he should have spent 
 his weekend on instead of blowing it on playing Grand Theft Auto.
  
  Why's it so bad? Bad controls, bad collision detection, dull city life, and ugly, ugly graphics. 
 True, No More Heroes isn't about roaming around Santa Destroy, but considering this city is a hub 
 for everything you have to do that leads to the next fight and the fight afterwards, it plays a 
 larger part then you would think otherwise. To enter the next ranked match, you have to earn money 
 for an entry fee, and you get that money from doing oddball part-time jobs and assassination missions, 
 and this means you have to endure this really crappy gameplay facet for several gameplay hours. 
 It's just unexcuseable, because it comes off so half-assed, it feels like it was just tacked on 
 to really make you appreciate No More Hero's fighting scenes that much more.
  
  There's stuff to do around the city, though, if you really are of the machochist sort. You can 
 collect Lokivov balls, which in all honesty, is actually encouraged, because for each seven that 
 you can collect, you can bring them to a drunkard who will grant you a new ability or power up, 
 one such being a dash move that allows you to sprint around whenever you don't have your beam katana 
 out. You can also hunt for buried treasure, or dumpsters that will yield you a few dollars, or 
 t-shirts Speaking of clothing, the game's also got loads of clothing for you to buy to customize 
 Travis. The downside to that is the store doesn't seem to have enough glasses, jackets, jeans or 
 belts to match the ridiculous amounts of t-shirts they offer.
  
  It doesn't need to be said that Suda 51 chose to go with a more artistic approach when it came 
 to the game's visual appeal. It's not a pretty game at all, technically speaking. However, it is 
 a slick looking game from a stylish prespective. As said earlier, there is more detail and textures 
 to the graphics than there was with Killer7, however, the fluidity seems to have suffered as a 
 result. There are a few framerate issues that occur when you have too much going on at once. Still, 
 the overall style of the game more than makes up for the graphical shortcomings, and the old-school 
 8 bit-esque presentation of the game's menus and interfaces really enhance the game's individuality.
 
  
  The audio of the game fits right in with the visuals. The sounds of the beam katana being swung 
 around, the visceral slashes and the cries of agony of the fallen enemies, the peeling of rubber 
 from your overgrown motorcyle as it rears up on wheelie to take off like a rocket when it drops 
 back down. It's all just well down, and helps get you into the game. It also deserves mentioning 
 again that the voice acting is spectacular. For a game of this nature, the voice acting could have 
 run the risk of being too cheesey but all in all, it was nailed down well. 
  
  The music is also pretty enjoyable. The only drawback is that there's one track that tends to get 
 overused too much for the fighting parts of the game, even when another level is using a different 
 arrange. Fans of the Japanese music groupd Genki Rockets will recognize their hit song "Heavenly 
 Star" in the game's stores, however, it's the only licensed piece of music used, which is a letdown.
 
  
  The Wii doesn't get that many must own games that come from developers other than Nintendo, but 
 No More Heroes is definately one of the exceptions to the rule. Not only is it the best action 
 game currently on the Wii, it's one of the best action games of this generation. It's just a crying 
 shame that the open-ended overworld side of the gameplay had to feel like such an afterthought, 
 because it really doesn't compliment the amazing fighting segments of the game. Still, great use 
 of the nunchuck and remote along with a kickass main character, slick visual style, a few twists 
 and turns in the game's story, and some of the best boss fights in recent memory, No More Heroes 
 is a game that simply must be played by all fans of the genre. How in the world will Suda 51 top 
 this?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evanhaines
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Finally, this is what the Wii needs. I'm so sick of seeing this "Sonic and Mario at the Olympic 
 games" or "My Sims". This changes all of that "Wii isn't hardcore" crap. Better than Galaxy, in 
 my opinion.
  
  Graphics: Nice cel-shading. The graphics are very stylized, you'll love em' or hate em'. I think 
 they look pretty nice, for the Wii, but overall it is too dark. The graphics are too heavily shadowed, 
 which gets kind of annoying. Very colorful, when you're out of the shadows. As gamespot said though, 
 camera can be an issue (especially on one boss fight) and frame rate does get pretty crazy at some 
 parts.
  
  Gameplay: This is why this game is so great. The general button-mashing seems simple at first, 
 and it is, but eventually it is very strategic, especially when fighting masses of enemies. My 
 favorite thing about this is the wrestling moves, you swing the Wiimote and Nunchuck in the same 
 (or different) directions to do "Lucha Libre" style moves. The real defining factor of this game 
 for me is the boss fights. They are extremely epic and generally pretty fun (cept' for Holly Summers) . 
 This game is pretty easy on Mild (Medium) , haven't tried it on bitter. Worst part is having to 
 repeat side missions and assasinations. That is really annoying, and I can't beat those free-fight 
 missions even with my character twinked out.
  
  Story: This is a crazy story. Without spoiling too much, at the end, there are many twists thrown 
 at you, especially if you get the "real ending" (I did) . The characters are engaging and funny 
 (see Destroyman) . They didn't go overboard with the story, but they did make it way better than 
 expected in an action title (I thought Zack and Wiki would have a good storyline, it sucked) .
 
  
  All I can say is, get this game if your parents would let you. It is rated M, super gory and violent, 
 especially when you kill bosses. Also, tons of swearing (F*** you, ya little prick) . Don't worry 
 about the sexual themes, unless you haven't really been exposed to that stuff before. He does collect 
 pornography, although it is a minimal (at best) part of the game, just when a video rental store 
 asks you for movies back (69 positions part 2, for instance) . GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-XZ
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft's No More Heroes for the Wii is original, fun, and has one of the most original storylines 
 I've seen yet for a Wii game. You play as Travis Touchdown, an average otaku from Santa Destroy, 
 California, who one day wins a beam katana from an online auction, and suddenly gets thrown into 
 a journey to kill the 10 best assassins to become number 1. First of all the controls are near-perfect, though 
 it would have been better with more motion control IMO, and the battles against the other assassins 
 are pretty fun, yet can be a bit fustrating at first depending on your patience. The game also 
 ends with a hilarious ending (And no, I won't spoil it) . The only big downside to the whole game 
 is that there isn't a lot to do in Santa Destroy other than to increase your health and abilities, 
 which you'll might need in the near-end of the game. Another slight downside is that the game is 
 a little bit on the short side (20+ hours at the least) . All and all, No More Heroes is a very 
 enjoyable game, and I reccomend it to anyone who enjoys ultra-bloody, over-the-top violence with 
 a side of humor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFoogyX
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is a hard game to describe. Despite its simple nature, there really has never been 
 a game quite like it before. Suda 51 likes to push boundaries with his games, a lot of the time 
 that ends up with his games being ignored by the mainstream (Killer 7 for example) .
  
  N. M. H is a fantastic action game. The action is hilariously gorey and the combos are surprisingly 
 fun to pull off, even if you're not a big fan of the Wii's motion controls. You'll spend most of 
 your time tearing your way through lackeys just to get to the next boss battle, which are easily 
 the best parts of the game. The bosses require strategy, and are the real sources of challenge 
 in No More Heroes. Each boss has their own unique personality, which I find really makes the game 
 interesting. (Suda 51 loves his twisted characters)
  
  The main "hero" of the story is Travis Touchdown, and he's sort of Japan's way of poking fun at 
 us Americans. He collects anime action figures and is constantly hitting on girls in the lamest 
 ways. For such a "mature" action game, it has a lot of very immature dialogue, but luckily it stays 
 pretty fresh and funny throughout the game.
  
  No More Heroes should have been a much shorter game. There's a lot of filler here that really wasn't 
 necessary. In between battles you'll find yourself doing meaningless repetitive tasks (shake tree, 
 pick up coconut, deliver, repeat) just to earn enough money to be able to fight the next ranking 
 battle. 
  
  Also, the "free-roaming" aspect of the game isn't very fulfilling. The map is small, and the times 
 when the game makes you go from point A. to point B. seem like they're just sending you across 
 the map to increase gameplay time. In fact, almost everything but the action sequences feel like 
 they were tacked on to lengthen the game.
  
  In Conclusion:
  No More Heroes is great fun. It's funny and action packed in a way that isn't cliche. However, 
 it is my personal opinion that it should have taken the Shadow of the Colossus approach- and by 
 that I mean removing all the filler content and making the game basically a string of boss fights.
 
  
  I can easily recommend No More Heroes as an exciting gaming experience, but I could've much more 
 easily recommended it without the fluff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2upmoon
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  No More Heroes was just one of those games I was randomly searching through gamespot and found. 
 I am very particular when it comes to my games. I am a big legacy buff (Zelda, Mario, half life, 
 etc) but I saw this game and I thought "hmmm it looks like a fun little game to keep me occupied 
 for about a week". And that is exactly what it did.
  
  The game itself is really short, and once beaten you cannot make a different choice at the end 
 if you want. I never figured out if you could have multiple files so my friends could play without 
 playing my file. Riding around town on the ridiculous motorcycle got pretty old pretty fast. I 
 also didn't like when I was hacking up 100s of people, every single person you killed would say 
 the same thing before they died (MY SPLEEN!!) in which got severely annoying.
  
  But for the goods, it was an awesome game to say the least. It utilized the wii controls exactly 
 how they should have... A. A. A. A SLASH! The special abilities you get when you get 3 of a kind in 
 the slots are priceless, along with what Travis says when you get them (strawberry cheese brownie!!) . 
 The boss fights were incredible and they gradually got harder as the game progressed. There were 
 plenty of twists. Money was always really tight through the game but that is better than in such 
 a game like GTA where you have like unlimited money to do whatever you wanted. The different beam 
 katanas were what kept me going. One of the beam katanas was one with 5 beams on it... now how awesome 
 is that? Anyway, the graphics were amazing in a sense it was like an old arcade game. They werent 
 shooting for intense graphics like all other gaming companies are doing these days. The comic book 
 feel the game gave to the player was entertaining to no end and that is what video games are all 
 about. 
  
  All in all I believe this game is your STANDARD video game with some really awesome and unique 
 elements thrown in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMonthlyDaily
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt the best action game on the Wii, and one of the very few to achieve an "M" rating. 
 This is a must-have for any Wii owner, to share those revered spots on your shelf for Mario Galaxy, 
 Twilight Princess, Metroid Prime Corruption and Resident Evil 4. Hilariously over the top fight 
 sequences are some of the most unique movesets I've seen on a video game, ranking up there with 
 the mechanics of the 360's Assassin's Creed. And, unlike Twilight Princess, the sword play doesn't 
 rest entirely on the Wii-mote's motion sensors, giving the combat a much more controlled feel to 
 it. With the Wii's lackluster lineup, No More Heroes is a most welcome addition. It fits perfectly 
 with theme of unique gameplay the Wii is known for, if not for it's family-friendly lineup. If 
 you enjoyed the action of games like Metroid, Zelda and Resident Evil, you'll probably enjoy No 
 More Heroes... just be sure to realize that it's not a game meant to be taken as seriously as those 
 other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waelzleb
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Let me first say, that no matter how much I praise this game, it's a love-it-or-hate-it title. 
 You're either going to "get it" or not. There's nothing wrong with not "getting it," but this game 
 was definitely made for the Otaku in us all, and it's a trait far more prevalent in some than in 
 others.
  
  That said, No More Heroes is another assassin related title from director Suda 51 (that's go-ichi, 
 not fifty-one) . At its core, it's a hack and slash with some unique Wii controls. But it really 
 is so much more. It's a pile of pop culture references, a pseudo-sandbox game, a comedy, and a 
 collect'em all.
  
  Travis Touchdown is the quintessential anime fan who actually becomes an assassin after winning 
 a beam katana (it's not a light saber) in an internet auction. He meets Sylvia Christel in a bar 
 one night, and agrees to kill "the drifter". After completing this task, he's told he is now rank 
 eleven in a list of the top killers-for-hire. Naturally, he decides to start working his to the 
 top. Why? to earn money for video games, to face a challenge, and to have a chance at bedding Miss 
 Christel. The game is not short on laughs, straight through to the end, with numerous references 
 to Killer7 and Star Wars as well as other things only the Otaku in you will recognize. There are 
 crazy plot twists, and of course, the game is not too proud to poke fun at itself. That's not to 
 mention the completely off-the-wall cast of characters Travis will meet and face off with on his 
 quest for the number one spot.
  
  During the mission segments of the game, high or low stances can be taken depending on how the 
 Wii Remote is held, and the attacks Travis performs differ between the two. After beating down 
 on an enemy enough, the screen will prompt you to slash in a certain direction to execute a death 
 blow. For some reason, I found these death blows to be as satisfying as a three course meal. There's 
 just something great about being able to split a thug in two, the long way. Every time you pull 
 off one of these deathblows, slots will run at the bottom of the screen, if three like images line 
 up, Travis enters "Darkside Mode" and yells out the name an attack from his favorite anime, usually 
 resulting in temporary invincibility and lots of dead enemies. Top all this off with pro-wrestling 
 moves, and the combat is one of the best parts of the game. 
  
  When you're not adding to body count, you're given the freedom to search Santa Destroy, where you'll 
 find money and t-shirts in dumpsters, along with some side missions, odd-jobs, and places to build 
 your strength. These include Thunder Ryu's gym, Beef Head videos, Dr. Naomi's garage, as well as 
 the clothing store, Area 51.
  
  The graphics in No More Heroes are decent at best, and really not the game's strong point. There 
 is a visual noise effect present most of the time when running around in Santa Destroy, as well 
 during some missions. The music is very catchy though, and there's a very entertaining song just 
 before Travis takes on number nine.
  
  In the end, it's hard to say whether or not I can really recommend No More Heroes. I can tell you 
 how awesome I think it is, but it needs to be experienced to be understood. I would say this game 
 is a definite buy for the anime junkies out there. If you were looking for a GTA clone on the Wii, 
 you should probably rent this first, because you won't get a GTA experience out of it. If you ever 
 thought it would be cool to take on the life of your favorite anime character and slice dudes up 
 in what is one of the most off-the-wall situations imagined, get this game, you won't be disappointed. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: psyball
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  The creator of the Gamecube's politically charged cult hit Killer 7, comes around on the Wii this 
 time with a action packed, punk styled, final fight style game. No More Heroes is a substantial 
 step up for the casual gamer who didn't appreciate Killer 7's Heavy concept and simple gameplay. 
 The game is packed with violence, sexuality, language, and more violence, but it still seem to 
 retain alot of the style that fans loved about Killer 7.
  
  The gameplay in NMH is really what is going to be drawing in gamers on both sides of the love it/ 
 hate it response Killer 7 got. Its really the kind of game that any one can just pick up and go 
 with. The gameplay is both rewarding and satisfying as well as it is fun just to button mash. Players 
 will be rewarded with gallons of blood for each kill they make and its really a driving force that 
 will just make you want to do it again and again. The boss fight improve on this even more so and 
 really create a great battle atmosphere. I wont get into the technical schematics suffice to say 
 the Grasshopper studios makes good use of the Wii's controls.
  
  The story in NMH is also a great example of how Suda 51 made this a more wide audience kind of 
 game as well as staying with his original style. The story is generally funny, simple, and weird 
 on the surface which will appeal to most gamers not really interested in deep involving plots. 
 At the same time there is quite a bit of symbolism, theme and depth if you are wiling to look into 
 it, not as much as you got with killer 7 but its still pretty good.
  
  There are several blemishes on this otherwise great game that i would like to point out though. 
 The graphics suffer a few minor glitches and problems, but its nothing to be considered ugly. The 
 free roaming aspects of the game also are probably not as well done as they could have been. There 
 are plenty of moments outside the heat of battle in the game that can feel tedious and dull, such 
 as the side missions. While quirky, they just don't cut it for making fun and interesting breaks 
 during the main game.
  
  It will probably take about 12- 15 hours to get through the game, and if your anything like me 
 you'll find plenty of replay value in Suda 51's latest game. other than some minor problems, No 
 more heroes really is a good game and if your looking for a more mature title for your Wii, I would 
 recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZabuzaR
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  
  The story of this game is very unique. You play as an otaku who wins an online auction for a beam 
 katana. After he wins this he meets a girl by the name of Sylvia Christel at a bar. Being low on 
 money he accepts a job to kill a "drifter" (aka Helter Skelter) . After killing him he earns rank 
 11 of the UAA (United Assassin Association) . His goal is to be the number 1 assassin of the UAA, 
 while fighting weird and mysterious assassins on the way. The story is very interesting with some 
 good twists and turns at the end of the game. Having you Beg for more once you have beaten it.
 
  
  Graphics:
  This is what I think is somewhat of the lowest point of the game. The graphic design is beautiful 
 and well designed but the edges are pixilated as hell. The anti lasing of this game could be a 
 lot better. Not to mention this game suffers from poor frame rates from time to time annoying some 
 people on the way. Overall the graphics are not that bad for the Wii.
  
  Sound/Music:
  
  This game's sound is perfect and flawless. There nothing else to say about it. And the music 
 in this game is very catchy, and there is a huge variety. This is one of the top Wii games when 
 it comes to music.
  
  Game play:
  
  The game play of this game is fun. Starting with the combat I would say its almost flawless. The 
 controls are simple. You use the nun chuck attachment to move Travis and the Z button to lock on. 
 On the Wiimote you have to use the A button to attack. Once the health is down you perform awesome 
 finishing moves by swinging your Wiimote in a direction it points you to on the screen. The B button 
 is used to kick your opponent (can perform this in the middle of an attack combo) and stun him. 
 Once you stun him you can press the B button and swing the nun chuck and Wiimote in the direction 
 it shows to perform awesome wrestling moves. When your katana is out of energy you have to press 
 1 and swing your Wiimote from side to side to charge it. Guarding is easy as it is done automatically 
 for you when you are locked on. The only complaint I have about the combat is that it can get hard 
 from time to time and it gets a little repetitive over time. 
  
  Between missions and odd jobs you can travel around in your bike around Santa Destroy. There is 
 really nothing to do but to collect these balls to turn in for more abilities and find cards to 
 collect (on New Game+) . The bikes controls are just as easy as combat in the game.
  
  The odd jobs come in various ways. You can accept assassination missions or accept part time jobs. 
 During the part time jobs you do various takes like collecting coconuts or filling up cars with 
 gas so you are never bored doing different jobs all the time.
  
  When you earn money from assassinations and part time jobs you can spend them to train Travis, 
 on cloths, upgrades weapons, buy new weapons, to pay for your next ranked fight, and on videos 
 to learn more wrestling moves. So you always have something to save your money up for.
  
  The overall replay of this game was good. If you beat the game you can replay it with everything 
 you had previously and unlock new cards to collect. With these cards you can view a lot of concept 
 art, adding a good amount to the replay.
  
  Overall:
  
  Other then the few flaws in the graphics this game is one of the best out on the Wii so far. So 
 if you are a more mature Wii gamer then this is a MUST have to your Wii collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhawk256
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  "****head!"
  
  This is the first word out of the main character's mouth in No More Heroes for the Wii. That's 
 right  the Wii. Mature rated games do exist on the console, regardless of how hard Nintendo tries 
 to maintain its family-friendly image. And in the case of No More Heroes, some of those Mature 
 games are actually quite good.
  
  Travis Touchdown (quite possibly the most hilariously absurd name for a main character in anything, 
 ever) bought his working light saber through an online auction, watches old pro wrestling tapes, 
 and has fetishes for anime and porn. Not exactly a knight in shining armor.
  
  And yet, Travis himself comes off as one of the coolest video game characters in a long while. 
 He's brash, rude, merciless, and rides a kickass motorcycle. Nothing in his mind can stop this 
 supposed member of lower-tier society from becoming the number one ranked assassin in the world. 
 All just for the opportunity to bang a hot chick.
  
  Grasshopper's previous last-gen effort, Killer7, elicited mixed reactions from critics for being 
 more of a convoluted, artistic political statement than a game that was fun to play. Clearly, the 
 developer has taken such criticisms to heart, because actually playing No More Heroes offers sensations 
 of delightful brutality and stylish action.
  
  The primary method of attack is the beam katana, which Travis wildly swings about as players mash 
 the A button. Wait - why can't players attack with the light saber by using the Wii remote's motion 
 capabilities? Fear not  once an enemy's health is depleted, players must finish them off by swinging 
 the remote in the direction displayed on screen, resulting in glorious fountains of blood and coins.
 
  
  And those coins are extremely necessary; Travis cannot compete for the next assassin rank until 
 he coughs up enough cash for the entry fee. Since he's generally flat broke, players have to earn 
 dough by completing missions around town. Some involve combat, but sometimes he must perform hilariously 
 mundane tasks like collecting garbage, mowing lawns, and pumping gas.
  
  Actually doing these side jobs involves an unnecessarily complicated routine of driving around 
 the city, entering buildings, accepting the job, then driving to a completely new location. Worse 
 yet, if players fail an assassination gig, they must drive all the way back to the job clerk just 
 to restart it, then drive back to where they were before.
  
  Navigating the city of Santa Destroy is the weakest link of the game. Riding Travis' motorcycle 
 is fun enough, but the game encounters seriously jarring framerate problems outdoors. The city 
 is simply a means to an end, a hub world for buying upgrades and accessories for Travis. It's also 
 embarrassingly devoid of cars and citizens; no one will mistake this for a Grand Theft Auto game 
 any time soon.
  
  Scrub enemies offer little to no resistance, so the highlights of No More Heroes are the duels 
 against the ten other ranked assassins. They're all long, tedious, pattern-based, and at times 
 unfair, yet each encounter is enjoyable for their sheer style, and each assassin is a memorable 
 and unique character. Try fighting a guy with explosive bullets in his guns, or a demented magician, 
 or an old granny that fires a mile-long laser cannon from her shopping cart.
  
  The graphical style of No More Heroes draws directly from Killer7. Texture quality is minimal, 
 but hard and flat shadows help the game look unlike anything else on the Wii. All of the auxiliary 
 features like menus, the HUD, and certain sound effects are obvious tributes to the 8-bit era of 
 video games, with large square pixels dominating the aesthetics.
  
  And finally, the game is just plain weird. Bathrooms serve as save points, and players literally 
 watch Travis take a dump while toilet paper covers up his family jewels. When his beam katana runs 
 out of juice, he recharges it by making very suggestive thrusting motions with it. (And so does 
 the player with the Wii remote!) Maybe it's weird just for the sake of being weird, but playing 
 No More Heroes is bound to make players crack a smile once or twice.
  
  There's something oddly captivating about No More Heroes. Once the novelty of a Mature-rated game 
 on the Wii wears off, the bloody satisfaction of the gameplay kicks in. Some faults like the framerate 
 are unavoidable, and not everyone will take to the constant 8-bit references and abstract art style, 
 but No More Heroes is a bloody good time, and quite possibly the best pure action game on the Wii 
 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunter8man
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I had been keeping up with No More Heroes ever since it was announced. I loved Killer 7, but I 
 never thought Suda 51 had a good sense of style. But I was gladly proved wrong with No More Heroes. 
 Suda 51's newest foray into his surrealistic world of games manages to be trendy, fun, and a huge 
 shout-out to the old-school style of gaming. 
  
  The first negative I'm going to go ahead and get out of the way is the graphics. While Suda 51's 
 style of visuals is very eye-appealing, it really doesn't look much better than Killer 7. However, 
 this is one very minor setback that doesn't detract from this game at all.
  
  The sound however, is very good. A mix of rock and old 8-bit bleeps and boops is a perfect complement 
 to the game. The rock parts could've been a bit better, but it's another minor setback. 
  
  The controls are only slightly disappointing in the fact that it doesn't let you mindlessly wave 
 the Wii Remote around when chopping and slamming your enemies. This didn't bother me in the least. 
 It's simple, slam on the A button until you get a prompt to wave your remote in the direction of 
 the arrow. We then get a tremendous spray of blood each time. The wrestling moves are fun to pull 
 off as well. 
  
  This game is an absolute blast to play. There may not be as much strategy involved as there was 
 in Killer 7, nor is the game as devious, but it's damn fun and Travis Touchdown should become very 
 well known after word gets out about this one. You owe it to yourself to play at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dunestar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  Normally whenever you think about an M-Rated game for Nintendo, usually Capcom's Resident Evil 
 series springs to mind. However, I'm happy in saying the cliche mold has been broken with Ubisoft's 
 No More Heroes.
  
  Produced by the same guys who did Killer 7, the tale sounds a bit like something collaborated by 
 Tarantino with a bit of LucasArts thrown in for good measure.
  
  The game starts off with you as Travis Touchdown, defeating some unknown boss called Helter Skelter, 
 earning you an upped ranking among several top assassins.
  
  But the clencher is, Travis never imagined being signed up for this nonsense. Apparently what happened 
 was, our okatu-former wrestler (yep, though his body and apparel don't show it) happened to be 
 browsing the Internet, when he won a Beam Katanna (NMH's version of a Light Saber) and got mysteriously 
 recruited by an organization called The Associate.
  
  Sylvia Christel happens to be Travis' temporal contact, who explains to Mr. Touchdown just exactly 
 what he's gotten into. Sort of a bizarre version of Fight Club meets Kill Bill so to speak. Naturally 
 Travis wants to be No. 1, and get better acquainted with Sylvia, so he regardlessly accepts the 
 challenge.
  
  First off , you'll notice something about NMH over most fighting genre games. In this one rather 
 than just have Travis go and beat the top assassins in order, he has to cough up the dough for 
 the entrance fee. Apparently Santa Destroy doesn't believe in free lunches, nor free battles, so 
 our boy, Travis has to go round performing odd jobs from mowing yards to killing a 100 guys to 
 earn enough scratch for the next battles.
  
  However if that was all to NMH, I doubt it'd be getting great reviews. Santa Destroy has plenty 
 things for Travis to do than just earning money for death matches. Area 51 lets him purchase clothing 
 for his outfits, Beef Head is a gaming/rental store where you can get videos to earn new wrestling 
 moves. Thunder Ryu Gym allows you to enhance your strength and abilities, not to mention a bar 
 where a Russian guy will enable you with new techniques in exachange for Lovikov balls (don't ask) .
 
  
  Then you have Dr. Naomi's Lab where she can upgrade your weapon to where it has a better reach, 
 find treasure and can save energy.
  
  Yeah, another thing, unlike Skywalker's weapon, the Light Beam Katanna has a limited power source 
 indicated on the right side of the screen. Whenever you attack something other than flesh, or use 
 a charged attack, it diminishes the energy, which you have to recharge by waving the Wii Remote.
 
  
  Now onto the crazy stuff, Travis can either transverse Santa Destroy by foot, or his motorcycle, 
 Schleptiger (which he can call for if his destination is too far by walking) . And you can find 
 treasure by either hitting trash bins (earning you a shirt or cash) , listening to the sounds of 
 the Lovikov balls (slight rising tone) , or feeling the vibrations of your Wii Remote and using 
 your weapon for unearthing hidden loot.
  
  But for more expedient ways for earning moola, Travis can go to either the Job Center or K-Entertainment. 
 For the first time round, you'll have to go to the Job Center and accept the first job of collecting 
 coconuts. Yes, I said 'collecting coconuts,' but I promise the jobs get more interesting each time 
 round. After performing the job, your employer will 'register' you with K-Entertainment. Here's 
 where it gets interesting. K-Entertainment deals with assassination missions, ranging from murdering 
 a CEO of a pizza chain, to random killing sprees for cash.
  
  After you earn about enough for the entrance fee, you can deposit the amount at the ATM, then go 
 back to your hotel (aptly named 'No More Heroes') where you can get your assignment, change your 
 outfit, play with your cat, and save in the toilet. Afterwards you can either head out to your 
 boss fight, or decide on earning some more cash.
  
  Boss Fights are rather intriguing because when Travis accepts their challenge, you see their name 
 and then their silohouette. Naturally as you head for them, you have to fight cronies who hopefully 
 want to kill you before you reach their boss. Along the way you can find treasure in the form of 
 rare wrestling cards or cash, as well as health and battery items.
  
  One unique discovery I found out here at this point is, before reaching the boss, Travis will receive 
 a call from Sylvia. Except you hear her voice not on-screen, but from the Wii Remote speaker itself. 
 Meaning you have to put it up to your ear to listen to her sage advice.
  
  Then you're given the option of saving and recharging yourself before the battle. Bosses range 
 from a demented superhero wannabe, Destroyman, to a spoiled brat with a penchant for going Joe 
 Pesci on everyone, Bad Girl. 
  
  Making things a bit more interesting, you have to determine the best course of action against each 
 boss, since they battle very differently each time, and they're not going to let you just take 
 them down without a fight.
  
  In fact, some bosses resort into tricking Travis into thinking their guard is down. Beware, if 
 you attempt in falling for their 'fallen warrior' trick, it could mean instant death for Mr. Touchdown. 
 But here's what I like about NMH over most fighting games: when defeated, you DON'T go back to 
 the beginning of the level! Nor are you penalized for losing the fight, you still get to keep your 
 earnings if you go back to your hotel.
  
  Overall, I liked No More Heroes because this is one of the rare Mature games you can really get 
 addicted to, mainly because it's just fun, and it does pack in some quirky surprises within the 
 game itself. Such as the ranking indicator after a fight, and a hidden minigame you unlock while 
 going to fight one of the Assassin Bosses.
  
  The attitude and flavour give the illusion you're sort of playing a cliff notes version of GTA, 
 which would've been fun if Travis could wail on cars and people, but he can run some down with 
 Schleptiger. Yet, I fear that might've detracted from the real purpose of the game itself.
  
  My only beef I had with the game was really not the gameplay but the fact you do get into some 
 loading and software issues with the Wii. With all the Third Party games I've had, none have made 
 the Wii sound like it's about to overload, and I noticed with Destroyman, if you jerk the Nunchuk 
 during his falling cutscene, the game tends to freeze. But other than those minor setbacks, No 
 More Heroes is definitely a game worth checking out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: caossbr
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  in this game you play as Travis Touchdown, who want to be the assassin number 1 because of Sylvia.
 
  
  in the game you can do rank missions to go up in the rank
  part time jobs, assassination missions, and free fight missions to earn some money
  
  you can 
 free roam in Santa Destroy (odd name) with your bike too; buy some clothes (unfortunaly, it only changes 
 the color, except some pants, wich changes the model too) ; training in thunder ryu to improve strenght (a 
 bit) , combos and life (a bit) ; buy some video tapes to learn new wrestling moves and buy some new 
 beam katanas and parts to upgrade them.
  
  innovative and stylish gameplay (ok sometimes it is boring) , the boss battle is great, each one with 
 unique skills, and -SPOILER-some you dont need to fight to defeat them or just complete something-SPOILER-
 
  
  the game has a very strange history, and some fun movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is SUDA 51/Grasshopper's first next-gen game, and for those of you who are familiar 
 with Killer7, you'll know just what kind of crazyness to expect. No More Heroes is flawed, but 
 is also one of the most quirky, stylized, and all around memorable games you can buy.
  
  STORY - You play as Travis Touchdown, a cocky punk who signs himself up to be an assassin after 
 a few too many drinks. Travis is determined to become the number one assassin in Santa Destroy, 
 and to be such, the 10 other top assassins have to be taken down.
  GAMEPLAY - No More Heroes is two parts on-foot action, one part driving, and one part mini-game 
 madness. Each one of these parts ranges from superb to pretty bad in gameplay.
  The mini-games come in the form of jobs that you have to take on in order to get enough money to 
 buy your next hit contract. The mini-games usually come in the form of mashing buttons, or carefully 
 timing button presses. While these mini-games are fairly basic, and might get old after a while, 
 thanks to some merciless time-constraints, they can get pretty frantic as you try to get as much 
 cash as possible.
  The driving in this game is easily the worst part. You get a free-roaming world, but there's really 
 nothing much to do IN the world except to go from level to level, there's almost no interactivity 
 (save knocking down trees, and people) . But even worse, the bike that you use doesn't even handle 
 well. The collision detection with other vehicles and buildings is pretty bad (as the hit-boxes 
 are bigger than the actual objects) , and the bike is also a bit too sensitive to crashes, and you'll 
 find yourself flying off your bike quite a bit.
  But, of course, where the game really displays its greatness is in the on-foot combat. The combat 
 has a surprising amount of feature for how simple it is. You only use the A button, B button, shakes 
 of the Wiimote, and the Z button during combat, but you can pull of everything from attacks, executions, 
 blocks, lock-on, stuns, area attacks, and wrestling moves all with those few buttons. One thing 
 that I particularly liked about the combat system (which most may not like at first) is the fact 
 that your basic attack centers around the A button, and once you get your target down to almost 
 no health, the game will pause and prompt you take shake your Wiimote in a certain direction. This 
 all in all feels much more rewarding than just simply shaking the Wiimote throughout the entire 
 fight does. 
  At the end of each action segment, you'll encounter a boss. Each boss has extremely quirky, and 
 crazy personalities and the conversations between them and Travis at the beginning of each fight 
 are hilarious. Each boss fight is great, too. They all have their own patterns and weaknesses, 
 but it's the overall presentation of these fights that make them one of the game's highlights.
 
  Travis can also chill at his apartment, giving you the opportunity to save, restore your health, 
 customize his clothes, watch TV to learn new wrestling moves and... play with your cat, which doesn't 
 really do much.
  
  GRAPHICS - No More Heroes at times seems awesome in how artistic it is, but at other times seems 
 like the graphics style was implemented out of sheer laziness. Where the game looks great is during 
 the closed levels, all the environments, and models are detailed, and the color pallets look great. 
 Where the game doesn't look too great is within the open world. In the free-roam environment, the 
 models (especially cars and pedestrians) look pretty bad, and the buildings all have very similar 
 color pallets, and in addition there's also a huge draw-distance problem. No More Heroes is graphically 
 great overall just because of its awesome style, but in the free-roaming world, you can see some 
 big flaws in the engine.
  SOUND - No More Heroes has good sound. The voice-overs and music are appropriately over-the-top 
 and cheesy. The sound effects are also very good, and there are great Wiimote sound effects, but 
 some sound clips (i. e. enemies' dieing yells) are repeated quite a lot.
  
  VALUE - No More Heroes will take you a fair amount of time to beat (maybe 12 hours) , and is surprisingly 
 repayable, due almost fully to the awesome assassination stages, but there is also plenty to go 
 around and collect.
  
  TILT - No More Heroes is a great game all in all due to good mini-games, superb combat, a quirky 
 story, awesome characters, good sound, and fairly good value. But, it's not without it's flaws, 
 as the graphics in the open-world suffer quite a bit, and the driving in the open-world is pretty 
 bad. But, all in all this is one of the (if not THE) best action game on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3geogo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is definitely a game you want to play, but unfortunately, it gets a little slow 
 towards the end of the game. I won't give away any of the ending or boss fights, except that they 
 are some of the best I have ever had, but unfortunately, there is little in between the bosses, 
 which equals one quick finishing game. I'm not saying that it is a bad game, but it just seems 
 a little to quick to finish. The blade system could not be more perfect though for a game like 
 this, but unfortunately, some of the blades seem to make the game almost too easy. The fountains 
 of blood do add for some blurry moments, but that luckily adds to the action and quick thinking 
 skills needed to overcome some fights. I would give this game a go, if you're old enough, but I 
 wouldn't get your hopes too high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockuto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  I was never really big on the whole "Grand Theft Auto" genre games, but this one is by far one 
 of the best games I have ever played. The controls are really easy to get used to. Its not a constant 
 slash where you wave your Wiimote all over the place in all sorts of directions. The only actual 
 Wiimote slashing is for the finishing moves, which by the way are bloody cool. And bloody like 
 literally, not me trying to be a British guy. 
  
  The side quests are fun and simple enough to not get bored of them. The only problem is that you 
 have to go super far just for the mission and then if you get a low score and want to do ti again, 
 you have to drive all the way back to office where you signed up for it. To me that was just a 
 waste of time going back just to came back to the same place you wanted to go to. Make sense?
 
  
  All in all, its an awesome game. I called literally 20 different places to get this game and it 
 was well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most violent games of the wiis games. Manhunt 2 is a violent game but some things 
 about this game will make you scream awesome. This game is not perfect, graphics are not well, 
 gameplay is the strongest point in this game, blood effects are cool but in some ways it feels 
 like they tried to censore the blood with coins flying out of the peoples bodies. This game does 
 get boring after the 4 first bosses. This game is extrememly repetitive, I don't care if people 
 say you think manhunt is perfect? Its so repetitive!! I personally like that style of game. This 
 game does its job in fun but it shouldn't be a free roam. Just let GTA stick to that because this 
 doesn't do it that good. I still enjoyed the game enough to give it a 9.5. Try this game out if 
 you want corny fun. Try this game game also if you need a new wii game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blixa999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I really am enjoying this game. Form the blood flying out with coinage, to the weird characters 
 you meet. (Take off your clothes now!) The free roam sees a bit uninspired, sometimes there's like 
 a car or two on the road and all it does it get in your way. but man you get going and start pulling 
 off sick combos and slice and dicing men with paper bags over their heads, whoa! Boss fights are 
 the most fun having to make you use different techniques and each Boss is a complete weirdo in 
 their own way. Some of the side missions are dumb, but again I think you get over that quickly 
 enough once you get to assainate people. Love the upside down board, is this a new Nintendo trademark 
 in games? Don't think this is worth it? Fine, but keep in mind if you're looking for a game with 
 M rating, what you gonna get? Nuff said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RouletteDares12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game when I first heard about it a couple months ago. I would say that 
 it meant almost all of those hopes. It is fast-paced, gory (a real emphasis on being cheesy though) , 
 funny, and just plain over the top. The controls are simple to learn and there is enough there 
 to keep you interested throughout. The story has yet to make complete sense to me, but its still 
 fun to hear the characters go on their rants about whatever the hell they think is going on.
  
  So far I only see two setbacks with this game. The graphics are not exactly next-gen in terms 
 of technicality. They make up for this in style though. Also, the game says that its free-roaming, 
 which it is. But the world kind of feels like a glorified menu. I'm not done with the game so maybe 
 there is something that happens later on to bring a little more life to it.
  
  All in all, this game is awesome. Play it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariamunchkin
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  So, I am really terrible at fighting/shooter type games. I was kinda hoping that No More Heroes 
 would be one of those rare games that because of the Wii's motion controls I might actually be 
 able to play it pretty well. Unfortunately, No More Heroes turned out to be the opposite, and after 
 dying before even finishing the first level, I let my brother take over, and he proceeded to make 
 my pale attempt at wielding the Beam-Katana look like a five-year old with a plastic lightsaber. 
 
  
  But I digress. No More Heroes is pretty cool. The style is very innovative, and works really well 
 on the Wii. It's like a modern-style shooter combined with the pixelated graphics of old-school 
 games. At first the graphics take some getting used to, the high-contrast, vivid colors, and retro-style 
 fonts and sounds can be a little distracting at first look, but after a while (when you actually 
 get to explore more of the world than the Not-Tony-Montana's mansion at the beginning) it grows 
 on you. The world is well-designed, and the retro-stylized menus, maps, graphics and symbols fit 
 in well within the world design, without being obtrusive. 
  
  The controls are simple. A button swings the Beam-Katana, which is kind of counter-intuitive for 
 me, after so much time playing Zelda, I wanted to be able to swing the remote to swing the Katana. 
 There are a few motion controls built into the basic fighting, the way you hold the remote affects 
 your stance and you swing in a specific direction to deal the final blows, but I really wish more 
 of the remote's motion capabilities had been used in the actual sword combat. (still, those final 
 blow moves are pretty sweet)
  
  You play as Travis Touchdown (which, I'm sorry, sound vaguely porn-starish) , the world's #11 assassin, 
 who upon discovering this fact via an attractive blonde french? woman, decides to accept her help? 
 to become the #1 Assassin in the world. You earn money by taking various assassination jobs, as 
 well as other random odd jobs, then use that money to enter the next ranked fight with the assassin 
 ranked above you.
  
  Those "?" that I threw in there? Yeah, the biggest complaint we had about No More Heroes is how 
 confusing the story is to follow. A lot of backstory is explained in the very opening sequence 
 (like, before you even start playing - the kind you don't always pay complete attention to) and 
 by the time I realized it was important, I had missed the whole beginning and the introduction 
 of the blonde french? lady. 
  
  The characters are strange, over-the top, and slightly irritating. They tend to talk a lot, quickly, 
 all with very different accents, and it becomes really hard to follow. My favorite moment was when 
 the remote started ringing like a cell phone, and my brother actually started to talk to it, like 
 he was really talking to the french? chick. (I was laughing) .
  
  From what I've seen so far, No More Heroes is a pretty neat game - not nearly on the same quality 
 level as some of the games in the same genre, and not just because of the graphics. It cannot be 
 denied that this game would have undoubtedly been improved by being rendered for a higher-quality 
 graphics system, like the X360 or PS3, but for what it is, they have done a good job of working 
 with the graphics abilities that are available on the Wii. So far, the story is pretty dull and 
 weak. Kill that guy, kill some more for money, Kill the next guy, etc. I have a feeling it probably 
 gets a little more interesting with time, but we shall see. Unfortunately, I don't know if I've 
 been drawn in enough to find out.
  
  There is a lack of explanation not only in relation to storyline, but also just control and item 
 wise, after the original tutorial of how to use the Katana you are sort of left on your own to 
 figure out how to work everything from there. Those two elements - story and control - are why 
 I would only rank the game at a 7.5/10 - with a little bit more explanation (in a less quick and 
 jerky manner) , this could easily be a 9/10 game in my book, but it is just too confusing.
  
  However, I ranked it at an 8/10, and that extra half a point is solely because you can actually 
 play with Travis's pet cat at the apartment, which provided us with several minutes of entertainment. 
 We need lives, seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  Right off the bat, you can tell that No More Heroes is a game that is very style oriented and does 
 not go for looking realistic. The characters designs both in art and personality, especially for 
 the boss fights are incredible and imaginative. The voice acting is excellent, the story is very 
 solid with a few "Screwy" twists. This is another rare gem on Wii that might become a cult classic. 
 It's a very bloody game with a great sense of humor. This game is also a somewhat of a parody of 
 videogame culture and a little bit of star wars refrences in their as well (I don't just mean by 
 the obvious beam Katanas looking like light sabers) . The violence in the game in terms of blood 
 and gore is handeld with a great sense of style and humor. Watching an enemy cut right in half 
 or seeing the top portion of his body go flying is kind of funny because it is so exaggerated in 
 the style. The combat might seem simple and repetitive at first but there is some depth to it and 
 it actually changes as you get stronger and get newer beam swords, wrestling moves, ect. I never 
 get sick of seeing a dozen enemies suddenly burst into a showery mist of blood and coins in one 
 final swing of the Beam Katana. 
  
  The game parodies video games by marking save points with a giant "S", giants chests and boxes 
 house "goodies"
  your destinations are giant exclamation points and Icons, the menu screen has a retro pixelated 
 look to it. And last but no least Travis Touchdown himself is a huge videogame and anime fan. There 
 are other refrences to videogames all over the game but this gives No More Heroes a charm that 
 only a gamer could understand. The game also actually "Breaks the fourth wall" a few times.
  
  The game is pretty well polished except for the city. Now, while I realise that the game wanted 
 to go for style rather tha realism, the city and some of the places in the game look really bland. 
 There could have been more work done in that area of the game. The city gives off a feeling like 
 it wasn't ready to be released yet. The motorcycle controls are kind of on the clunky side. And 
 the side jobs, while amusing and pay off in free Assasination side missions, get repetitive after 
 a while. I will say that while the time spent doing all of these jobs in between ranked assassination 
 matches are long and "a Chore", they are a good way to get around from place to place and they 
 make you appreciate the ranked missions more. Speaking of which, each time you encounter one of 
 these people it is entertaining just to see how weird they are. Each boss battle is a memorable 
 and unique encounter and the combat really shows it's true colors during these fighting frenzies. 
 Overall, I loved this game simply because it was a fun and wacky ride all the way to the #1 ranking 
 and I recommend anyone who wants a mature game but does not mind the crazy humor to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JayGonDS89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  Presentation: This game is jam-packed with style and attitude that is hard to ignore. From the 
 over the top cut-scenes, to the imaginative and crazy characters, No More Heroes sucks you into 
 it's wild world from the get go.
  
  Story: You play as Travis Touchdown, a ranked assassin, who just wants to be #1. You'll chop, dice, 
 and slice your way to the top, and there is no stopping you. You'll follow orders from the mysterious 
 Sylvia Christel, who calls you up after you've gathered enough money to enter the next ranked match. 
 It's simple. Get money. Deposit. Kill. And repeat.
  
  Graphics & Sound: No More Heroes isn't the best looking game on the Wii, but it sure packs a punch 
 with its unique style. The game has a realistic cel-shaded look to it and boy is it sweet. The 
 cut-scenes are packed with action and it just looks so good. When playing in the indoor environments, 
 the game plays smooth and crisp. Go outside and it's another story. The city of Santa Destroy suffers 
 from bad draw distance, unsteady frame-rate, and bland buildings, scenery, cars, and pedestrians. 
 The game is also buggy when it comes to crashing into walls and cars. Now for the sound. The game 
 has a really good soundtrack from what i remember. The theme-song for the game is catchy, and it'll 
 probably stay stuck in your head for quite a while. The voice acting in the game is pretty good 
 too. Sure, some of the accents get annoying as do the voices themselves, but it's varied and there 
 are some good performances.
  
  Gameplay: I'll just say this now, No More Heroes is a button masher (from my experience) . But it's 
 a damn good button masher. You basically hit your enemy repeatedly, and then you swipe in the direction 
 indicated on the screen to end your combo in a devastation finishing move. Everytime you kill an 
 enemy, they release money and then explode. With the money you can pay for the next ranked battle, 
 buy upgrades and purchase new clothing. Once you enter these ranked battles, you have to defeat 
 mobs of baddies, until you reach the ranked assassin. You kill him or her, collect your prize and 
 cash, and then move on to the next ranked match. In between these ranked matches, you will find 
 yourself exploring Santa Destroy. You can choose between side-jobs and assassination missions. 
 These are somewhat varied, but they do get repetitive after a while. Santa Destroy itself is pretty 
 empty and there isn't much else to do besides collect money, balls, and t-shirts. I wish that you 
 weren't force to spend so much time in the city because it takes you out of the experience you 
 have when in the ranked matches.
  
  Final Comments: Overall, No More Heroes is a fun package that seems a bit unfinished at times, 
 but it is definitely worth a rental or purchase if you can deal with some of its flaws. I would 
 recommend this to anyone who is in the mood for a good action game. Having played Killer 7, i can 
 tell you that this game is not for everyone. I personally loved Killer 7, so it was easy for me 
 to get into this game. In the end, you are left with a one of a kind experience that is truly a 
 one you wont forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samasora
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games i ever played but the only problem i would say is the controls for the motorbike. 
 The game is really about killing the other 10 assassins but to get the money to enter the next 
 match is what makes up alot of the time and you have to use the bike to go around the city. Well 
 you don't have to, you could walk but that would take a while. But thats the only thing other than 
 that it's a great game. The graphics aren't great but they are still good, plus it's the Wii it's 
 for having fun not looking great.
  The bosses are cool and fun except a few of the hard ones get annoying.
  The controls for fighting 
 are actually fun and not dumb like the controls for DBZ Budakai Tenkaichi 2. The kind of close 
 Grand Theft Auto like area adds to the fun. Plus it will please the older of the Wii gamers cause 
 it's rated M!!! Plus its funny and exciting you should get this by all means. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newsboy
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  The crude, comic book style graphics are hardly an appeasement to the eye. With simple, no-frills, 
 highly undecorated environments and an obviously J-class ensemble of merciless and goofy characters, 
 No More Heroes relies heavily on the pure insanity of itself to suck players into its world, which 
 is part Grand Theft Auto and part the R-rated version of Star Wars we all want to see where Chubacca 
 bites Bobba Fett's head off.
  The basic gameplay is simple. Enter an area, fight a mob of nameless, faceless goons and dismantle 
 the badass boss, which provides the game's only real challenge and also moves your character, Travis 
 Touchdown, further up a list of the world's top assassins.
  Travis is an interesting mix of things gamers traditionally like (women, video games, being a badass) 
 and a psychotic killing machine. His obsession with being the best and a seemingly untouchable 
 seductress is what catapults the story forward in bouts of often laugh-out-loud humorous dialogue. 
 Other than the many great and widely varied boss fights and a few brilliant side-missions, these 
 conversational cut scenes provide some of the best moments to be had in the game.
  The music is arcadey, in both style and form. Fast-paced kick-and-snare beats with a mild amount 
 of synth play along with fight sequences and hush whilst you are en route to the next brawl. The 
 voice acting is intentionally overdone and adds in no small way to the fact that you are in a world 
 far, far away from reality. In this regard, it is excellent.
  Controlling Travis is comfortable and the camera only gets in the way of the action once in a blue 
 moon. The motion sensing mechanics are gleefully basic which means you will never break a sweat 
 to achieve a specific maneuver. Happily, the variety and sheer entertainment value in performing 
 these moves will keep you doing them time and again without a hint of monotony.
  This game is not for everybody. If you don't fancy outrageous, carelessly evil stories and buckets 
 of deliciously fake bloodspray then skip this one. If you have a need for the zany and don't mind 
 something outlandishly gorey with a great, humorous story then this is the one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth-Samus
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  There's not much to say about how amazing this game is that probably hasn't been said. I will say 
 that it is a great story and uniquely put together game that excells through it's style. If you 
 accept the visual style and also accept the absudity of the kiss-my-ass attitude then you will 
 find a great "Mature" game. 
  
  The combat does rock the block even if it doesn't change all that much throughout. I never get 
 tired of it. Buying new weapons and upgrades does add moves to you repetoire anyway so it'll stay 
 fresh enough. The open world part of the game is deeper than some may think but at the same time 
 isn't very interactive. But that's not it's point. It is fairly large and there's enough to see 
 to enjoy it. There's also several secrets you'll find if you spend time on foot which will make 
 it all worth hte addition of it. The bike does control a little wonky but not terrible. It does 
 make the pop in pretty extreme but that's why I recommend on foot. Overall the game packs a solid 
 punch and so entertaining it's few shortcomings just don't matter. Genious. Play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwistyO
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Very cool. As cool as the other side of the pillow. As cool as a penguins ass. Cooler then a witches 
 tit. Enough already.
  
  This game dumps you in to a world of death and assassins and you never get out. With very eclectic 
 gameplay drawn from such games as GTA, and various button mashing adventure fighters, this game 
 delivers fun on a whole new level. The story is intriguing, but slightly not serious which makes 
 you happy to kill others, and not feel so bad afterwards. 
  
  The use of the Wii controllers is awesome. Not giving you that tiring waggle back and for the all 
 the time to swing your lightsaber, but instead utilizing the motion controls in other ways. (like 
 charging up your Saber, or lifting weights or using finishing moves)
  But what really blew my mind was the phone speaker, what a great way to use the Wiimote speaker, 
 it just adds to the game.
  
  I played this game for 6 hours straight upon opening it, which is hard to say about a lot of games 
 these days.
  
  Combing great stylized graphics, great fighting sequences, a nice GTA environment, but in no means 
 too deep or not necessary, this game is on the top of my list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Imagine Kill Bill mixed with anime, mixed with B-Porn (edited for TV) , mixed with the sex pistols, 
 mixed with ninja fighting light saber wielding craziness set in a grand theft auto type of world.
 
  
  Welcome to no more heroes.
  
  You take on the role of Travis Touchdown. The American Loser, Scumbag, horny online auction light 
 saber buying protagonist. Travis has only a few needs in life. One is to get in the pants of his 
 attractive fight promoter and the other is to be the #1 assassin. Well actually the only reason 
 he wants to be #1 is to get in the pants of Sylvia.
  
  Anyways the game is beautifully ugly. The fights are amazing. The blood splatters and flies. The 
 speed and execution is unstoppable. The wiimote becomes and amazing tool.
  
  It can be a bit boring to fight the small missions and mow lawns to make enough money for the boss 
 fights. But god are they boss fights worth it.
  
  The Final 3 fights alone are as memorable as any boss battle I've ever fought in.
  
  Anyways 
 if you are into crazy wacky revolutionary action games. you will love this game. I know i did.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: canderson85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic, one of the best games for Wii, and for mature games, THE best. Finally 
 a game that deserves a mature title and does it in style. However the graphics are lacking, The 
 character models look great, but the environment is in pretty rough shape, Haven't seen aliasing 
 this bad since GTA3 and the high contrast shadows just make huge areas look like black nothingness. 
 The frame rate also slows down a bit in big attacks however theres so much slow mo going around 
 its hard to really be that bothered by it. by the end your willing to look past all this. The story 
 is great, and the cut scenes own. then of course there is the combat which is just plain fun and 
 very unique. A word of warning, if you play this game the combat theme music will be stuck in your 
 head for weeks.
  
  "Sniper: If your run, you'll only die tired." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kansasdude2009
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is built around its boss encounters. Everything shines during these moments whether 
 it be the gameplay, graphics, sound, or even style. The rest of the game, however, fails to match 
 the style represented in the ranked assassination levels and suffers from technical errors that 
 worsen the experience. However, No More Heroes is a must buy for anyone looking for an outstandingly 
 unique title from the mind of Suda 51!
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Good:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
    Tons of in-your-face action that is a joy to play and very satisfying.
    Gameplay that is surprisingly deep.
    Unique Boss encounters.
    Some of the Best Cinematic 
 on Wii.
    Outstanding Character Design that makes you want to continue playing.
    Sleek presentation with plenty of nods to old-school games.
    Moments of great sound design 
 and all around fantastic music.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Bad:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
    Terrible textures create a muddy world.
    Some texture pop-ins, frame-rate slowdown, and other issues bog down the game a little.
    
 Overall linear design makes for a lot of repetition. 
    Enemies become an annoyance due to their lack of variety and annoying voice work. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gameplay: 9.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  There is a large variety of gamplay in No More Heroes, most of it having to do with your beam 
 katana. Swordplay in No More Heroes is fast, instinctive, and satisfying. The mechanics are surprisingly 
 deep when you add in charged moves, wrestling throws, dodge moves, high/low stances, dual battles, 
 and more. The pay-off, however, is the final blow done to your enemy. To perform this move, you 
 physically slash in a specified direction and watch your opponent slowly split in two as blood 
 and coins erupt from their deteriorating flesh. Satisfying, indeed.
  
  In the overworld of Santa Destroy, you will try to earn cash by picking up coconuts, mowing lawns, 
 and picking up trash. These are all fine and are a decent distraction from the rest of the game. 
 Other assassination jobs are available to you as well where you will go and kill a number of enemies 
 based on a specific rule given by the game, such as: kill as many enemies before time runs out, 
 use your katana as a bat and hit baseballs through as many opponents as you can, or kill everyone 
 without getting hit. Overall, these get incredibly repetitive and you will get angry when you fail 
 as you will have to back track to the place where you initially got the job. These jobs all earn 
 you cash and let you enter in the game's main event of killing ranked assassins.
  
  Ranked assassinations are the best part of No More Heroes, and is the reason why you will continue 
 to play. After a long spree of linear corridors where you kill everything in sight, you will get 
 to the boss of the level. Each has an entertaining and very well done cinematic. The actual fight 
 is unique to itself as each assassin has different attributes and styles. You will get a kick out 
 of each as they all have a distinct personality. Without ruining anything, let me just say that 
 you will love this part of the game.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Difficulty: Just Right
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game offers two difficulty settings from the start; sweet, and mild. I recommend mild to offer 
 you a decent amount of challenge. After you beat the game, a new difficulty is unlocked; bitter.
 
  
  Within the game, you will find yourself blasting through enemies as you attempt to finish the game. 
 When a regular enemy poses a challenge, it starts to get frustrating, which is a bad thing. The 
 regular enemies are fun to kill, but not as much fun to fight.
  
  Most of the challenge comes in with the ranked assassins. You will get hurt, and probably die at 
 some point as you will fall into one of their clever traps. You will develop strategies to kill 
 these assassins, and it as a blast to do so.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics: 6.5
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Though the game has serious style and some good art, the actual game can not be considered to 
 look good. "Jaggies" are everywhere, slow-down occurs, textures pop-in once in a while, and entire 
 objects will appear from nowhere. It is amazing that this game can do so little with graphics and 
 have so many issues.
  
  The game succeeds, however, in its (ranked assassin) character models, interesting ideas, and overall 
 style. The retro theme behind the game is undeniably cool and will bring on a few chuckles. The 
 ranked assassination locations are the best looking moments in the game as the game's style prevails 
 over everything else. There is some good lighting, but it is rarely seen except when blocking rapid 
 bullets from an enemies' gun. Again, it has a retro feel to it.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound: 8.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound design in No More Heroes is not a very dominant area of the game. The music is fantastic 
 where it is played, but there is little variety in it. It has a wonderful retro feel to it and 
 the actual compositions are quite good. In most of the game, the voice overs are either drowned 
 out or extremely repetitive.
  
  Once again, however, the ranked assassins have fantastic voice work and wonderful sound design. 
 The music that plays before, during, and after the battles are among my favorites in the game.
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  No More Heroes tries very little and succeeds at even less. Its overworld is technically and realistically 
 lacking, its side-jobs are repetitive, its overall design is linear, and its enemies are uncreative. 
 
  
  However, what matters is its gameplay. The game is undeniably a blast to play and a joy to just 
 experience. The characters alone are reason enough to beat the game, and the overall style is unmatched. 
 There are ideas galore and never before has even the strangest idea felt more at home than in No 
 More Heroes. Buy the game not for its advances in technology, but in its ideas and gameplay. Suda 
 51, you are a mad genius! You just need a better team behind you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comegetsome
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  This is the first adult game I have had the opportunity to play and I will admit it was very addictive. 
 The controls are done extremely well and it flows just right. I have only been playing for about 
 2 hours but I'm hooked. 
  
  Visuals
  You have to get used to the visuals especially if you're not used to seeing Japanese animation. 
 I play my on a 42" LCD so it took me a couple of minutes to adjust. 
  
  Story
  The story line is as I said previously it was over the top but it works flawlessly. I'm truly amazed 
 how much fun it is. He just wants to be number one!!! Think Kill Bill with GTA elements.
  
  Controls
  Even though you have this battery powered sword you don't have to physically hack and 
 slash, A button to slash. The combos are when you use wii mote movement. 
  
  Buy this game it's completely different from the kiddy games out for wii. Very mature oriented 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great story, lots of gore, great graphical style, awesome combat
  
  The Bad: Not for the kiddies, graphics are a bit dated, Santa Destroy isn't fun
  
  One trailer 
 of NMH and I was interest... and that's rare for me. NMH has a wonderful story where you play as 
 Travis Touchdown who is a contracted assassin fighting his way to number one. You're boss (who 
 is a sexy blond) drives you forward through the whole list and then there is an awesome plot twist 
 at the end that will keep you hooked. The game is all about the fighting though. You have an awesome 
 beam katana that you can hack and slash people with but hitting the A button and locking (and blocking) 
 with the Z button. when your opponents life is all the way down an arrow pops up on screen telling 
 you which way to swing the Wiimote and either slicing his head off with tons of blood spewing or 
 even slicing him in half. The boss fights are all awesome and unique and they are the kind of boss 
 fights that are memorable. They are fast, and you feel like you're really playing a cool anime 
 samurai cartoon. In between these "Ranked Battles" you can get jobs to earn money to pay the entry 
 fee such as collecting coconuts to wiping graffiti off walls. Then after you do a job you can play 
 in assassination missions to earn even more money. There are also customization options such as 
 dressing Travis up to making new weapons. The only issue here is there isn't a lot of options I 
 mean like VERY LITTLE here. You can also cruise around the town Santa Destroy but it's not very 
 fun. It's lifeless dull and boring really. NMH is a great rental running in at about ten hours 
 and a great buy if it were $30 or under. Pick up NMH because it's one of the best Wii games ever 
 made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  I read a lot of reviews for this game and people have given it such a high ranking due to the need 
 for overly mature games for the Wii. I personally have been waiting for more high end mature games 
 myself as I was extremely pissed at the hype for Manhunt 2 and hoped it would be good only to find 
 out it was all blurred and worthless of my time!
  
  This game No More Heroes has very choppy graphics, its similar in ways to GTA but nothing spectacular. 
 You are the 11th ranked assisin in the world and want to be #1, so you go around making the same 
 repetitive annoying cuts and hits on the same stupid looking cronies on your way to the boss. It 
 gets annoting simply having to tap the "A" button so much to hit someone, they should get some 
 real action added to it by swinging the Wii mote initially instead of tapping "A" to hit people... I 
 mean what the hell is this XBOX 360??? Thats why we buy the Wii is for the motion control!
  
  Good parts of the game include the language and sexual humor but even that is limited compared 
 to the rest of the game. The action sequences are boring and very repetitive and would bore many 
 within a few short hours.
  
  I strongly recomment you to rent the game to try it out. And then return it and do not buy it. 
 Not worth $50 by any means, it is a $20 title at best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  The sad fact is the Wii is deprived of original triple-A third-party efforts. Zack & Wiki remains 
 the one exception. Now make that two. No More Heroes is Suda 51's latest directorial effort and 
 it's easily his best outing. Combining the absurdity and style that Suda 51 games are known for 
 with solid gameplay makes No More Heroes a great way to kick off the new year.
  
  If you've played Suda 51's previous games, like Killer7, you should have a good idea of what to 
 expect in terms of how off-kilter it can get. For everyone else, grab a seat. No More Heroes takes 
 place in the fictional California city of Santa Destroy and you assume the role of Travis Touchdown 
  a gamer and otaku who is now totally broke. So, he takes up a part-time job to kill "The Drifter". 
 Wielding a beam katana that Travis won in an internet auction, he accomplishes his task and unintentionally 
 becomes the eleventh ranked assassin of the UAA  United Assassins Association. A sultry femme 
 fatale, Sylvia Christel (who works for the UAA) , offers Travis the option to defend his title and 
 eventually climb to the top. Travis willingly accepts and the bloodshed begins. It's a bizarre 
 premise no doubt and everything mentioned above is capped in a five-minute intro, so it might be 
 a lot to take in. However, the benefit of this is that you're thrust immediately into the game, 
 and that you'll get to the combat even sooner.
  
  Combat is in a couple words, fast, stupidly violent and immensely satisfying. You'd think a Wii 
 game that uses a sword for combat will relegate swinging to arm-shattering waggle, but Grasshopper 
 wisely maps it to the A-button. Instead, motion comes into play when you're about to initiate the 
 final blow. Once you whittle down the punk's health, an on-screen arrow pops up, telling you which 
 way to swing your remote. The result is a hilariously awesome crimson shower, with flecks of gold 
 and silver coins that conveniently warp into your coffers. And after every death blow, a mini-slot 
 machine will play in the bottom of your screen. Get three of a kind and you'll net one of five 
 awesome power-ups that let you wreak devastatingly satisfying havoc for a small period of time. 
 Bone-crunching wrestling moves are also at your disposal; once you stun an opponent, you'll be 
 able to grab the clown and an on-screen indicator will again tell you which direction you have 
 to swing your remote and nunchuck. The only drawback is that you won't initiate the mini-slots 
 with wrestling moves, but the benefit is that the enemy is open for a quick death.
  
  The combat initially seems simplistic, but its complexities reveal themselves and even become almost 
 mandatory as the game progresses. Mastering the circle dodge is easily the most important things 
 you'll learn, as it'll prove to be invaluable during the last stretch of the game and in the many 
 side-missions. Still, it remains simple, with its various subtleties being optional (though it'll 
 make life easier) . So, what ultimately makes the combat fantastic is because of how visually frenetic 
 it is. Every hit carries a satisfying "oomph", what seems like lightning bolts flash across the 
 screen and every kill is just so bloody beautiful that there are times when blood overwhelms the 
 screen, making it impossible to see what the hell you're doing. It looks absolutely amazing and 
 jaw-droppingly stylish that, even when you realize you're hammering the A and B buttons over and 
 over again, it really doesn't matter. The combat's just too fun.
  
  The other third of the game however, is hit-and-miss. After every ranked match, you must pay the 
 entry fee to get into the next rankings match. This means you'll take up some weird part-time jobs 
 and minor assassination gigs to pay up. The part-time jobs range from picking up coconuts to washing 
 the graffiti scum that infect the city walls. These are definitely fun and are a nice change of 
 pace, but they're one-time affairs for the most part; you probably won't want to do them again. 
 You'll probably have more fun doing the assassination gigs. The missions have variables like, using 
 wrestling moves only or better yet, a hundred-man kill spree that will send your framerate into 
 a nosedive (that's a good thing) .
  
  The city of Santa Destroy is an open world, so you'll get from point to point on your slick Schpeltiger. 
 The driving is sketchy, not because the Schpeltiger is unwieldy, but because of wonky collision 
 detection. You'll bump into cars that you clearly haven't made contact with, accidentally wipe 
 out because you could've sworn the park bench was out of harm's way and very rarely you'll get 
 your bike stuck, with the only solution being to call for it again by running a great distance 
 away from it. These are relatively minor issues, but issues nonetheless. For the most part though, 
 driving around the city is actually fun once you learn how to do the various motion control tricks. 
 The city itself is quite small, so getting to your destination can take less than a minute once 
 you become a skilled driver.
  
  It does pay to actually stop by the few buildings that you can enter, though. They're mostly there 
 to upgrade your stats, learn new wrestling moves and even net new beam katanas that have their 
 own unique animations and strengths/weaknesses. Traveling on-foot also has its own rewards; the 
 backalleys have trash cans that you can kick open for some really stylish digs, and the titular 
 lovikov balls that you can give to a Russian drunk will grant you invaluable abilities for both 
 combat and on-foot travel. And there's your motel, where you can change your clothes, take a dump 
 to save progress and even play with your super-cute cat, Jeane.
  
  The star of No More Heroes, though, is the ranked matches. Besides the fact that it's here when 
 your combat wits are put to full use, the assassins themselves are great characters. From the bloodthirsty, 
 bat-wielding psycho chick to the fifty-something hag that carries around a shopping cart that duals 
 as a destructive laser gun, they're all very weird, bizarre and ultimately memorable. It's a shame 
 they're given so little screen-time, but every moment of their existence is stock full of sharp 
 writing, slick cut-scenes, excellent voice acting and tough battles. And it's worth mentioning 
 that Touchdown is one cool assassin, too, even if he can turn into a bloodthirsty monster just 
 like the other ten. He's a great protagonist, and his simple goals and motivations prove to be 
 endearing.
  
  And last but not least, No More Heroes brims and eventually floods with style. The 8-bit inspired 
 interface, flashy combat, kick-ass cut-scenes and slick (really, really slick) load screens has 
 the Grasshopper touch. The 99 t-shirts throughout Santa Destroy will also inspire treasure hunts, 
 because these are really worth getting. It's hard to believe Grasshopper came up with all the designs, 
 because they're good enough for retail. The game also makes numerous references to movies and games, 
 like Back to the Future and Duke Nukem Forever that keeps things care-free and funny, making No 
 More Heroes all the more charming. The game in general has an oddball sense of humor; sometimes 
 it's blacker than night and other times it's just straight up funny.
  
  The visuals have a lot to do with the style. The art design has a pseudo-realistic/cel-shaded look 
 that looks quite nice for the most part. The framerate has a tendency to hit the low-twenties when 
 more than two goons meet their fate at the same time, but it accentuates the violence, strangely 
 enough; it's like an unintentional slow-motion effect. The game looks its worse when you're cruising 
 around in Santa Destroy; the framerate is never consistent (or its consistently low) , pop-in is 
 a common occurrence and it generally isn't very interesting to look at. Overall though, the visual 
 package is still quite strong and much of that has to do with the outstanding art direction.
  
  The aural package, on the other hand, is practically flawless. Grasshopper's previous audio 
 works, like Killer7, were masterfully done, so it shouldn't come as much of a surprise. The voice 
 acting is terrific across the board and the sound effects, like the 8-bit beeps and bloops, will 
 evoke moments of nostalgia for older players. The Wii's speaker is utilized well for the first 
 time ever; the low hum of the katanas sound great on the low-quality speakers and the phone calls 
 you receive from Sylvia are great touch, and the low-quality speaker quality makes it sound like 
 a actual cell phone conversation. And the sound effects in general are fantastic. You'll most likely 
 appreciate the jingling sound of the key chain on Travis' cell phone when he takes it out, rather 
 than overlook it. To top it all off, the soundtrack is unique and positively great. Special kudos 
 to the simple, melodic tune that plays whenever you're in combat with generic thugs; it never ceases 
 to be catchy, no matter how many variations of it plays in the background.
  
  No More Heroes should take around 10-15 hours, depending on how much exploring you do. Once you 
 reach its mind-blowing conclusion, it's hard not to be totally satisfied, especially for Wii owners 
 looking for something with substance. No More Heroes is easily the best third-party effort on the 
 Wii and one of the best January games ever. The combat is satisfying, the challenge is high and 
 Suda 51's writing and stylistic choices make No More Heroes one hell of an original action game, 
 by any measure. This is what happens when a team of developers ignore outside influences. When 
 a developer doesn't take the market into consideration, when a developer doesn't conform to what 
 is perceived as sensible, when a developer doesn't give a crap about what you think. That's when 
 games like No More Heroes happen. Pick this bad boy up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatatay
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  So the object in this game is to become the number 1 assassin in the city of santa destroy. and 
 to do that you have to eliminate all 10 of the assassins so you can come out on top. 
  
  Before you kill each assasssin, you have to earn money by either taking a side job, (which usually 
 consists of fun little minigames such as mowing lawns) , or you take an assassin job where you have 
 to kill a certain amount of people within the time limit.
  
  The combat is what really makes this game though. It consists of a mix of button mashing, combined 
 with swings of the wii remote. For example you will lock on and keep attacking him with A, and 
 then finish him with a decapitating slash of the wii remote. It really is satisfying to see the 
 blood of your enemies go all over the place.
  
  Aside from doing jobs you can go to other places in the city of Santa Destroy and purchase clothes, upgrades, 
 of new weapons to max out your character. You can also go to the trainer and lift waits, or do 
 squats, to increase your strength. You will only be able to work out once per assassination though 
 because it wouldnt be fair to be constantly maxing out your characters strength.
  
  One major downfall on this game is the graphics. I mean i know it is a wii game but a PS2 looks 
 like it could make better graphics. Another downfall is that the city of Santa Destroy isnt particularly 
 fun to drive around in. If your hoping for it to be a free roaming game like GTA then you are wrong. The 
 combat is what really makes this game though.
  
  All in all this is a very fun, fast pased game that is basically a must-have if you are a wii owner 
 because there is no other game like this on the wii. 
  Thanks for reading my review! Please rate or leave comments, i like them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Largents
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  No, it's not GTA, but it's as close as we're going to get for the Wii, for now hopefully. I'm only 
 about 7 hours into 'Heroes', but the further I get, the more I love this game! I only get to play 
 for a couple of hours a night after my daughter goes to bed because of the strong language and 
 gory effects, but it's well worth the wait to play. It's most certainly turning into one of my 
 all-time favorites. I'm so glad I bought 'No More Heroes'.
  
  My Pros:
  Characters are funny and likeable, dialog between characters is witty and amusing, the graphics 
 are decent, the fight sequences are awesome and I just can't get enough of Jeane swinging from 
 the ceiling fan!
  
  My Cons:
  The motorcycle is easy to get stuck in places, there's no interaction with pedestrians, some of 
 the side-jobs aren't worth the small amount of money it pays, and it's so addictive that I'm actually 
 considering taking a couple of days off work to play (and hopefully beat) the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adar_g
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Let me first say, that no matter how much I praise this game, it's a love-it-or-hate-it title. 
 You're either going to "get it" or not. There's nothing wrong with not "getting it," but this game 
 was definitely made for the Otaku in us all, and it's a trait far more prevalent in some than in 
 others.
  
  That said, No More Heroes is another assassin related title from director Suda 51 (that's go-ichi, 
 not fifty-one) . At its core, it's a hack and slash with some unique Wii controls. But it really 
 is so much more. It's a pile of pop culture references, a pseudo-sandbox game, a comedy, and a 
 collect'em all.
  
  Travis Touchdown is the quintessential anime fan who actually becomes an assassin after winning 
 a beam katana (it's not a light saber) in an internet auction. He meets Sylvia Christel in a bar 
 one night, and agrees to kill "the drifter". After completing this task, he's told he is now rank 
 eleven in a list of the top killers-for-hire. Naturally, he decides to start working his to the 
 top. Why? to earn money for video games, to face a challenge, and to have a chance at bedding Miss 
 Christel. The game is not short on laughs, straight through to the end, with numerous references 
 to Killer7 and Star Wars as well as other things only the Otaku in you will recognize. There are 
 crazy plot twists, and of course, the game is not too proud to poke fun at itself. That's not to 
 mention the completely off-the-wall cast of characters Travis will meet and face off with on his 
 quest for the number one spot.
  
  During the mission segments of the game, high or low stances can be taken depending on how the 
 Wii Remote is held, and the attacks Travis performs differ between the two. After beating down 
 on an enemy enough, the screen will prompt you to slash in a certain direction to execute a death 
 blow. For some reason, I found these death blows to be as satisfying as a three course meal. There's 
 just something great about being able to split a thug in two, the long way. Every time you pull 
 off one of these deathblows, slots will run at the bottom of the screen, if three like images line 
 up, Travis enters "Darkside Mode" and yells out the name an attack from his favorite anime, usually 
 resulting in temporary invincibility and lots of dead enemies. Top all this off with pro-wrestling 
 moves, and the combat is one of the best parts of the game. 
  
  When you're not adding to body count, you're given the freedom to search Santa Destroy, where you'll 
 find money and t-shirts in dumpsters, along with some side missions, odd-jobs, and places to build 
 your strength. These include Thunder Ryu's gym, Beef Head videos, Dr. Naomi's garage, as well as 
 the clothing store, Area 51.
  
  The graphics in No More Heroes are decent at best, and really not the game's strong point. There 
 is a visual noise effect present most of the time when running around in Santa Destroy, as well 
 during some missions. The music is very catchy though, and there's a very entertaining song just 
 before Travis takes on number nine.
  
  In the end, it's hard to say whether or not I can really recommend No More Heroes. I can tell you 
 how awesome I think it is, but it needs to be experienced to be understood. I would say this game 
 is a definite buy for the anime junkies out there. If you were looking for a GTA clone on the Wii, 
 you should probably rent this first, because you won't get a GTA experience out of it. If you ever 
 thought it would be cool to take on the life of your favorite anime character and slice dudes up 
 in what is one of the most off-the-wall situations imagined, get this game, you won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00KevinMZ
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  First off, No More Heroes is a great game, not without it's flaws, but a great game nonetheless. 
 You start off as a lowly eleventh ranked assassin, and you work your way to becoming number one. 
 Along the way you explore the city of Santa Destory on Travis' motorcycle, taking on odd jobs and 
 assassination missions while pumping iron and upgrading your beam katana. 
  
  No More Heroes shines the brightest during the ranked assassin fights. Each one is accompanied 
 by an engaging and cinematic cutscene introducing some outrageous and entertaining characters, 
 and each fight is innovative, challenging (well i wouldn't say like impossible, but most have an 
 instant kill move that can be quite aggravating to be struck by) , and a blast to play. Unfortunately 
 most of the game is not spent fighting the ranked assassins, but rather trying to earn enough cash 
 to enter the next ranked fight. Fortunately, most of what the game throws at you in between ranked 
 battles is pretty entertaining. Each part-time job is original and absurd enough to be entertaining 
 (these include mowing a lawn, picking up cats, and filling up cars with gas) , and in addition to 
 cash, these job unlock some assassination missions (which range from killing 100 people in a time 
 limit to trying to hit a baseball like a bat with the beam katana) which opens the door for even 
 more cash. What is disappointing about these missions, is for every one, minus some free missions 
 which are separate, you have to drive your motorcycle to one building to register for the mission, 
 and then drive to another place to actually attempt the mission. If you fail, you have to redo 
 the whole process, and some of the missions result in pretty quick failures (most notably the ones 
 where you can't take a hit) , and it can feel tedious to have to go through the process all over 
 again. Thankfully that scenario does not happen often, but enough to warrant complaint. Also, when 
 exploring Santa Destory, it is worth noting there is relatively little to do beyond the missions, 
 and while you are free to explore, Santa Destroy is not Grand Theft Auto. You cannot hijack cars, 
 beat people down, or cause massive pileups on the freeway. However, you will spend some time wishing 
 you could hijack cars and motorcycles like in GTA, as your given motorcycle controls clunkily at 
 best.
  
  An interesting aspect to the game is its graphics. While very stylistic and impressive from an 
 artsy perspective, technically they can seem very cheap at times. There are some rough textures, 
 occasional framerate issues, and some recycled cheap animations that display occasionally that 
 are eyesores. However I think Suda51 made an intentional artistic decision to make the graphics 
 a style over substance type deal, and poke fun at this by having some 8-bit graphics and menu screens. 
 While for the most part I am fine with the stylistic presentation, since we play with our eyes 
 first, it is hard to not be a little disappointed with the technical aspects. Suda seems to have 
 more or less taken the same approach with the sound as well. The music, while I thought very fitting 
 for the game, a little cheap sounding, using old nes sounding midi noises for a majority of the 
 music in the game. The sound effects wise, everything sounds the way it should, which is good. 
 Where the sound shines is the voice acting in the game. The acting is pretty good and helps to 
 create the incredible characters present in the game.
  
  Overall, like I mentioned earlier, No More Heroes is a great game. The boss fights are among the 
 best of any game I have played, and it is so absurd at parts it makes for a refreshingly original 
 and hilarious experience unparalleled by any game on the wii. However the minor blemishes mentioned 
 keeps No More Heroes from reaching the status of a game like GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JugHead23
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  i THINK ANYONE WHO LIKE TO HACK AND SLASH THEIR WAY THROUGH THE LEVELS IN THIS GAME SHOULD DEFINETLEY 
 BUY IT. IT HAS HUMOR IN IT THAT JUST MAKES THE GAME WORTH WHILE TO BUY. THE GAME IS SOMETHING THAT 
 A PERSON WOULD LOVE TO GET ESPECIALLY IF HE/ SHE LOVES TO HAVE A MIX OF GRAND THEFT AUTO AND SAMURAI 
 ACTION ALL IN ONE. tHE OPPURTUNITY TO ROAM AROUND TOWN SANTA DESTROY AS TRAVIS TOUCHDOWN WHO AIMS 
 TO BE THE NUMBER ONE ASSASSIN AND HAS A KNACK FOR DECAPITATING HIS ENEMIES AND CHOPPING OFF THEIR 
 LIMBS. THE ENDING IS GREAT AND ITS NOT ONE OF THOSE CHEAP ENDINGS WHERE EVERYTHING IS NICE AND 
 WONDERFUL. sOME OF THE BOSS BATTLES ARE ACTUALLY FUN AND YOU CAN TAKE O. N CERTAIN SIDE JOBS LIKE 
 CUTTING GRASS, PICKING UP GARBAGE AND KILLING CERTAIN ENEMIES IN SPECIFIC CHALLENGES... yOU KNOW 
 THE USUAL. YOU ARE EVEN ABLE TO CUSTOMIZE YOUR CHARACTER THE WAY YOU WANT. ALONG WITH YOUR TRUSTY 
 KATANA BLADE TRAVIS ALSO HAS SOME WRESTLING MOVES. THE ONLY BAD THING IS THAT SOME OF THE SIDE 
 MISSIONS CAN BE SHORT . tHAT IS BASICALLY IT i GUESS. THIS A GAME DEFINETLEY WORTH it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Frist off the things i did like No More Heroes. Boss Fights are Great and the Voice Acting Talking 
 story in the Game is Great. And you keep playing to find out the next Boss. But thats about it. 
 The driving around in the city and the Graphics are Awful I know the Wii can do better then this 
 why. Games like Resident Evil 4 Zelda Mario Galaxy Great looking games, So why with No more Heroes 
 we have Ugly Graphics. Well maybe if they spent more time on the Game we could of had a Great Game, 
 But we have a Game that looks cheap made. Heck it even have some sounds in the Game in my view 
 sounds like from the late 80s from the 8 bit Nintendo and the Menu screen looks like it came from 
 the old Nintendo this is 2008 not 1987 are 1990 and i know the Wii is better then this. Oh and 
 the normal fighting in the Game with the Normal Dudes gets old press A swing the remote over and 
 over and they pack no Challenge . Only the Boss FIghts is the Game main Heart. Would of been nice 
 say 29.00 Game its not worth 49.99. No More Heroes has its Moments But it has its downsides BigTIME. 
 I would say Rent Frist are wait when the price drops say about 19.00 bucks. Just My Views Thanks 
 Mars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GonzoGuy
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 29, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  When I bought the Wii around the time of its launch, I knew it was going to be a while before we 
 saw any good third party games that weren't ported over from the previous generation. These publishers 
 seemed so surprised at the runaway success of the Wii that I was fully expecting the avalanche 
 of shovelware we experienced in 2007. I didn't actually buy any of it but contented myself with 
 a couple of quality Nintendo games, the good ports like Godfather & RE4, and well... my ps2. 
 
  
  Now that it's been sold out for a year, the Wii is starting to get some half decent (but not outstanding) 
 third party support in the shape of original games that have been built with the Wii in mind. More 
 importantly these games are built with the Wiimote in mind. It's versatility as a gun/sword/wand 
 wasn't lost on gamers when the wii launched and now we see it wasn't lost on the programmers either. 
 I knew the time had come a couple of months ago with the release of the first new light gun games 
 (Resident Evil Umbrella Chronicles and Ghost Squad) that really should have accompanied the Wii 
 at launch. 
  
  Now we're starting to see some of the new light saber games. Of course to avoid any Imperial Entanglements, 
 No More Heroes uses the term "Beam Katana" when referring to the protagonist's weapon of choice. 
 All things considered, you might be better off just waiting for a real light saber game like the 
 Force Unleashed releasing later this year. I think there's a good chance Lucasarts may actually 
 complete the game before releasing it to the public. If only Suda 51 had the same decency.
  
  Many people have been comparing this game to GTA and while I can see that as a valid comparison 
 when only looking at the screenshots, don't buy this expecting a real gta experience. A True Crime 
 NYC experience maybe, but not GTA. In a few ways (very few ways) it's better: the sword fighting 
 is a satisfying, visceral, Kill Billish orgy of blood & gore and the enemy ai (well... the bosses 
 at least) can be tactically challenging at times. Even the collectibles vary from powerups to aesthetic 
 bonuses. However in almost every way the experience falls shorter than a jump in a cherry popper 
 van when you compare it to the king of all free roaming. 
  
  First of all the music is fun but background noise really. It's not bad but there aren't any toe 
 tapers either. If they did have a really cool licensed music soundtrack, the perfect song for them 
 to include would have been The Specials' Ghost Town. When compared to the bustling urban settings 
 we see in GTA and most of its clones, Santa Destroy is a dead and desolate suburb where nothing 
 interesting ever happens, ever. You see a human looking robotic drone every couple of blocks you 
 can only push around by running into him though it doesn't seem to phase any of them; just knocks 
 them a little off course. The cars are also sparse, ugly, completely undriveable, unmovable, uncrashable 
 (if your bike smacks into any car at any speed you just stop) , and really slow. So maybe we should 
 be happy that Santa Destroy isn't anything close to the size of even one of Liberty City's islands. 
 It would just mean more flat blandness to traverse until walking into the clich invisible wall.
 
  
  But I don't really mind that this game isn't the gta clone everyone hyped it up to be. It would've 
 been nice if it was but I learned long ago that you can only count on GTA to be GTA. What does 
 bother me is the desolation (not to mention the blandness of the elements that do move around) 
 and it makes me think that this game was only half done before they decided to rush it out to shelves 
 for a buck. In a city with so many houses, buildings, and assassins, it seems natural that there 
 would be roaming gangs, trigger happy police, and other things to knock down your health so you 
 can utilize that fridge in your character's hotel room. The fact that there is a fridge and no 
 real reason to use it is another blaring signal that Suda 51 never finished making this game. Really 
 No More Heroes reminded me more of Shadow of the Colossus (with the singular mount, the desolate 
 world, and the focus on boss battles) than GTA or any of it's clones. If only it was as enjoyable 
 as Shadow. 
  
  Yes even the boss battles in No More Heroes show their weakness after you've fought a few of them. 
 They all have unique attitudes, characteristics, and moves but they all require the same basic 
 tactic of slowly whittling him/her down (during short moments where their guard may be let down) 
 to a sliver of health at which point they bust out any number of instant kill moves which you have 
 to watch out for when you continue. Yes, even the boss battles get tedious sometimes. They take 
 so long that if you get close to beating the boss but get killed by some surprise "dodge or die" 
 move or fail to press the correct button during a "quick time event" and are prompted to continue, 
 you'll begin to think of much better uses of your time. 
  
  And here we come to the deal breaker for me. As it's been showing up in almost every new action 
 game I see, I have been growing a deeper and deeper loathing of what's commonly known as "quick 
 time events." This gimmick (also known as Simon Says Cutscene, Press A or DIE, and my personal 
 favorite Lazy Imbecile Programmers Should Be Shot or L. I. P. S. B. S.) disappeared thankfully for a 
 little while between Dragons Lair (early 80s) and Shenmue (late 90s) , but it's reemergence has made 
 me regret ever purchasing God of War and Resident Evil 4. I have a feeling that after those two 
 games became a great success (far more than they deserved) , many programmers were encouraged to 
 say "Hey! People will buy nice looking games even if the game play is totally lame." and they have 
 been ever since. I can't help but wonder, why keep making video games. They can do this crap on 
 regular DVDs. 
  
  The annoying aspect with No More Heroes' (and many other game's) quick time events is it's timing. 
 The traditional "press this button" QTE usually occurs at the end of a boss battle. While the button's 
 image doesn't take up the whole screen, if you miss it, you are instantly killed (usually) and 
 have to start whittling the freak down again: a process (and after a while it really just becomes 
 a process) that can sometimes take quite a while. And that's not even the most annoying part.
 
  
  You also get a small QTE every single time you finish someone with your beam katana or execute 
 a finishing move. Once a common thug gets down to a sliver of health, the screen darkens and a 
 giant ugly orange arrow or two flashes over him. Thankfully the arrow disappears in time to see 
 limbs and blood fly but the effect is still distracting and it defaces one of the only enjoyable 
 aspects of this game: carving up gangers with your beam katana.
  
  Besides ruining the action, these directions seem most unnecessary. You seem to be able to finish 
 off enemies by swinging your wimote in any direction, regardless of what arrow flashes. So it makes 
 me wonder, what is the point of them? And what's the point of it taking up a good portion of the 
 screen? The slot machine (the slots spin every time you finish a boss' thug with your katana's 
 QTE) only takes up a tiny space at the bottom of the screen unless you win a powerup, so if they 
 really thought the arrow was necessary why couldn't they have it flash in the same spot or an equally 
 inconspicuous portion of the screen so we could at least enjoy the visuals: the one thing this 
 game seems to have done well.
  
  When you're not seeing giant orange arrows and slot machine wins over the screen or waiting for 
 the details of buildings to render in front of you, the battle visuals are really outstanding. 
 Rather than trying to make things look realistic (a mistake even for the super graphics of a ps3 
 or 360 which have only succeeded in getting a character to look about as realistic as an Epcot 
 Center automatron from the 80s) we are treated to a stylishly dark comic book look. Rather than 
 the cartoony look of cell shaded graphics, No More Heroes incorporates a beautiful yet subdued, 
 heavy shaded look. You feel like you're playing through a Frank Miller graphic novel rather than 
 a Saturday Morning cartoon; a distinction that becomes all too clear when the blood starts flowing 
 all over the place. It's all very pretty but not enough to warrant a purchase.
  
  I've been wondering why this game is being so overhyped (in the US at least) and the only excuse 
 I can think of is that players and reviewers want to encourage Suda 51 and other developers to 
 continue to make new original mature games for the Wii. I'd like to see this as well. Unfortunately 
 by buying this game you would actually be encouraging Suda 51 and other developers to slap together 
 any sort of shoddy lazy garbage, throw in a lot of blood cursing & sexual innuendos, then rush 
 it out to shelves before it's actually finished. There are plenty of publishers who do that anyway. 
 You don't need to encourage them.
  
  PS: I had a hard time classifying the difficulty. It's mostly pretty easy, but some of the boss 
 battles are wiimote chuckingly frustrating. What does that go under? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubel_07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Wow, this game is violent. It definitely appeals to the older gamers. While I myself have not finished 
 the game, I've played 5 or so hours of it; it's enough to review it.
  
  Graphics: they're actually the weakest part of the game. A friend commented that they looked like 
 OK Game Cube graphics. The frame rate can fluctuate as well.
  
  Sound: great. There is no problem and the voice work is fantastic. The characters' voices are done 
 superbly.
  
  Controls: Easy as pie. You can do everything with 2 or 3 buttons. It's great.
  
  Story: Ehhh. 
 So far, there is not much; just an assassin trying to be the best by killing all of the other assassins. 
 The character is a Anime buff who has a habit of copying and keeping his rented porn as well. The 
 game has a lot of unexplained things in it, but if you accept it for what it is, an arcade KILL 
 EVERYTHING game, it's great.
  
  Fun Factor: Words cannot describe it. Much like its cousin, Killer7, the game is inexplicably brilliant. 
 I cannot fathom why. It is a game that you'll just have to trust me.
  
  ********************
  Score Breakdown
  ********************
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 
 9/10
  Controls: 10/10
  Story: 8/10
  Fun Factor: 10/10 
  Overall: 9.5/10 (I know the math doesn't work) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowman6251
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  when this game started getting some serious hype I was skeptical. From all the videos I had seen 
 it looked like a simple hack and slash and I had vietnam-esque flashbacks to the days when everyone 
 was playing Star Wars Episode 3 and if I went over to a friends house we pretty much always ended 
 up playing that garbage.
  
  Then there were more videos of things like Travis, the main character, mowing lawns. That's right 
 an action game so thrilling you can spend your time mowing lawns or picking up garbage.
  
  I really was wary of this game until I saw a video on youtube which can be found under the search 
 "no more heroes stupid MF" and the song Stupid MF is now number one on my itunes most played list 
 by the way. (very catchy) . If people could advertise on tv with something like that they'd sell 
 a lot more of whatever their product is because I played that video over and over and over.
  
  Anyway that video swayed my opinion of the game and I though "I must play this" and when gamespot 
 reviews it with a 9/10 I nearly fainted. When I read gamespot reviews I usually add 1 full point 
 and this is USUALLY what I actually think of the game. They gave it a 9/10 which means by my curve 
 it would be a 10/10, and I gotta say my gamespot review curve is fairly accurate.
  
  I rushed off to my local gamestop (I rush slowly because I didn't pick it up until friday) and 
 I popped it into my wii. Lets just say I was hooked pretty quickly. The gameplay is pretty simple 
 with mashing of the A button to slice and charging up the B button to kick and stun your enemies. 
 Once stunned you can perform a wrestling move on them which was quite the nice experience. Then 
 if you wrestle someone to the ground Travis will finish them in various ways based on the wrestling 
 move mostly along the lines of slamming his sword into their face.
  
  It is literally NOT POSSIBLE to kill an enemy with your sword without performing a finishing move, 
 that means you CAN NOT KILL AN ENEMY without slicing them in half vertically down the middle or 
 decapitating them. And if you manage to pull of a finishing move on an enemy in close proximity 
 to other enemies they are likely to share the same fate as their comrade as the finishing move 
 will likely hit them too. Copious amounts of blood fly around the screen creating an incredibly 
 satisfying feeling of bloodlust and savage pleasure.
  
  The minigames were, to my surprise, fun.... They made mowing the lawn fun. How? I can't answer that 
 but I enjoyed these seemingly trivial tasks in an almost warioware like fashion. Plus if you complete 
 one of these jobs the guy will hire you to do assassination missions. These are basically bloodbaths 
 where you kill x enemies before y time or kill as many enemies as possible in y time. Occasionally 
 they tell you to kill a specified target in a group of enemies but this is an incredibly easy task 
 because you can just run past the minions and attack the target.
  
  Then there's the enemies. Each of the assassinations (rank 10-1) comes with a swarm of minions 
 you must slay to reach the boss but the enemies are all different and they do a very good job of 
 changing the scenario in which you fight these enemies. They all fight pretty much the same way 
 and many are equipped with different with a few sets of identical or similar weapons but they change 
 the way you'll be fighting them to add some flavor. In the stadium the bad guys will pitch a ball 
 at you and you have 3 chances to hit it and try to kill as many of them as you can with the ball 
 (extreme baseball) . In the school many enemies have sticks on fire and if you are hit you better 
 find a fire extinguisher or you're going to take some big damage. On the way to the rank 3 assassin 
 you will be in a bus with enemies and it functions as a side-scroller. The list goes on.
  
  Then there's the boss fights. These are easily some of the best bosses in game history. Pretty 
 much every cutscene had me giggling like a schoolgirl especially my personal favorite boss "Bad 
 Girl". Suda 51 is a sick sick man because that character is just wrong in so many ways but hilarious 
 none the less. And she works perfectly in a game like this. When Travis finds out what his exuberant 
 entrance fee is used for again I was a school girl. Some of the dialogue can be corny but its just 
 funny all the way through. I was actually laughing out loud not just snickering to myself like 
 I usually am when I say lol. And then none of the bosses are the same either. They all have different 
 life bars (and its not just each successive boss has more health) and they all fight very different. 
 Holly Summers digs holes EVERYWHERE and you have to climb out before the grenade she throws at 
 you blows up. The one that really stood out to me was rank 3. She doesn't even have a life bar 
 (not going to give anything else away about that)
  
  Many of the bosses also have one hit kills which you really have to watch out for. Bad Girl, fool 
 me once shame on you, fool me twice shame on me. I fell for it once but never again. (not going 
 to say what it is, you figure it out) .
  
  The over world isn't THAT empty. yeah you can't go on a killing spree when missions get boring 
 like GTA but you can look for Lovkov balls which can be exchanged for little perks like see enemies 
 on the minimap or a jumping attack. You can buy new beam katanas or upgrade the ones you have. 
 You can train at the gym (the strength increase hurts ._.) but they are also minigames I found 
 much like warioware and quite entertaining. You can buy a LOT of new clothes but you need lots 
 of money to advance and improve your character so money should rarely be spent on cosmetic purchases. 
 (especially when there are TONS of t-shirts in dumpsters scattered all over the city.)
  
  Oh and Sylvia is hot
  
  the only problem I can think of is the framerate, yeah it slows down 
 especially when you simultaniously decapitate 10 enemies at once. But who cares. its easily ignored 
 unless you are very picky.
  
  This game was literally so good after I beat the extra boss (pick the real ending) I went and started 
 a new file on bitter difficulty right away and have continued to play on that. You get to keep 
 your weapons and clothes and powerups so I don't have to pay a million dollars for that stupid 
 samurai katana again and now my health bar is MASSIVE.
  
  Anyway this is an awesome game that was WAAAAAAY past my initial expectations and you owe it to 
 yourself to have a pleasant experience and that is all this can be described as. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemadre
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Red Steel was the big attempt to say "WII IS BADASS". Sadly, it failed. Miserably. Well rest assured, 
 this game is nothing like Red Steel. It's zany, hilarious, action packed, and altogether fun in 
 a way that will make you laugh your ass off, then not remember why ten minutes later. Grannies 
 with omega death cannons built into their shopping carts, a drunk guy who teaches you techniques 
 by beating the shxt out of you, and guys walking around in "Bear Hug Studios" wearing paper bags 
 on their heads with bear faces painted on make this one of the greatest games on the Wii, and it's 
 definitely the most hilarious and bloodthirsty.
  
  Story: This game doesn't have a too complecated story. Then again, when it comes to slashing people 
 apart (only to have them scream phrases such as "Mommy!" and "My Spleen!") , you really don't need 
 too much. Here's the basic laydown: you're Travis Touchdown, the lazy anime-loving asshxle in all 
 of us, and he needs money to buy video games, so he takes on an assination gig: he must kill "The 
 Drifter" (AKA Helter Skelter in the original game design) , the #11 greatest assassin in America. 
 His only weapons are the professional wrestling moves he's watched on TV and a lightsaber (AKA 
 Beam Katana) he bought on eBay. After finishing the job, you are wrapped within a convuluted web 
 of killings, as now everyone's out to get you. So, to make it to the top, you have to hack your 
 way through the top ten greatest assassins of the country. Lucky for you, they have all been gathered 
 in your modest town of Santa Destroy, California. Fame, money, glory, and the chance to do it with 
 the lovely Silvia Christel... pretty simple, right? Well, each boss also has their own backstory, 
 but I'll get into that later...
  
  Control: You swing around a light saber; that must mean you swing the remote, right? Wrong. This 
 game knows when to use motion controls and when not to. Basic attacks are done by bashing the A 
 button, and once an enemy is beaten into submission, you swipe the remote in the direction commanded, 
 and you pull of a swift finishing blow that causes blood to rain like a thunderstorm. B is your 
 melee moves, which aren't too strong, but are used to confuse enemies so that you may toss them 
 around and piledrive them. And guess what? This is the first Wii game i've ever played to have 
 this, but... CAMERA CONTROLS. The D-Pad rotates the camera, while the C button focuses the camera 
 straight forward. Every once in a while, you'll enter "Dark Side" mode, in which you become a blatant 
 Super Saiyan rip-off and go around slaughtering people either in slow motion, in a crazy frenzy, 
 and many more. Driving around on your motorcycle is fun; although you will occasionaly smash into 
 a wall when you aren't careful, it's a blast to zoom down highways at top speed, knocking down 
 any trees, lamp posts, and people that get in your way. It always feels comfortable, and it never 
 feels boring.
  
  Graphics: This game has a beautiful cel-shaded style such as that you'd expect from anime games. 
 Except WAY better. It looks realistic, but at the same time it looks completely fake. Blood spews 
 everywhere like you're playing Kill Bill, and the characters are all gorgeously drawn. Graphically, 
 this game is one of the greater games on the Wii. It does have its downsides, though; when there's 
 a bunch of enemies on the screen, the frame rate becomes shxt. Then again, it feels good for the 
 game to slow down; that way, you can watch everyone get ground up. The menus have an atari-style 
 feel to it, making it feel retro yet awesome. This graphical scheme, like this game, is like nothing 
 you've ever seen.
  
  Audio: The music is catchy and hummable, but not too rememberable; that doesn't mean it's bad, 
 though. There have been better soundtracks, but you can't expect some gorgeous orchestral theme 
 to go alone with you slicing baseball pitchers in two. Other sounds... you can't really ask for 
 much. The sword sounds like a genuine lightsaber, people give hilarious death throes as they're 
 slashed apart, and the voice acting is amazingly well done.
  
  Length: This game is approximately 15 hours long; however, that's not necessarily a bad thing. 
 When it's fun, it's fun, and once you're done, you're ripping to play it over (which I will cover 
 in five... four... three... two...)
  
  Replay Value: This game is brimming with replay value; not only are the scenes hilarious enough 
 for you to want to revisit, but the action is addictive enough to make you want to kill people 
 over and over and over. There's also the fact to consider that every power up and every weapon 
 from your previous run comes with you, making things oh so sweeter. Plus, you get the "bitter" 
 difficulty, which is fitting for all of the advantages you get from keeping your better katana. 
 It's definitely worth playing twice, maybe three times. And of course, in about 2 years, you'll 
 probably get it back out for another run through.
  
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Boss Fights: This is where the game is at its strongest: each boss gives a speech before you kill 
 them. One challenges you to an honorable and exciting match; another acts like a total douche and 
 attacks while your back is turned; another gets sliced in two before the fight can even start. 
 Throughout the game, there are 9-10 bosses (I'll explain the differenciation later) . Each boss 
 has their own interesting tactic to follow, as oppossed to running up and hacking the crap out 
 of them, Some use pistols, so you need to get in there and beat them down. Some use baseball bats 
 to swing S&M dressed prisoners at you like projectiles, so you need to whack them right back. Each 
 boss fight is intriguing in its own special way, and it's also fun to watch each boss's death scene, 
 whether it be by your hand, by another's, or if they don't die at all (and come back to save your 
 sorry ass later in the game) . Top ten assassins in the world: Death Metal, Dr. Peace, Shinobu, 
 Destroyman, Holly Summers, Letz Shake, Harvey Moiseiwitsch Volodarskii, Speed Buster, Bad Girl, 
 and Dark Star. Each one is completely unique, whether they be a dead-serious warrior, a hysterically 
 kooky killer, or a flat out psychotic maniac.
  
  Final Boss: And what a final boss it is; just before you fight her, the fourth wall is shattered 
 so many times, there isn't a single wall left to break. She is one insane bxtch, being completely 
 impossible to hit whatsoever. She'll charge an attack and, while making it look like it has a short 
 range, suddenly dash up and pummel you. Her attacks will evolve over time, and the battlefield 
 will shrink, causing the pressure to rise and rise. Once you've killed her (with a little help, 
 may I add) , you've beaten the game. Or have you? At the end of the game, as you're sitting on the 
 crapper (that's how you save by the way; by using the toilet. Home toilet, public restrooms, port-a-potties, 
 and... taking a dump in the woods... there's always a place for you to relieve yourself so that you 
 may save your game along with your bowels) , you get three options: continue walking around Santa 
 Destroy and complete any unfinished business, watch the "ending", or watch the "complete ending". 
 The "ending" is nothing but the complete ending cut off about 30 seconds in, followed by a Star 
 Wars style credits sequence. However, by playing the final ending, we get one final fight. Sure, 
 it's not as difficult as the "real" final fight, but it's still fun, and you still feel exhilarated 
 once it's all over. The game ends with two warriors clashing swords, followed by rock music blaring 
 in the background of the credits.
  
  Extras: This game has a crapload of minigames, In fact, minigames almost completely MAKE UP the 
 game, when you're not carving people apart like a Christmas ham. If you go to the gym, you can 
 do some motion-based (or A-bash based) exercises that bump up your strength or increase your combos. 
 Other insanely stupid mini games, such as mowing the lawn, picking up garbage, and collecting kitties, 
 keep you occupied. Sure, they're entertaining, but since each one is about 3 minutes of the same 
 repetitive action, it gets boring after a little while; that's why you stick to assassination gigs, 
 the freelance killing jobs after which you get a few scrap coins. Another interesting thing is 
 that at some point in the game, you doze off on a bus. And what do you dream about? Video games, 
 of course. But this is no dream; no, this shoot-em-up is for real. It's a short mini game, but 
 if you're a shoot-em-up fan, it should keep you entertained. You're flying around in a gundam, 
 blasting things apart and slicing them open with a giant sword. Speaking of Gundamns, that's something 
 else I should tell you all: this game is LOADED with references. The credits are Star Wars style, 
 gundams and sailor moons adorn your shelves and T-shirts, there's an N64 in the corner, there's 
 a Captain Falcon wannabe douchebag named Destroyman (who goes so far to call of his attacks "Destroy 
 _______!") , you're using a god damn lightsaber, they reference Duke Nukem in the final scenes ("If 
 I explain my story to you, then this game's rating will go up even higher!" "I don't care! So what?!" 
 "So, the game might be delayed! You don't want it to become No More Heroes Forever, do you?") , 
 and you can go Super Saiyan. Anything else you'd like? No? I thought so.
  
  Final Statement: There is nothing like this game at all, and there never will be again. At least, 
 until the make "Absolutely No More Heroes". The bloody, gorey combat is graciously and effortlessly 
 combined with side-ripping comedy. Before each fight, Silvia will call and ask if you have cleaned 
 out all of your orafices and if you need to take a shxt. After each battle, as you watch your sweet 
 little kitten swing around on the fan in the background, you'll get a phone call in your apartment 
 from Beef Head video store with a complaint from Diane, whether it be because you forgot to return 
 "How to Please a Woman in Bed Part 2", or because you subsituted a due video with a tape consisting 
 of you humping a pillow for five minutes. This is the definitive M-rated Wii game. This is the 
 definitive third-party Wii game. This is the definitive dark comedy action slasher adventure. This 
 game... this game is what the Wii was meant for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VagrantChild24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Regardless of what your impressions or opinions are of Suda 51 after the much loved or hated Killer 
 7, one cannot help but admit that he is a creative force that is innovating video games for the 
 future. With his latest project No More Heroes, he does not disappoint.
  
  Story:
  
  No More Heroes revolves around the main protagonist Travis Touchdown, a man who has been caught 
 up in somewhat of a game among assassins. The game begins with Travis entering a mansion and killing 
 the master of the manor thus placing him as the 11th ranked assassin in the city of Santa Destroy. 
 Now he must continue to climb up the rankings to become the top assassin.
  
  All in all the story is pretty simple but it is also unique enough to keep being entertaining. 
 The characters are absolutely hilarious when they have to be, but are also capable of delivering 
 passionate monologues when they have to. Obviously anyone who has played Killer 7 knows that Suda 
 has a flair for the obsurd and there are many moments in the game that serve that expectation. 
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The game looks surprisingly detailed for what it is. It is a very stylized type of cel shading 
 very much like what was used in Killer 7. It doesn't try to be a graphical powerhouse and by embracing 
 what it can do and doing it well it looks beautiful. Sometimes the vast amounts of enemies getting 
 cut up and spewing copious amounts of blood (by the gallons) can cause an occasional slow down, 
 but it is never enough to hamper gameplay and it is rare enough that it doesn't wear down your 
 gameplay over time.
  
  Sound:
  
  There really isn't anything spectacular in the game, but it does everything efficiently. The voice 
 acting is solid and as crazy and twisted as the story can get, the cast does a very good job conveying 
 the absurdity of it all. The only voice complaint I have is that from the original trailer to the 
 final game Crystal got this crazy accent that kinda grinds my nerves a bit. Otherwise the music 
 and sound effects are solid but not something that will be too memorable.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  When creating for the Wii, the controls will either make your game or utterly destroy it. Luckily, 
 Suda understood that and instead of making the beam katana a complete waggle fest, he intelligently 
 maps attacks to button presses and uses motion controls just for finishing blows and an occasional 
 mini-game (hit baseballs through enemies) . As a result the fighting is fantastic and fun.
  
  Traveling around works, but it could definately be a bit tighter. Most of this is due to the 
 camera. While you can turn the camera by pressing directions on the d-pad, it can sometimes be 
 a bit unwieldy. This is especially true when going through a small hallway (like the very first 
 mansion for example) . Whie it never gets so frustrating that it makes you want to quit, it is an 
 irritant. 
  
  Luckily there are also a lot of little side things you can do to prolong the game. In between each 
 rank fight you have to earn a set amount of money to enter the fight. This is done through a series 
 of mini-games or slaughterfests. On top of that, there are nearly 100 shirts to find around the 
 city (dumpster diving yields results after all) that will keep you busy for a good while.
  
  Overall while the game does have some issues it is by far the greatest action game you are 
 going to find on the Wii. Especially if you are looking for a Mature game. And this game definately 
 earns it with a lot of language, partial nudity, gallons of blood, and just sheer absurdity. If 
 none of that bothers you and your Wii is just collecting minigames that you aren't playing, give 
 it a shot. I'm glad I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codezer0
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  To be fair, I already was looking forward to this game with the press leading up to its release. 
 At the same time, I also enjoyed Killer7, Suda51's last console game (that I know of) .
  
  The story goes that you are Travis Touchdown, an anime-loving, card-collecting dude who got a sweet 
 beam katana from an internet auction. Silvia comes around and requests your assistance with a certain 
 someone (that you only see in the teaser/promo video in the game) ; upon their defeat, you become 
 the 12th ranked assassin. The other 11 all happen to be "in the neighborhood" of the Cali-inspired 
 Santa Destroy, and if you want to be Number One, you need to kill the rest.
  
  Given how central the katana is to the action and combat of NMH, some may think that this is just 
 going to be one of those games where you wildly fling around the Wii remote like an idiot. Suda 
 addressed this by making it only necessary for certain parts of the combat, such as pulling off 
 a finishing move, in conjunction with the nunchuk for pulling off wrestling moves, or in participating 
 with some of the mini games and side jobs.
  
  As a ranked assassin in the UAA, you are stipulated that you must pay an "entry fee" in order to 
 set up a match with the next ranked assassin. Thus to make the money to pay and move to the next 
 match, you have to do side jobs. First start the part time jobs in where you can do things from 
 collecting coconuts from trees for a street vendor, to filling up passing cars at the gas station, 
 to cleaning graffiti, and so on.
  
  There is an open world nature to it once you beat the 11th ranked assassin, as you're able to explore 
 Santa Destroy as you please. As you rank up, more things open up, such as the Thunder Ryu building 
 which lets you train to build up strength and vitality, Beef Head Video to purchase new videos 
 to learn new wrestling moves, and free fight missions that give you the opportunity to "clean up" 
 the henchmen left behind after you killed their boss (but only if you're good enough to not take 
 a hit) . But it's not loaded with the other annoyances of other open-world games, such as GTA. You 
 don't have to worry about police, you don't have to worry about stealing someone else's car, and 
 you don't have to worry about random people on the street shooting at you. And when you go to take 
 on a ranked assassin, each of the stages for them acts much like a Zelda-like dungeon, where you 
 can explore, perform objectives, and ultimately open the path to the main boss.
  
  The combat is quite visceral, with enemies spewing copious amounts of blood when you chop them 
 up, and coins to line your pockets. Only time that I had any issue with the combat was in moving 
 the wiimote/nunchuk in the designated directions for certain wrestling moves. Otherwise, it is 
 all straightforward and works very well.
  
  That's not to say that there aren't certain control issues though. There are parts in the world 
 that while you're riding your motorcycle, it can get stuck at. Pressing a button (when you're far 
 away enough) allows you to summon the bike by your friend, but where he parks is sometimes... dodgy. 
 I've already had more than a couple of instances where say, I was nearest to one road and called 
 him up, but then he chose to park on the other side of the building I was standing by. But with 
 how rare that has been, it doesn't feel like a huge problem - more like a minor setback due to 
 your in-game friend's incompetence.
  
  All in all, I like No More Heroes. It tries many things differently and it's incredibly soothing 
 to pick up and play after you get frustrated and stuck with another big-budget title. GIve it a 
 chance; just know that it pretty much earns its M rating, so keep the kiddies away. Older gamers 
 that were priorly embarassed to own a Wii now have renewed justification, and you owe it to yourself 
 to pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMH74767
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  I've been wanting to play this since I first heard of it, so I'm renting the game now and just 
 played for about an hour.
  I love the fighting, the controls are tight and easy to master overall very intuitive, the only 
 thing I had to get used to is moving the wiimote very quickly for the wrestling moves, but once 
 I got the hang of it I was a regular wrestling superstar.
  The graphics have their own distinct style and does the job well. I don't really think the blood 
 was necessary, but it works, I don't like viewing the map, its too pixelated, I know they're going 
 for the retro feel, but still.
  Sound is also great, especially during the fights, I love the retro sound effects and just the 
 sound of your beam hitting through you enemies.
  Gameplay, again the gameplay is what really makes the game, the fighting is the best, but the driving 
 is absolutely horrible, I also hate the minigames, its a waste of time to make money just to get 
 to the good part again.
  I do believe this game should be experienced, just not sure its worth the admission. On a final 
 note, this one is definately a rental only, if you want an open end world with good fighting and 
 driving your best bet is to pick up Godfather. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeEatBrain
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  There's a lot of things I love about No More Heroes. But first, let's get the stuff I didn't love 
 out of the way. At this point I'm about half way through the game. I haven't found any use for 
 the motorcycle driving except to get me from one place to the other. That's fine, but why is everything 
 in Santa Destroy so friggin' spread out? Why do I have to spend 10 minutes driving to everything? 
 And the driving physics are b. r. o. k. e. n. For something that takes up so much of my time, there's 
 nothing fun about the driving sequences. Not even hitting people (what usually is the most fun 
 for me in those GTA type games) is fun. The people you hit just yell and kind of disappear. Bleh. 
 As you might expect from a wii game, it's not the best looking thing out there. the animation and 
 art are very "stylish", but it's still got a plethora of problems with the graphics. Even the cut 
 scenes look kinda blah. And there is occasional slow down when there's a lot going on. 
  
  This stuff would have ruined almost any other game. But with NMH, there's just so much that's right 
 with it, I can overlook all the bad. As I said, the graphics are nothing to write home about, but 
 that doesn't mean the game doesn't look awesome. The environments are surprisingly detailed, and 
 although the goons you spend most of your time decapitating and cutting in half all look almost 
 exactly alike, they look good and you don't even realize it because they don't stay in one piece 
 very long. The missions are button mashing fun that you don't get tired of, and the side missions 
 are fun. I don't know how they got the idea for a lawn mowing game in an assassin game, but they 
 did, and they actually made it fun. But here's the clincher, they have a lot of wii remote action, 
 and none of it seems tacked on and all of it works amazingly. From the killing blows to the wrestling 
 moves and even small things like having your phone calls coming softly out of the speaker in the 
 remote so you have to hold it up to your ear to hear it and switching from high to low stance, 
 it really shows what can be done with the wii if a third party concentrates on making a wii game 
 instead of porting stuff from another system and adding waggle controls. 
  
  If you're squeamish about blood or liberal use of the "F" word, this game might not be for you, 
 but otherwise I don't see too many people not getting their $50 worth of enjoyment out of this 
 disc. Check it out, it has my seal of approval. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  That's how I would sum up this game. But there's more to it than just being a nice cell shaded 
 game. The combat is just as exciting and amazing. You'll be playing as this character named Travis 
 Touchdown and you bump into this beautiful lady named Sylvia Christel who is egging you on to kill 
 the top ten Assassin's in order for you to be the number 1 assassin. At the same time Travis is 
 trying to get in the sack with Sylvia as he continues to move up in the ranks. 
  
  The game has an open world feel to it like GTA style but the roaming is basically so you can get 
 to point a to point b to open up other missions and jobs so that you can move up to the next ranked 
 assassin. For you to do that you'll have to do these side missions that are more like part time 
 jobs. You'll have to earn money for you to unlock the next mission to fight another assassin which 
 is the next boss fights. The boss fights are the best part of the game. They are so over the top 
 and fun to watch the cut scenes after you're done with which boss fight. 
  
  The graphics in the game aren't the best but the art style direction that they used in this game 
 is just beautiful. It has a retro feel to it mixed in with anime and cell shaded look. I just wish 
 they were more games like this on the system. The sound is pretty good and the music soundtrack 
 blends in well with the overall look and feel of the game.
  
  If you're a hardcore gamer you and you're been waiting for a rated M game which aren't that many 
 on the Wii than you should definitely check out this game. It's a must play game if you have a 
 Nintendo Wii and an older gamer with this system like myself.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexGSGSGS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  The first thing I have to say is that this game wasn't as I expected. I thought the free roaming 
 was going to be as GTA, but I was wrong, the free roaming was boring, but that's the only thing 
 I didn't like about the game. The game combat system is awesome; you get hyper slashing the enemies 
 in half or decapitating their heads. The best part is that you can upgrade your sword and than 
 perform these insane combos that get you even more hyper, and the wrestling moves are also awesome. 
 I personally was a fan of professional wrestling (mostly Lucha Libre than American wrestling) but 
 this game is making me be a fan of Lucha Libre again. Anyway, I also like that you can power up 
 your character by going to the gym, and you can also dress Travis the way you want, which makes 
 the game even cooler. Suda 51 has outdone himself with this project, this is a must have game. 
 Peace out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w00t_3000
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  No More Heroes is an exclusive Wii game that kicks the other third party game available for the 
 Wii right in the booty. You play as Travis Touchdown, a dude who loves anime and video games and 
 recently won a internet auction and got a "beam katana". (It's pretty much just a lightsaber) The 
 game is focus on Travis trying to get to rank #1 in the UAA, an organization of assassins. You 
 go around trying to kill other ranked assassins in order to reach the top. (By the way, what's 
 up with Ubisoft and assassins?) You'll probably notice from the graphics and the artistic style 
 that this game looks a lot like killer7. Well, that's because this game was directed from the same 
 guy who worked with killer7 (aka Suda 51) . Now, you're not just going around through each level 
 killing assassins. There's an "entry fee" for each assassin you are about to kill. So you need 
 to do some jobs to earn money. These jobs are varied from other small assassination missions, or 
 odd jobs such as collecting garbage, coconuts, or mowing lawns. I know it's dumb trying to get 
 money by doing all these weird jobs, but it's fun in the end. The violence and action in this game 
 are very satisfying. Now, you don't just start swinging around the Wii remote like an idiot. To 
 swing the beam katana, just press A. Once an enemy's health bar runs out, there will be on-screen 
 directions on what direction to swing the Wii remote to unleash a final move. People getting decapitated 
 and sliced in half is just awesome in my opinion. This game is definitely not for the little ones. 
 Swear words coming out you left and right. Some sexual content. And a whole lot of vioence. Parents, 
 keep this away from your children! Overall, No More Heroes is a great game. But RENT it. You'll 
 probably finish the game by the 5 day period. And there's nothing much to do after you beat it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remblade
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  This is my first review, but after completing this game I felt it necessary to give my recommendation 
 for this game.
  
  I won't bore you with the gameplay or mechanics or it's technical short comings as you can read 
 about that in every other review. If you are considering this game just keep in mind it's a game 
 that's very well aware that it's a game and loves that fact. 
  
  As you may already know the story is made up of 10 missions that end up with you facing a ranked 
 assassin. At first they seem like ok bosses not great ones, but as you go on they get crazier and 
 better with some great cut scenes and dialogue that just make it all worth while. I enjoyed this 
 game from the beginning and when the end finally came it just blew me away. 
  
  It took me about 18 hours to complete and that's with finding as many dumpsters, buying all the 
 clothes, training and beam katana upgrades. As well as finding the lovikov balls and doing the 
 jobs (both part-time and assassination)
  
  Final thoughts: This game was so refreshing I'm ready to go through it again. Fans of Killer 7 
 will immedately recognize the same style throughout the game and it's all the better for it. I 
 enjoyed this game from the beginning and when the end finally came it just blew me away. This game 
 is dripping with style that you just don't see anymore. easliy a 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  When the Wii was first revealed, one of the trailers that caught my eye was the highly stylized 
 fight between Helter Skelter and Travis Touchdown for the game Project Heroes. While at the time 
 I was disapointed that you wouldn't play as the then cooler seeming Helter Skelter, Project Heroes 
 was definitely one of the reasons why I bought the Wii. 
  
  A year and some change later, Project Heroes became No More Heroes and Travis Touchdown didn't 
 seem that bad of a protagonist. This is because, Suda 51 (director) made Travis Touchdown probably 
 the most identifiable character to gamers, EVER. Travis Touchdown is an Otaku, a BIG Otaku. In 
 case you don't know what an Otaku is, it's a person who's social life consists of them sitting 
 around watching anime, reading manga, and being a general nerd. On top of that, Travis' interests 
 include watching old wrestling videos, porn, and online auctions. His love for online auctions 
 is what originally drives the game. 
  
  Travis wins a beam katana online, how such weapons are able to be sold online, is beyond me. So 
 what do you do when you get a beam katana? Kill people thats what. Why kill people? Well... Travis 
 needs money for some video games. Yeah, he takes his games seriously. 
  
  As the story goes, after killing the first guy, (Helter Skelter aka the original trailer) Travis 
 is contacted by the sexy french (maybe russian?) Sylvia Christel who tells him he's become the 
 number 11th ranked assassin, and if he continues to kill the higher ranked assassins he'll be number 
 1. After asking Sylvia if she'll have sex with him if he continues killing people, he decides to 
 start killing people nevertheless and so the game starts.
  
  The majority of the game is kill random guys, open door, kill, door, assassin you need to kill. 
 The controls aren't what most think, instead of swinging the wiimote to swing your sword, you use 
 the A button for sword and B for other attacks. The wiimote and nunchuck are used for finishing 
 moves where you'll be shown an arrow on screen and then have to move the wiimote/nunchuck in that 
 direction to either cut some heads off, cut people in half, or do a german suplex (or other wrestling 
 moves.) 
  
  When you're cursing around Santa Destroy, you'll need to earn some money in order to participate 
 in the main assassinations, this is where things get weird. You'll do odd jobs, and I mean odd. 
 Everything from collecting coconuts to mowing the lawn. Other ways to spend your cash includes 
 new duds for Travis to wear including new jackets, otaku styled shirts, and other pieces of clothing. 
 If you don't want to do work, you can either go to the gym work out, or chill in your motel room, 
 watch videos, and play with your cat. 
  
  The graphics style is very stylized. I'll take stylized graphics above pixel pushers and HDR lighting, 
 and No More Heroes has one of the best styled games on the Wii. Along with the sharp cell shaded 
 graphics, the HUD is done in a very retro 8 Bit style which really does bring a sense of nostalgia 
 to the game. 
  
  All weirdness aside, the game has a pretty deep mature story. Some of the assassins have certain 
 ties to Travis which go into parts of his past revealing some pretty messed up things. It really 
 does drive the game forward when you figure all these things out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bane6667
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  When i first looked at this game i was like the what the H%ll beacause i was going to make a book 
 called no more heroes so i thought if the book would be good what if a game taking the name so 
 it came out played it loved it. 
  
  Gameplay: you are Travis Touchdown an assassin whos weapon of choice is a lightsaber from ebay 
 the controls are a button slash b button to punch/kick then when enemy stunned you can use wrestling 
 moves. but the wii mote also takes a part if you make it look upwards high atttacks if you strike 
 or slash and you must adapt with this by going pass there guard aiming high or low mixing up combos 
 with strike/slash high and low grabs too then you get a thing that says swing wii mote this way 
 you do it then presto there dead. you get a slot machine at the bottom of the screen where if you 
 kill someone you get a slot image when you get three of the same you get an awsome power-up.
  
  Sound: awsome decapitate some one blood shoots everywhere the other guy screams madly to smash 
 heads against the ground .
  
  graphics: for Wii wise great graphics on cel shading on characters to lighting and shading.
  
 
  cons: theres a GTA world {sand box} but it sucks cause of poor collision detection no npc behavior 
 tons of invisible walls and only few places t go into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Durffen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Casual, party, mini games, bleh. The Wii is a great console, and is especially good for the casual 
 audience. But why can't we see more titles that are for people that have been fans of Nintendo 
 since the release of NES? If you are on the internet often, then you will hear these phrases alot, 
 "Wii needs more hardcore games." and "Wii needs better third party support." How about both in 
 one? No More Heroes is what some are calling "The first AAA game for Wii of 2008." And they couldn't 
 be more right. No More Heroes gives you the hardcore gameplay you're looking for, coming from a 
 third party developer, and also, enough blood and violence to prevent a casual gamer from picking 
 it up. You play as Travis Touchdown. An Otaku (anime freak) That has bought a Beam Katana from 
 an online auction, and is now entered in to the UAA has rank number 11 by the leader of the UAA, 
 Sylvia Christel. Travis aims to make it to the top as number 1, and must go through henchmen, assassination 
 challenges, and get part time jobs through out Santa Destroy to earn money to compete against other 
 ranked assassin's.
  
  The Gameplay is a somewhat basic hack and slash, but it is completely enhanced by the motion controls 
 from the Wii Remote. The whole game has an arcade type of theme to it, with all the icons being 
 8 bit like, and many arcade sounds, gives you that sort of classic feel to it. You can roam the 
 city of Santa Destroy with you're bike the Schpel Tiger, buy new clothes, weapons, and work you're 
 stats up, like maximum health, or strength.
  
  You're basic attack is the A button. After slashing enemies down, you can perform a final blow, 
 where an arrow appears on screen, telling you where to swing the Wii Remote. This is a very standard 
 thing to do when killing you're enemies, and if you perform it right, you will decapitate themawesome.. 
 You can also choose weather you want to attack High, or Low, and you must differ between the 2 
 too fight off enemies who guard different places. You can also hold the A button to charge up an 
 attack. Travis also knows a good amount of Professional Wrestling moves. When hitting the B trigger, 
 you can break you're opponents guard, and if you can stun you're opponent to where there is a circle 
 of stars, you can hit the B trigger, and you can perform different types of suplexes, where two 
 arrow's comes up telling you where you must swing the Nunchuk, and the Wii Remote. Also, you're 
 Beam Katana runs on battery's, so you have gauge on the right side of the screen indicating you're 
 Beam Katana's battery. Once it goes down, you have to hit the 1 button, and shake the Wii Remote 
 left and right to recharge it. All of these controls work very well, and are very fun to pull off.
 
  
  No More Heroes takes a cel shaded look, which is nice. There are some nicely detailed parts of 
 the game, but it also has it's good amount of frame rate issues, and personally, i do not think 
 they should have released it early, and maybe they should have delayed it even, to polish up and 
 work out these issues. But, no matter what, with the issues, which are aren't huge, No More Heroes 
 is a good looking game, and these issues should not prevent you from buying the game. It also supports 
 480p and 16:9 wide-screen.
  
  No More Heroes has some decent voice acting, it has some catching fighting music, and even takes 
 use of the Wii Remotes speaker. Good sound effects, but some of the henchmen's lines can be, well, 
 horrible. I mean, who would scream "My spleen!" after you slice off there head? Did i mention almost 
 everyone of them say it after you kill them, no matter how you kill them?
  
  After completing the main story, you can go back and play through the story on a harder, or even 
 an easier difficulty, if you wish. You get to keep you're money, clothes, weapons, and basically 
 everything you had from when you first completed the game, plus a new difficulty. So there is a 
 little added replay value, but not to much.
  
  No More Heroes is a great game. It is a great hardcore game, and a great third party game. I highly 
 recommend any hardcore Wii owner pick this game up, especially if you would like to see more games 
 like this on Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orange_ruffie
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Amazingly innovative, fun, and keeps you on the edge of your seat. The same rush you get when racking 
 up massive points on Pinball but the control of yielding your own katana! Amazing sound effects 
 and music! Awesome explosions! Amazing Jackpots like Crazy Taxi coupled with insanely fierce finishing 
 moves like Mortal Kombat! The art and layout of the city is awesome. The controls are simple and 
 intuitive. Driving around your hog is insanely fun. You can pop wheelies and explore. This is exactly 
 what Nintendo needed to release for their adult audiences, EXACTLY what we needed. The sound effects 
 are nostalgic and fun. You will love this game! Awesome! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! A ++++++++++++++++++ 
 10/10 highly recommended ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vandalvideo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Every blue moon there comes a game that blows off the collective dust of unoriginality and breaks 
 the mold. No More Heroes made a great attempt, but did it have the lung capacity to remove the 
 moldy residue from the cookie cutter games we've been seeing lately? Armed with a lightsaber, some 
 killer wrestling moves, great dialogue, interesting enemies, intriguing story, and a unique art 
 style Travis Touchdown manages to atleast cauterize the wound.
  
  Travis Touchdown is the main protagonist of this avant game. He is also one of the dozens of unique 
 characters that make up the city of Sante Destory. Touchdown is what you could call an Otaku, or 
 American who has become obssessed with Japanese culture. Oddly enough, he also likes to watch tons 
 of wrestling tapes. His odd character is also defined by the different people you meet throughout 
 the game.
  
  No More Heroes, as previously mentioned, takes place in what seems to be an eastern city called 
 Sante Destroy. You play the role of an assassion, Travis Touchdown, who is on a mission to become 
 number one. Touchdown's motivations seem at first to be as simple as wanting to makeout with the 
 other major character, Sylvia. Sylvia is the leader of what could be called an association of bad 
 guys. Travis's job is to work his way up the ladder by battling through tons of lackies and interesting 
 boss fights.
  
  The gameplay in No More Heroes could be labeled as Grand Theft Auto Lite. Sante Destroy is left 
 open for Travis to drive around with his bike, the Schpeltiger. As you would expect from a sandbox 
 game, theres tons of different jobs you can take on to earn money, upgrade your lightsaber, get 
 new moves, etc. Whatever your poison may be, theres always something to do. Theres also tons of 
 references to anime culture like Dragon Ball Z, snide remarks about video games like Duke Nukem 
 Forever, and allusions to movies like Back to the Future 2. 
  
  Your arsenal in No More Heroes consists of a lightsaber and a myriad of wrestling moves. The lightsaber 
 combo mainly consists of typing a to perform combos, and you can also change your stance depending 
 on how you hold the wiimote. Once you manage to stun the enemies you can perform grapples and icons 
 pop up on the screen like live action sequences and allow you to perform body slams and the like. 
 There is also a slot machine that rolls everytime you kill an enemy, and it can activate any number 
 of special powers for Travis that are named after deserts and range in power.
  
  However, the game isn't without its problems. Muddy visuals, unresponsive bike controls, and a 
 few plot twists that will either make you want to pull your hair out or fall out of your chair 
 laughing. Theres lots of humour to be had in the game as well. The save system consists of Travis 
 using portable toilets that are always in conspicuous places. Despite the visuals being muddy, 
 the style of the visuals are unique to say the least. The overall presentation in the game is great.
 
  
  In conclusion, No More Heroes is a great game that manages to bring new things to the genre. Its 
 also one of the few great third party titles on the Wii. It would be criminal for me to tell you 
 not to get this game just for that reason. However, thanks to great characters, interesting combat, 
 nice story, comedy, pulp culture references, etc No More Heroes is one heck of a game that should 
 be enjoyed by anyone with a Wii...... as long as you're this high.
  
  *Holds up you must be this tall to ride sign* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyhwk91
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This game came to me as a surprise at first. At first I wasn't very excited about this game (seeing 
 as how the first trailer wasn't that good) , but a few weeks from its release, I got hooked instantly. 
 I am a big fan of Suda 51 (grasshopper manufacture) , as I have thouroghly enjoyed games like Killer 
 7. 
  
  When I first got this game, I wasn't sure how it would play on the wii. But after 5 minute, I felt 
 like I was a master at this game, and that nothing would stop me from becoming Number 1! The controls, 
 worked great, and nothing feels better than pulling off an execution move, to dismember your enemy. 
 The cinematics are the best, and always keep me laughing. The characters were greatly choosen, 
 to pull this game off, and the sound keeps it up to a max. The star wars spoofs (such as the beam 
 katana's sound effects, as well as things like the chapter complete screen) , pull off a great variety 
 of entertainment. The bosses are spectacular in this game, as they include people with Big swords, 
 or dual guns, all the way to creepy little girls. I also greatly enjoyed the driving, although 
 it took a minute to get the mortocycle controls down. but after I did it was very fun. Side missions 
 are fun, as well as staying in your apartment, and doing things like petting the cat, or watching 
 tv. The clothing customization, as well as the open world, really brings back memories of GTA. 
 But all in all this game really pulled through and I hope to see more like it in the future! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kinggoken
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  The Wii for the most part is a console designed for casual gamers. Months into the realease of 
 the Wii the majority of the games put out on it have been games stuffed with mini games. Every 
 couple of months a AAA Nintendo title will come along but it has been quite a while since the Wii 
 has gotten a action game like No More Heroes. In fact, that game sets the bar for how a action 
 game on the Wii should be done.
  
  Game Play: You play as Travis Touchdown as he makes his way up the rankings as the best assassin. 
 Sure that may sound like a weak plot and it is but the game makes up for it a lot of ways with 
 its game play. Travis wields a weapon similar to a light sabar that he uses to slice and dice his 
 opponents. With a game like this you would expect the Wii to have you swing the Wiimote to swing 
 the sword but you don't. Pressing A does combbos and you are then prompted to swing the Wiimote 
 to deliver the final blow. When you do a final blow a rouleete bar appears on the bottom of the 
 screen and when three images lock up you gain special abilities temporarily. Not only can you use 
 the beam sabar but Travis can also do many wrestling moves which are unlocked as you play through 
 the game. Now let me explain how this game is played out. Travis is given missions for which he 
 has to pay money before he can actually go on them. In order to get money you have to take part 
 in many activities/jobs which range from cutting grass to assassination missions. To get missions 
 you actually have to travel to that desination and in this game you are given a city similar to 
 GTA but not quite as big or as active in those games. You ride around on your motorcycle but controlling 
 the motorcycle is not quite as smooth as it could have been. Once you get enough money you can 
 then go on ranked assassination missions to face a boss and move up the ladder. You can also use 
 money to upgrade many things on Travis like his appearance, his strength, new weapons etc.
  
  Presenation: This game is not exactly a power house in the graphics department but what it 
 lacks in graphics it shines in style. One quick note I want to make is that this game is really 
 bloody. No gore. Just a lot of blood. Not for the kids.
  
  Final note: Get this game, you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezzat30
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes' combat is its shining star, and not enough can be said about its over-the-top, 
 cheerful violence. Armed with your weapon of choice (you can upgrade your katana or purchase new 
 ones, provided you earn enough coinage) , you'll take on a decent number of mercenaries on any given 
 mission. You'd think that since you're brandishing a lightsaber, the game would force you to swing 
 the Wii Remote to approximate the experience. Instead, basic combat is on the simple side: You 
 swing your weapon using the A button, and perform hand-to-hand moves using the B button. Remote-waggling 
 is reserved for finishing moves, but it's important to note that every kill is finished with such 
 a move, so there's no shortage of wrist movement here. If you deliver your final blow with your 
 katana, it may be as simple as a flick to the side, while at other times, you can jerk both the 
 Nunchuk and the remote for a theatrical, painful-looking wrestling move. The combination of old-fashioned 
 button-mashing and high-energy yanks and waggles makes for fun, often breathless encounters, and 
 while the same basic movements account for the bulk of the action, it rarely feels repetitive. 
 
  
  Much of this has to do with the exuberance of No More Heroes' brutality. Each enemy spurts seemingly 
 endless showers of blood and coins, so expect to see your screen filled with red streams and golden 
 glitter when you manage a sideswipe through multiple foes at once. It's quite cartoonish, actually: 
 Everything kicks into subtle slow motion when you divide a foe in two, a ring of stars rotates 
 above a stunned enemy's head to the sound of bird chirps, and a small slot machine spins at the 
 bottom of the screen after every finishing move. It's not just for show, though -- earn a triple 
 match, and you activate one of your darkside powers. In one case, the entire screen goes gray, 
 and a single button press allows you to attack each foe, one at a time, with a spectacular, stylish 
 thrust. In another, your foes slow to a crawl, allowing you to carve them up with greater ease. 
 These temporary power-ups are awesome to watch and an exhilarating reward for successful combat 
 maneuvers. 
  
  There are some subtleties to the combat. When you are locked onto an enemy, you can block attacks 
 and deflect bullets, and use the control pad to dodge. You'll take a higher or lower stance depending 
 on how you hold the remote, may need to stun enemies with a kick before you can damage them, and 
 in some cases, have to defeat them by using alternative means. For example, in several side missions, 
 baseball players clad in Warriors uniforms pitch baseballs at you, and you have to bat them through 
 an entire row to defeat them. You also need to pay attention to how much electricity your katana 
 has, as well as your own health. You can find power-ups to fully recharge your saber, though you 
 can also charge it up by holding the 1 button and shaking the remote up and down (which also results 
 in a pretty lewd-looking act onscreen -- and in real life, for that matter) . You'll find plenty of 
 health chests scattered about when needed, though apart from boss fights, you'll rarely need them: 
 As fun as the combat is, you won't often find yourself teetering on the verge of death. 
  
  The crux of the action is found in No More Heroes' numerous and impressive boss encounters, where 
 you'll use these subtleties to your advantage, though they don't usually present a foreboding challenge 
 until the final few fights. Yet they're still enormously entertaining, thanks to your opponents' 
 melodramatic (and often hysterical) soliloquizing, interesting attacks, and pure wackiness. Holly 
 Summers launches missiles at you from her fake leg, while Stage magician Harvey Moiseiwitsch Volodarskii 
 locks you up in the box used for his disappearing act -- an attack that kills you instantly if your 
 Nunchuk-flailing skills aren't up to par. Bad karaoke, thinly veiled Star Wars references, and 
 killer hand buzzers are among the many highlights, and just when you think that things couldn't 
 get any stranger -- well -- you're forced to reevaluate. 
  
  When you aren't fighting, you can roam about Santa Destroy on your motorcycle in a free-roaming, 
 Grand Theft Auto-inspired manner. You shouldn't expect the kind of spirited freedom a GTA title 
 provides, though. While there are some traffic and pedestrians, the city is really your key to 
 moving from one mission to the next, and doesn't reward you with any meaningful surprises. That 
 isn't to say there isn't anything to do outside of combat, though. In fact, to stay in top form, 
 you'll need to go out on the town. There, you can make some purely cosmetic purchases, such as 
 some new T-shirts or a spiffy new jacket, though your money is better spent on more impactful upgrades. 
 A trip to the gym, presided over by the creepy Thunder Ryu, will reward you with a few minigames 
 and a stronger body. You can purchase new katanas and upgrades from Doctor Naomi, or videotapes 
 that teach you new wrestling moves from the local rental shop. Once you're done shopping, you can 
 perform more side missions, or head back to your apartment where you can pet your cat, save your 
 game by sitting on the toilet, or try on your new clothes. 
  
  The mission structure isn't as fully fleshed out as it could have been. Generally speaking, after 
 each boss fight, you unlock only two new missions, and while you can revisit any mission as many 
 times as you want, many of them are identical, so you may wish for a little more variety -- especially 
 when most enemies you face in a mission are the same. Still, there is plenty of diversity to be 
 found. For example, in some missions you may need to slay every enemy without taking a single hit, 
 while others may occur entirely in dark mode, or may allow you to only use wrestling moves. The 
 crazy side jobs that you need to take before unlocking new missions are also nutty enough to keep 
 you fascinated. You'll deliver coconuts that apparently weigh a hundred pounds, wash graffiti off 
 of walls, and scour the beach for hidden mines. They're simple tasks, to be sure, but they use 
 the motion controls well and are just crazy enough to make you wonder what weird job you'll be 
 taking the next time around. 
  
  In keeping with the stylish combat and crazy dialogue, No More Heroes' visual design is brimming 
 with strong color choices and benefits from some crisp cel-shading and well-done shadows. Clean 
 textures and exaggerated animations are among the many visual highlights, and some of the kookier 
 boss designs are terrifically insane. There are some graphical issues, however, found mostly in 
 the frame rate, which has a tendency to slow down a bit when you're zooming around on your bike 
 or dicing up a half-dozen foes at once. Nor is the game a technical powerhouse, relying on its 
 powerful art design to carry the load and content to leave its edges jagged. In fact, No More Heroes 
 seems keenly aware of its technical shortcomings: Its minimap and health indicator are pixelated 
 by design, and the menus themselves hearken back to the 8-bit days, as if to embrace the game's 
 focus on style over technical prowess.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jks22112
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  No More Heroes is the latest game from up and coming game developer Suda 51 and Grasshopper Studios. 
 It stars the main character Travis Touchdown in his quest to become the number 1 assassin. Guided 
 by UAA's (United Assassins Association) sexy agent Sylvia Crystal and armed with your trusty Beam 
 Katana, you take down 10 crazy assassins. 
  
  The first thing you notice is the game's crazy visuals. Just like Killer7 the game sports some 
 nice anime visuals unseen in just about any other game. Of course it fits the game and characters 
 quite well. While you will see alot of uneven lines and pop up while driving your motorcycle around 
 the city, the characters and most environments look great for a Wii game. 
  
  The games flow works like this, you do random jobs and assassin missions (like kill as many people 
 as you can) between real missions to make money. Between each mission you'll need to make more 
 money before you can activate the mission. You travel across the city of Santa Destroy on your 
 bad ass motorcycle to activate jobs and missions. Though sometimes going back and forth to make 
 money can be a little tedious, it works fine. Also in the City, clothes store, A place to buy new 
 Beam Katanas, Training center to level upgrade your character, Video Rental store to get Wrestling 
 videos and learn ne moves, hidden trasure, Lokilov Balls, secret dumpsters with shirts and money 
 in them, and even a few more surprises.
  
  The actual game missions are a simple affair. Most of the time you go in a room, kill lots of people, 
 then go to the next room. Attacks work with the A button, Kicks with the B button and a finishing 
 move is done by a wave of the Wii mote in the direction they tell you. Also, Wrestling moves can 
 be done to stunned opponents.
  
  Every time you do a finishing move, a slot machine like roulette at the bottom of the screen goes 
 off, if three icons match, you can do devestating special moves. Most of which slow down time in 
 some way, to make it much easier to kill everyone. With names like 'Blueberry Cheese Brownie' and 
 'Strawberry on the Shortcake' these moves rock.
  
  When you get to the end of the level you are introduced to the Boss. 1 of 10 crazy assassins all 
 really cool in their own way. The Boss fights are fun and classic. Learn their attacks and tendencies, 
 and counter attack. Some of them are easy, some are really tough, but they are all good. 
  
  The game lasts about 12 hours, but it took me 11 hours on my first playthrough. It all depends 
 on how long it takes you to get enough money, and if you spend alot of time searching for secrets 
 within the city of Santa Destroy. 
  
  No More Heroes is mature, crazy, bloody, funny, hot, anime madness. If any of that intrests you, 
 buy it now. The Combat is simple and addictive, the random jobs are fun and odd. The story is a 
 simple anime cliche, but with some awesome cutscenes and AWESOME characters. One of the top 3 games 
 on the Wii, easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_chub
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game shocked me at how much fun it is to play. The story isnt grade A, but it def keeps you 
 interested. The visual style is very unique, gives the game this over the top feel to it. Then 
 there is the gameplay. So much killing, very over the top, game is very intense, but fun. The button 
 mashing isnt as repetative as I thought it was going to be. Good use of the motion controls, not 
 gimmiky.
  Best of all, is it isnt a GTA style game. Yea, you got city, but not much to do beside missions. 
 If I wanted a GTA game, id play one. But this is very unique. Fun, fast paced missions, tough boss 
 battles. This is a must have for anyone who likes action movies. Played it for like 7 hours first 
 day, had the day off and just couldnt put it down.
  I hope enough people buy this game so there can be a sequal. Games like this dont come along much, 
 we need more of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meluvulongtime8
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  You as Travis Touchdown are a blood thirsty, collectible geek, porn watching, Mexican wrestling 
 loving pervert that just so happened to buy a light beam sword online. So what's a guy who bought 
 such a weapon to do.... try and climb the assassin's rankings to the top. You are assisted by Sylvia 
 Christel an agent of the United Assassins Association, whom you are looking to get busy with. The 
 game is set in somewhat of an open world concept, but mainly you're just going from point A to 
 B. Things that can be done in the city include picking up money and t-shirts (for customization 
 also can be purchased at a store) in various dumpsters throughout the city and finding Lovikov's 
 balls.... yes his balls because it takes balls to take on the top 10 assassins. For every 7 you 
 can learn a new technique which is taught by Lovikov kicking your @ss. The game is packed full 
 of humorous things such as this. There are some downsides to the game. One major downfall is the 
 lack of things to do in this open world. While some ppl may miss the ability to hunt down ppl on 
 the streets GTA style the Boss battles more than make up for it. To get into the boss fights you 
 have to pay the dues to enter the sanctioned fight. You can accrue the money by doing various jobs 
 or assassination jobs. While these are fun, it would have been nice to have more variety. This 
 is an issue because you can complete these jobs again and again until you accumulate the cash for 
 the next fight. The boss fights are simply great. Each battle is unique and a challenge. Many of 
 which you will win by the skin of your teeth. This is a welcome difference from many of the cupcake 
 games out this gen. This title would be a great addition to any Wii owner's collection. So go get 
 it and support it so that we can see more great titles on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purple_MAN1832
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so the game I've been waiting for has finally been released and it is GREAT. Sudo 51 presents 
 No More Heroes, a tale of a young man, named Travis Touchdown, and his destiny to become the number 
 1 assassin according to the UAA (united assassin association) . 
  
  First of all, the artistic style is brilliant. Although the graphics may lag behind in areas and 
 some erratic framerates, the game still presents a beautiful world of imagination. The gore is 
 over the top, but it just adds to the games style as a nonrealistic, fun free-for-all, action game. 
 
  
  Gameplay goes as this: for combat, hit the "A" button a couple times, then swing the wii remote 
 for a gruesome finish. Rinse and repeat, so it can become a little repetitive, but not enough to 
 make you cry. The bosses, range from Insanely hard to medium difficulty and test all you knowledge 
 about the game and Travis's fighting mechanics. Overall the bosses keep you guessing and really 
 vary the gameplay. The rest of the world is pretty simple and plain. Using the wii remote to do 
 various tasks for the "Job-Center" to earn cash in order to upgrade your weapon, purchase new clothes, 
 or fight in your next match. 
  
  Sound is outstanding from what I can tell. Although the lines repeat and the dialogue is a little 
 corny (I love the humor though) . 
  
  Overall the game is fantastic, at least it will satisfy someone until Super Smash Brothers hits 
 stores. Although a little repetitive in areas, and with some minor graphical issues the game is 
 the second best on the wii easily, and should be on everyone's list this year (yes even if you 
 are under age, BUY THE GAME :D ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MechaDragon92
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I have never played Killer7. I most likely will not ever play Killer7, but I've heard of similarities 
 between the two games and if this is the case, I must have missed a fantastic game. I love this 
 game for three reasons: The Style, The Controls, and The Graphics
  
  First, the Style. This game is downright weird. Right from the get-go, you are sending heads and 
 limbs flying with hilarious spurts of blood and having bonuses granted to you slot-machine style. 
 These are only two of the quirks in this game, but the incredible amount of them amounts for an 
 experience unlike any before it.
  
  Second, the controls. Anyone who calls the Wii Remote a gimmick should pick this up and sink into 
 it, because with the smooth controls, it is nearly guaranteed. Not requiring you to wildly swing 
 your Wiimote around, this game simply has you hit the A and B Buttons for attacks, and use the 
 Wiimote for actions or extremely cool finishing moves. To be put simply, this game puts Red Steel 
 to shame on just about every level of control.
  
  Finally the graphics. If it hasn't been proved yet, Cel Shading is more than just kiddy stuff nowadays. 
 This game has a level of detail on just about everything that is not seen with many of the games 
 on the Wii and even some on the more powerful consoles. The graphics really bring the world to 
 life, and if done in a more serious style would not have fit in at all.
  
  Love it or hate it, No More Heroes is the definitive action title for Wii owners, but just a warning 
 for the faint of heart, if you don't like blood, this game is not for you. But for the rest of 
 us, it's about time there were No More Heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankeyser
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Contact, Killer & No More Hero's. These games all have two things in common, they are over flowing 
 with style and control different than how you feel they will. Thus when poeple first pick them 
 up, they do not instantly grasp what is going on and they pass these gems buy.
  The problem with Hero's (what it will be called from now on) is the fact that when you see it you 
 first think (GTA+Devil May Cry+Suda's awesome punk luvin' style = WIN) but you will be wrong. Suda 
 san hopefully will never I mean never work on a GTA clone, the sand box portions of Hero's Have 
 worse geometry detection than all the EA BOND lisenced games combined!
  Seriously Suda??? Do you have a debug team? Give me a call I will do some debugging for you for 
 free for crying out loud!
  Then you have the Hub missions... God forbid you fail... Drive five minutes to mission... Fail... 
 Drive back to hub get mission reloaded drive to mission for five minutes fail... Sure this will 
 extend the game life... But what about my life that you are stealing? When do I get that back?
 
  Once you get past the rubbish that is free roaming broke mission Hero's you find the expected 
 Suda master piece.
  The Suda Style can't be beat if only his execution of it was a bit better he could be the next 
 Myimoto or Kojima!
  You have stylistic anime sprays of blood, save systems where you take a dump, over the top bosses 
 that you want to finght over and over till you stomp there stylishly dressed butts into the ground 
 and a decent over all story.
  Especially fun are all the wrestling move take down controls! When you pull one of these off your 
 heart pounds in your chest as you take pleasure in the kill!
  I would have prefered swining if the wiimote ala Twillight Princess for attack but i can understand 
 the design choice Suda made with Hero's.
  One more lacking point before I tell you to buy this game.
  The story. Contact and Killer 7's 
 stories were amazing to me. So much that I rank Killer 7's story write up there with the likes 
 of Crono Cross.
  Hero's story is much more to just get you through the game. Not bad not good.
  Now buy this game 
 if You can handle the style, You dont mind searching for the gem that is to be found, and you love 
 over the top beat em ups where the bosses make you want to smash your wiimote through your tv screen!
 
  Buy it now or stop complaining about third party support.
  love
  francis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfWatch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Hardcore Gamer? This is the game for you.
  Love the sight of blood spewing out of your enemies? This is the game for you.
  Take away all 
 the swearing and the gore, would it still be worth it? Most definitely.
  
  Prior thoughts to purchasing this game, I was uncertain considering many 3rd party games tend to 
 be best left to other consoles. But this game, I hoped for its success. And I am not displeased.
 
  
  Outside all the violence and gore, this game is amazing, and quite a thriller. A bit repetitive? 
 Yes. Get tired of it? No. There is so much excitement in the action of battle that you battle alone 
 makes the game amazing. At first when I heard that you only press buttons to attack, I was a bit 
 disappointed. But after seeing what part of the fighting you actually use wii-motion for, I was 
 thrilled. GS is not wrong about the rating. Unlike many games of its genre, this game has great 
 replay value.
  
  There isn't much to do when your outside cruising around Santa Destroy. It is amusing driving around 
 running over people, but after awhile you can get tired of driving all over the place. The graphics 
 remind me a improved Custom Robo (NGC) . But the cel-shade graphics do work well in this game. 
 
  
  Outside of trying to reach number one, with all the jobs and mini-games, there is enough to keep 
 you busy for a good while to make sure you don't finish the game in one day. Boss battles, the 
 storyline, screen-play, is awesome. The game does use quite a colorful vocabulary. You will hear/read 
 curse words ranging from the a word to the p word.
  
  Graphics: 7.5/10
  - Honestly, they could have been better, but the graphics do not bother me. The graphic effects 
 are pretty nice though.
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  - The game is great; great great great great.
  Control: 9/10
  - It could have been better but the way they game utilizes the wii motion sensing 
 is wonderful as is.
  Sound: 7/10
  - Nothing spectacular.
  Overall: 9.5
  Gameplay Control Graphics Sound. This game is full-fledged and definitely worth your dollar.
 
  
  Who Should Get This Game?: Quality 3rd Party Supporters, Action/Thrill Seekers, Gore Lovers, Mature 
 
  Last Remarks: This is great for your Wii game collection. This game should not leave you disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  The stylishmature action game from Suda 51, is really the best wii game out right now, it not only 
 is one of the few mature wii games, but is the best of them. You travel around in the not real 
 california town of santa Destroy. The graphices are very good for a wii game , maybe the best for 
 the wii right now. They inhance the feeling of you being in the game. there really is some crude 
 humor in here, they go from trying to kill somebody in a magic show , to Travis Touchdown, which 
 is a really cool name, using the bathroom!!! For the sexual themes Travis is sometimes looking at 
 a girls boobs , or saying their sexy right to their face. Why? Cause he got it like that!!!! Or 
 even talking on the phone with some girl giving him imformation, which is played right out the 
 wii mote speaker, so if you put it to your ear it makes you feel like a hot girl is actually talking 
 to you on the phone. So I give this game a 9.5. So stay tuned for my next review and remember whos 
 the best gamer in the world, yeah thats right me, Curse Mark Chris, the great!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  When the Wii was first revealed, one of the trailers that caught my eye was the highly stylized 
 fight between Helter Skelter and Travis Touchdown for the game Project Heroes. While at the time 
 I was disapointed that you wouldn't play as the then cooler seeming Helter Skelter, Project Heroes 
 was definitely one of the reasons why I bought the Wii. 
  
  A year and some change later, Project Heroes became No More Heroes and Travis Touchdown didn't 
 seem that bad of a protagonist. This is because, Suda 51 (director) made Travis Touchdown probably 
 the most identifiable character to gamers, EVER. Travis Touchdown is an Otaku, a BIG Otaku. In 
 case you don't know what an Otaku is, it's a person who's social life consists of them sitting 
 around watching anime, reading manga, and being a general nerd. On top of that, Travis' interests 
 include watching old wrestling videos, porn, and online auctions. His love for online auctions 
 is what originally drives the game. 
  
  Travis wins a beam katana online, how such weapons are able to be sold online, is beyond me. So 
 what do you do when you get a beam katana? Kill people thats what. Why kill people? Well... Travis 
 needs money for some video games. Yeah, he takes his games seriously. 
  
  As the story goes, after killing the first guy, (Helter Skelter aka the original trailer) Travis 
 is contacted by the sexy french (maybe russian?) Sylvia Christel who tells him he's become the 
 number 11th ranked assassin, and if he continues to kill the higher ranked assassins he'll be number 
 1. After asking Sylvia if she'll have sex with him if he continues killing people, he decides to 
 start killing people nevertheless and so the game starts.
  
  The majority of the game is kill random guys, open door, kill, door, assassin you need to kill. 
 The controls aren't what most think, instead of swinging the wiimote to swing your sword, you use 
 the A button for sword and B for other attacks. The wiimote and nunchuck are used for finishing 
 moves where you'll be shown an arrow on screen and then have to move the wiimote/nunchuck in that 
 direction to either cut some heads off, cut people in half, or do a german suplex (or other wrestling 
 moves.) 
  
  When you're cursing around Santa Destroy, you'll need to earn some money in order to participate 
 in the main assassinations, this is where things get weird. You'll do odd jobs, and I mean odd. 
 Everything from collecting coconuts to mowing the lawn. Other ways to spend your cash includes 
 new duds for Travis to wear including new jackets, otaku styled shirts, and other pieces of clothing. 
 If you don't want to do work, you can either go to the gym work out, or chill in your motel room, 
 watch videos, and play with your cat. 
  
  The graphics style is very stylized. I'll take stylized graphics above pixel pushers and HDR lighting, 
 and No More Heroes has one of the best styled games on the Wii. Along with the sharp cell shaded 
 graphics, the HUD is done in a very retro 8 Bit style which really does bring a sense of nostalgia 
 to the game. 
  
  All weirdness aside, the game has a pretty deep mature story. Some of the assassins have certain 
 ties to Travis which go into parts of his past revealing some pretty messed up things. It really 
 does drive the game forward when you figure all these things out. 
  
  No More Heroes is just a fun game to play. Its a great testament to what Third Party Wii games 
 could be. The game has foul language, tons of blood, and tons of violence. A Wii game doesn't have 
 to be a mini game frenzy to be good, and No More Heroes proves that time and time again. If you 
 wanted a mature action game for the Wii, here you go. BUY NO MORE HEROES.
  
  PS. forgot to mention, one of the game's mechanics is shamelessly based on male self stimulation, 
 pure gold.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zenfoldor
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  First AAAE game of 2008, this game from Suda 51 is even funner, and more innovative than the wildly 
 entertaining Killer 7. You already know the assination parts of the game are phenominal, so the 
 only part you should worry about is the "overworld" and the missions.
  
  Don't worry, they are non-invasive and have some cool art style. It's fun to drive through the 
 city, and do the side quests, but some of the funnest gaming on the Wii is the assination missions. 
 The game is super mature and adult, and you will be amazed by the level of depth that the combat 
 entails.
  
  This game has tons of "oh snap" moments, and you'll never be bored. You can't, not love this game, 
 it's quirky and lovable, and has undeniable charm. Don't spoil it for yourself. Go, buy it now. 
 If you own a Wii, you owe it to yourself to own this game, it's amazing, original, and the best. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Chocobo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Great game must buy...
  
  i don't think there is much else to say about this game.. its not like anything else you have ever 
 played. you really should buy this if you have a wii.. or buy a wii to buy this game!
  
  it totally grows on you and makes you hope there is a sequel! There is talks for a sequel... so 
 .... Great!
  
  oh and did i say you should Freaking buy this game? because... best game everrr!
  
  Graphics...
 
  Unique but familiar Sound...
  unusual
  
  Difficulty is just right.
  
  Gamespot finally gave a correct review about a game.
  This is defiantly the mature game youve 
 been waiting for, and there truly is nothing else like it in the gaming market today.
  
  You really do not know what you are missing out on when you pass by this game. I hope myself and 
 gamespot are able to help you pick up this game. Truly is a contender for game of the year... it 
 wont win. But damn, this is one of those games that will go down in history! 
  
  Im glad SSBB got delayed so this title gets its limelight 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
