-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Obscure: The Aftermath
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/adventure/obscureii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some cleverly designed puzzles.
 Nice soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The grating cast of characters is voiced by a similarly grating troupe of actors.
 Not a single chill or scare to be found.
 Awful camera and targeting scheme can lead to plenty of unavoidable deaths.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  9, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.6, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 163 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ignition Entertainment
Developer: Hydravision
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date: Mar 25, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This survival horror sequel is clumsy and frustrating and not suspenseful in the least. 

  In Obscure: The Aftermath, young college students take on demonic monsters while their friends 
 and fraternity fellows get ripped into bloody shreds. Most reasonable people would react with shock 
 or fear, yet this horror adventure game's characters are more interested in clinging to outdated 
 stereotypes. Corey Wilde, for example, isn't concerned about the giant ogres bursting with bulbous 
 tumors that have infiltrated Fallcreek University. Rather, his beloved car's been totaled, and 
 someone must pay. And so it goes with Corey and his chums, who approach the campus's mutant infestation 
 with the same degree of intensity that they would a study session.  

           An example of some of Obscure: The Aftermath's Shakespearean dialogue.      

  It's 
 easy to assume that developer Hydravision was trying to deliver a  Scream -like parody of teen 
 slasher films. Perhaps that's so, but the tongue-in-cheek irony necessary for such an endeavor 
 is missing, instead replaced with bad sexual innuendo and humorless one-liners. From bad dialogue 
 ("I've seen all of Corey's x-rays; I know him inside out") to third-rate voice acting, every character 
 is stripped down to a cliche. At least the characters provide something tangible to grasp because 
 the plot is paper thin, though it does offer some veiled commentary on the perils of drugs and 
 sexual debauchery. What the plot lacks are the most important elements of a good survival horror 
 game: scares and suspense. If the main characters can't bother to feel the occasional chill, there's 
 no reason why we should ever get goose bumps of our own.  

  Nevertheless, there are some atmospheric touches, though many of them are undermined by the general 
 lack of tension. Some scenes are viewed through a grainy black and white filter, an effect that 
 has been used in games countless times but is still utilized with some success in Aftermath. The 
 darkest environments, such as a murky forest, are the most fitting partially because they offer 
 much-needed atmosphere and partially because clearer lighting reveals that Aftermath does not live 
 up to the visual standards of its platform. Character models are stiff and lifeless, textures are 
 rendered in low resolution, and cutscenes are pixelated (though some of them reveal some nice cinematic 
 flourishes) . Some areas look properly dingy and degraded, but the game doesn't have a cohesive 
 artistic vision, so elements like these feel practically accidental. The main saving grace is Olivier 
 Deriviere's moody soundtrack, which features some nice string tracks and interesting vocal stylizations. 

  As in 2005's Obscure, in The Aftermath you'll take control of one student at any given time, though 
 another AI-controlled teammate will tag along. The game's hook is that each character has a given 
 strength and that you will need to alternate between the two of them or use them together to solve 
 various puzzles. For instance, Mei can hack into security devices using her PDA, while Kenny is 
 strong enough to push around heavy objects. Other times, they'll combine forces, such as when Corey 
 pulls Amy onto a fire escape. There are a few interesting puzzles that result from this arrangement, 
 such as one where you shine a spotlight onto your light-fearing foes using one character while 
 the other bashes away at the baddies. Yet for the most part, these tasks are relatively straightforward 
 and unspectacular. To spice things up, you can beg a friend to grab a Wii Remote and join you, 
 at which point he or she will take control of the second character. This might be a refreshing 
 improvement over the game's mediocre AI, but it doesn't make the experience any more engaging. 

  Aside from the cooperative element, Aftermath is simply an amalgam of Resident Evil and Silent 
 Hill gameplay mechanics, though it does have its bright moments. For example, in one clever mission, 
 you guide one character through a series of hallways from the viewpoint of another, who must keep 
 the security cameras in focus for you to see the action. It's a neat idea, and there are others 
 like it, but most of them are compromised by the terrible implementation of the most basic elements. 
 The most egregious offender is the camera, which can be controlled somewhat using the Wii Remote, 
 though you don't have full control most of the time. This is maddening enough when you're walking 
 through hospital corridors and can't rotate the camera so that it's behind your character's back, 
 but when combat is added to the mix, the game falls apart in the most fundamental ways.  

  A typical battle scenario may have you taking on several enemies at once, either with a melee weapon 
 or with a firearm. Either way you go, you need to hold the Z button on the Nunchuk to enter combat 
 stance. In the case of a blunt instrument, you simply swing the Wii Remote to swing your weapon, 
 which isn't such a bad mechanic on its own. However, because the levels are so confined and the 
 camera is so difficult to position, you may not be able to see your attacker. This is a big deal 
 because like other games in the genre, Aftermath doesn't keep you well stocked with health packs, 
 though you take quite a bit of damage in most encounters. Because you have so little control of 
 your view, this leads to deaths that are essentially out of your hands. And once you equip a ranged 
 weapon, the game reaches even higher levels of absurdity.  

           More award-winning, bone-chilling dialogue.      

  With a gun in your hands, you'll 
 still need to press Z to prepare for combat. This time, you'll hold A to target your enemy and 
 pull the B button to fire. It's a bit muddled, but it's an understandably deliberate element that 
 is consistent with the genre. However, the implementation is all but broken. If an enemy isn't 
 onscreen, you can't target it, and it's very common for the monster to appear between the player 
 view and the onscreen character. The creature can attack, but you can't fire back because you can't 
 move the camera to a workable position. Additionally, entering combat stance may force the character 
 to point his or her weapon away from the camera -- which, in this case, is away from the enemy. The 
 targeting is also close to broken. Pressing A may or may not lock on to an enemy, and once you 
 are locked on, the camera may go into convulsions, making it difficult to tell what's going on. 
 Again, this is an unforgiveable gaffe in a challenging game that requires you to be frugal with 
 ammunition and health packs.  

  If you liked the first game in the series, you'll find plenty of crossover elements, but then again, 
 if you played the original Obscure, you already have an idea of what to expect. There's nothing 
 wrong with exploiting a proven formula, assuming it's done well. Unfortunately, In Obscure: The 
 Aftermath, nothing is done very well.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sportsmen2008
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Overall it was not a bad game. It was solid and I had fun. I cannot say this was the greatest game 
 ever but it is worth a try (especially if the price is right! )
  
  The overall story is is a classic mix of college kids and horror. If you have ever seen a Horror 
 B movie, and wanted to play it as a video game you came to the right place. 
  
  The graphics are good and really give you a nice variety for the game. The music also is very good 
 and really fits the mood very well. 
  
  The game gives you plenty of characters to play. It gives you a nice selection of weapons, and 
 a variety of tasks to do. The puzzles can be challenging at times and really make you think. 
 
  
  This game has a few weak points however. The bad acting which appears to be intentional was really 
 bad. Some of the AI in the game is downright horrible, which leads the computer to do some strange 
 things. The camera angles are just terrible sometimes so you cant really see what you need to. 
 The end was bad I think they just wanted to rap this game up. 
  
  I read a few of the reviews for this game that said this game started at $30. I picked it up for 
 a tenth of that and it was worth it. Its worth it for a rental or if you can pick it up for under 
 $10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueresident87
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 19, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Obscure: The Aftermath is a game I purchased with the hope of finding a good survival horror game 
 on the Nintendo Wii. What I got was in fact a horror game of sorts, but the only horror present 
 in the game is the game itself. It's abysmal and you should not play it ever.
  
  Graphics: 5/10 -- Easily the highlight of the game, but the graphics are still only decent. Nobody 
 should expect good graphics on the Wii, but this has some of the better graphics I've seen on the 
 system. The enemies in the game have a good amount of detail and the lighting in the game is well 
 done. A five here though, because the Wii's graphics are a joke compared to the other next-gen 
 systems. 
  
  Gameplay and Controls: 1/10 -- Horrid. Ghastly. Offensive. All words I would use to describe this 
 game's controls and gameplay. At no point during this game do you feel like you have control over 
 your character. Trying to attack enemies is impossible without losing half of your life in the 
 process, mostly because you have to swing the stupid wii-mote in certain directions to perform 
 certain attacks and they don't work half the time. Shooting is ridiculous; pointing at the screen 
 and having to push a sequence of three buttons to lock on and fire a shot is insulting. While I 
 admit the buttons are set up nicely for the Wii-mote, using the on-screen cursor to move the camera 
 is a joke and something developers should give up on in every Nintendo Wii game. All it does is 
 add to the feeling of 'lack of control' that is rampant in this title. The game features tacked 
 on motion controls for both attacks, as mentioned above, and in game actions like climbing up a 
 wall which is just frustrating because they are not needed and don't always respond properly. The 
 lock picking system in the game is just broken and completely not necessary. When playing alone, 
 the A. I. of your partner character is unbelievably bad. The game is very linear, offering no variety 
 in where the player can go or what they can do, and this wouldn't be so bad if the game wasn't 
 so crippled.
  
  Sound: 1/10 -- While I admit the music is o. k, it's very repetitive and offers no mood to fit the 
 game with. The dialogue is suffocating. The voice acting is laughable, which is fine because it 
 seems to be a staple of the genre, however, the characters say all sorts of cheesy ridiculous statements 
 that are sexual for no reason at all, and it gives the game a 'high-school pervert movie' feel 
 to the entire experience. 
  
  Story: 1/10 -- I would give the game a zero here, but I don't give them in reviews so I'll give it 
 the lowest possible score. Worst storyline in a game ever. I can't even talk about how bad it is 
 without revealing a little bit of the premise, so spoilers ahead:::
  
  ::::Spoilers::::
  
  A bunch of loser students huffing flowers causes an outbreak of crazy monsters sending the 
 entire area into the deepest pit of hell. Except it's not the deepest pit of hell so much as it's 
 the deepest pit of crap imaginable. NO suspense in this game whatsoever. The characters run around 
 like chickens with their heads cut off (My Car!) seemingly ignoring what's going on around them 
 at all times. There is no originality, from one girl getting impregnated with a creature-baby, 
 to another pathetic character shooting himself because he can't go on without the love of his life 
 at 20 years old. Fighting the same boss three times is another testament to this games lack of 
 thought. The storyline is nothing more than a collection of cliches.
  
  Overall:2/10 -- Worst game I've played in a long time. Almost like it wasn't finished and the makers 
 didn't care one bit. There is no redeeming quality in this game, and I can find no reason to play 
 it, ever. Ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yiyo-chan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  Second deliver of the ObsCure saga. Continues the history of the events from the first one. We'll 
 get 8 playable characters in this time. Some of them will be the same of the previous game four 
 our joy ( yes, I'm a fan of some of them , blame me ) ; and new ones will enter the domains of darkness..
 
  
  Some of the survivors will get involved in different situations while we got the chance to split 
 the groups and to see what are the experiences of them while the other group fights to stay alive 
 in the meanwhile.
  
  This time we will get to discover that the horror and madness are in a new location, Fallcreek 
 University. Where a strange plant is used as drug ( yes, teenagers ) and start to make people act 
 strangely. So far so cliche? YES. It's a horror game about teenagers in despair. So YES, there 
 will be sex, drugs and girls with big boobs. Deal with it, or rent it first. That's my advice.
 
  
  Same gameplay as the first one. Co- operative mode with a second player or an A. I. character. ( 
 this time wiser ) Each one with different skills and knowledges. You have a computer nerd, a gamer, 
 a sports fan, a skater boy, and so on... So you can imagine you will require them to perform different 
 tasks and to work in teams.
  
  The OST keeps being just pure awesome, thanks to Olivier Derivire and the Children choir of the 
 national opera of Paris.. Just excellent.
  
  We'll get more complex and against-clock puzzles in this game ( different from the previous one 
 where the puzzles were simple ) ; and they will require our different character skills and sometimes 
 will take more than one to make things work. This time we'll have to think a bit harder this time!
 
  
  New weapons , good monsters design, secrets and unlockeables ahead, things like videos and stuff.. 
 Great ending I might add.
  
  Just for record, this game is only recommendable if you like Survival Horror AND you enjoy the 
 kind of teenager related movies. ( and the co- operative mode, of course, which is pure fun! ) 
 It's a complex game, it's more for passing a fun- horror moment.
  
  I'm giving it a 8.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vwgreen77
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  So I have to admit right now I have not beat it yet, but I have played it with my friend for a 
 long while. It was actually his idea. We were browsing, he saw it, said to buy it. I was low on 
 money but wanted a new game. So I caved in and bought it for $30. I went home and read the reviews 
 before me. Of coarse, I thought "oh **** what did I buy?" When we finally played it I could not 
 stop thinking about it. The soundtrack is the first thing you notice. I read the box after the 
 first time we played and realized these were professionals musicians and not a midi sound track. 
 The music throws you a plethora of emotions. It makes the game so much better. Controls: wtf are 
 people thinking? Its the Wii controls are always hard to master. I thought they were easy as long 
 as you weren't a lazy prick who puts his arm down to rest after swinging the wiimote once. Anywho- 
 the camera and controls were not unlike all the resident evils combined (it switches but its easy 
 to tell when you have more camera control) . ITS NOT THAT HARD TO FIGURE OUT! btw: no one B****ed 
 to RE4 about having to aim to shoot ur weapon.
  
  The story: its a college story PERIOD. Sex, drugs, passing out are integral here THE END. Still 
 some parts are a little sad. And some are really hot.
  
  The game: It has variety. I see a high replay value here. There are a bunch o' unlockables and 
 extras. Weapons up the who-ha. I don't just mean gun or blunt-object. I mean there is some strategy 
 here. Also a learned person will love the puzzles as will the adventure seeker. Buy the game/rent 
 to see what I mean.
  
  I can't think of anything that I hated about this game other than actually having a challenging 
 puzzle. lol (fyi I like a challenge) . SO! My 10 is justified!
  
  My final thoughts are play with a friend. You will want to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoxyAreku
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to the cult hit "Obscure" for the PS2, PC, and XBox, "Obscure: The Aftermath" does alot 
 right, but also has a few flaws. All of the flaws are pretty small though.
  
  The Story-Overall it is pretty good, although it loses it's suspense about halfway through. You 
 eventually get to the point where you know when someone is going to die soon. It all adds to the 
 dark mood of the game though, the further you get the more hopeless it seems for the characters. 
 Will any of them survive?
  
  The Gameplay-Probably Obscure: The Aftermath's best achievement. The gameplay is just great, and 
 all the motion controls implemented are pulled off perfectly. Whether it's swinging a bat, firing 
 a gun, lockpicking, or rowing a boat, it all works great. The game also features a wide range of 
 weapons for you to use throughout your adventure.
  
  Soundtrack-All of the music in the game is top-notch, and always fits perfectly with the mood.
 
  
  Graphics-Could be better, but everything is still really detailed and nice looking. The game also 
 gives off a very creepy atmosphere everywhere you go, you never know what will be in the next room 
 or around the next corner.
  
  Parnters-The partner A. I. of the game isn't the best, but it is good enough and it will help you 
 whenever you are fighting, and being able to switch between characters helps tremendously in certain 
 situations. The game is mainly meant to be played co-op with a friend though, so if you have no 
 friends I'm sorry to say you are out of luck. 
  
  Puzzles-Most of them are very clever, though a couple are kinda frustrating.
  
  
  All in 
 all Obscure: The Aftermath is a good game, and at just $30 why not pick it up? If your a fan of 
 horror games, and you have a friend or sibling to play with, you won't be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: despa1r_fact0r
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  STORY --- This game takes place at Fallcreek University, after the events at Leafmore High School. 
 This is where three of the survivors from Leafmore (Kenny, Shannon and Stan) are now in college. 
 Strange black flowers have begun to grow on the campus of Fallcreek. Some student have ground the 
 flowers up and inhaled the flowers causing the students to be changed into "mutants". 
  
  Graphics --- The graphics are EXCELLENT. A lot of detail went into this game and it shows. The 
 game is dark this gives the game a real survival feel. The "mutants" have a grotesque look almost 
 Zombie-ish!
  
  Sound --- The soundtrack for this game was excellent and the use of the Paris Opera Children's 
 Choir gives this game a eerie sound which is unique to this game. The voice acting cheesy like 
 a bad teenage horror movie should be! The sounds that the "mutants" make are perfect for a horror 
 game.
  
  Controls --- As long as your controlling a gun the the controls aren't that bad, but when you run 
 out of ammo then you have a problem. For some reason there is a bad depth perception in this game, 
 because you swing your bat right above the flying "mutants" and you miss. You can hit flying "mutant" 
 only after it swoops down and hits you, then there is an opportunity to hit them. Your partner 
 (which a 2nd player can control) has the worst AI ever. It seem when the AI runs out of ammo it 
 goes Kamikaze by pulling out a bat and running up on the mutant just so the mutant can kill it, 
 and you have to restart the mission over. Your camera is controlled by a pointer on the screen 
 and when you use the gun the camera rotates on it's on and it gets aggravating real quick.
  
  Game Play --- I was really hoping that the game was going to be good. Sadly this game falls 
 short of good. I was looking for a something close to a Resident Evil with co-op. Bad controls, 
 stupid AI, and a confusing camera makes this game a chore to play through. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowman6251
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because
  1. I don't have gamefly and couldn't just rent it
  2. I love horror and I needed my fix
  
  Its certainly not the worst thing in the world but 
 it sure as hell isn't the greatest. The voice acting is bad. Really bad. So bad I would be surprised 
 if it WASN'T intentional. Its obviously a satire of teen horror movies and it kind of succeeds 
 in that aspect as it is somewhat funny at times.
  
  The controls, ehhhh. When you have a melee item equipped it can be a pain to control. I want it 
 to swing down and club the little bug type monsters but my character will start doing some crazy 
 combo move and miss the little bugs completely. Guns... You can lock on but if you reload or are 
 hit your lock on goes away and frankly, I forget to lock on again. You can still shoot and hit 
 without the lock on but obviously its better to have it on.
  
  Your ally is a retard. Changing direction in a narrow corridor almost always means changing character 
 because they love to stand right in your way and not move.
  
  Oh also DO NOT LET YOUR ALLY HAVE ANY GUN! You tell your ally to use the stun gun, great. This 
 is my favorite strategy. They can actually stun enemies and I save ammo by clubbing them when they 
 can't retaliate. however if they have a gun in their inventory despite you explicitely telling 
 them to NOT shoot it they will take it upon themselves to waste all of your ammo in the most trivial 
 of situations when you were trying to save it for say, a boss? Ammo is not the most common thing 
 in the game so I try to save it. That's good in a horror game though. It adds tension. Also health 
 is found in a similar fashion, although slightly more abundant.
  
  The puzzles aren't very hard. Only one puzzle really got me thinking and that was the warehouse. 
 It was only hard because I did not notice the second block for a very long time. Cleverly hidden.
 
  
  As for the "wild camera" everyone complains about, its not there. The camera moves like most wii 
 FPS. Bring the pointer to the end of the screen and it moves. If you DON'T do that then *gasp* 
 it doesn't move.
  
  The graphics. I like the ingame graphics more than the cutscene ones oddly enough. Probably because 
 they do close up shots and try to make it look cool in cutscenes.
  
  Anyway it definitely has its moments and despite some flaws it can still be fun. If you love horror 
 and have taken notice of our horror drought, in both movies and games, then at least give it a 
 rent. I'll give it a 6.5 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
