-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Okami
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/okami/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Amazing production values.
 A long and enjoyable adventure with plenty of collectibles and side tasks.
 Celestial brush mechanic adds spice to battles and exploration.
 Quests are extremely varied and make good use of brush techniques.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some of the motion controls aren't responsive.
 Combat is on the easy side.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 15, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.0, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 1,961 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Developer: Ready at Dawn
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Apr 15, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Age hasn't diminished the beauty of this modern classic. 

  There's a blissful moment in the first hour of Okami, one that is repeated several times throughout 
 the game's epic tale: Tasked with restoring an afflicted sapling to its former beauty, you bring 
 it to life with a swirl of your virtual paintbrush. The sapling bursts with light, a melody of 
 soft pink flowers blooms on its young branches, and lush green meadows breathlessly sweep away 
 the cursed countryside, returning vitality to the diseased landscape. It's a moment that stays 
 with you, and it represents the sheer joy of playing Okami. Few games exude such grace and visual 
 prowess, though you shouldn't assume that its beauty is superficial. Here is a case where stunning 
 graphics, charming characters, and a dreamy, mythical adventure are united into a cohesive, powerful 
 title that simply must be played. If for some reason you didn't catch it in 2006 on the PlayStation 
 2, you should do so now, posthaste.  

  Okami's story is straightforward, but it draws you easily into its world of mythical beasts and 
 sake-swilling charlatans by way of smart, funny dialogue and a number of charming characters to 
 chuckle at. As the goddess Amaterasu, who has been reborn in the body of a white wolf, you work 
 to rid Nippon of the evil eight-headed serpent called Orochi and renew the lands it has poisoned. 
 Ammy is a silent heroine, but that's just fine, since your energetic, buglike companion Issun does 
 plenty of talking for the both of you. There is a lot of dialogue to sift through, and since the 
 characters just speak a chirpy brand of gibberish, you'll be doing a good bit of reading. You can 
 skip past it and get right back into the action if you so desire. If you did this, however, you'd 
 be missing out on many of Okami's humorous exchanges, such as those with a heavyset sparrow that 
 can only be described as the Godfather's avian counterpart.  

           Even during combat, Okami's visuals will take your breath away.      

  You will notice 
 right away that visually speaking, Okami resembles no other game that has come before it: It looks 
 like a watercolor painting come to life. Landscapes are drawn with broad strokes and colors have 
 a slightly muted tone, as if the paint has seeped a bit into the canvas. In locations like Kamiki 
 Village, rose-hued blossoms waft past, while the subdued greens and grays of cursed zones make 
 those areas feel stifled and foreboding. As Amaterasu, you leave a small trail of grass blades 
 and flower petals behind you, which signifies the brilliance you seek to restore. Fans of the PlayStation 
 2 version may notice that the canvas filter in the Wii iteration is less noticeable, though it 
 hasn't been removed entirely. Yet on a widescreen, high-definition display, Okami is dazzling, 
 so while some may prefer the PS2's slightly softer look, the game's vistas are even more magnificent 
 on the Wii. There are few instances in games that compare to watching a tree that was near death 
 bloom before your eyes, or watching Amaterasu's lithe form sprint across the green terrain. The 
 frame rate slows a bit here and there, and there are some brief loading times when you cross into 
 new areas, but they are insignificant nitpicks that don't hinder the game's artistry.  

  That visual beauty is matched by a stupendous sound design that enhances the onscreen events and 
 makes Okami a feast for the senses. Battles are signaled by the thumping of drums and the whistle 
 of a wooden flute. The spread of petals and leaves is accompanied by the strums of harps. When 
 you talk with some of the more quirky characters, bassoon and clarinet riffs complement their rants. 
 The emotional range of the soundtrack parallels the pervading sentiment in any given scene or battle, 
 so while it's easy to heap praise on the unique visual style, the soundtrack and sound effects 
 are equally extraordinary.  

  Not that Okami is simply a work of art meant to be hung on a wall and admired from a distance. 
 It's also a long adventure game with some interesting gameplay mechanics that are woven into the 
 production values so well that one aspect couldn't thrive without the other. You'll travel from 
 one end of Nippon to the other, speaking with all sorts of eccentrics and taking on a number of 
 quests. Often, you'll need to fight, though much of the time, you can simply avoid enemy encounters, 
 which are represented on the screen by floating scrolls and miniature haunted houses. When you 
 do battle, you'll face any number of surreal foes, from flying fish to drum-beating demons, along 
 with a few imposing-looking boss creatures. You can equip a number of different weapons, and you'll 
 generally have primary and secondary attacks available to you. Combat is fun and moves along quickly, 
 and it looks terrific.  

  The standard combat controls take some time to get used to. Weapons like the life beads work remarkably 
 well, doing plenty of damage with a forward flick of the Wii Remote. Standard reflectors, on the 
 other hand, may cause you frustration at first, because you can't string attacks together simply 
 by incessantly flinging your remote forward and back. Rather, you need to time subsequent attacks, 
 or your thrusts won't respond as you'd expect. This is one area where the PlayStation 2 version 
 has the upper hand. Certain weapons simply aren't suited to be your primary attack in the Wii version, 
 since the timing of your slicing and dicing is tough to get a handle on. Another area that needs 
 improvement is dodging. On the Wii, you yank the Nunchuk in the direction you want to tumble. The 
 problem is that Ammy may or may not dodge in that direction. In Okami, this isn't a big problem; 
 combat is easy, so you'll rarely need to dodge. In fact, you may even forget you have the option 
 in the first place. Nevertheless, dodging is troublesome, and folks who want to use Infinity Judge 
 or Tsumugari as their primary weapons will need to adjust to picky motion controls.  

  On the flipside, the Wii controls shine brightly in regards to the celestial brush. You can pull 
 out the brush at any time and use it to slash through demons, create gusts of wind, draw bombs, 
 create impromptu waterspouts, and perform all sorts of sundry tasks. This is Okami's main gameplay 
 conceit, and it's woven impeccably throughout the game, where it's utilized in battles, puzzle 
 sequences, and even some cute minigames. On the PS2, you used an analog stick to draw the necessary 
 rune; on the Wii, of course, you use the remote. For the most part, this works wonderfully. Interacting 
 with the celestial brush in this manner is incredibly pleasing, since you literally draw the motions 
 onto the screen. It also improves the pace of the game, because you can scrawl at a faster rate. 
 Using the remote in this manner has its foibles, particularly when you need to draw a straight 
 line. However, ineffective scrawling can be easily corrected with a second try and a careful hand. 

           Ammy takes a moment to drink in the scenery.      

  All in all, the motion controls give the Wii version a slight advantage, by greatly enhancing the 
 brush aspect of Okami while contributing to some minor flaws in basic combat. But you'll also be 
 accomplishing a variety of other tasks on your travels, and these peripheral elements are arguably 
 what make the game so exceptional. You'll need to earn praise if you wish to increase your total 
 health or the amount of ink your brush will hold. To do so, you can bring a withered tree back 
 to life, which always produces a lovely flourish of colors and sonic textures. Feeding various 
 animals you encounter will also benefit you. Different fauna require different types of food, but 
 assuming you have what your furry friends prefer, you'll be rewarded with your due praise and a 
 gentle cutscene showing your follower enjoying his morsel.  

  These elements all coalesce into a completely engaging experience that's almost impossible to walk 
 away from. You'll hurtle down a river at breakneck speed on a runaway log, and slow it by drawing 
 makeshift vines with the celestial brush. You'll search for hidden treasure in a sunken ship, siphon 
 flames from a fiery foe to defeat an icy one, and get an eight-headed monstrosity drunk with holy 
 sake. None of these tasks are very challenging, but the variety of gameplay, and the stylishness 
 with which it's presented, will push you forward -- and just when you think you've reached the end, 
 there's more to the saga. It will take most speedy players a minimum of 30 hours to gun through 
 Okami, though you'll probably be inclined to savor the experience, digging up every hidden clover 
 and finding all of the game's many secrets and treasures.  

  Age isn't kind to many games, but with the addition of motion controls for the celestial brush 
 and support for widescreen and progressive scan displays, Okami has been updated enough to make 
 it even more relevant today than it was in 2006. At a time when the majority of action games are 
 more focused on destruction than renewal, this is an elegant and poignant reminder that some of 
 the most meaningful experiences in games are the ones that enrich and rejuvenate us.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (113 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Karrotjuce
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2009 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This game... is incredible. The graphics, the gameplay, the npcs, the story, everything. You are 
 the wolf incarnation of the Japanese sun goddess Ameterasu (spelling) who goes on an epic adventure 
 with your companion, a witty wandering artist Issun. (He's a bug) The game is very inituitive. 
 There are 3 types of weapons, with 5 sort of subtypes for each, verying in power and appearance. 
 There are strong slow weapons, average ones. and weak and fast ones. You can have a main and sub 
 weapon equipped at one time. The greatest asset to this game by far is the Celestial brush. You 
 can learn 13 brush techniques, and 11 secret ones. They do things like create bombs, cut things, 
 create fire, water, bringing dead plants to life, etc. The combat is great. There are walking scrolls 
 walking around, and you just walk into them to get whisked away to an arena, where you battle enemies 
 for glory. Well, I could go on and on about all of the things to do. there are minigames, dungeons, 
 and sidequests. a huge world with a 30+ hour long adventure. Wait... did i mention the graphics? 
 THEY ARE AMAZING! They look like a watercolor painting! (3d of course) Take maybe MGS 4. amazing 
 textures, animations, etc. Okami may not have amazing sharpness or textures, but for me, the graphics 
 are better than MGS 4. Now every game has shortcomings, and Okami is no exception. there are only 
 a few, though. The save points are somewhat scattered, it freezes sometimes, and there is really 
 no voice acting, and the cutscenes are usually very lengthly. But these barely detract from the 
 game in any way. Well, go, buy the game. you'll see what I'm talking about. 
  
  
  Gameplay: 10, cool celestial brush, nice weapons, a huge world, puzzles, a great story, what more 
 could you ask for?
  
  Graphics: 10 Beautiful watercolors in 3-D. NO super sharp edges or textures! The animations are 
 also very smooth and natural looking. 
  
  Sound: 9.5 Beautiful music, but no voice acting. The burbling is very well made, though
  
  
 Controls: 10, everything seems to be in the right spot, and using the celestial brush is a snap 
 with the wii remote.
  
  Replayablility: 10, I always seem to want to go back to places that I've visited before, to do 
 mini quests and such.
  
  Total: 10, GET THE GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 5:21 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Gorgeous graphics and art direction; music that sounds straight from Japan; the Celestial 
 Brush is unique, intuitive, and much improved with the Wiimote; an extremely long, fun campaign; 
 memorable characters; a huge world with tons of things to do; reason for playing the game again.
 
  
  The Bad: One or two controls are executed poorly; levels are a tad repetitive; one or two glitches; 
 minor loading and framerate issues.
  
  Okami arrived on PS2 to combat Zelda: Twilight Princess on Wii and Gamecube for the title of best 
 adventure in 2006. Because the use of the Celestial Brush with a control stick was rather slow 
 and annoying, Capcom finally brought Okami to Wii in 2008, and has produced the superior version 
 of the two.
  
  Okami's story revolves around a wolf goddess named Amaterasu (or Ammy for short) , who has been 
 reincarnated to protect the world of Nippon. As the sun goddess, she needs to bring life and color 
 to the world while facing demons covering the land.
  
  The legend of her previous incarnation, named Shiranui, tells of her sealing away the eight-headed 
 dragon Orochi. Amaterasu first goes out to face this dragon, before learning that there are many 
 other monsters of equal power plaguing the land, and that she must restore peace everywhere.
  
  The story itself is based on Japanese mythology, and, with a cast of many memorable characters, 
 ends up being incredibly powerful. Ammy has many cities and villages to protect, each with more 
 than one important character you won't quickly forget. She's aided by Issun, a Poncle that can 
 give her advice along the way.
  
  Elements like Issun make the game remind you of Zelda, and the developers have indeed said that 
 they were inspired by Nintendo's franchise. You'll also get weapon upgrades and use a battle system 
 reminiscent of some Zelda games.
  
  However, Okami doesn't feel like it's copying anyone. In fact, it's truly one-of-a-kind among video 
 games. Art direction is the first noticeable factor in this. Okami looks like a painting in motion, 
 and despite the limitations of a PS2 engine, remains beautiful today.
  
  The music to the game isn't always huge and loud, but it does sound like it's from Japan, and it 
 sounds really good all the way through. Okami definitely doesn't have a case of mistaken identity.
 
  
  The game itself, for me, took about forty hours to play through. That includes exploring, to an 
 extent, and getting stuck once or twice in-game. I found that difficulty not too bad, because it 
 doesn't usually frustrate you and makes it more rewarding. Again, this reminds one of Twilight 
 Princess, as its difficulty is similar.
  
  It's hard not to compare these two games, because both are strikingly similar. You're hemmed in 
 during battle in Okami, and Twilight Princess hems you in for Shadow Beast battles. Both even involve 
 playing as a wolf, massive levels, and a giant world. Neither game is truly superior, though, as 
 far as I'm concerned.
  
  The outside world of Okami is wonderful. It feels very alive, as you'll be helping plants grow, 
 feeding animals, and exploring every little area to accumulate praise. This is what gives Ammy 
 power, being a god, along with the different brush techniques she learns along the way. Praise 
 can be used to get new Solar Energy units (like hearts in Zelda) , more ink, a bigger wallet, or 
 more Astral Pouches, which can bring Ammy back to life.
  
  The dungeons are a lot of fun too. It's hard to keep track of how many there are, because they 
 tend to blend in with the rest of the game, and you might not even realize you're in one until 
 you face a boss. Still, I think there were around eight or nine levels total.
  
  Each of these gives you a brush technique, as you'd expect, and are all very different. They utilize 
 certain techniques often, but, again like Zelda, don't use some of them enough.
  
  Okami also has a platforming element that'll remind you more of Mario. You can double jump and 
 make Ammy fly forward, but Okami still has issues varying everything in the levels. You might find 
 yourself doing more or less the same thing over and over. It's never a big deal, more of just a 
 tiny flaw. Besides, it was mostly avoided by the developers, who seem to have seen it coming.
 
  
  That attention to detail is rampant in Okami, and wonderful to see as you explore. There are save 
 points in game, instead of being able to save off a menu, but the save points are common enough 
 that it's never an issue.
  
  There are load times between areas, but never enough to really get in the way. The framerate does 
 drop a little bit sometimes, but it doesn't affect your gaming. Unfortunately, I did hit two glitches 
 on my first play through. One actually froze the game, but I'd saved recently. You'll probably 
 save at every spot anyway, and if you do you won't lose too much data if this happens. The other 
 glitch made day look like night and vice versa, but when I saved and turned it off it didn't affect 
 me at all. None of these are huge problems, but the glitches, at least, should be noted.
  
  The controls in Okami are original and fantastic. Though I've never played the PS2 version I can 
 just imagine how much better it is using the Wiimote to paint in Okami. It seems like the game 
 should've been designed for the Wii, not any other platform. Combos in Okami have to actually be 
 timed, so you may think this is a controller flaw at first. After getting used to it though, which 
 won't take long, you'll be able to combat your enemies with no trouble.
  
  While jumping, using weapons and painting work well, there is one minor issue. And no, it's not 
 the issue you're expecting. If you paint the way you're supposed to, it works just about every 
 time. It's amazing.
  
  But there's an extra attack that doesn't work at all. It's not necessary to get it in the game, 
 but it's still bothersome. There's a dodge attack that's controlled with the nunchuk that never 
 goes the direction it's supposed to go. It works a tad better if you make exaggerated motions, 
 but Ammy rarely goes the way you want her to.
  
  That's another very minor flaw, but don't worry: all of the other controls are spectacular, and 
 you rarely even bother using that move.
  
  An issue that is a bit bigger that plagued both Okami and Twilight Princess is the lack of voice 
 acting. It's not terrible, unless you don't know how to read, but at some point here these adventure 
 games need to modernize, as most every game nowadays has voice acting. And because of the care 
 put into both, you know that voice acting would turn out extremely well.
  
  As you can see though, there are only tiny complaints to be had with Okami. The adventure itself 
 rarely dulls its edge, and that's saying something for how long it is. The game is paced pretty 
 well, there's plenty to do outside of the dungeons, and you almost feel the game is alive and breathing. 
 I can't stress that last one enough.
  
  It may not be flawless either, but Okami (which is the word for both 'god' and 'wolf' in Japanese, 
 if you were wondering) is a masterpiece. It stands proudly beside Twilight Princess, Wind Waker 
 and the legendary Ocarina of Time as one of the best adventures ever made.
  
  This game truly seems a timeless classic from the moment you play it. Rarely is this level of care 
 and beautiful artistry incorporated into this medium. And yes, Okami should be selling millions 
 of units the way Twilight Princess did. It's a must buy, and even though it's a port, it's one 
 of the best games on Wii, no question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I want to premise this reader review by saying, the score is really irrelevant. Think of that aspect 
 of this review as simply a gauge of the game's playability and overall value, because the actual 
 experience greatly transcends such trivial considerations.
  
  Okami has been, for me -- as I'm sure it has been for many people -- a game I've meant to get to 
 for what seems like such a long time already. Well, after zipping through tons of games where I 
 do lots of killing -- often mindless -- I was ready for something different. I went to the Gamefly 
 website and began sifting through their selection to see if anything would pique my interest. Sure 
 enough, Okami popped up, and I remembered it was something I always wanted to try. After having 
 just finished GTA: Chinatown Wars (DS) , I was ready for a change.
  
  Sure, it might sound crazy that I could make such a drastic jump in themes, but such is life. There 
 is a time for letting off steam or acting silly, and then there's a time for Okami. If you're reading 
 this review, you likely already know at least a little something about the game, so I won't go 
 into great detail about the actual gameplay. What I really want to relay is what I've taken away 
 from the experience and continue to enjoy about the game.
  
  But there are some things to remark about in terms of gameplay, so let me begin with that. On Wii, 
 the controls for Amateratsu (the main character you play as) work really well. You have analog 
 control over her movement with the stick on the Nunchuk, hit the A button to jump, and thrust foward 
 on the Wii Remote to headbutt. Attacking is mapped to waggle, and though it isn't necessarily great, 
 it works fine.
  
  The only issues I have, really, with the game are the inconsistencies with input recognition when 
 using the Celestial Brush (if you're not familiar with what that is or what it does, please look 
 it up, as it would take far too long to describe the role it plays in this game) . I lost count 
 of how many times I had to redraw symbols to execute the action I intended. 
  
  That said, I've learned to work around it, and it never caused me any great frustration. It was 
 disappointing mostly because the rest of the game was so close to perfection.
  
  And that is the essence of Okami. The story. The artwork. The beauty. All of the love and fluid 
 expression that was poured into this... thing. It is almost another chapter in one of the great 
 books of spiritual teaching. Regardless of your beliefs (Christian here) , the Shinto mythology 
 used here is precious. Simple but powerful themes and ideas are weaved throughout the game, and 
 they're never thrust upon the player, but rather offered as leaves on the breeze.
  
  The artwork, too, cannot be understated, not just for its technical beauty, but because it is the 
 right hand in telling this story. Its power is delicate yet unbreakable. 
  
  I feel like I have told you almost nothing about this game, although I've tried to tell you so 
 much about what it means to me. I really have yet to play another game quite like it. I've played 
 many great games. Half Life 2 -- one of my favorites. Metroid Prime 3 -- another top-tier game 
 for me. But Okami was a true spiritual experience and a work of art I want to always have on hand 
 when life gets me down. If you're looking for such a game, now you know one exists. Check it out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nexus_of_Sanity
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 8:24 am PT
Review:  With the Wii only releasing games aimed at younger children and families thesedays, there doesn't 
 really seem to be anything left for all the teens and young adults who actually want to play some 
 DECENT games rather than prancing around on Wii Fit all weekend. But with the release of Okami 
 for the Wii, there's still one game that you have to play before giving up on the Wii.
  
  Okami is an action/adventure game, which bears many similarities to the Zelda series too (so if 
 you like Zelda, I can guarantee you'll like this game too) . You play as Amaterasu, the Japanese 
 sun god in the form of a white wolf. After an evil curse befalls Nippon, Amaterasu sets off with 
 her companion- the outspoken lady's man Issun- to bring peace to the land of Nippon.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Like I mentioned before, the gameplay of Okami similar to Zelda gameplay. The general 
 formula is that once you reach a new area, you spend a while helping out various characters and 
 figuring out ways to progress to your next destination. Eventually, you will reach a dungeon, which 
 is filled with puzzles and enemies. At the end of the dungeon is a boss, whose defeat results in 
 the problems of that area being solved. Once the boss has been defeated, you're then able to move 
 on to a new area.
  
  Combat is usually done within an enclosed arena, which is circled by a demonic barrier. Usually 
 you can escape by breaking open a weakness in the barrier, but why would you want to escape? Battles 
 in this game are incredibly fun! Some enemies can be defeated simply by wearing them down and hitting 
 them relentlessly, while others are more tricky, requiring you to find their weak point. The boss 
 battles in this game are also probably some of the best boss battles I've ever played.
  
  To win in battle, you'll be usually a combination of a few things. Besides running and jumping, 
 you have firstly, your Divine Instrument, which is a fancy way of saying weapon. You can equip 
 two divine instruments at once. Secondly, your Brush Techniques (which will be looked at in more 
 detail below) . To improve your combat, you can also learn different "moves" at the dojo. These 
 usually improve the attacks you do with your Divine Instruments.
  
  Throughout the game, you'll be meeting various Celestial Brush Gods- 12 in total. These gods grant 
 you certain brush techniques, which you then use by drawing them onto the world with the Celestial 
 Brush. Doesn't make sense? Well to explain, the second brush technique you obtain is called the 
 Power Slash. By drawing a straight horizontal line using the Celestial Brush, objects and enemies 
 are cleaved in two, as if they have been slashed by a sword.
  
  These Brush Techniques add a whole new dimension to the game. Not only are they useful for combat, 
 but they can be used to solve puzzles and so forth. They're a unique feature to this game, and 
 in my opinion, are much easier to use rather than the standard system of equipping items and using 
 them and so forth. If you're confused by the way the brush techniques work, just take my word for 
 it that they are amazing.
  
  The dungeons themselves are very entertaining. The puzzles in them are fun to solve, but usually 
 quite manageable, and the boss fights are also immense. The dungeons aren't too difficult, and 
 are comparatively short, but I still enjoy them thoroughly.
  
  And with all that stuff on the main gameplay, and I haven't even yet mentioned the sidequests! 
 Yes, there are plenty of other things to do besides the main storyline. These will usually result 
 in you obtaining a Stray Bead
  
  I will warn you now that there are a few key moments in the game where you may get horribly stuck. 
 Fortunately there are very few of these. On the whole, the game is moderately challenging but manageable.
 
  
  Overall, though, the gameplay is excellent. It requires a bit of thought, so if you're looking 
 for brainless violence, then this game may not be up your street. But if you're willing to put 
 the time into playing an immersing game which has a few challenges, then I'm sure you'll love this 
 game.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Don't let the cartoon-like graphics put you off. That didn't appeal to me at first either, but 
 they really grow on you. Not only are they well-suited to the game, but they're of a very high 
 quality. Trust me, there are certain scenes which will captivate you with the sheer quality of 
 the design.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  Ah, the unfortunate downside to the game. The motion controls don't seem to work too well for this 
 game. Besides seem tacked on and unsuited to the gameplay, they're often quite unresponsive. On 
 top of that, it may take a few tries to get your Brush Techniques actually recognised. They're 
 not all bad though! You get used to them, and become more skilled at drawing your brush techniques 
 properly. The controls do require a bit of skill though, but before you get used to them, they 
 can be quite frustrating.
  
  If you feel this may be a problem though, you might want to have a look at the PS2 version of this 
 game.
  
  SOUND
  
  The music for this game is a highlight for me. If you haven't heard some of the music, I would 
 highly suggest listening to some of it on YouTube. I'm actually going to buy the Okami Soundtrack 
 soon, because that's how much I love the music. It's just really well done! There's a whole variety 
 of songs on the game. Some of them are so beautiful they will melt your heart, while others will 
 incite fear and apprehension in you. The music is really very wonderfully made, and it's amazing 
 how much effort they put into it.
  
  PLOT
  
  Well, I definitely think that a good plot is an important part of a game. And thesedays, games 
 tend to have pretty rubbish plots. So I'm delighted to point out that Okami is an exception to 
 this trend. Okami has one of the best storylines of games I've seen. The characters all have their 
 appeals, while the plot is often quite deep and immersing. The developers have really done their 
 research on this one too, as the plot has several ties to classic Shinto (Japanese) mythology. 
 If I had the time, I'd love to transcribe the plot of Okami into like a novel or something.
  
  
  So that turned out to be a fairly long review. If you're still with us, I hope that means 
 you're considering buying the game. So to conclude, as long as you're looking for a decent game 
 for the Wii, I would say that Okami is definitely your best bet. Please, don't give up on the Wii 
 before you've tried out this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonvoyage10122
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 10:11 am PT
Review:  Okami for the Wii is, to be honest, one of the best games out there for the system. Now, I don't 
 want to sound like a total fanboy like the Halo fans, but if you haven't tried this game then at 
 least rent it. The game amazes you with its visuals and unique play and story, and does a nice 
 job of making you "feel good" while playing. It always keeps you hooked. Though, as I am trying 
 not to be a total fanboy as I said earlier, I will say some things I found lacking or needing improvement. 
 One of the things that irks me while playing Okami is the reaction to paintbrush commands. For 
 example, it sometimes takes forever to make a single tree bloom because the game wants an almost 
 perfect circle in the perfect position. And sometimes in the middle of battle when you try to slash 
 your opponent with a brush technique, instead of doing the desired command, it "paints" flowers 
 on the ground! This querk is an extreme annoyance at times and needed a bit more work before this 
 game was put onto the shelves. One last "bad thing" about the game were the "voices" of the characters. 
 They characters didn't actually say any inteligable words... but that doesn't mean to replace speach 
 with annoying babble worse than the Sims! At first, it doesn't bother you, but after a while listening 
 to squeaking and groaning for every person's speach gets a little old.
  But, all in all, Okami is a great game and one that everyone who owns a Wii should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifun
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 6:47 am PT
Review:  Finally. Okami for the Wii. I had seen a bit of this game back when it arrived at the PS2, but 
 being a person that more or less dislike Playstation, I did not want to know too much about the 
 game. If I did, I would most likely needed a PS2 just for this game.
  But now it is here, and I knew I had to have it. I knew precious little about the game. I knew 
 you played a wolf, which also happened to be the sun god. I also knew you could use the "Celestial 
 Brush" to paint, and I knew it had interesting graphics. So I buy it, I put it on, and boy was 
 I in for a ride.
  
  From the very start, with the traditional Japanese art in the intro, I was hooked. In the beginning 
 of the game, I did think it would be a slow game, with a lot of dialogue and cutscenes, 'cause 
 it did take I while before you could really... well, move. But I soon learned that the game was 
 not slow in any way.
  
  You play Amaterasu, the Sun God (goddess, but in the game she is genderless) , which has taken the 
 form of a white wolf. Right away you meet up with a strange little fellow called Issun. Which is 
 small in the basic sense of the word, as he is mistaken for a bug several times. Your quest is 
 to vanquish the eight-headed serpent demon called Orochi. which has covered the land in darkness. 
 To do this you will have to rejuvenate the guardian saplings spread about. Sounds easy? Well, it 
 isn't that hard. But it sure is fun.
  
  You see, you have a powerful tool at your disposal. The Celestial Brush. With this, you pause the 
 game, and use the very game world as your canvas. As you progress through the game, you learn new 
 techniques you can use. It doesn't take long before you can slice things in half, make bombs out 
 of thin air, make the sun appear in the sky and make living things grow. All of the techniques 
 have specific uses important for your quest, but some can also be used more for fun. Like the rejuvenation 
 technique, which you need for those saplings, can also simply be used to make plants appear. Or 
 grow threes which lasts for a few seconds. It is really fun. And while some things are a bit hard 
 to get right in the beginning, or even at the end (circles can be a pain) , the motion controls 
 usually work well. They are worse in combat actually.
  
  Which is pretty easy. Shake the wii-mote, and you attack. If you wear a deflector, you hit once. 
 To use combos, you need to time the next shake. This is where I have had some problems, since my 
 frantic shaking often doesn't register. But using rosary beads is another story. You just need 
 to shake once, latch the beads onto an enemy, then shake shake shake! Yes, it might seem too easy, 
 but throw in a lot of moves you can do, plenty of weird enemies and lots of brush techniques... 
 believe me, combat is fun.
  
  And for the graphics... beautiful. Simply beautiful. The colorful waterpaint-look is gorgeous, 
 and I really love it. There are some few graphical problems here and there, but they are so few 
 it doesn't matter. Some of the graphics will leave you just sitting there. Like the first time 
 you rejuvenate an area. You see, before you do that, the area will be mostly a Cursed Zone. A bleak 
 desert of red, black and grey. But when you liven up the guardian sapling... true beauty in a video 
 game. Seriously. I am playing through the game a second time now, skipping every dialogue and video, 
 except those. It is great to watch.
  
  
  
  So it is a good thing the game comes with something most adventure games should have. A "game+ 
 mode". That is, once you have beaten it, you can start over. Just with your character as she was 
 at the end of the game. You still need to get all the quest related items, and some of the more 
 powerful items, as most of your moves. So you cannot doublejump, use the best weapon in the game, 
 or use any of your celestial brush-techniques right away. But everything else is intact.
  
  Even the music is great. The first time I hear the Shinsu Field song, I knew I would love this 
 game more and more.
  
  You have to look long for a game like this. And I am pretty sure there won't be one for many years. 
 Everything from the graphics to the story is superb, making this one of the best experiences I 
 have had on my Wii, and it even is one of my best gaming experiences ever. So if you haven't already 
 done so, buy this game. It is the least you can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JebranRush
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 7:13 pm PT
Review:  The good
  Great story, fantastic art-style, large world to explore, plenty of missions and sidequests, lengthy 
 story, exciting combat, charming characters, great musical score, great boss fights
  
  The bad
  Celestial Paintbrush doesn't work as well as it should with the Wii Remote, PS2 port 
 meaning it comes with all the technical issues of the original; some frame rate problems
  
  Okami is a game where you take on the role of the Sun Goddess, Amaterasu, in your quest to restore 
 the world to its former, prosperous state by defeating the dreaded snake beast, Orochi. Although 
 this sounds like a fairly straightforward plot, there are plenty of twists and turns in the plot 
 to keep you playing and the characters are charming and likeable enough to make it convincing, 
 in its own quirky way. You'll travel the whole world of Nippon to defeat the ever-growing darkness.
 
  
  While you travel this vast land, you have a talking companion named Issun, the wandering artist. 
 He helps in being the voice for Amaterasu, who is a wolf and obviously can't talk, and he provides 
 some comedy relief as well as hints and clues to where you're supposed to go next.
  
  The gameplay is very much like a Zelda game. You traverse different lands, go to a dungeon, solve 
 some puzzles, and defeat a boss. The key difference is the Celestial Paintbrush. This magical brush 
 allows you to freeze the game world and let you draw certain things on it to do several different 
 actions. You can create a fierce wind, make trees sprout magically, slice through enemies, create 
 bombs, and more. This provides for some unique puzzle solving and combat. This isn't the only way 
 you can battle enemies, however. Amaterasu is equipped with a weapon which you can use to slice 
 your way through foes. As you progress, you gain several different weapons, some which are obtained 
 through boss fights, while others can be bought from a store, although with a hefty price tag. 
 Even so, making money isn't entirely difficult. It's fairly well balanced in allowing you to earn 
 money throughout the story without having to break the flow and go monster hunting for some quick 
 cash, unless you so desire.
  
  The controls work fairly well, for the most part. Combat is waggle-based. You just shake the Wii 
 Remote to attack with Amaterasu's weapon, although timing is necessary. For a certain weapon, the 
 glaive, you have the ability to power it up to do a devastating melee attack. You just tilt the 
 Wii Remote to point upward, and when your weapon is charged, swing down and deliver the blow. You 
 are also able to equip a sub-weapon of your choice, which is used with the Z button on the nunchuk. 
 This, combined with the celestial paintbrush (which is activated with the B button) , help to make 
 the combat fresh and exciting each battle, not to mention flashy and graceful.
  
  Some controls that don't work well involve the celestial paintbrush. It takes some time to get 
 used to and, even then, the game doesn't always recognize your input. This can make it a little 
 frustrating at first, but with plenty of practice, it will become practically second nature to 
 you. Also, fortunately, the option of holding Z while painting allows you to create a straight 
 line in whichever direction you desire, which makes some of the painting a bit easier.
  
  The graphics, while technically unimpressive, are absolutely gorgeous from an artistic perspective. 
 While it's a beautiful game, it's clear that it's still a PS2 port. Some frame rate problems occur, 
 although infrequently, and most of the textures are rough looking and jagged. There's a lack of 
 polish which gives it a bit of a crude look. Fortunately, the art is so fantastic that it's hard 
 not to forgive the lack of technical power. It truly feels like you've stepped into an ancient 
 Japanese painting.
  
  The musical score is great as well and provides the right amount of immersion into the beautiful 
 world of Nippon. Some of the tunes are used throughout the game, but appropriately enough so it 
 doesn't feel like it's being rehashed. 
  
  All in all, this is one adventure game you don't want to miss. It's packed with extra features 
 and side-quests to keep you distracted from the main story if you wish, and there are lots of things 
 to collect and complete. Proper pacing with the story and unique features provide a fantastic level 
 of immersion into a large and fully explorable world, filled with great characters and wonderful 
 scenery. This is a must have for any fan of action-adventure games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokegami
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 4:55 am PT
Review:  People think Zelda and Super Smash Bros are the best Wii games. Well, Okami is, bar Super Mario 
 Galaxy. Most heroes are armed with a sword, well this one is a Japanese wolf-god with a paintbrush 
 called Amaterasu. Amaterasu can hold 'divine instruments' such as mirrors, beads and swords. His 
 Celestial Paintbrush Techniques include making bombs from ink (given by a pig god) and controlling 
 various elements. It is also some of the best Wii visuals, and I like the longevity of it. It is 
 also quite funny (what other game would have the secret technique Fireburst obtained by getting 
 a golden mushroom obtained from swapping a golden teacup which is got from a group of moles. Okami 
 beats Zelda and Smash Bros. put together and it is nearly as good as Mario Galaxy. Amaterasu carries 
 Issun on its back who usually gives hints. Get. Okami. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Die-Hard-Hippie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:17 pm PT
Review:  When I began Okami, I found it ridiculously overrated. Here was a game that the GameSpot reviewers 
 were going mad about, raving about how not only is it an outstanding adventure game, but one that 
 looks good and sounds good and! And! And...!
  "And what?" I thought to myself. My question was answered (or so I thought) when I began playing. 
 "... and nothing else."
  At the time, all I was thinking was that, yeah, it's fairly solid, its looks are pretty stunning, 
 but otherwise, I didn't get the hype. And, if you're anything like me, then by god, you'll find 
 some of the camera angles to be ridiculously frustrating.
  However, I picked it up off the shelf a little while ago and began playing again, and was pleasantly 
 surprised, that, so long as I lowered my expectations, this was a pretty darn good game. I won't 
 use spoilers, because I hate them with a burning fiery passion, but the story line is incredibly 
 unique and intriguing. The controls are simple and to the point, but also unique and fun to use. 
 Combat sequences are fairly straightforward as well, and though it takes a little bit to get used 
 to the battle controls, soon you'll be passing through the fight scenes with grace and, maybe, 
 a little boredom.
  All that's just fine, though, because all of those little bits of unique design add up to something 
 that is ultimately one of the most revolutionary games of our time. The artwork (I would say graphics, 
 but it doesn't really fit) is absolutely incredible, and it feels like through the whole game you're 
 moving through a famous Japanese artist's water color landscape. The music, too, though it can 
 get a little repetitive, sounds amazing, and helps transport you into the gaming experience. This 
 is certainly a game you'll want to un-mute the TV for. Though not a severely difficult or even 
 moderately challenging game, the easiness of it allows for it to be family-friendly, so as to help 
 whoever in your family who's curious about your video games, and wants something simple to try 
 out for his/herself (there's one in every family, trust me)
  Ultimately what drew me back? This revolutionary game grows on you so, that after a while, you 
 realize that Okami is quite unlike anything you've ever seen, or heard, before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bLiTzJoN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 11:06 am PT
Review:  Sifting through the Wii games available, I was rather disappointed at the number of good RPG games 
 since Twilight Princess. I was apprehensive when I read about Okami bringing an unusual style of 
 animation and folks comparing it to Zelda (as if it was a knock off of Zelda) . With over 1800 reviews 
 and a score reaching 9 on GameStop, I could not resist the temptation anymore. I really kick myself 
 for not purchasing the game sooner - it truly is more than a game, but an indescribable gaming 
 experience I will not soon forget and long for again.
  
  The game started off on a bad foot with me and I was easily frustrated; however, after I got use 
 to the animation and bloomed my first sapling (absolutely beautiful cut scene) I was sold and immediately 
 sucked into this fine piece of art (it's not just an animation style afterwards) . You really start 
 to appreciate the expression and artistic details the game brings and it only gets better as the 
 game progresses. The storyline is very immersive with not-so predictable twists (passing through 
 the gate caused a long sleepless night) and truly relevant side-quests that develop the story.
 
  
  I would give the game a perfect 10 if it had the following: I know voice overs can make or break 
 a game, but I think it would have offered a nice touch aside from the near animal crossing style 
 voicing that gets annoying (thank God the game allows you to skip many cut scenes unless you want 
 to read the whole story like me) , and I think Issun should be a bit nicer and cleaner - it would 
 not have affected the story any if they left out the perverse statements and takes (my 4 year-old 
 watch me play it and I felt a lil uncomfortable at times)
  
  I don't know if they can bring out a sequel, but if they do I'll be sure to get it at launch this 
 time!!! Hah hah ha ha ha *Nagi-style* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juniorpower
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 5:45 pm PT
Review:  If you get this game it is hard at first but once you keep on trying then you will be able to keep 
 on playing til you don't want to play any more but like that could happen. :) Oh well If you buy 
 it have fun with it. I say it gets a 10 is because i have had the game for 3 years now and from 
 playing and beating it 5 times already i think that this game is still addictive to play and I 
 just don't ever want to stop playing= Yahoo time to have fun defeating monsters and learning new 
 moves it is amazing. I hope you enjoy it as much as i do. If you keep on playing it again and again 
 you could figure out secrets if there is any secrets that we don't know of yet but still I wouldn't 
 stop playing it unless I get ko'ed and/or just fall asleep for like the next 10 hours. Don't ask 
 it has happened to me but still the game is so addictive that I might continue to play it tomorrow 
 and keep on playing it unless I fall asleep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akel777
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 11:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. Even though it's a PS2 port, the graphical style carries over really well. 
 Controls aren't amazingly responsive and some techniques can be tricky to pull off, but it won't 
 detract from the experience as it just takes some getting used to. The gameplay is similar to Zelda, 
 but changes enough of the formula to set itself apart. Zelda games pride itself on amazing level/dungeon 
 design and puzzles. Okami focuses more on plot, characters, quirkiness and fun god-like powers. 
 There is so much to do in this game that you may spend hours just doing side stuff.
  
  So what's the deal? If you enjoy a nice story and awesome graphics to go with your gameplay, you 
 should get this game. If you hate reading... you probably should just give it a rent to find out 
 if you'd like it or not. The beginning is kinda slow, but it does give you the option to skip the 
 cutscenes (you'll just be kinda confused as to what the heck is going on) . However, I must say 
 that this game gets better and better the farther you get into the game. You haven't truly experienced 
 it until you've played at least fifteen hours. And this game is long.... really long. So if you 
 want a good value, this game is really cheap and will last you a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezlatias
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Okami is a masterpiece in all the aspects: gameplay, graphics, soundtrack, challenges, side-quests, 
 story. Everything packed up in the legend of the Shintoism's Sun Goddess, Amaterasu, under the 
 form of a wolf, roaming the vast fields of Japan. Often called "the PS2 Zelda", Okami now delivers 
 its potential once again, this time on the Wii. 
  
  While the interface of the game hasn't changed much, the way you control Amaterasu is completely 
 new on the Wii version. Although the battles are a bit hard to get adapted, the celestial brush's 
 powers are really fun to use with the Wii-remote. Just hold B to pull up the brush screen, then 
 hold A to paint. 
  
  Besides of all the qualities I already mentioned, I should say once again that the story and the 
 dialogues in Okami are great. Some of the characters are really talkative, but their speech comes 
 sometimes with illustrations, making it enjoyable to read and understand the source of all the 
 trouble running in Japan. 
  
  Should be definitely added to your collection. Either the Wii or the PS2 version, it's more than 
 worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serious_Joker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 12:35 pm PT
Review:  This game does look interesting, thats why i got it, but i played it and i could see the game looked 
 good and interesting, but it didn't grip me. I tried to play it again to see if i might enjoy it, 
 but it still bored me and i went off to play super smash bros brawl. The graphics look OK but its 
 hard to see how far away a object is and, especially in combat, you get confused. The controls 
 are good. Also i would like to say that after playing the game for a bit i went off to draw a picture 
 of the wolf and it turned out well. Overall i think that 9.0 is to high for this game because it 
 lacks the ability to grip you and i think that there is always something better to do. Also it 
 has no multi player and i think all games as high as 9.0 should have multi player. The sound gets 
 on my nerves especially the little bug thing and you would of thought that they would be able to 
 add voice acting on a remake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh_99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Plot: You are a sun god who travels around Nippon to find the 13 celestial brush techniques to 
 help you destroy the evil in the land. Okami starts off slow, but eventually the plot becomes amazing, 
 and you never want it to end. 
  
  Graphics: Okami uses an unusual technique for the graphics. I like it for the environments, but 
 the humans in the game look really bland. Some people like it, while others don't. It is just a 
 matter of opinion. 
  
  Sound: The music in this game is great. Very pleasant to listen to. There is no voice acting so 
 you have to read a lot of text. and i mean A LOT!. I don't mind it, but if you are a person who 
 does not like to read, well this game has a lot of reading. 
  
  Gameplay: You use the wii mote to attack, and the nunchuck to move. The game does require some 
 waggle if you want to attack a lot of time in a row, but it is not that bad. You can change your 
 main weapon, and sub weapon to whatever suits you. You can power up different abilities, and buy 
 new attacks. 
  
  Controls: The controls are very easy to get a hang of. You move Ammy with the control stick, dash 
 by swinging the wii remote, and jump with A, 
  
  Overall Okami is a visually impressive game that has an amazing story line, and you should go out 
 and buy it if you have never played it before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Story
  
  The game is set in Nippon classic history, and begins with a flashback to events 100 years prior 
 to the game's present, and describes how Shiranui, a pure white wolf, and Nagi, a swordsman, together 
 fought the eight-headed demon Orochi to save Kamiki Village and the maiden Nami, Nagi's beloved. 
 Shiranui and Nagi are unable to defeat Orochi but manage to seal the demon away. In the game's 
 present, Susano, a descendant of Nagi, accidentally breaks Orochi's seal, and the demon escapes 
 and curses the lands, sapping the life from every living thing. Sakuya, the wood sprite and guardian 
 of Kamiki Village, calls forth Amaterasu, the sun goddess and reincarnation of the white wolf Shiranui, 
 and pleads her to remove the curse that covers the land. Accompanied by the inch-high artist Issun, 
 the adventure begins.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  In the game, you play as a white wolf named Amaterasu, the sun god. The game is a mix of platforming, 
 action-adventure, and puzzle genres. It is very hard, and is a very good game to get if you are 
 a hardcore gamer. This game really takes advantage of the Wii's motion-colntrols with the Wii remote. 
 You use it to draw, attack enemies, and a whole lot more. The combat in this game is very addicting, 
 for each new brush technique you gain, the more ways you can slaughter you enemies. There are many 
 weapons in this game. You can even upgrade your attributes by using the praise you earn. This game 
 has many side quests, as well as a great main story to keep you busy for hours. This is a very 
 long game. 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in this game are probably the most unique that I have ever seen in a video game before. 
 It is a mixture of water color and cell shading. It is like watching a moving picture of ancient 
 Japanese artwork. The game is beautiful.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Control
  
  This game controls very well, the only problems that I have are the minor inconsistencies with 
 the motion control, and that sometimes in a battle you just barely move along when you really need 
 to be moving quickly.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound
  
  This could honestly be the best part of the game. It is as good as the music used in the games 
 of The Legend of Zelda series! If that doesn't tell you anything, then I don't know what will. 
 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall
  
  I will admit that I was very hesitant to even rent this game. Just looking at the cover of the 
 game was a real turnoff for me. I thought it would be one of the dumbest games evree. Boy was I 
 wrong. This game is on of the best games that I have ever played! You may play as a wolf, but this 
 is no kiddie game at all. If you are a hardcore gamer that has been a little disappointed with 
 the Wi'ss delivery to us, then you really need to get this game ASAP. 
  
  P. S. Never judge a book by it's cover! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shayde_Shadow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 1:21 am PT
Review:  One word is all I need to describe Okami: Amazing. It is absoulutely outstanding.
  
  The main premise of the plot is that you are the sun godess Amaterasu, who has been revied to bring 
 peace to the land with the help of people along the way.
  
  The story is an epic, and is one that you'll remember for a long time to come.
  And it will last 
 you a while too, clocking in at around 40 hours by games end.
  
  The art style is great with detail popping out at every turn. The painted style works well with 
 the games themes of purification, peace, and restoration.
  
  The Celestrial Brush plays a big part in your adventure. You use it to aid you in you quest by 
 drawing on the screen. It is very well implimented with the Wii Remote and eventually becomes so 
 natural that you forget that you are using it.
  
  The combat is very fun and lively, with a good pace to it. There is also a large variety in enemies 
 so there is always something new to battle.
  
  The only gripe that I have with the game is to do with the weapons. The controls for the Reflectors 
 (Disks) and Glaives (Swords) are mapped to the waggle of the Wii Remote, which feels slow and non-responsive 
 with these weapons.
  But don't let that stop you from buying this amazing game.
  
  This game is a true modern classic. Buy it, enjoy it, respect it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknoob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 11:14 am PT
Review:  Hard to describe, play it and you won't regret.
  
  Okami was firstly released on the PS2. The game tells the legend of Amaterasu, the Japanese Sun 
 Goddess that was sent to the Earth 100 years ago (in the game's age) as a white wolf to slay the 
 dreadful Orochi - a eight-headed serpent who eats someone from Kamiki Village every year-. After 
 Ammy's victory upon the demon serpents, Kamiki Village goes through one hundred years of peace. 
 But then, Orochi, that was locked in the Moon Cave is awaken and brings chaos back to the land 
 of Nippon. So, our furry heroine is sent back to Earth to defeat Orochi once more and take peace 
 back to Nippon.
  
  Okami has a beautiful visual, everything is kinda cel-shaded with thick black borders, and that 
 makes all the scenario and the characters to look like live paintings. Amaterasu has a little compadre 
 called Issun, a bouncing thing who's always on her head. Ammy can't speak (as all the wolfs I know, 
 except for Wolf (StarFox) ) , so Issun does all the talking, and believe me, he IS funny.
  
  The game is based on exploration, doing tasks and fighting. Inside a battle, Amaterasu moves with 
 the Nunchuck's analogue directional, jumps with the A button and does basic attacks with weapons 
 - three classes of weapons, five weapons in each class - swinging the Wiimote. But wait, isn't 
 that a game like any other else? The answer is NO. Hold the B button and a canvas will appear and 
 you'll discover the magic of Okami. Still holding the B button, hold A and make your art. Different 
 drawings activate different powers.
  
  Amaterasu's main weapons are her Celestial Brushes, which were lost when she got to the Earth. 
 You'll recover all your Brushes along the game, and you need them to go through the game. They 
 also make the battles way easier. There are a lot of different kinds of enemies, and you'll need 
 to use different Brushes to defeat them. With them you may slash trees, rocks and enemies, make 
 trees to bloom, turn night into day, day into night and other cool stuff.
  
  The bosses are cool and astonishing. Giant spiders, crocodiles wearing armours, viruses wearing 
 armours, nine-tailed foxes (yes, it reminds of Naruto's Kyuubi) , Orochi (beating that three times 
 is kinda boring) , a boy in high heels and even a solid ball (believe me, this is the hardest one) .
 
  
  The game lasts for long enough for you to have enough fun. The premise is really great, and can 
 even take some tears of your eyes if you're a little sensitive. If you don't have Okami yet you 
 should be on your way to the nearer video game store to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 10:19 am PT
Review:  It doesn't take very long to see that Okami is unlike any game that you have ever played. The game 
 oozes eccentricity and surrealism from the moment that you begin watching the opening cutscene. 
 Soon thereafter, you find yourself exploring a bright and colorful cel-shaded world and restoring 
 beautiful vegetation to the countryside by using a celestial paintbrush. It is only a few minutes 
 into the game that you realize that you are in for a very special experience, and that feeling 
 never goes away for the whole game. Very few games combine such gorgeous style, unique gameplay 
 mechanics, great music, memorable characters, and a richly detailed world like Okami. Unforgettable 
 from beginning to end, Okami is a glorious marriage of art, innovation, and gameplay. 
  
  The premise of Okami is that you are a god, incarnated as a wolf. Your main goal is to rescue the 
 world from a resurrected evil power while using your godly abilities to restore life and beauty 
 to the land. It is a decidedly different take on the usual story of saving the world from a great 
 evil. In it, the people don't actually recognize you as their savior or the being who is going 
 around killing demons and getting trees to bloom. Instead, they attribute your triumphs to their 
 own abilities, miracles, or help from the gods. This process earns praise as a god, which you can 
 spend to level up some basic attributes. 
  
  Your heavenly powers usually take the form of a paintbrush, which you can use to slash enemies, 
 shoot ink "bullets", make bombs, or will things into existence by drawing simple shapes on the 
 screen. It is a wonderful mechanic, both innovative and fun to use. With a simple circle around 
 a dead tree, you can get it to bloom again. By drawing a circle in the air, you can make the sun 
 shine and bring light to an area of darkness. There is a great payoff that comes with each successful 
 use of the brush  an explosion of color and vegetation that propagates like a wave. The developers 
 for this game clearly understand the simple concept of "carrot-and-stick", since almost every task 
 has some reward, even if it limited to a brief display of beautiful visuals.
  
  Speaking of visuals, Okami has beautiful scenery in spades. It cleverly disguises the Wii's outdated 
 technology with a bright and vibrant cel-shaded look. The look could not be further from the brown 
 and gray gritty realism that dominates the looks of most games today. It is a perfect match for 
 the paintbrush mechanics, which give you the sensation that you are colorizing a black and white 
 graphic novel. It is as if aren't just controlling a character in the story, but telling a fairy 
 tale with your brush as well. It is a 3D game, but the shapes in the game look like they are drawn 
 on paper, similar to the characters in a Paper Mario game. Characters lack detail in their faces, 
 but more than make up for it with their personalities and over-the-top emoting. Despite the almost 
 nonexistent detail on people's faces, you can easily tell NPC's apart, since none of them are clones. 
 Enemies are equally impressive, especially the gigantic sprawling bosses.
  
  If you have played a 3D Zelda game like "The Twilight Princess", then you should be familiar with 
 Okami's basic structure. There is a large game world that you gradually open up by completing quests 
 and advancing the story. Areas alternate between towns where you can pick up quests and shop, dangerous 
 countryside, and dungeons. Your arsenal of weapons and special abilities gradually grows throughout 
 the game, and a hint character tags along to guide you. Okami is occasionally referred to as a 
 "Zelda clone", but that description is inaccurate. It is similar in its basic gameplay in the same 
 way that Call of Duty is similar to Half-Life, but it is a big mistake to dismiss Okami as a "clone" 
 of any other game. It is different from and better than its brethren (especially Zelda) in a lot 
 of ways.
  
  Combat, in particular, is one of the things that Okami does particularly well. It is a refreshing 
 departure from the button-mashing that plagues so many action-RPGs nowadays. The paintbrush mechanic 
 is a great tool for dispatching enemies, and it never feels tacked on or forced. If you wish, you 
 can bash enemies with a standard attack, but this won't do much beyond the easy enemies that you 
 meet at the beginning. The tougher enemies require some tricks, like using the brush to deflect 
 their attacks back at them or stunning them so that their weaknesses are exposed. Combat usually 
 involves three or four enemies, which come in a nice variety. 
  
  Okami is a clever game, so clever that even its lack of spoken dialog manages to be charming. Like 
 Zelda and Mario, the game's conversations scroll by in text while their characters move their lips 
 and wave their arms a little bit. In contrast to those games though, the characters in Okami speak 
 in a weird gibberish that sounds a lot like Simlish played backwards. Instead of coming across 
 as a badly outdated game convention, it sounds like the characters are speaking a primitive language 
 and the text on screen is merely a translation. Each major character speaks in a different voice, 
 which gives them some personality on top of their excessive gesturing and dancing. Excellent music 
 rounds out the game's flawless presentation.
  
  It is not enough to say that Okami is merely unique. It succeeds because it appears to have been 
 well play-tested, and it is just plain fun. Some of the annoyances that often tarnish ambitious 
 games don't appear in this game. The implementation of the paintbrush is a great example of this 
 strong design. Okami is not the first game to use this mechanic. The game Arx Fatalis tried it 
 a long time ago for casting spells, but failed miserably at it. Your spells would constantly fail 
 because the game was finicky about shapes, and monsters could pummel you to death while you tried 
 to draw them. Okami, on the other hand, is good at recognizing the simple lines and circles that 
 you draw, and it pauses the game while you do it. Other than a few minor instances, you rarely 
 find yourself trying to redraw the same thing over and over again. You will put your brush to great 
 use in combat to slash enemies in half or place bombs next to them. Okami wasn't originally designed 
 for the Wii, but it ironically uses the Wii motion controls better than most Wii games.
  
  Good dungeon design is another of Okami's strengths. It has a lot less of the backtracking that 
 plagued a lot of the dungeons in "Twilight Princess". It also has a few save points within each 
 dungeon and fewer obtuse puzzles. The pacing is great. Never does one area or challenge wear out 
 its welcome, and neither does the game, although experienced gamers might find it to be a little 
 bit too easy. The little hint character that accompanies you can be slightly annoying at times, 
 and he occasionally spoils puzzles by giving you the answer right away. Other than those minor 
 gripes, Okami has almost no weak spots for the forty hours that it takes to finish.
  
  If you have not yet tried out Okami, don't make the mistake of overlooking this game. It's an artistic 
 masterpiece, and underneath the surface is some excellent gameplay that you won't find anywhere 
 else. Despite having come out a few years ago on the PS2, this game might just be the best on the 
 Wii. Rarely does a game come along that is so much different from its peers and so polished at 
 the same time. If the style appeals to you, or you are just looking for an excuse to dust off your 
 Wii, then you should check out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 8:02 am PT
Review:  Okami is one of the greatest videogames ever made. Yes, it's that good. Of course, that's in general 
 game terms rather than a comment specifically aimed at the Wii version. Okami jumped to the top 
 of 'Best Games Ever' lists when it was on the PS2, right around the same time when everyone else 
 ignored it. That Capcom is promoting this Wii-adapted remake as "the best game you've never played" 
 then is a rather bold admission, because it's rare that you'll see a publisher admitting its failings 
 this openly. But then, this is Okami we're talking about and it's wonderful to see Capcom realising 
 that if there was ever a game that deserved a second chance at success, it's this one.
  
  So what is it about Okami that makes it so great? Most likely, it's the Zelda factor. While there 
 are multitudes of 3D action adventure games out there cluttering up the shelves today, virtually 
 none of them capture the magical spark that makes Nintendo's classic franchise so special. None 
 of them bar Okami, that is. Still, actually pinning down what that spark relates to is somewhat 
 difficult. After all, if it wasn't then countless other developers would have managed to copy it 
 by now, right?
  
  The Myth Element
  It's not impossible to hazard a guess though. Is it the exquisite visual style, mimicking traditional 
 Japanese art by using brushstrokes and watercolours to depict the world? The absolutely massive 
 game world that has so much for our wolf/god/heroine Amaterasu to discover, you'll still be playing 
 long after the 30-plus hours it takes to complete the main quest have passed? The wonderful story 
 packed with interesting characters, Japanese mythology and plenty of sly humour? In truth, it's 
 all of these things and more besides. Clearly, Okami is a great deal more than just the sum of 
 its accomplished parts.
  
  But isn't all that old news? It certainly seems like it considering the rave reviews garnered by 
 the PS2 game many moons ago, so it might be better to concentrate on how developer Ready At Dawn 
 has handled the Wii version instead. Obviously, the conversion - because it's not really a port, 
 since Ready At Dawn had to build it from the ground up - changes very little of the core game. 
 Indeed, bar the luscious watercolour visuals looking a tad more vibrant, it's very much business 
 as usual for Okami (with that business lying in the realms of epic fantasy adventure gaming) . Not 
 surprisingly then, the only real differences lie with the controls and while these take a tiny 
 bit of practice to get used to, they actually work really well.
  
  
  Quick Flick
  Use of the Wii's motion controls is split between performing several moves with Amaterasu and wielding 
 the Celestial Brush, with both being used throughout the game in equal measure. The former relies 
 on quick flicks of the Remote or Nunchuk to make Amaterasu dash forwards (smashing anything breakable 
 in her way) or dodge in the direction of the flick (once you've learned the Fleetfoot move, that 
 is) . 
  
  Move into a combat situation and Remote flicks make you strike at enemies instead, but these swipes 
 need to be timed perfectly to make them work. You have to flick the Remote just as the first attack 
 ends to initiate the next one. Some US reviewers have criticised this but, to be honest, it's actually 
 something of a blessing as it adds a much needed layer of skill to the previously too-easy battles 
 of the PS2 game. Needless to say, waggle merchants with only the ability to furiously wave the 
 Remote around like a maniac need not apply. You'll actually need some gaming ability if you want 
 to do well here.
  
  Finger Painting
  Bizarrely then, it's actually the Celestial Brush bits - the one element that everyone predicted 
 would be the main reason for Okami working so well on Wii - that are the hardest to get the hang 
 of. Once you've started earning godly powers early in the adventure, holding down the B button 
 activates your brush; then it's simply a case of moving it to where you want to paint, pressing 
 A and then laying down the ink. It's not as easy as you'd think though and between failed attempts 
 to slice through rocks, draw suns in the sky and force trees to explode into bloom, it might take 
 a little time before you really get the knack of it. 
  
  
  Ultimately, it's not so much about care and attention to get the line and circular strokes perfect 
 but more to do with performing quick flicks of the wrist and being quite carefree with your strokes 
 to get the best results, just as you would if you were creating a real Japanese-style painting, 
 in fact. Practice is obviously a must but once you get it right, you'll wonder how you ever got 
 it wrong.
  Being brutally honest though, the initial point still stands: Okami is one hell of an adventure 
 that is almost impossible not to love and outside of the added learning curve of acclimatising 
 to the new Remote gestures, the Wii version doesn't change that in the slightest. In fact, it almost 
 makes it more appealing thanks to the additional layers of skill required over the original. 
 
  
  Whether you're a hardcore fanatic or only have the briefest of interests in the genre, the bottom 
 line is that you absolutely must add this game to your collection. As visually impressive, action 
 packed and enormous as Okami is, adventure games really don't get much better than this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 211064
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Very Good game, it is very Funny, Cool, And the graphics are a Killer The Only bad thing about 
 this game is It is very easy the bosses are easy and mostly everything you do in the game is easy 
 but there are side quest you can do and have funn doing that on your way to the adventure. The 
 dungons in the game are pretty cool but they are not better than the ones in the zelda Series But 
 besides that they are cool and teh weapons you get are cool. And the cool tecniques you get with 
 your brush are fantastic The bomb is my favorite so far i didnt bet the game it is very long and 
 additive so if you get hooked on it oyu cant stop playing it. It is a must get game. And also IF 
 you got it for the ps2 Than you got the bad one because you can control you brush and you when 
 you hit people you use the wii remote. It is very cool and very funny and susano is probly the 
 funnyist so go and get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JPSmonkey111
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 7:04 am PT
Review:  As you may have read my Zelda: Twilight Princess review, I praised the game and said it how it 
 was. I plan to do that for Okami, too. So lets see if Okami is a worthy enough to sit on your game 
 shelf next to Twilight Princess... Get ready, set, GO!
  
  Anyway, I rate a game in 5 sections..
  
  GAMEPLAY: 
  
  The game of Okami offers many things 
 to casual and hardcore gamers alike. on terms of gameplay, it is amazing. The missions and adventures 
 are fun and thrilling, and the boss battles are epic. Just walking around the exspansive world 
 you know, deep deep down inside, this is no ordinary game.
  
  STORY:
  
  Tisk tisk me all you want, as I will openly admit, I have yet to beat the game. I have seen it 
 beaten, I have played 75% of it, and enjoyed many hours immersed in it. Because of this, take this 
 section with a hint of salt (or pepper, if thats the way you roll) . The story is a beaten path. 
 evil monster, good guy (er, dog?) , I think we all know how it ends. But the gold, money, good stuff, 
 CHA-CHING, is within the story. It is truly a unique adventure.
  
  CONTROLS:
  
  Like everything else in this game, the controls are tight. very responsive nd very clean and crisp 
 (wait.. that doesn't make sense) . I had very little issues when playing. The way your paint brush 
 becomes a weapon is seamless, and very easy to do. 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  woah, what can I say and laugh about here? The graphics are... undescribable. amazingly undiscribable. 
 To put it one way, take a scene from zelda, make it look like a painting, and throw in vibrant 
 greens and pinks.
  WOAH!
  Wierd, you say. Okami, I say.
  
  LASTING APPEAL:
  
  Much like Zelda, the world in Okami is huge. Humango, as the children of Little Lamplight will 
 tell you (sorry, I'll leave the Fallout 3 jokes for another review) . The story has been done before, 
 but hey, it works, its great, and its GOLD! Controls are tight. Graphics are, WOAH! 
  
  Some will tell you this is better than Zelda: TP, others will say no. I say, on my honest (awesome!) 
 opinion, it is very very very very very close. Think of Okami as Rocky Balboa. It fights hard, 
 and stays in long, but in the end, the fighter with the most expierence comes out on top, and in 
 this case, thats Zelda.
  
  Okami gets my vote for a 9.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScionofEntropy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 7:36 pm PT
Review:  When Capcom's Okami was released in 2006, a lot of people -- myself included -- thought, "Wouldn't 
 this be great on Wii?" Well, it wasn't long before Capcom got wind of that, apparently, and decided 
 to grant that wish. The question on everyone's mind is probably something like this: Does Okami 
 Wii hold up well against the previous PS2 version? The short answer is "yes." A longer answer is 
 that, although Okami Wii is essentially the same game, with no additional content, the new motion 
 control scheme adds a new layer of depth to the already excellent game, improving just a bit on 
 the proven formula.
  
  Okami's storyline is deeply rooted in traditional Japanese mythology, and several points of the 
 story are presented in the fashion you might expect: through Japanese print-like storyboards. As 
 the story opens, we're told the story of a great white wolf, Shiranui, and the hero, Nagi, who 
 defeated the evil serpent Orochi and sealed him away many years ago. It's not long before some 
 goof stumbles into Orochi's old haunt and inadvertently looses him upon the world. Orochi returns 
 to his old ways, demanding the sacrifice of a maiden once per year, and his corruption spreads 
 throughout the land of Nippon. This doesn't bode well for the nation, and so the white wolf/goddess 
 Amaterasu comes into the mortal realm to combat the evil power. Along the way, she's helped by 
 other gods, citizens of Nippon, and the wandering artist Issun.
  
  Okami is an action-adventure title along the vein of titles like Zelda, the meat of the game focusing 
 on exploration, puzzle-solving, item collection, and a lot of complex dungeons with large scale 
 boss battles. Amaterasu will spend a lot of time traversing the island nation of Nippon, gaining 
 various weapons and artifacts that grant her a wide range of abilities, as well as training new 
 techniques in dojos. She'll be fighting a multitude of colorful enemies with both her divine weapons 
 and powerful Celestial Brush techniques at her disposal.
  
  The Celestial Brush itself is the focus of virtually all of the gameplay, and for something so 
 omnipresent in gameplay, it melds flawlessly with everything you do as you play. In combat, it'll 
 execute powerful God Techniques that you'll need to use to defeat certain enemies (for breaking 
 their defense or damaging them at all) . Out of combat, the same abilities will be used to solve 
 puzzles and restore parts of the environment. Is there a wilted tree? Circle it with the brush 
 to revitalize it. Need to change day to night? Draw a crescent moon in the sky (or a sun to change 
 it from day to night) . If a bridge is out, one technique allows you to paint it back into existence.
 
  
  The citizens of Nippon are about as colorful as the island nation itself itself, and nearly all 
 of them need your help. As you meet them, you'll be able to do favors for them, from finding lost 
 items to ferrying them from one place to another. This will sometimes also lead to fishing minigames 
 and complex underground mazes that you'll need to navigate your way to the top or bottom of to 
 reach some sort of goal, either for a new item or ability or to keep the plot moving. These mazes 
 can be a source of frustration for some, especially if you hate trial-and-error segments, but once 
 you have something figured out, it's a matter of figuring out what to do next by rote until you've 
 reached the goal.
  
  As expected, a lot of emphasis is placed on exploration of expansive areas as you advance the game's 
 main story (a good 30-40 hours for most) . Fortunately, even in the largest of areas, which can 
 take a few minutes to cross, there's no shortage of things to do. There are, of course, a lot of 
 enemies, and some of them come in the form of Demon Gates, where you pass through a gate and fight 
 a series of enemies to destroy the gate and rid that particular zone of corruption. From there, 
 you'll often find some hungry animals to feed, which will give you praise (a form of experience 
 that allows you to upgrade your stats) in return for your kindness.
  
  Amaterasu will encounter a wide variety of enemies on her quest, but it seems as though variety 
 is introduced in low, incremental doses. Early on, you'll basically encounter only two enemies, 
 and every area or two, you'll encounter another type of enemy. A lot of these are just palette 
 swaps with slightly varied abilities. About halfway through the game, several new enemies are introduced, 
 and the lack of variety ostensibly disappears, though you do continually run into different versions 
 of the same previous enemies, just with slightly rehashed designs. Combat itself might also come 
 off as awkward at first due to swinging the Wii Remote to attack, but once you've gotten down the 
 timing for attacking and mastered dodging, it'll feel quite natural. Surprisingly, this never becomes 
 overbearing, and though the Remote is once in a while unresponsive, it'll never cost you a battle.
 
  
  There are a lot of boss battles, and the brunt of them will require you to make good use of your 
 Celestial Brush, manipulating the environment to get in a few shots at your enemy, before repeating 
 the process in a slightly different way. Boss fights are slightly more varied than the regular 
 combat, despite a few repeats. You'll encounter the same spider boss a few times over, mostly as 
 optional boss fights with slightly raised difficulty occurring in each subsequent battle. You'll 
 also find the Orochi battle repeated, though in a slightly unexpected manner. There are several 
 sub-boss fights against other dogs and wolves that, while the formula to beat each varies a bit, 
 can't help but feel a little too similar sometimes. Even with the repetition, most of the fights 
 are fun and give you enough of a challenge to keep you interested.
  
  As I said, Okami is deeply rooted in Japanese mythology, and the graphical presentation reflects 
 that in full. The entire game looks like it was lifted directly from a traditional Japanese print, 
 and over all the other textures is a sort of overlay that gives the entire image a weathered parchment-like 
 appearance. When looking at objects or people from different angles, sharp black outlines accent 
 many parts of the object in question. The overall effect gives the presentation a unique feel unlike 
 anything seen before, and it makes for an aesthetic that's easy on the eyes and almost dazzling 
 to see in motion.
  
  Equally impressive is the sound design, which fits perfectly in any situation. A lot of the sillier 
 characters have equally goofy melodies to signify their arrival or accompany their dialog. They 
 may not have any actual spoken dialog (mumbling or high-pitched gibberish, akin to Animal Crossing) , 
 but the music more than makes up, fitting each instance to a T. Even people who hate sifting through 
 page after page of dialog can no doubt manage Okami without hassle, both due to the colorful music 
 and clever writing. Events are punctuated with brilliant scores played on flutes and harps and 
 all manner of other instruments, creating a uniquely "Japanese" blend that, cultural boundaries 
 aside, hits all the right proverbial chords and rounds out the effect.
  
  Okami clocks in at over 30 hours in the main story, a rarity in the days when action-adventure 
 titles often don't even break ten hours. Besides the lengthy story mode, there are a multitude 
 of sidequests that grant you everything from new abilities and items to being completely invulnerable 
 to damage. What's more, completion of the story grants you a rank and an equivalent reward, like 
 a new costume to be used during a second playthrough. And once you've completed the game for the 
 first time, there are other things to hunt down throughout Nippon. This all combines to make Okami 
 a highly replayable game as well as a thoroughly enjoyable one, and perfectionists will especially 
 enjoy the thrill of striving for that last reward.
  
  Though it mostly garnered approval of critics and fans for its bold and unique style, Okami is 
 also a game of great substance. The robust, deep gameplay and enchanting story will cast a spell 
 on you, and Okami is certainly a game you'll remember. A few minor setbacks such as a lack of additional 
 content notwithstanding, Okami for the Wii is virtually superior to the original release in every 
 way. This is a game that can be both enjoyed and recommended wholeheartedly to any age of gamer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nekusonic
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Just wow. you will be amazed by how good this game is. If you are wondering what game to buy 
 for your Wii, buy Okami. Seriously, it's that good. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  BUY IT 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  The greatest game the greatest game the greatest game buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy this 
 this this this this this this this this this game game game game game game game perfect perfect 
 perfect perfect awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome great. outstanding outstanding 
 outstanding so good great wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow wow the best best best best best 
 best best best best best best best best best best best best perfect. suberb suberb suberb suberb 
 suberb. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  The words above express this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goozeynintendo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 10:18 am PT
Review:  As you can see by the great score i gave Okami you can tell i really enjoyed this game. It was 
 2006 game of the year for ign and brought back in 2007 for the nintendo wii, the only difference 
 is the controls. In the wii version you use the wii mote to paint as in the Ps2 version you use 
 the analog sticks. The graphics are beautiful really attracted me towards this game, it is cel 
 shaded with a great storyline. To put it short you are a Wolf God named Amaterasu, you are trying 
 to cleanse the world of darkness and are accompanied by a little flea named Issun. The experience 
 is very similar to a Zelda Adventure using elements of Puzzle and action. The combat is very intuitive 
 and causes you to paint certain designs to do special moves towards the enemy or you ccan swing 
 your shield (Or sword depending how far into the agme you are) at the enemy, when you ingage into 
 a battle you are enclosed in a small area (Unless its a boss fight) . It is a very lengthy experience, 
 but once you finish this game you will be begging for more. There are various bosses in the game 
 to keep you busy. The only part of this game that is a bit disappointing is that in a segment of 
 the game you ravel to the past and you really feel like you have been here done that before type 
 of feel. But other than that this is a great game in the action adventure puzzle genre (With a 
 bit of comedy thrown in) that i highly recommend to all you Zelda fans or just fans of the genre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMind
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Okami is a great game on the wii with very good graphics and a nice widescreen mode. It is better 
 than the PS2 version in many ways. For one, the game is a lot more fun and easy using the wii remote 
 to draw instead of the analog stick. Also this game is very creative. It is a good addition to 
 the wii library when it comes to adventure games. This game is kind of like Zelda Twightlight Princess. 
 But, for those of you who thought that there were to many dungeons in Twilight and they were all 
 boring, this game is different. You will usually not have to find very hard locationed boss keys 
 and crap like that. However, this game does have a very hard control scheme. You have to use the 
 nunchuck to dodge. But do not worry this game is almost perfect in every other way. What I really 
 was hoping for was a co-op mode Okami. Well that did not come true. Keep dreaming and taking turns 
 with your friends because this game is great.
  
  The games difficulty is good and this game will leave you playing for about 50 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6h05tly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  INTRODUCTION
  Ever since this game was released for the PS2, Okami was critically acclaimed for its graphics, 
 gameplay, and innovation. Okami didn't break records for Sony's console and became a rare find 
 in various game stores. Two years later, ReadyAtDawn announced they would release this title on 
 the Nintendo Wii since many gamers thought that Okami would work well with the wii remote when 
 painting commands in the game world. Now that Okami has entered Nintendo territory, I can honestly 
 tell you that this PS2 port is everything we fans have been waiting to play. Even if you never 
 bought the PS2 version, the Wii version is still a great title to enjoy.
  
  STORY
  The world of Nippon (or Japan) is being plagued with darkness and elements of evil as the citizens 
 of this world have no hope in terms of peace. The main character, the sun god Amaterasu, a female 
 wolf, fought alongside with a warrior named Nagi against an evil that was Orochi a century ago. 
 After her long slumber, Ammy loses her brushstroke abilities and has to journey throughout the 
 game to acquire them all. With the help of Wandering Artist Issun, he and Ammy journey to uncover 
 the truth of these uncertain events and bring peace to the land. Other than the game's intriguing 
 story comes some funny dialogue. I won't say much about this as you should give the game a try.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  The Wii version in my opinion has better graphics than the PS2 original. It's much sharper and 
 more colorful than what you see on the PS2 with blurry and less-than-colorful graphics. The art 
 style was one of the main reasons why I love this game so much. It is cel-shaded with the lines 
 in the characters moving (like what you see in the animation of the Cartoon Network show Ed, Edd 
 n' Eddy) even if they do not move. It is by far the best cel-shaded game I've ever seen for the 
 time being, and it is one of the best-looking games on the Wii.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  For the Wii version of this game, you will have to learn the controls a bit since Okami has a steep 
 learning curve. You can swing the remote to attack with the weapons you will find and use. Speaking 
 of which, you can choose a weapon you are most comfortable with along with a sub weapon which will 
 aid you in certain combat conditions. With the Celestial Brush you can make commands with the remote 
 such as Slash and Bloom, to name a few of your acquired moves. You can use these to solve puzzles 
 and even in battle. With battle, you can earn money easily by how fast you beat your foes along 
 with how long you can stand in these battles (in other words, try not to lose a lot of damage or 
 you won't receive bonus money after the battle concludes) . There is a lot to say about this game, 
 but I want to leave that up to you in the end.
  
  MUSIC
  This is one of the best pieces of music I have ever heard. Some of the music I like in the game 
 are when you are in Shinshuu Fields and when you are about to enter the boss room. The game stays 
 true with the Japanese setting and mythology by the music that is implemented in the areas and 
 worlds you encounter. There are some funny moments in the music such as the Sparrow Inn theme. 
 I would like to own this soundtrack (even though you have to order it outside the country you are 
 residing) .
  
  CONCLUSION
  Okami for Wii is one of the best games I've played in a while. The controls are solid, the graphics 
 are prettier than what you saw on the PS2 version, and everything else about it is just in pure 
 perfection. It is a game that Zelda fans and gamers in general should try out and see for themselves 
 how brilliant Okami really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Did you get your hands on the PS2's Okami back in 2006? If you did, then give yourself a pat on 
 the back; you experienced a truly system-defining game. Okami was one of the greatest, most unique 
 adventure games ever released on any system. If not you've done yourself a grave disservice - but 
 never fear; Okami has returned for an enhanced Wii release, and there's never been a better time 
 to try out this absolutely beautiful game.
  
  Okami puts players in the shoes - err... paws - of sun goddess Okami Amaterasu who has taken the 
 form of a divine white wolf. 100 years ago, Amaterasu (or Ammy for short) defeated the eight-headed 
 serpent Orochi with the help of the warrior Nagi. In the present, Orochi's seal has been broken, 
 and its curse has started to pollute the world of Nippon. With the once beautiful Nippon now dying 
 and dank, Ammy has been called back to defeat Orochi a second time and restore life to her world. 
 The story is engaging enough to keep players pressing onwards, and most people will find themselves 
 making bonds and genuinely caring about the fates of Nippon's colourful cast of characters.
  
  The characters are part of what make Okami's yarn so engaging. For one thing, they are interesting 
 and complex enough to keep the game away from the melodramatic waters that have become the genre 
 norm. Ammy is a silent heroine, but still manages to come across with a charming personality; she 
 tends to act more like a dog than the god she's supposed to be. Another character who plays a major 
 role is Susano, self-proclaimed descendant of the great Nagi. While at first he seems your typical 
 narcissist, it quickly becomes apparent that he is deeper than that, and you'll often find him 
 in a (rather amusing) battle with his inner demons. The game also sports a unique sense of humour; 
 blending its own brand of slapstick with sharp dialogue which accommodates innuendos, puns, and 
 some of the most straight-up whack dialogue you'll ever read. The Japanese folklore-steeped narrative 
 is strikingly exotic; although it's not the game's most unique aspect by any means.
  
  If you haven't figured it out from the screenshots, Okami looks absolutely amazing. Inspired by 
 Japanese sumi-e watercolor painting and tied together with a healthy dose of cel shading, the artistic 
 design is virtually untouched by any other game in the genre. Okami doesn't rely on fancy rendering 
 tricks but is still one of the best looking games on any system, and each frame of animation could 
 pass as a high quality piece of art. The enhanced release now sports 16:9 widescreen and 480p, 
 making an already beautiful game look that much better. However, the game is not without its graphical 
 flaws, as small as they may be. The artistic direction tries to mask the game's numerous texture 
 issues but doesn't always succeed; remember this is a year-and-a-half old last-generation game. 
 Also, the PS2 version sported a unique 'paper filter' that enhanced the feeling that you were playing 
 a painting, and that's less pronounced now. While you can still see it if you're, say, looking 
 at the night sky, the effect is usually nearly unnoticeable.
  
  Faring possibly even better than the graphics is the stellar sound design. The game is an absolute 
 delight on the audio front, thanks in no small part to one of the best original soundtracks ever 
 composed. The soundtrack boasts over a hundred songs which range from heroic overtures to moody 
 temple themes to character tracks which perfectly fit the personality of their subject. It's all 
 as distinct as the art style, and just as strangely compelling. The sound effects, whether you're 
 in combat, exploring the environment or watching a cinema, are equally impressive. However, I DO 
 have to gripe about the lack of VO. There's a ton of text in the game but instead of speaking, 
 characters mumble in a repetitive and annoying manner. The sound is virtually flawless otherwise, 
 and will ensure you keep the volume cranked up at all times.
  
  Apart from one mechanic we'll reach in a minute, Okami feels a lot like Zelda from the first couple 
 of minutes. The creators have stated on record that Zelda was one of Okami's main influences and 
 the game's design does nothing to hide it. You start off with limited access to a humongous overworld, 
 and to progress through it you have to find and beat one of the numerous dungeons. Once you enter 
 a dungeon you will progress through rooms defeating enemies and solving puzzles until you eventually 
 find a new technique that will allow you to continue onwards.
  
  The game starts to veer off of the Zelda formula when it comes to weapons. Ammy eventually unlocks 
 nine Divine Instruments which can only be used for basic combat, so the finesse of combat and all 
 the puzzles require use of the Celestial Brush mechanic. The player has the ability to stop time 
 and physically paint on the world using the Wii Remote's IR functionality, far quicker than the 
 slow pace of the analog control in the PS2 version. The IR interface is really the perfect setup 
 for the Celestial Brush and you'll quickly find it becoming second nature, and most of the strokes 
 are simple ensuring you can bust out combos with greater speed and precision than ever before. 
 There are over 15 brush strokes in all, and the earlier techniques don't start to feel underused 
 as the game progresses; a fact that owes largely to the game's unique freeform combat setup.
  
  Combat in Okami differs from its peers in that you can enter combat by running into an enemy; 
 a mechanic used in some RPGs like Paper Mario. Almost all battles on the overworld or in dungeons 
 are started by choice allowing you to battle as much, or as little, as you like. Once you engage 
 an enemy you are surrounded by an arena-like ring. Ammy's primary attack is waggle-activated, and 
 can be used to whittle down enemies HP until they become vulnerable (indicated by black and white 
 colouring) . You can then finish them off with a Celestial Brush technique like Cherry Bombs or 
 Power Slashes or Ink Bullets. Unlike in Zelda, where most enemies have a specific pattern which 
 you must follow to beat them, Okami allows you to do your own thing. The Celestial Brush can always 
 be relied on to mix up the environment during combat; if needed you can summon winds, grow trees, 
 and do all manner of things to make sure you win.
  
  Apart from those two areas though, the game feels a lot like Zelda. The dungeons, for example, 
 follow a unique theme and once you get halfway and are rewarded with a new brush technique, you 
 start leaning on that technique to finish off the dungeon and reach the boss. The dungeons all 
 offer up some meaty puzzles but none are really what you call brain-busters; if you're stuck you'll 
 often be shown the direction to take. Each dungeon finishes off with a larger-than-life boss which, 
 also like in Zelda, must be defeated with one of your new brush techniques. The bosses are all 
 massive and a lot of fun to take down, although they suffer from a severe lack of difficulty.
 
  
  Actually, pretty much all the combat in Okami feels a bit too easy. You are quickly rewarded with 
 newer, better weapons that outdate the old ones, and spell death for any enemy you encounter. While 
 I do have to give praise to the freeform combat it also contributes to the lack of challenge. I 
 love the ability to manipulate the environment to defeat your enemies, but it's just another way 
 for the game to overpower you.
  
  Okami is an absolutely epic game, and the main story should last most players around 30 hours, 
 if they choose to ignore all the distractions the game offers up. The game puts a large emphasis 
 on restoration and never forgets it; evident by the numerous dying plants you find and the hungry 
 animals you encounter. You could spend hours upon hours just searching for things to bring back 
 to life. This is, of course, not without its rewards; making the world better will accumulate 'Praise', 
 which can be used to enhance your stats and your items. There are also quite a few minigames that 
 are worth a look; fishing, for one, is an addictive albeit mindless way to earn extra cash, and 
 the spring water minigame plays like a retro arcade puzzle game. To find everything Nippon has 
 to offer, you need to invest about fifty hours of play time, ensuring every dollar is well spent.
 
  
  Okami was a game that felt from the start like the perfect fit for Wii. It was fantastic on the 
 PS2 and the Wii controls make it just that much better. If you consider yourself a fan of epic 
 adventures like Zelda, and you haven't already played through it on the PS2, you owe it to yourself 
 to pick up Okami. It's easily the most creative and fresh, and possibly the straight-up best, adventure 
 on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CliX098
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This is the most creative game that you will find out there. The paintbrush is very cool to me 
 bcuz I am an artist. Reviving the trees and restoring the whatever ti is your restoring is one 
 of the best parts of the game. Even though it is based on a very old game, it is still a superb 
 original classic. The movies are beautiful when you restore pieces of cursed land. When you are 
 fighting, they turn grey and you get to slice them in half with the paintbrush. When the day turns 
 to night, all you have to do is to look up and draw the sun. Then it will appear. You can also 
 restore the constellations so the gods and godesses can give you powers. This game has excellent 
 gameplay and beautiful graphics. I like the fact you are a snow-white wolf that is also a sun god. 
 It would be interesting if you could be the god of the land also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiiownzzz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Okami is a very addicting and I will recommend it to anybody that enjoys puzzle games. This sort 
 of reminds of the wolf form in The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. The paintbrush adds a lot 
 of variety to the games gameplay and I love it! There are some parts of the game that you don't 
 know what to do but it's kind of obvious that you just whip out your paint brush and do something 
 about it. There are some time the game can get a little weird but it doesn't nothing to the entertainments 
 in it. I also like getting new paintbrush techniques and having to use them more then once, you 
 actually use them all throughout the whole game! Capcom has always made good games and this one 
 supports them.... all we need now is RE5 for the Wii *cough*. Anyways, this game is fun and that's 
 all I have got to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuraiRai
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Graphics, story line, brush technique.
  Cons: Too easy, annoying sidekick.
  
  Let me start by saying I'm pretty much on par with GameSpot on this one.
  
  The pros: graphics/appearance. 
 This game was, there is no other word for it, beautiful. It shows the full potential of gaming 
 appearance. Capcom also gave minute, excellent touches that emphasised the 'Japanese painting' 
 feel. Like a stream of plants after Ammy's walk, and the spread of plants after her jump. (It was 
 also funny to see her not pay attention when important people were talking to her.) The game also 
 had a large exploration area, with plenty of places to explore for ample sidequests when you're 
 bored. And the story line was different. Usually its 'Bang, blow you up, haha I win' but this game 
 was about restoration. You had to restore things, not blow 'em up. It was a nice contrast to the 
 usual. The brush technique was an excellent utilization of the Wii remote, albeit sometimes misread.
 
  
  The cons: OK, for starters, the dungeons and enemies were TOO FRIGGIN' EASY. I mean, Capcom essentially 
 concentrated ONLY on the look, but not the gameplay. Although one cpould learn an avoid move, you 
 never needed it. The simplicity of the game disappointed me. And just when you think "Hey, at least 
 I get to solve the dungeons" nope, there's your sidekick, Issun. This annoying little 'artist' 
 points out everything you have to do, with the important words being in red. You don't solve ANYTHING, 
 you just do what you're told. Obviously, the designers thought we were a bunch of idiots. With 
 so much explorable area and so many dungeons, it was a pity that they gave the stuff away. A slight 
 disappointment.
  
  To wrap it up, a great, beautiful game, that I highly reccomend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sambam6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  i think the main advantage this game has over others of similar style (of which there are many) 
 is its unique visual design. everything in it looks great even though its a ported game from last 
 generation, it holds up very well.
  
  the sound is also of high quality, and like the visuals its got its own style to it, very well 
 done.
  
  other than this though i found the gameplay slightly lacking. its still great, and maybe my standards 
 are just too high but i just found there wasnt enough drive to keep me into it for all that long.
 
  the combat system is very basic and there isnt too much skill or thought to it, it becomes very 
 repetitive. also i seemed to lose sight of what i was trying to accomplish alot of the time.
  
  that said, its got a good ammount of gameplay time, quite a long adventure to keep you amused 
 for a while.
  
  dont get me wrong, its a brilliantly designed game, i just dont rate it up to what all the critics 
 seem to think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: She_Gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  More than just amazing visuals and sound, gameplay is highly addictive and satisfying. I am extremely 
 cheap when it comes to buying games, so I do plenty of research to determine which games merit 
 a spot on my gameshelf. For Okami, I was a little skeptical because all I read about was the gorgeous 
 visuals and great sound. Although those things are important, if the game doesn't have high quality 
 gameplay to back it up, than I really could care less. 
  
  Also, it's difficult for me to branch away from major platformers (after all, they're famous for 
 a reason) . The only reason I even looked at Okami was its high rating. But I've been fooled before. 
 For example, Zack & Wiki had a high rating, but once you beat the game, you know how to do all 
 the puzzles. 
  
  But Okami came through in every way, my only regret now was that I should have just bought it first, 
 instead of renting then buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batacatafog
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Okami... A masterpiece hiding in the Wii section of Gamestop... The game that I nearly ignored! 
 Thank goodness that I didn't ignore it! This game is worth $60 even though it's a convenient $40! 
 Enter a story worth noting as a legend, view graphics and gameplay that will take your breath away, 
 and fight through hordes of enemies as you journey to restore the lost wor --- I mean as you journey 
 to... whatever!
  
  See through the eyes of Amaterasu as she and her trusty sidekick, Issun, travel through a vast 
 world of bloodshed and beauty. Use deadly weapons such as glaives to purify the world of the many 
 monstrosities you will meet along the way. Use strategic battle techniques that will annihilate 
 your foes and leave you untouched by any of them. Master the powerful Celestial Brush to devastate 
 even the most arduous foes. Fall in love with the many friends of Ammy and learn to hate those 
 who betrayed her. Prevent the world from falling to complete destruction and join the adventure 
 of love, betrayal, heroism, and faith before it's too late!
  
  Okami, the game with interesting battle elements, off-the-wall sound effects, breathing graphics, 
 and a tear-jerking story, will definitely be worth much more than many other games we have today. 
 You simply can't go wrong in getting this game. You CAN go wrong if you simply don't know what 
 a good game is when you see one.
  
  If you are questioning this game then just go away because this game deserves no questioning. You 
 either love challenge, depth, and spice or you love mindless, cheap, easy, and stupid. That's all 
 there is to it. This is a GAME. Not a thumb exercise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game is a game I knew I had to get when I first heard on how great it was on the PS2. It offers 
 a great storyline, that is actually pretty deep. And developers have ramped it up a bit with the 
 exclusive Wii motion sencing abilities. The only really bad thing about this game is that camera 
 is anoying sometimes, and even though it has a beutiful artistic wow about it, faces seem to be 
 kindof pasted on when you get an actual close up on the characters. But overall this game is great, you 
 will paint your way through your obsticals, be ready and get this game, it one for the books and 
 will probably be selling for a long time. I give it a 8.5!!! This game is a game I knew I had to 
 get when I first heard on how great it was on the PS2. It offers a great storyline, that is actually 
 pretty deep. And developers have ramped it up a bit with the exclusive Wii motion sencing abilities. The 
 only really bad thing about this game is that camera is anoying sometimes, and even though it has 
 a beutiful artistic wow about it, faces seem to be kindof pasted on when you get an actual close 
 up on the characters. But overall this game is great, you will paint your way through your obsticals, 
 be ready and get this game, it one for the books and will probably be selling for a long time. 
 I give it a 8.5!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sea_Wyvern
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  You'd be doing yourself a favor by buying it and a sin by not buying it; Okami brings to the table 
 a Japanese mythology-based game that uses innovative use of the Wii motions system, while also 
 developing itself unto something simply marvelous.
  Let's give a simple, rough description: You are Okami Amatersu (Mainly Amaterasu, or just "Ammy") , 
 a snow-white wolf who is the reincarnation of the Sun Goddess Amaterasu, summoned forth to bring 
 life into the decaying land of Nippon and free it from the grasp of the terrible 8 headed snake-dragon 
 demon, Orochi.
  As you run around the land, leaving a trail of life and hope as you advance, you will recover the 
 lost powers of Amaterasu and use them to both battle the legions of Orochi and change the world 
 around you, be it for advancing or to bring faith back to the human race.
  By using one of 3 types of weapons; Reflectors, Rosaries or Glaives; and the Celestial Brush Techniques; 
 which are enabled by summoning the canvas with B and drawing with A; are what you will use in your 
 adventure.
  A game based on the waning faith on Gods and the ancient Japanese culture, and also on the The 
 Legend of Zelda series itself, this game will strike you as too easy as first, but if you don't 
 spam the recovery and offensive items, you will find a game whose difficulty is just right. 
  For those of you already playing this and those who are considering it, I leave you with these 
 parting prayer:
  "O Great Okami Amaterasu, origin of all that is good and mother to us all, bring life back unto 
 our land and guide the world back to radiance."
  *Half of the prayer came from the game, the first half*
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiifighter1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  boy where do i start! Okami is just a great game. with its out of this world visuals and worlds 
 it will keep you busy for a long time. you are the legendary god amatseru and you must free the 
 world of evil. your side kick issun is hilarious providing the comic relief. the music is great 
 as well. in presence of evil or a boss it actually feels creepy. the brush techniqes are great and 
 gathering new weapons is satisfing. however brush work can get annoying because of the remote. 
 but the stoy is amazing you just have to no what happens next and plot twists are shocking. characters 
 are cool and have personalitys. you will get stuck without a doubt unless you talk to people you 
 need to interact with the world to advance. combat iss easy without a doubt so combine moves to 
 make it interesting. for examle asword as secondary weapon block with shield and go to the dojo 
 alot. to put it all in one the game is one of the best for the wii for people into mythology or 
 just a good time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masta_Jedi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoy The Legend Of Zelda, you are going to love this game. First of all, the story is great. 
 It's based on Japanese legends, and it really makes it interesting to play. And the graphics in 
 this game are amazing. They are not realistic looking, but they give you the impression that you 
 are reading the entire game off an old Japanese scroll, its really nice. The scenes where you bring 
 huge areas back to life are awesome. The soundtrack is also great, offering songs that add to the 
 beauty of the game.
  The annoying thing about this game is the controls though, you attack by swinging the wii-remote, 
 and personally i find that pretty annoying. And when you use the celestial brush to draw on the 
 screen it can be very unresponsive..
  In addition, during the great lengthy story, there are plenty of bonus objectives, different weapons, 
 and minigames to keep you interested.
  Another thing i really feel i must mention is this game offers one of the greatest final boss fights 
 i have ever seen. Im not going to spoil it for anyone who might not have played it, but its great.
 
  Overall, if you like games that are not bad to look at, lengthy and interesting, definetly give 
 this one a try.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 789shadow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  [b] THE GOOD [/b] :
  -Fantastic, Zelda-style adventure.
  -Drop-dead gorgeus artistic design.
  -Great story.
  -Great soundtrack.
  -Celestial Brush works even better on Wii.
  
  [b] THE 
 BAD [/b] :
  -Somewhat unresponsive fighting.
  -Story leaves some blanks to be filled in at the end.
  
  Okami ends with "To be continued....". This 
 means that a sequel was going to be made. Which makes it all the more dissapointing that this modern 
 classic failed to sell enough copies to make that sequel happen.
  
  If you're reading this, go buy Okami now. Even if you intend to never play it. Hopefully some dev 
 will answer the call of the sequel if it finally sells enough.
  
  You've probably already surmised that Okami is a fantastic game, so I'll let you take the initiative 
 of buying it yourself. Okami is an action-adventure in the vein of Zelda, which is the obvious inspiration 
 for the way this game plays out. You'll play as Amaterasu, a sun goddess reborn in the form of a 
 white wolf. All this comes around as Orochi, a gigantic 8-headed serpent, is reawakened and starts 
 wreaking havoc on the land of Nippon.
  
  This is really only the first half of Okami's massive storyline, which contains a number of memorable 
 characters who speak in gibberish while Zelda-like text tells you what they're really saying. Amaterasu 
 has to restore places that Orochi has ruined, bringing them back to their former glory.
  
  In order to accomplish this,"Ammy", as she is called by her bug-like companion Issun, has a number 
 of cool-looking weapons and the Celestial Brush, both of which are sufficient for turning demons 
 and monsters into tasty bones to snack on. The afformentioned Brush is actually one of Okami's best 
 aspects. Depending on what you draw, a multitude of things can happen. You can repair broken structures, slash 
 enemies in half, and restore plants to life with a few strokes of your magic paintbrush. This is 
 one of the areas where the Wii version outshines it's PS2 counterpart, because drawing with the 
 brush here is faster and easier.
  
  Some of Ammy's weapons, however, don't fare so well. Attacking is accomplished by shaking the Wii 
 remote, and some weapons just aren't responsive. Some of the hiccups can be remedied by moving the 
 Wii remote up and down instead of side-to-side, but since the combat is easy in general, it's never 
 really a problem.
  
  The first thing you'll notice about Okami is that nothing else looks quite like it. The closest 
 thing we have are Japanese watercolor paintings, and while that's clearly what Okami was emulating, it 
 still doesn't look the slightest bit similar. It's really hard to accurately describe, so it really 
 has to be seen to be believed.
  
  Okami is a long game, about 30 hours from beginning to end, longer if you intend on finding all the 
 Zelda-style collectibles. The game's music is really good, and easily passes the would-you-buy-the-soundtrack 
 test.
  
  If you have a Wii, (or a PS2) I highly suggest getting this game. It really needs to sell more copies, so 
 that it gets the sequel it definitely deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanceblod
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  There are some games that are better then others, and this one fits as one of the best. 
  Can you imagine a game that draws you into it and makes you want more, more and more, so you've 
 come to the right place.
  It's hard to imagine how a game with not even close realist graphics can make you fell like you 
 are into the game and you are beating the bed guys, it's truly a piece of art sold as a game.
 
  Well, the game is not perfect, it has it's failures like the lack of precision when you try to 
 perform a attack or the too badly rewarded side-quests, but, hey, if you want perfection go make 
 your own game, maybe you can pull off this trick.
  For the offering system, well it is just good, nothing new there, but its better then the old kill 
 monster to level up standard.
  The most important thing you must know before playing the game is, this is not some game that you'll 
 be getting bloodshed or real life situations, it IS a fantasy history, a very good one, but a fantasy 
 none of the less.
  Well that's it for the review, I loved the game and recommend it to any, a repeat any player, it 
 is really worth the few bucks you have to expend in order to buy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dymond7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  What can I say, you have to play Okami to actually see that it's a masterpiece, and I'll explain 
 it to you right now.
  
  Gameplay: Very, very fun, running around as a wolf has never been any more fun, the controls for 
 the Wii version are perfect.
  
  9/10
  
  Graphics: Okami is know to have very beautiful graphics that makes you feel like your in a huge 
 painting and your looking at what inside it.
  
  10/10
  
  Story: It's a really good story and it's very original, I really don't know what more to say really.
 
  
  9/10
  
  Conclusion: Buy it, Buy it, Buy it, I'm sorry this is just a game that you rarely see, a game like 
 this comes out every one of two generations of video gaming, I mean every year lots of good games 
 come out on every system, but not always do we get a game as original and fun as is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeeDeeDee-er
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to games, I have one favorite, Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time. When I stumbled 
 upon Okami, I discovered that it was everything Zelda was, and had an incredible storyliine and 
 astoundingly well developed characters. It's the only thing I've found everything from OOT in.
 
  
  The graphics, are a work of art. More games should be made in this style, and stop trying to look 
 so real. It's better to look fake. 
  
  The controls work smoothly. Maybe a little shaky at first, but they turn out easily mastered.
 
  
  The fighting is occasionally easy, but not so easy as to diminish the quality. Unlike most games, 
 where it's just slash, slash, or shoot, shoot, and the enemy is dead, every enemy is a unique weakness 
 you have to exploit.
  
  I can't start to explain the perfection of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okamiownage
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This action-adventure game first made for the ps2 is a great game worth buying. The graphics symbolize 
 Japanese artwork and makes the game look great. The storyline is long and interesting and the game 
 gives at least 30 hours of game play. I have at least 70 hours of game play and I'm still going. 
 There are tons of side-quests that make the game even longer. The fighting in the game is the only 
 thing I can think of right now that could've been better. One of the main tools in the game is 
 the "Celestial Brush". Using the "Celestial Brush" you can draw different symbols ,you learn throughout 
 the game, with the wiimote to defeat enemies, change night into day, day into night, make it rain, 
 bloom plants, and much, much more. The game is definitely worth buying for only $40.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoolAiD129
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic game. Don't make a mistake by underestimating this. Great story, great puzzles and great 
 use of motion sensor. It may remind you of Twilight Princess at times but its a way better game. 
 
  
  The latter half of the game is probably the best part of it. The characters are great, blooming 
 trees are really fun, all the brush techniques are great to use and boss fights are great although 
 a tad bit easy once you get the hang of it. The repeated boss fights are never boring and the storyline 
 is brilliant. All the twists are surprising and you feel part of the action the whole time. Controlling 
 sunrise and sunset is very interesting and I hope a sequel comes out soon. 
  
  There may be a few errors with with the motion sensing and the game may look a bit childish and 
 the use of cut scenes every time u change sunrise to sunset or vice-versa can be a bit annoying 
 but they don't get in the way of a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kitsukage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  kami is one of those games you'll find yourself playing for a long time; no kidding. It was 
 one of those games I wasn't so sure about, when it came out for the PS2, but having played the 
 Wii version, I can say it was definitely a game that was best suited to the Wii.
  
  The controls are awesome; from the buttons to the Wii Remote use. Its a very fun game to play and 
 so easy to play through; even if you aren't familiar with the controls.
  
  kami also has a unique style to it; the graphics might not be like your average highly-defined 
 game, but kami just goes to show that you don't NEED these super-amazing graphics to make 
 an awesome game. Movement and actions are incredibly smooth, and the transition between free-roaming 
 and combat is just as equally smooth. The story; albeit lengthy in introduction, (which I actually 
 don't mind, seeing as I play a game for both game play and story) is actually very good.
  
  Combat is another brilliant aspect of kami. As I mentioned before, the transition between 
 free-roaming and battle is rather smooth, but the actions are what its all about. You can pull 
 of some interesting combinations as you progress through the game, with your combinations of weapons 
 which you'll undoubtedly pick up along the way, allowing you to equip for attack and defence.
 
  
  As for problems, the only ones I have come across are brush strokes; while attempting one brush 
 technique, another will activate, which has happened with "Bloom" and "Galestorm", with me, but 
 that being just a small issue, you can't knock kami for such a small thing, when its such 
 a great game with the best concept of the Wii's technology that I have seen and heard about, thus 
 far. If there is anything to get to experience the Wii, it is probably this game, because to me, 
 it feels like a game best experienced for its game play on Nintendo's console.
  
  If you own a Wii and you don't own this game, yet.. where the hell have you been!? You're missing 
 something mighty awesome, my friend.. at the moment, I would definitely say that kami is 
 the game to own for your Nintendo Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowman6251
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Well I finally beat Okami and it took me long enough (the game is approximately 30 hours long) 
 so now its time to write a review. I had played this game a few times on the PS2 at my friends 
 house but its nice to be able to play the whole thing from start to finish on my wii. 
  
  Since its on the wii lets start with the controls. For the most part they work well. You swing 
 the wiimote to swing your sword, nunchuck to move, A to jump, and B is the most interesting control. 
 B opens up the paintbrush pad so you can paint various (13 to be exact. 15 if you count the big 
 inferno and whirlwind) brush techniques on your surroundings which will have different effects 
 from cutting your enemy to shooting lightning to making plants grow. For the most part this system 
 works very well but there are a few issues. When using a glaive (there are several classes of weapons. 
 glaive is a large sword) you can perform a charged attack that does more damage. I would often 
 find myself stuck in charge mode not being able to strike no matter how much I flailed my remote 
 around. I also ended up entering charge mode without trying, a lot. As such it made glaives one 
 of my least favorite classes. Also when painting brush techniques the game can get very snippy 
 as to what constitutes a circle. I found myself frantically circling the same plant over and over 
 before it finally decided to register. You'll often end up blowing gusts of wind instead of growing 
 a plant.
  
  The game has an engaging story that starts off as a quest to kill Orochi, an 8 headed snake demon 
 that has been ravaging the land and when I killed Orochi I thought I had beaten the game. I was 
 wrong. Almost every real boss is set up to make it feel like this is the end of the game only to 
 have a cutscene follow telling you "nope this is just the beginning". The boss fights are very 
 fun and although all the combat (except maybe the first 30 seconds of fighting Yami - 4) is rather 
 easy, bosses included, its still fun. As far as bosses go though you will have to fight every boss 
 twice, Orochi 3 times, and 4 versions of Yami. It feels like they lacked a bit of creativity there. 
 And pretty much every boss can be beaten by spamming exorcism slips.
  
  The rpg elements of gaining respect from the citizens work well because it does several good things. 
 Your character becomes more customizeable as you choose whether you want more health, money, ink, 
 etc. and it also encourages you to do side quests. there are many side quests along the way and 
 they are usually rather varied and interesting. My favorite was catching the thief.
  
  The game is beautiful and interesting and I wholeheartedly recommend it. I would say play all the 
 Zelda games available to you first but this is by no means a bad choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niels200683
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  This game is just... beautiful.
  
  It's like a canvas come to life,
  and you can doodle on it.
  
  Uhm... yeah, not the most acurate description, but it will have 
 to do.
  
  The story starts pretty simple, largely based on existing myths - making it very easy to see what 
 is coming next.
  
  The interesting characters will leave you playing, though - as well as the great battle system 
 (that sometimes does seem not to fit on the wii - glades, or however you spell it - large swords 
 anyway, can be charged... unfortunately the game does not always recognize charging from slashing.) 
 - the battles are great, with some interesting monsters, excellent bosses and interesting ways 
 to deal with each of them. 
  
  The brush system works great with the wii-mote, after some minor practice, you'll be setting flowers 
 to bloom, slashing monsters, setting stuff on fire and more. 
  
  The sense of speed is also nicely done, regarding the games graphic style. The puzzles are much 
 too easy, but are interesting nonetheless. The conversations are funny, and become interesting 
 when you get to know the characters.
  
  And just when you think the game is over... it keeps on going.
  
  This game is, in my opinion, 
 the first zelda-type game done right (except for the zelda games, of course) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinge3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is certainly one of The best games on the Nintendo Wii console! Why? Well here is why...
 
  
  Graphics- Its art style is Amazing to look at, and in my opinion, looks more colorful and better 
 than its PS2 counter-part!
  
  Sound- Great and catchy music!
  
  Story- Though there is a lot of text, its very engrossing and interesting!
  
  Playibility- 
 There is a slight learning curve to master the paint brush, but once you do the controls are awesome!
 
  
  I'm sure that nearly anyone in the world will just LOVE this game! If you are thinking about getting 
 this wonderful game, well you should stop thinking and go out and buy the game! It's a must have 
 for the Wii! After you get past the learning curve, this classic will easily become one of your 
 favorite games ever! The game easily takes of 30 hours to get through on your first playthrough, 
 and it's a lot of fun too!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: persian_knight
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  i started out enjoying the game and couldnt wait to play this game but then when i got it i was 
 dissaponited with it
  
  the graphics arent that good but everyone says there are but i dont think they are and they people 
 in the game annoy me so much they dont talk they like just make funny noises and there head gets 
 bigger and then smaller when they are talking and i just looks so stupid plus most of the tme even 
 though you do exactly what it says it never gets the power you want and its so boring dont buy 
 it please it might look good but its really not
  
  i find it boring and would rather play something else becuse it doesnt keep you interested for 
 very long it might look and you enjoy chopping trees for the first half an houe and then it starts 
 getting so repetitive
  all you do is run to a place get a new power do a mission and chop something and them move on and 
 do the same thing again and it gets boring quick
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  The final game by Clover, Okami, has finally been ported to the Wii and if you haven't played Okami 
 yet, now is the time to do so. Okami is a bold and beautiful game, and not simply because of it's 
 graphics, either, but rather, everything about the game stands out in a big way.
  
  Zelda fans will notice right away that Okami is basically another Zelda game, and due to it's release 
 around the same time as Twilight Princess, the wolf comparisons also work well. Your hero, Amaterasu, 
 known often simply as Ammy, is another mute hero out to save the world. She is joined by the small 
 sprite-like, Issun, a wandering artist who also happens to carry a sword and from the very introduction 
 of the two characters the charm rushes in and never lets up.
  
  The game plays very well when it comes to exploring the world. Everything you do earns you praise, 
 whether it's bringing plants back to life, helping someone catch a fish or simply feeding forest 
 animals. Running around and exploring brings a grand sense of joy that once only belonged to The 
 Legend of Zelda franchise. Of course, all of this praise that is earned will help you in your quest 
 as the more praise you earn the more you can upgrade certain abilities, such as having more ink 
 or more health.
  
  Combat on the other hand isn't quite as rewarding. At first you'll learn new moves and even find 
 new weapons all helping to provide different way to play the game, as well as choosing to make 
 one weapon your main and the other your sub. However, once you've found a few of the weapons, combat 
 will remain the same throughout the game until the very end.
  
  Of course, brush techniques come in handy for the fights, and they will help spice up the combat. 
 Whether it's making gusts of wind, slashing an enemy or making bombs, using your main and sub weapons 
 with your brush techniques will ultimately help provide the most variety. The brush techniques 
 however are far more useful and creative when it comes to puzzle-solving, whether it's making lightning 
 strike to power a door open, making platforms rise out of the water or drawing vines to swing across 
 wide expanses. Okami's brush techniques are an integral part to the game and easily the most enjoyable 
 abilities the game has to offer.
  
  However, all of the brush techniques are motion-sensitive. Having never played the PS2 version 
 of Okami I personally had no problems with the Wii port's motion controls. They do require you 
 to be quite precise at times, but it was never frustrating and a few hours into the game I had 
 no problems. It is something to keep in mind though that the PS2 controls are reportedly more intuitive, 
 but if you have no choice at all then there's nothing wrong with the Wii version's controls.
  
  The first thing many people will notice about Okami, before even the motion controls, are the 
 graphics. While the artistry is absolutely brimming with simplistic charm it deserves to be praised 
 in how it's used rather than simply for being cel-shaded. Many developers will often use cel-shading 
 to save money, but Okami originally began its life with a realistic look to it. The current form 
 however works better than any realistic form would have. In Okami the cel-shading is used to help 
 convey the feelings of life itself. As you control Ammy you are restoring the world to it's natural 
 beauty and the graphics help that feeling of rejuvenation so very much. Words cannot describe what 
 it feels like to turn a cursed land into a lush forest waiting to be explored. Okami truly nails 
 that feeling of wordless awe so many times throughout Ammy and Issun's quest.
  
  The musical score in the game is absolutely stunning, providing some of the most memorable tracks 
 to explore to. When the game goes for drama, the music adds so much to it all. The music is so 
 important to Okami simply because there is no voiced dialogue and most of the sound effects are 
 rather minimal. They get the job done, but this isn't Halo, there won't be explosions and shouting 
 as grenades explode all around you. There's a sort of subtlety that almost makes Okami seem humble. 
 You won't be bombarded with sound, but you'll never care to be either.
  
  The story in Okami is filled with as much charm as the characters; it has as much charm as the 
 Zelda games. There's so much drama and the mature themes of love, loss, life, death and nurturing 
 the relationships we have with one another as well as with nature not only seem like a breath of 
 fresh air, they provide for one of the most compelling stories in gaming ever for much of the actual 
 quest. Unfortunately, Okami just can't keep it up. To go back to the Zelda comparison, more specifically 
 Twilight Princess, it's key to understanding that both of these games took me from fifty to sixty 
 hours to complete. Twenty hours into Okami I was absolutely floored and addicted with spectacular 
 story-telling and exciting gameplay. With Twilight Princess, while the story was good, the gameplay 
 felt far too similar with the first three dungeons. However, by the end of the game Twilight Princess 
 left a pang in my heart, while Okami became too far-fetched for it's own good. A lot can change 
 in a sixty-hour game and that's key to remember.
  
  The ending needed to be, in a word, better, or rather, there was the moment before the final area 
 of the game where Okami should have ended. There was so much drama, so much intensity and it led 
 to one of the greatest, most intense and creative dungeon crawls ever. It all climaxed in the most 
 exciting boss fight in the entire game, and that's where it should have ended. The actual ending 
 itself provided more story and fleshed out certain things, but it also led up to the lamest final 
 boss since BioShock's and a cheeseball moment ripped straight from Paper Mario: The Thousand Year 
 Door and you can see that while Okami provided an excellent adventure as a whole, it could have 
 been so much better.
  
  Okami is a bold and beautiful game. It's ambitions are grand and for the most part it succeeds 
 where most other games fail. A wonderful story filled with strange, unique characters all brimming 
 with charm and wit, and none of them seemingly as obvious to read as you'd think. For younger Zelda 
 fans Okami is a must-play. For those looking for excellent story-telling Okami is a must-play. 
 For those looking for a deep, touching, mesmerizing adventure Okami is a must-play. For those looking 
 for a fantastic game Okami is a must play. While some variety in combat would have been nice, an 
 ending that wasn't so far-fetched would have been a definite plus and of course, an awesome final 
 boss that isn't an exercise in repetition would have been awesome too, Okami still provides one 
 of the greatest gaming experiences of the past decade.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerguy7777
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Well this is a Must own wii game if you haven't played it
  then hurry up and play it! Its zeldaish except easier than zelda the reason it isnt popular is 
 advertising ya okami has 0 advertising
  
  You play as amaterasu the japanese god of sun along with a bite sized little guy called issun its 
 like an rpg and you gain praise when you do good things for people which u then use to increase 
 stats etc i don't wanna get into the story at all because i don't wanna ruin it for you actually 
 its because i cant remember but you travel the lands trying to regain your powers the end of amaterasu's 
 tail is a paintbrush which you use to attack foes with different ink attacks you kill bosses and 
 acquire there weapon which you can equip to make you stronger and stuff
  ya this review sucks but just go buy teh game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belwyrm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  I knew absolutely nothing about Okami until I read a friends blog. I'm very glad I read that blog 
 as this game turned out to be an extremely fun, gratifying game.
  
  The style is beautiful. It doesn't go for technical perfection, but instead astounds you with art. 
 Expressing the beauty of life has never been a goal in video games, but Okami pulls it off with 
 gusto.
  
  The music is solid. A good score that keeps you in the game. There is no voice acting, and your 
 main character never "says" anything, but it works out. 
  
  The comparisons to Zelda are inevitable, since the gameplay mechanics are very similar, however 
 there are a few key differences that let Okami stand out on it's own. Not the least of which being 
 the brush technique. This feature was made for the Wii's motion sensing controller. It immerses 
 you in the game and makes you feel more in command.
  
  I can't help but wish this game had been more popular. I think a lot of people (especially fans 
 of Zelda) would love this game. Well designed inovative masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwizZzChrizZz
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  Okami is one of the best games I haver ever played.
  Therefor I have no negative points.
  This game fulfills every ones high expectations on ratings, as it contians:
  amazing longlasting 
 gameplay ( I played over 50 hours.) , flaboyant and creative graphics, beautiful and japanese cultural 
 music and an amazing innovative story packed with delightful funny dialogues.
  
  If you liked Viewtiful Joe or Zelda: Twilight Princess, then this games is a MUST, I even think 
 it should be rewarded game of the year.
  
  I enjoyed every single feature in the game.
  these are just SOME of the wonderful features:
  You can use the wii remote as celestial brush 
 to CREATE attacks such as fire, thunder, blizzard and many more, a change by and building bridges 
 or effecting the weather, life by making flowers, trees and fields bloom or change the flow of 
 time through day or night.
  You will experience a beautiful japanese culture, which is conveyed through graphics (art and paintings) , 
 characters (shoguns, queens etc.) and languaege, story and religion, map and environment (cherry 
 blossom, emperor building etc) fantasy and myths (zodiac signs, water dragons etc) and obviously 
 through music.
  You'll enjoy the humoures and provocative dialogues as boobs and butts will be seen and mentioned.
 
  You'll love enemy and boss fights, as you okami amaterasu can fight with 15 different weapons 
 such divine disks, beads wich are long chains of elements and claives which are massive swords 
 and with creative magig such as inferno's, tornado's, thunderbolt's etc.
  These are just some point of the game which demonstrate it's innovative creativity and brilliance.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdgeJM
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  Okami is a beautiful game, that's something you can see from any trailer or gameplay footage you've 
 seen of the game, but you might not get the extent to which the game is beautiful, vanquishing 
 monsters leads to an explosion of colour, with shockwaves of lush plantlife expanding out over 
 the previously ruined landscape. This concept is similar to that found in The Legend Of Zelda: 
 Twilight Princess, but of course, Okami came first.
  
  Okami is a game perfectly suited to the Wii, requiring you to create shapes with the Wii remote 
 to perform certain tasks, for instance you can create bombs by holding the B trigger down and drawing 
 a bomb shape, you can create lilypads on water by holding B and drawing a circle on the water's 
 surface. I have to say that the combat in the game can be fiddly, requiring you to either draw 
 shapes with the Wii remote (which is easy) , or string together a combo by shaking the Wii remote, 
 the game doesn't always pick up the shakes, making it very difficult to string together combos 
 if you were fighting without using brush techniques.
  
  To be able to fully enjoy this game, it does help to have an appreciation for Japanese art styles, 
 as the game is entirely styled in this way, delicately but naturally, in some respects it's an 
 acquired taste, but in my mind I can't compute not falling in love with the game's art style.
 
  
  The game is full of cute little details, such as the main wolf character, Okami Ameratsu, leaving 
 a trail of flowers and plants as she runs on land, and a trail of lilypads if she is swimming. 
 Other details include if NPCs like you in the game, a love heart will appear over their head and 
 they will pet Ameratsu.... Awh.
  
  Throughout the game you are aiming to perform tasks for NPCs in an effort to collect praise, which 
 you can then use to extend your life bar, your ink meter etc. This is a lot more rewarding than 
 it sounds, I've got to the point in the game where if a landscape has been scarred by evil, I won't 
 leave the area until it's completely rid of evil, every tree, every patch of grass, everything.
 
  
  I cannot recommend this game enough, buy it and you will not regret it, the more people that buy 
 it, the more of a chance we have of an Okami 2. I paid full price for this game, and I would happily 
 pay more than full price, it's that worth it. This game will now be nestled neatly in my list of 
 favourite games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdcamp00
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Okami is a great game and using the wii remote to wield the celestial brush is both innovative 
 and immersive. 
  
  The game is nothing short of epic. I spent 70+ hours playing the game, and didn't even get 100% 
 of all items. The attention to detail and shear amount of content is almost mind boggling. The 
 game is like a living painting and is at times simply beautiful to look at. I found myself excited 
 to bloom trees and use the celestial brush. However, this game is not without its issues. I could 
 go on and on about the game's positive points, but most of those have already been laid out in 
 the GameSpot review. Instead, I will go through the issues that could be improved upon.
  
  Issun is your 'Celestial Envoy' and helps guide you through plot points. Issun is mildly entertaining 
 and has an overactive libido. Perhaps that is why is is incessantly BOUNCING up and down on Ammy's 
 head during ALL the cutscenes when he is talking. This is incredibly annoying. While I appreciate 
 the need for supporting characters like the fairy in Zelda, Issun actually distracts the player 
 from the game and becomes a point of frustration.
  
  Another point of frustration is collecting items. EVERY time you pick up an item that goes in your 
 inventory the game pauses while it lists the item and shows details. This actually distracts from 
 the flow of the game. The item and details should only be displayed either the 1st time you pick 
 up the item OR not at all. If I'm that interested in the details, then I can go in the inventory 
 and view them.
  
  In a game so innovative and epic I was shocked that it only has 5 real bosses and the most anti-climactic 
 end boss. The game appears to make up for its lack of bosses by having the player repeatedly beat 
 the same bosses over and over again, a-la Megaman, but worse. The first boss, a giant spider is 
 used over and over again in 'spider caverns' to retrieve treasures. There is some great variety 
 in the normal enemies, but the bosses are truly disappointing. Why do I have to beat Orochi 3x 
 with NO differentiation?
  
  The characters in Okami are NOT well developed at all and are primarily two dimensional. There 
 is very little character development and by the end of the game I had very little emotional connections 
 to any of the characters. The story is huge but there isn't much that really draws the player to 
 any of the Characters. None of them are especially likeable and the main character NEVER speaks. 
 
  
  As far as the entire story and game goes, the flow should have been greatly improved. The flow 
 feels pretty fractured. If you're going to create a linear game, there is something to be said 
 for having some structure and balance between story and fighting. At the same time, the game should 
 naturally ebb, flow, and build up anticipation for encounters. Games like Zelda and half-life do 
 a great job of this. I think Okami's issue has a lot to do with it's lack up build up to boss encounters 
 and unclear lines drawn between 'dungeons' and the overworld. At the same time, you are never really 
 rewarded for beating the bosses. Zelda does a great job of building users up to the boss encounters 
 and has a great flow in dungeons. Okami has a huge overworld, but the dungeons are small and underwhelming.
 
  
  Loading is another huge problem that distracts from the flow of the game significantly. The game 
 enters a load screen every time you enter a room in a village. We have come to expect more from 
 games. The game could have been greatly improved if it reduced the number of load screens. 
  
  Fighting could actually be a lot more fun if the game did a better job of introducing users 
 to some of the more advanced tactics. At the same time, it would be nice if the game helped the 
 user acquire demon fangs. The game is VERY ambiguous as to what finishing strokes you need to perform 
 to acquire demon fangs when you defeat an enemy.
  
  In the end, Okami is a fun, ambitious game. Ultimately, it feels like a less polished Zelda. I 
 think the game could have been greatly improved if it was reduced in length and size, and if the 
 game was polished up and the characters more developed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingtrewq
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the greatest games of all time. I fell so sad that the great company that 
 made it has shut down and i hope the people who made go on to make more great games. This is the 
 ultimate action adventure game. Its like Zelda but instead of items you get brush powers that you 
 draw unto the world. It actually way better than than most of the Zelda items. More Wii games should 
 implement something like it. It doesn't always work great but the things you can do with the brush 
 is so amazing you will be able to go past that. 
  The story is simple yet extraordinary, I thought the game was over 3 times and only once was right. 
 Each time i felt i had played a long, great game and was satisfied. So imagine my joy when i find 
 out theirs more. 
  The battles are fun make some good uses of the Wii controllers. there are 3 diverse weapon types 
 each as useful as the other depending on your style. There are so many varieties of monster many 
 who interact great with the brush techniques especially for the finishing blow.
  This is a great game and everyone should go by it. Any adventure fan will not regret it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: m1i6a
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  this game puts you as the role of the japanese god of the sun: Amaterasu. with your celestial brush 
 powers, divine instrument, and your traveling companion issun you must restore the world to what 
 it once was. by using you brush you must fight enemies and restore the plant and wildlife by blooming 
 gaurdian sapling and ridding the land of evil spirits which have broken free by the awakening of 
 the dreaded Orochi. to become stronger you have to earn praise by completing different tasks such 
 as, feeding animals helping villagers, and doing various other oddjobs around the land will make 
 the people and wildlife believe in the gods once again and earn praise points which are used for 
 becoming stonger. you will soon become addicted to this game with it's amazing artwork, treasures, 
 side quests, a sense of comedy, music, cast of carachters ranging from poor and helpless kids to 
 strong warriors who will be remembered throughout history and to shapeshifting members of the Oina 
 tribe. the bruch powers range from attacking enemies with a slash of the sword to harnessing the 
 power of lightning to strike down your foes. after you have completed the game you will unlock 
 art galleries packed with art, music from all of your favorite places, and the ability to start 
 a new game+ simply by loading the beaten file you will begin again with prettty much everything 
 you had. you will not have the final and ultimate weapons, (the 5th one of each) and certain brush 
 techniques. this game is fully based on japanese mythology and i gurantee that after you start 
 this game you won't want it to end and possibly aven begin researching japanese mythology to become 
 more familar with the various legends told throughout the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tylacwayzay
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 7: Definately not the most strongest aspect of the game. It may have a unique feel, 
 but it doesn't stray to far from being overtly repetitive. Most of the intense fighting will consist 
 of doing the same form of gameplay all throughout the game, which is merely painting over them 
 with special symbols and occaisionaly "biting" them and other generic attacks and terms. But, for 
 the first half of the game this type of gameplay is very entertaining and you keep learning new 
 techniques along the way. Not to mention that it has a slight RPG item feel to it.
  
  Graphics - 8: Colorful, flashy, vibrant are all words to describe this game's graphics. But, don't 
 be fooled with the hype, the graphics aren't as "amazing" as some say. Textures seem blurry and 
 muddy, some models are noticeably blocky, and a drop in framerate is common. Don't take this the 
 wrong way though. The level design is superb, and the particle effects and coloring are spectacular. 
 Just don't get excited for the graphics if you get this game, they haven't changed ONE bit from 
 the PS2 version, and the feel dated.
  
  Sound - 7: Cute and cultured sound make this game much more playable. The music can get aggravating 
 after a short while, but it has a charming feel to it that sets a cultured mood. The sound effects 
 are typical, consisting of recylced effects along with sometimes other low quality effects. The 
 voice acting. . . well, it doesn't exsist, the people just mumble random noises while there are 
 subtitles on the bottom. The highest point of the sound would indeed be the music.
  
  Value - 9: A very long game indeed. It can last up to a decent 40 hours. Not only that, but it 
 has numerous little sidequests too. Though somewhat unrewarding, these sidequests can keep you 
 busy. The only major problem is that once you beat it, you'll probably never want to play it again. 
 It's not that it isn't fun the second time, its just that it doesn't feel worth it.
  
  Tilt - 6: Anyone who reads this, Don't take this the wrong way. But the story is about as generic 
 as it gets. A hero on a quest to save the world from some evil villain. Though alot of games do 
 a great job of portraying this, Okami doesn't. Things are poorly explained and uncleverly told. 
 But, it isn't all bad, the concept is clever and unique and the heavy japanese culture in the game 
 makes the story seem a little more original. But, all in all, it could've been better.
  
  Side notes: I highly recommend the PS2 version (if you can find it that is) considering the Wii's 
 controls aren't very responsive at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Okami is one of the most beautfiul games ever created. Now that at least is somewhere to start 
 for this game.
  Okami has been overlooked by many which is a great shame considering its brilliance. Its sales 
 over in the UK have been quite criminal.
  However, sales aside, this game stands alone to be one of the best the Playstation 2 has to offer.
 
  
  Okami follows the tale of a god called Amerterasu who has taken the image of a former god who once 
 saved Japan from evil. Who travel Japan and rid the country of evil. You encounter a companion 
 called Issun who helps you along with the epic journey that you are about to take.
  
  The graphics are truly outstanding. Photos don't give justice to the beauty this game entails. 
 Even videos don't really give a true impression. The game has to be played to be believed. The 
 artisitic design is so overwhelming gorgeous that you can find beauty in pretty much anything in 
 this game. The trees, the plants, the sky, the enemies, the elements, e. t. c.
  
  The gameplay of the game is perhaps the weakest part of the game. Why I say this is because all 
 of the rest is so utterly fantastic. The gameplay is actually great fun but is still a lower part 
 to the beauty of the game. It is also a little easy. This is good as you'll never really get frustrated 
 or stuck in the game, but a shame that you can't really give your playing ability a stretch. And 
 the more you gain in the game with more abilities, you'll wish this to be the case.
  
  The sound is absolutely incredible with the most beautiful soundtrack that won a BAFTA for its 
 true beauty. The sound effects themselves are also great and they give the game great presence.
 
  
  The lifespan of the game is incredible. It is an incredibly long game and I'm sure it'll continue 
 way past the point you originaly thought it would end. Completely epic in its entirity.
  
  Overall Okami is by far one of the best games to come out for the Playstaiton 2 and one of the 
 most beautiful games ever created. The word beauty has been used lots in this review as beauty 
 is what it is.
  Okami = Beauty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedifro
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw Okami when it was released for the PS2, there were two things that came to mind. 
 One, the folks at Clover Studios had outdone themselves with another beautiful looking title. Viewtiful 
 Joe was an amazing looking game with an interesting old school beat em up gameplay. But with Okami, 
 I saw Clover take it to the next level. This game looked beautiful and it looked as if it could 
 stand tall as a new popular franchise for the system, because it was so similar to the Zelda series. 
 But unfortunately, PS2 owners were not interested in an adventure title, so it sold poorly. 
  
  The other thing I noticed was how awesome the brush controls would be if the game were brought 
 over to the Wii. The Wii remote would be perfect for the celestial brush. Not to mention that the 
 game was so similar to the Zelda series, that it would be a perfect fit on the Wii. 
  
  So needless to say, I was pumped to find out that Ready at Dawn Studios was going to transfer and 
 rework Okami for the Wii. The end result? A nearly perfect transition to the Wii console. 
  
  The story is set in the land of Nippon, where an ancient evil of the past has arisen and is 
 plaguing the land. You play as Amaterasu, a sun god in the form of wolf who is tasked to bring 
 down the evil and restore beauty to the land. The game has the usual elements: Helping villagers, 
 going through dungeons, battling monsters big and small, finding treasure, and the occasional side 
 quest/minigame. But the way you do all of these things is where the game is truly unique. 
  
  The main draw of the game comes from the gameplay mechanic, the Celestial brush. When I first 
 saw this mechanic on the PS2, I was stunned. Using a brush to manipulate your environment and move 
 forward in the story was such an amazing concept. Battling monsters could have been repetitive 
 if the game just relied on hack and slash. But with the Brush, fighting the forces of evil was 
 fluid and enjoyable. You can slash through them, draw bombs, set them on fire, and more with just 
 with a simple stroke of the brush. The boss battles in this game relied heavily on your use with 
 the Brush.
  
  The Brush was used more than just for combat, though. It was how you progressed in much of the 
 game. Some of the sidequests use the brush in many unique ways. 
  
  The games visuals are nothing short of stunning. I have played countless titles that rely on looking 
 as real as possible, but once in a while, it is good to play a title that strays from the beaten 
 path visually. The whole game looks as if it were hand drawn and it fits perfectly with the gameplay 
 mechanic. The character designs are a little weird at times, but the beautiful cutscenes make up 
 for it. 
  
  The only problem I really had with the game was the nunchuck motion controls. There are some moves 
 you learn in the game that require you to flick the nunchuck. The best words I can use to describe 
 this control is: touchy and nonresponsive. Luckily the moves that require this motion is not necessary 
 to be able to progress through the story. 
  
  So the question, including myself, many people have about this game is: How is the game compared 
 to Zelda series? In this gamer's humble opinion, it deserves to be up there in the ranks with the 
 venerable franchise. Sure, it does not match up part for part with the Zelda series, but Okami 
 does show Nintendo ways they could innovate their tried and true franchise, especially in elements 
 of story and gameplay. 
  
  The game was pretty lengthy, it took me about 50 hours to make it through the story. I know I could 
 have spent a lot longer gaining experience and finding all the treasure throughout the overworld. 
 
  
  This game is definitely one of the "gems" of my gaming collection. My definition of a gem is a 
 game that may not be the most popular or well known, but is a game that any self-respecting gamer 
 should pick up. 
  So if the message is not clear enough: Pick this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  The Good: Gorgeous graphics and art direction; music that sounds straight from Japan; the Celestial 
 Brush is unique, intuitive, and much improved with the Wiimote; an extremely long, fun campaign; 
 memorable characters; a huge world with tons of things to do; reason for playing the game again.
 
  
  The Bad: No voice acting; one or two controls are executed poorly; levels are a tad repetitive; 
 one or two glitches; minor loading and framerate issues.
  
  Okami arrived on PS2 to combat Zelda: Twilight Princess on Wii and Gamecube for the title of best 
 adventure in 2006. Because the use of the Celestial Brush with a control stick was rather slow 
 and annoying, Capcom finally brought Okami to Wii in 2008, and has produced the superior version 
 of the two.
  
  Okami's story revolves around a wolf goddess named Amaterasu (or Ammy for short) , who has been 
 reincarnated to protect the world of Nippon. As the sun goddess, she needs to bring life and color 
 to the world while facing demons covering the land.
  
  The legend of her previous incarnation, named Shiranui, tells of her sealing away the eight-headed 
 dragon Orochi. Amaterasu first goes out to face this dragon, before learning that there are many 
 other monsters of equal power plaguing the land, and that she must restore peace everywhere.
  
  The story itself is based on Japanese mythology, and, with a cast of many memorable characters, 
 ends up being incredibly powerful. Ammy has many cities and villages to protect, each with more 
 than one important character you won't quickly forget. She's aided by Issun, a Poncle that can 
 give her advice along the way.
  
  Elements like Issun make the game remind you of Zelda, and the developers have indeed said that 
 they were inspired by Nintendo's franchise. You'll also get weapon upgrades and use a battle system 
 reminiscent of some Zelda games.
  
  However, Okami doesn't feel like it's copying anyone. In fact, it's truly one-of-a-kind among video 
 games. Art direction is the first noticeable factor in this. Okami looks like a painting in motion, 
 and despite the limitations of a PS2 engine, remains beautiful today.
  
  The music to the game isn't always huge and loud, but it does sound like it's from Japan, and it 
 sounds really good all the way through. Okami definitely doesn't have a case of mistaken identity.
 
  
  The game itself, for me, took about forty hours to play through. That includes exploring, to an 
 extent, and getting stuck once or twice in-game. I found that difficulty not too bad, because it 
 doesn't usually frustrate you and makes it more rewarding. Again, this reminds one of Twilight 
 Princess, as its difficulty is similar.
  
  It's hard not to compare these two games, because both are strikingly similar. You're hemmed in 
 during battle in Okami, and Twilight Princess hems you in for Shadow Beast battles. Both even involve 
 playing as a wolf, massive levels, and a giant world. Neither game is truly superior, though, as 
 far as I'm concerned.
  
  The outside world of Okami is wonderful. It feels very alive, as you'll be helping plants grow, 
 feeding animals, and exploring every little area to accumulate praise. This is what gives Ammy 
 power, being a god, along with the different brush techniques she learns along the way. Praise 
 can be used to get new Solar Energy units (like hearts in Zelda) , more ink, a bigger wallet, or 
 more Astral Pouches, which can bring Ammy back to life.
  
  The dungeons are a lot of fun too. It's hard to keep track of how many there are, because they 
 tend to blend in with the rest of the game, and you might not even realize you're in one until 
 you face a boss. Still, I think there were around eight or nine levels total.
  
  Each of these gives you a brush technique, as you'd expect, and are all very different. They utilize 
 certain techniques often, but, again like Zelda, don't use some of them enough.
  
  Okami also has a platforming element that'll remind you more of Mario. You can double jump and 
 make Ammy fly forward, but Okami still has issues varying everything in the levels. You might find 
 yourself doing more or less the same thing over and over. It's never a big deal, more of just a 
 tiny flaw. Besides, it was mostly avoided by the developers, who seem to have seen it coming.
 
  
  That attention to detail is rampant in Okami, and wonderful to see as you explore. There are save 
 points in game, instead of being able to save off a menu, but the save points are common enough 
 that it's never an issue.
  
  There are load times between areas, but never enough to really get in the way. The framerate does 
 drop a little bit sometimes, but it doesn't affect your gaming. Unfortunately, I did hit two glitches 
 on my first play through. One actually froze the game, but I'd saved recently. You'll probably 
 save at every spot anyway, and if you do you won't lose too much data if this happens. The other 
 glitch made day look like night and vice versa, but when I saved and turned it off it didn't affect 
 me at all. None of these are huge problems, but the glitches, at least, should be noted.
  
  The controls in Okami are original and fantastic. Though I've never played the PS2 version I can 
 just imagine how much better it is using the Wiimote to paint in Okami. It seems like the game 
 should've been designed for the Wii, not any other platform. Combos in Okami have to actually be 
 timed, so you may think this is a controller flaw at first. After getting used to it though, which 
 won't take long, you'll be able to combat your enemies with no trouble.
  
  While jumping, using weapons and painting work well, there is one minor issue. And no, it's not 
 the issue you're expecting. If you paint the way you're supposed to, it works just about every 
 time. It's amazing.
  
  But there's an extra attack that doesn't work at all. It's not necessary to get it in the game, 
 but it's still bothersome. There's a dodge attack that's controlled with the nunchuk that never 
 goes the direction it's supposed to go. It works a tad better if you make exaggerated motions, 
 but Ammy rarely goes the way you want her to.
  
  That's another very minor flaw, but don't worry: all of the other controls are spectacular, and 
 you rarely even bother using that move.
  
  An issue that is a bit bigger that plagued both Okami and Twilight Princess is the lack of voice 
 acting. It's not terrible, unless you don't know how to read, but at some point here these adventure 
 games need to modernize, as most every game nowadays has voice acting. And because of the care 
 put into both, you know that voice acting would turn out extremely well.
  
  As you can see though, there are only tiny complaints to be had with Okami. The adventure itself 
 rarely dulls its edge, and that's saying something for how long it is. The game is paced pretty 
 well, there's plenty to do outside of the dungeons, and you almost feel the game is alive and breathing. 
 I can't stress that last one enough.
  
  It may not be flawless either, but Okami (which is the word for both 'god' and 'wolf' in Japanese, 
 if you were wondering) is a masterpiece. It stands proudly beside Twilight Princess, Wind Waker 
 and the legendary Ocarina of Time as one of the best adventures ever made.
  
  This game truly seems a timeless classic from the moment you play it. Rarely is this level of care 
 and beautiful artistry incorporated into this medium. And yes, Okami should be selling millions 
 of units the way Twilight Princess did. It's a must buy, and even though it's a port, it's one 
 of the best games on Wii, no question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  This game's visuals are really the best I've seen on the Wii. I mean Brawl looks good, but this 
 games looks even better. The beginning is kind of annoying because it gives you a story witch literally 
 is 20 minutes long. (depending on how fast you read but I'm a pretty fast reader so it'll take about 
 that long) . Anyway the beginning of the game isn't all that much fun because you get introduced 
 too soooo many things its not even funny. But when the adventure starts happening, like when you 
 help Sano (or whatever his name is) to cut down the big rock, thats when it really starts. **i 
 haven't played the game in a while so I forgot his name, sheesh. The boss battles are really cool, 
 and they really make you use your whole arsenal. You get 13 different paint techniques during the 
 game and each one is rather unique. You'll get to draw bomb's, lilly pads, circles to purify things, 
 and much more. Though the game looks rather lame on the box and at the start of the game, it really 
 isn't. You'll get into it really fast I'm sure and hey, it's almost as long as a Legend of Zelda 
 game, so it'll take you a while to beat it, unless your a no life gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Okami was a unique and lengthy PS2 game in 2006 and now it has finally arrived to Nintendo Wii, 
 better than ever.
  
  Story is loosely based on Japanese folklore, which means that it's a basic good versus evil plot, 
 but boy how it's been told! An evil being called Orochi was sealed away 100 years ago, but has 
 now been accidentally resurrected. Orochi swallowed everything into darkness and only Kamiki Village 
 spared from that terrible fate because of the wood sprite Sakuya, who inhabited a sacred tree. 
 Sakuya remembers an ancient covenant between men and a certain god, performs a reviving ritual 
 by drawing in the spirit of the ancient god Amaterasu and breathing that life essence to a statue 
 of Okami that stood in Kamiki Village. It's now up to this wolf-like god to save all life from 
 eternal darkness and in order to do that he needs to use his divine powers all the time. I must 
 also say that in the course of this game you'll experience many twists in the plot that you never 
 saw coming.
  
  As the story progresses often in an unpredictable path it's not always clear on what you should 
 be doing next and the mystical fairy tale world is not familiar to majority of western people. 
 For these reasons I recommend you to read the included manual before you start the game and use 
 a walkthrough in order to get through this 35 to 60 hour experience depending on how much time 
 you dedicate do to side missions and by just exploring the huge world of Nippon.
  
  Graphics are worthy of praise. They have a distinctive watercolor look in them, which is accomplished 
 by using cell-shading like in Zelda Wind Waker or Viewtiful Joe for example. Colors are used very 
 abundantly and everything is appropriately detailed, if somewhat simplified. Every image you see 
 in 16:9 widescreen is like a painting and all in all Okami is a beautiful sight to look at. Unfortunately 
 not everything is perfect though. Popping of textures appears frequently and at times the frame 
 rate takes a hit when there's lots of action on screen. Also there are far too much loading times, 
 but none of these issues are serious and you'll forgive them easily when comparing to accredits 
 of Okami.
  
  Soundtrack creates a Japanese mood in the game and it's unusually extensive: the official soundtrack, 
 which is sold commercially, consists of 5 CDs. For this reason music in Okami has quality written 
 all over it. Sound effects on the other hand are not as good, but luckily they are not repetitive 
 either. Especially a howl of Amaterasu should be more powerful. There's LOTS of text to read, since 
 there's no voice acting to speak of and your logbook includes much information as your quest progresses. 
 This multitude of text is not a problem, but you should be aware of it.
  
  Gameplay is generally a third person action game with some RPG elements. You gain new abilities 
 and weapons, but unlike Zelda, you don't need to do so much work in order to get them. Some of 
 them can even be bought from a local merchant, but most of the time all you need to do is to explore 
 the world of Nippon.
  
  The thing that makes Okami unique is Celestial Brush. When you press B the screen turns into a 
 nice piece of paper and you can draw in it by using the Wii Remote. If you do it right it will 
 affect the world and there are 13 different techniques to master. In the end you'll find yourself 
 using this Brush constantly so it's not just a simple gimmick, but a solid gameplay mechanic.
 
  
  Drawing can be a little tricky at first, since the game can be quite demanding on how you draw 
 a circle or a straight line. Practice makes perfect, but I still recommend you to press Z when 
 drawing a straight line: it makes things a lot easier.
  
  Combat is a combination of using Celestial Brush and Amaterasu's other abilities, which usually 
 means just swinging the Wii Remote when appropriate weapon is equipped. Enemies have weaknesses 
 and this usually means using the right brush technique at the right time.
  
  Boss fights are few and far between (6 of them in all) , but they are all big and pattern based. 
 They are not so much challenging as they are fun, so I have nothing to complain about that.
  
  Puzzles are varied and interesting, but most of the time way too easy. This fact won't take 
 the fun out of doing them though. If you have any previous experience in Zelda games I can assure 
 that you will not any trouble in solving puzzles in Okami.
  
  Okami is not a hard game: I managed to play through the entire 40 hour experience without seeing 
 game over screen even once. But just like Zelda this game is not about challenge or gaining something 
 big when finishing it: exploring the world and enjoying your acquired abilities is all the reward 
 you need. Journey is more important than the actual goal.
  
  After finishing the game once you can enter into a second quest (just like in a Zelda game) , which 
 means that you can keep most of your items and abilities and get to choose Amaterasu's physical 
 appearance in a handful of choices. This also unlocks a movie and soundtrack menus, which are both 
 nice feature. All this adds some replay value so it may be that you want to spend another 40 hours 
 in the mystical world of Nippon.
  
  Outside the main story mode there's nothing else to do, since there are no separate minigames or 
 multiplayer included. In my opinion this is not a problem in any way: it's just a thing worth mentioning.
 
  
  If you missed this Zelda-inspired masterpiece on PS2 then this is a must-buy for anyone who owns 
 a Wii. If you already played it on PS2 then this is your chance to take a great journey again, 
 better than ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  People that say video games are trash have clearly never come across a game like Okami. Developed 
 by Clover Studios Viewtiful Joe fame, Okami is a work of genius. It brilliantly blends gameplay 
 and visual design into what could only be called a work of art. And at the same time, it remains 
 a wonderfully original and surprisingly accessible adventure title. 
  
  Okami is one of the games of our generation that will be remembered ten years from now as a groundbreaking 
 title that really revolutionized what we think of as a game. Okami melds original gameplay with 
 artistic style and the end result is something unforgettable. It's a game that's fun and easy for 
 anyone to get into, and as a result should not be missed by any gamer out there. 
  
  As an adventure game, Okami succeeds in so many areas and ultimately robs such games as Twilight 
 Princess from their position on top of a pedestal. It's an unassuming game where you'll take control 
 of a goddess-turned-wolf and attempt to save Nippon ("Japan") from an encroaching evil. It's your 
 typically epic plot but at the same time, Okami manages to offer up a fresher take on what we have 
 come to expect from games like Zelda. Okami deftly deals with the topic of humor in video games 
 in a surprisingly subtle way, and often you won't even realize just how funny this game is. 
  
  Funny it may be, but "epic" is the best word to describe Okami. Not just in terms of plot: 
 everything about this game makes it feel like a full-blown, all-stops-pulled quest and it manages 
 to completely immerse the player in the beautiful world of Nippon. From the charming, atmospheric 
 music to the massive world that you'll be exploring, everything feels real. That's an admirable 
 accomplishment, particularly in an era when games are all about putting you in the role of the 
 main character. Okami succeeds brilliantly at that, and this immersion is a large part of what 
 makes the title so memorable. 
  
  As a game, Okami is equally admirable -- after all, two years after it was released on the PS2, 
 it's now on the Wii and as good as ever. The gameplay has held up wonderfully and as long as you 
 didn't play Okami on the PS2, this game promises to be one of the most original adventures on the 
 Wii. The biggest draw of this title is a tool called the Celestial Brush, which lets Amaterasu 
 (the wolf and main character -- also incidentally the Japanese sun god) manipulate the environment 
 and solve a plethora of cleverly designed puzzles. 
  
  But what makes Okami such an enduring work of genius is the fantastic art direction. Okami deals 
 with graphics in a way that few games have done before: it's not about polygon count or pixels. 
 Rather, it's about the style a game takes on and how well that style can be blended with the rest 
 of the game. Okami is one of those rare gems in which the artful management is combined effortlessly 
 with the gameplay mechanic and really becomes part of the game. In so many different little ways, 
 the game shows the player just how much a part art is of Okami. Battles take place on pieces of 
 parchment. When you first encounter an enemy, you see a colored sketch of them before a battle. 
 Bottles of ink for drawing is a potential upgrade. And the Celestial Brush is used for painting 
 right onto the gameplay field -- certainly one of the most unique puzzle-solving elements gamers 
 have seen in quite a while. 
  
  Okami, simply put, is a game that everybody needs to play. And while it's an unforgettable game 
 experience thanks to the combination of art and gameplay, part of what makes Okami such a must-have 
 is the fact that it's such an accessible title. Okami is the game for all those people out there 
 that wanted to love Zelda but found it too hard, repetitive, or tedious. It's for people who want 
 to play adventure games, who want to get caught up in the epic sensation of a large-scale quest, 
 but don't want to deal with convoluted dungeons or counter-intuitive, over-the-top puzzles. Okami 
 invites everybody to play, have fun, and revel in the originality and beauty of the game. 
  
  Okami is full of both puzzle-solving and combat, but they're both handled in a way that is 
 easy to get a grip of. Combat is unique in that you're allowed to do what you want: you'll acquire 
 quite a variety of weapons and are encouraged to put them to use as primary and secondary weapons 
 and work out a duo that works best for you. Puzzles can be fairly challenging, but they never reach 
 the level of obscurity that many adventure games resort to. Some logical thinking and a touch of 
 cleverness can get you unstuck no matter what problem you're dealing with. Veterans of adventure 
 titles will appreciate what new content Okami brings to the table, while at the same time this 
 is a game that could be enjoyed and appreciated by a child. 
  
  Like many truly great games, there's so much to love in Okami just by experiencing it. Checking 
 out screenshots or watching gameplay movies is not enough; there's nothing quite like jumping from 
 island to island in a small, beautiful pond, overshadowed by lush, beautiful foliage. Or watching 
 the sun slowly set atop one of the game's beautifully drawn distant mountains. This is the game's 
 art style at work, and this is where it's most appreciated: not in the epic boss battles or originally 
 designed enemies, but in the everyday passage of time that occurs in the game and how it effects 
 your surroundings. 
  
  And grand as it is, Okami has none of the intimidation that many players (in some ways, myself 
 included) feel when embarking on a challenging adventure game. It may not be challenging, though 
 it's certainly no cakewalk, but above all it remains fun. Many games, in their task to deliver 
 the player an epic, challenging experience, accidentally factor fun out of the equation. But fortunately, 
 Clover kept that genuine, pure, and unadultered sense while at the same time giving us an adventure 
 game that even the most hardcore should enjoy. 
  
  Few games achieve the perfect balance that Okami nails. Accessible yet not dumbed-down. Beautiful 
 but with an equal focus on quality gameplay. A masterful story mixed with a unique brand of humor. 
 In so many ways, Okami is incredibly impressive. And while it does have a few minor shortcomings 
 (control of the Celestial Brush isn't always perfect with the Wii; some parts of the game feel 
 a bit repetitive or fetch-quest-y) , they're ultimately problems that are easy to overlook. Why? 
 Because at the end of the day, you're not going to remember the battle mechanic or the stat upgrades 
 or even some of the very loveable supporting characters. When you walk away from Okami, there are 
 different things that will stay with you: the atmosphere. The immersion. The sense of discovery 
 as you enter a dark cavern or ancient ruin. It's the experience, not just the game itself, that 
 ensures Okami "classic" status years from now. 
  
  Okami is a game that everybody can play and nobody should miss.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: catboxcandy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  These days all you see are shooters: COD4, Halo, Battlefield, Brothers In Arms... doesn't it get 
 boring. Okami offers a completely new experience. First off video games are suppose to get you 
 away from the real world, in Okami, the use vivid colors, and awesome cell-shading, instead of 
 dark sharp graphics and it looks great. But graphics don't make a game. Okami also introduces something 
 new, Celestial Brush Techniques. Basically you draw with the wii-mote and it attacks or creates: 
 such as a straight line cutting enemies up, a circle and line creating a bomb, and a swirl to create 
 wind, just to name a few. The way you get the 13 techniques is really neat too: you fill in the 
 missing stars of constellations. The Combat itself is top-notch. Swing the wii-mote to attack, 
 but it also takes precision and timing to pull off some stellar combos. The music is great too, 
 anywhere bouncy and friendly, to nice and peaceful, to dark and pumping, providing the game a Japanese 
 feel that we Americans truly need. Okami is not only fun, but it's quite long and the story-line 
 really sucks you in, compelling you to see what happens next. But wait, there's more. The game also 
 happens to be hilarious, from perverted bugs, to squeaking characters, to fruity foes. Although 
 this game is great it is way to easy and it kinda holds your hand through, having your companion 
 telling you what to do. Some of the boss battles don't stand out as much as the others, and the 
 constant flicking of your wrist hurts after a while. Those minor flaws can be overlooked, for overall, 
 Okami is one of the best and most overlooked games of this time. It's nice to see something new. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bopie64
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  I loved this game, and I feel like it has amazing replay value. When I played Okami, I didn't know 
 what to expect. It was worth every single 5 cntimos, however because it had this amazing artistic 
 appeal which I love. I also love Japanese folklore, which it is full of. This game does not appeal 
 to everyone, but I am still completely addicted to it. It was the most creative game I have ever 
 played. I recommend it for anyone who is artistic, although sometimes it doesn't let you draw things 
 in a way lefties would draw it, so you have to use your left hand to draw it in a right handed 
 way, which is kind of odd. The story is amazing, though and keeps progressing at a great pace with 
 simple but creative puzzles that involve your celestial brush. I love this game and will play it 
 for a long time. One of the greatest and most creative games of all time. Also the graphics look 
 awesome. It looks like someone painted it so beautifully and made it look so distinct. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadlazor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  The game is just breath taking from almost the minute it was put into my wii. The game doesnt look 
 like most of the games its a better cell shading design and the game itself is very artisitic which 
 is unique. You play the role of the sun king bringing life back to the world after a VERY EVIL 
 demon conquers the world. You battle enemies, learn new tricks for your celestrial brush, make 
 friends, find treasure and cause mischeif. The celestrial brush is really neat because you can 
 build bridges attack bad guys or good guys fix wheels make the sun ALOT of stuff can be done. Ive 
 only just started the game but so far nothing has disappointed me with the game. If you arn't looking 
 for a flashy realistic game (chances are thats not what your into if you have a wii (good choice) ) 
 then you will most likly enjoy this game as much as your other favorite Wii titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  Okami.
  Originally came out for the PS2 and was amazing sadly a lot of people didn't get a chance to play 
 like myself so I rented it and played it like crazy for the fact that I couldn't stop this one 
 of a kind adventure.
  
  The story seems like something straight out of Japanese folk lore. The story speaks of a legendary 
 hero and a wolf god who slay a 8 headed dragon. The wolfs name is Amatarasu. You play as said wolf, 
 the wolf has powers of 13 magical brush techniques. That is only barley scratching the surface 
 of the story there but, I don't want to go on a complete rant about it. The story has many plot 
 twist that seem to do a lot for it. I would say if you tried to do everything or mostly everything 
 the game should take around 40 hours to complete a worthy length.
  
  Gameplay- Smooth virtually no lag what so ever. Since you are playing as the wolf I know what your 
 thinking. No you don't bite all of your enemies, since you have magical powers you use your brush 
 to attack enemies or the weapon that is on your (wolf's) back. When you first start you have no 
 brushes but you will claim all 13 and many different weapons, that are called Divine Instruments, 
 as your journey progresses. The controls have virtually no flaws. Swing the wiimote for basic attacking. 
 Press B to bring up your brush screen to cast one of your brush skills. A button to jump and C 
 button to dig in the ground. Z button is to interact with people and other things. The only problem 
 with the gameplay is SOME of the brush skills some require a little practice and you probably wont 
 always nail them the first time. Enemies aren't roaming around in this adventure. They are in these 
 floating to what look like giant Japanese wall scrolls and when you touch them it makes a battlefield 
 where monsters appear. Boss battles are Zelda quality, meaning that you don't just run up and attack 
 you have to do something first to lower there defenses then attack. At first (like all games) you 
 will think the bosses are a joke. Until later in the game.
  
  Sound- That's another problem well not really a problem but, it could be that there isn't voice 
 acting but, its kinda like Star Fox or Sims it sounds like a language but at the same time it sound 
 like gibberish. If you can get past that the game has an amazing sound track that sound like ancient 
 Japanese music using classical instruments.
  
  Graphics- What can I say? They are amazing. Some people will say the graphics look "old" or "bad" 
 but no it is suppose to look like a Japanese watercolor painting. The environmental effects are 
 also a strong point of the game.
  
  If you love adventure games or Zelda you owe it to yourself to buy this game or if you want to 
 try something new. Okami is a game that wont disappoint and will keep you interested just to see 
 how the story ends.
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uidin
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Finally. Okami for the Wii. I had seen a bit of this game back when it arrived at the PS2, but 
 being a person that more or less dislike Playstation, I did not want to know too much about the 
 game. If I did, I would most likely needed a PS2 just for this game.
  But now it is here, and I knew I had to have it. I knew precious little about the game. I knew 
 you played a wolf, which also happened to be the sun god. I also knew you could use the "Celestial 
 Brush" to paint, and I knew it had interesting graphics. So I buy it, I put it on, and boy was 
 I in for a ride.
  
  From the very start, with the traditional Japanese art in the intro, I was hooked. In the beginning 
 of the game, I did think it would be a slow game, with a lot of dialogue and cutscenes, 'cause 
 it did take I while before you could really... well, move. But I soon learned that the game was 
 not slow in any way.
  
  You play Amaterasu, the Sun God (goddess, but in the game she is genderless) , which has taken the 
 form of a white wolf. Right away you meet up with a strange little fellow called Issun. Which is 
 small in the basic sense of the word, as he is mistaken for a bug several times. Your quest is 
 to vanquish the eight-headed serpent demon called Orochi. which has covered the land in darkness. 
 To do this you will have to rejuvenate the guardian saplings spread about. Sounds easy? Well, it 
 isn't that hard. But it sure is fun.
  
  You see, you have a powerful tool at your disposal. The Celestial Brush. With this, you pause the 
 game, and use the very game world as your canvas. As you progress through the game, you learn new 
 techniques you can use. It doesn't take long before you can slice things in half, make bombs out 
 of thin air, make the sun appear in the sky and make living things grow. All of the techniques 
 have specific uses important for your quest, but some can also be used more for fun. Like the rejuvenation 
 technique, which you need for those saplings, can also simply be used to make plants appear. Or 
 grow threes which lasts for a few seconds. It is really fun. And while some things are a bit hard 
 to get right in the beginning, or even at the end (circles can be a pain) , the motion controls 
 usually work well. They are worse in combat actually.
  
  Which is pretty easy. Shake the wii-mote, and you attack. If you wear a deflector, you hit once. 
 To use combos, you need to time the next shake. This is where I have had some problems, since my 
 frantic shaking often doesn't register. But using rosary beads is another story. You just need 
 to shake once, latch the beads onto an enemy, then shake shake shake! Yes, it might seem too easy, 
 but throw in a lot of moves you can do, plenty of weird enemies and lots of brush techniques... 
 believe me, combat is fun.
  
  And for the graphics... beautiful. Simply beautiful. The colorful waterpaint-look is gorgeous, 
 and I really love it. There are some few graphical problems here and there, but they are so few 
 it doesn't matter. Some of the graphics will leave you just sitting there. Like the first time 
 you rejuvenate an area. You see, before you do that, the area will be mostly a Cursed Zone. A bleak 
 desert of red, black and grey. But when you liven up the guardian sapling... true beauty in a video 
 game. Seriously. I am playing through the game a second time now, skipping every dialogue and video, 
 except those. It is great to watch.
  
  Even though this is a traditional adventure game ala Legend of Zelda, you can level up a few things, 
 giving it a bit of an RPG touch. Your healthbar, number of inkpots, extra life slots and purse 
 can all be upgraded as long as you have enough praise. Which you receive by doing good deeds. Feed 
 animals, dig up four-leaf clovers and rejuvenating them etc all give you praise.
  
  Storywise this game is far above most games these days. Rooted deeply in japanese folklore, you 
 get a lot of story for your money. There are always new twists, always new things to take in. And 
 when you think you have beaten the game, you learn that you are really not even halfway there. 
 In addition to that, you have a lot of optional things to do, sidequests, things to search for, 
 and just places to explore. I spent 34 hours beating the game the first time. About 2 of those 
 are pure exploring. And I still have heaps of things to find and do.
  
  So it is a good thing the game comes with something most adventure games should have. A "game+ 
 mode". That is, once you have beaten it, you can start over. Just with your character as she was 
 at the end of the game. You still need to get all the quest related items, and some of the more 
 powerful items, as most of your moves. So you cannot doublejump, use the best weapon in the game, 
 or use any of your celestial brush-techniques right away. But everything else is intact.
  
  Even the music is great. The first time I hear the Shinsu Field song, I knew I would love this 
 game more and more.
  
  You have to look long for a game like this. And I am pretty sure there won't be one for many years. 
 Everything from the graphics to the story is superb, making this one of the best experiences I 
 have had on my Wii, and it even is one of my best gaming experiences ever. So if you haven't already 
 done so, buy this game. It is the least you can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theguardian551
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  Okami is amazing. There is no doubt about it. If your sat here reading this review and havn't bought 
 the game then get off your fat arse and go to the nearest game shop. Don't listen to the few percent 
 that are saying that this game is awful. They are clinically insane. They're the ones who are bumming 
 Halo 3 and going to Mars on it (read Halo 3 review) . 
  
  Anyway, on to the important stuff. This game looks awesome, sounds awesome and has the odd sexual 
 innuendos which is a laugh. The only thing stopping this game from getting a 10 is the tempermental 
 Wii Remote. You shake the remote to attack like Liquid Snake has possessed your wrist insted of 
 your arm, and nothing happens! Other than that the controls are perfect.
  
  Finally, be prepared for one hell of a long game. 10 hours in you will think you have got to the 
 end boss but you're not even half way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boratdacaveman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  I just got the game and I am already addicted to it. It is very alike to Zelda: Twilight Princess, 
 so it is highly recommend to anyone who liked that game. There is lots of good things and very 
 few of bad stuff.
  
  Game-play: 10 Very fun, easy to follow story mode will keep you going! I rarely got stuck, not 
 knowing what to do. You have a sort of a friend who tells what to do throughout the story. There 
 is also a journal to remind what to do if you forgot what you are supposed to do.
  
  Graphics: 8.0 It is good enough, but I believe they could do better on graphics. I see that they 
 want to make graphics unique, but I think people needs more details, like adding mouth! 
  
  Controls: 9.0 Sometimes it is hard to do the brush, sometimes it doesn't understand my command. 
 Sometimes I took some damages because my brush failed to obey me. It is also very fun to use brush 
 when it understands your command!
  
  This is very great game for anyone who likes role playing games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMario_46
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  The Good: Beautiful artistic and sound design - Great story  Long adventure with lots of tasks 
 to do  Fantastic gameplay 
  
  The Bad: Minor graphical and gameplay flaws  It ends
  
  ______________
  
  
  Of the many ports that have been released on the wii, none has been so 
 awaited like Okami. This game first appeared on the Ps2 back in 2006 and as great as it was it 
 didn't sell very well, this time the game gets a second chance on the Wii and it should definitely 
 be played by anyone who's into adventure games or anyone who's looking for a breathtaking experience, 
 because that's what you'll get from playing this masterpiece. 
  
  First thing you'll notice about Okami is the magnificent presentation, the colourful menu that 
 looks like a Japanese painting, soon you'll notice that the whole game has that unique look that 
 makes it so special, a watercolor painting right there on your tv, there are few words that can 
 describe the presentation of the game.
  
  Okami is heavily influenced by japanese folklore not only in it's beautiful visuals but also in 
 the story. Here you'll take control of Amateratsu, a sun god who is reborn as a white wolf and 
 has to stop an evil eight-headed monster called Orochi, who has poisoned the magnificent land of 
 Nippon. It's pretty straightforward, but somehow it can be very involving with all the subplots 
 and funny, unique and charming characters such as Susano and your little green companion called 
 Issun, who works kinda like Midna did in Twilight Princess; Amateratsu (or Ammy as Issun calls 
 her) is a pretty good leading character as well. There's a lot of dialogue here, and as the characters 
 don't speak you'll be doing quite a lot of reading, which is fine because the dialogue can be funny 
 and sad and it's not frustratingly long like it was the case in Super Paper Mario. 
  
  Gameplay-wise Okami takes a few cues from The Legend Of Zelda games but it's very far from being 
 a rip-off. The basic movement controls are pretty much the same as the wolf segments of Twilight 
 Princess, except that Ammy is faster and more agile, and if you're used to play the third person 
 adventure games on the wii you may get confused when you realize there's not a pointer, but that's 
 not a big deal. Just like Link, Ammy will find herself traveling in a huge, vast and colourful 
 world full of different towns, sidetasks and minigames as well as temples. 
  
  Spread all over the land are some kind of floating green scrolls if you touch those you'll engage 
 in battle, to fight you only have to shake the wii remote; this works great, especially if you 
 have the beads as main weapon, the reflectors are a bit annoying and hard to get used to as first 
 but you'll get the hang of it quickly. Battles end really fast because of the great controls and 
 also because the enemies are fairly easy, after you're done with a group of enemies you're awarded 
 with bonuses depending on the time it took and the amount of damage you've inflicted. Boss fights 
 are also easy, the huge bosses don't give you much of a hard time, they're pretty straightforward, 
 much like Zelda you only have to use your newly acquired technique to hit it's weak spot and repeat 
 many times. 
  
  But this wouldn't be a proper adventure game without some clever puzzles and Okami has many of 
 those. They're cleverly done and some of them will make you spend an hour searching only to realize 
 the solution was right in your face the entire time, pretty much like it happens in the Zelda games. 
 There are also some RPG elements in the gameplay, such as the ability to increase your stats, energy 
 and ink. You can also get items that are very useful in battle like the exorcisms slips that can 
 damage nearby enemies and new fighting techniques from a weird martial arts master. 
  
  Even when Okami has so many obvious things in common with the Zelda series, it still feels original, 
 this is because of the game's main and most unusual item: the celestial brush. With this brush 
 you can blow things up, slice enemies, rejuvenate the land and even control elements like wind, 
 fire and water, for example to make night into day you only have to draw a circle in the sky, that 
 way the sun will come out. To use the brush you only have to press and hold the B button and use 
 the Wiimote to draw the desired shape, it works wonderfully and it's probably the best thing about 
 the game because it makes it unique. The brush can also be used to solve the different puzzles 
 and the different brush techniques are given to you by the animal gods, which also happen to be 
 some of the funniest characters in the game. 
  
  Okami's visual design is simply unmatched by any other game, with the exception of maybe The Legend 
 of Zelda: The Wind Waker, but the art styles are different, so they can't really be compared. Okami 
 looks like a japanese painting come to life, with all the different colors that cover the land. 
 Everything about it looks amazing, the land is colourful, except for the cursed zones that look 
 grey and creepy which makes it extremely atmospheric. The characters are wonderfully done and very 
 well animated and even the smallest visual effects are amazing like the small trails of grass and 
 flowers Amateratsu leaves as she runs. Other effects are breathtaking, like when you restore a 
 near death sapling with your brush, when it revives green meadows cover the landscape, flowers 
 bloom and the vitality returns to the land. It's probably the best effect of the whole game. 
 
  
  The sound design is just as great as everything else about the game, the original music is wonderful, 
 it's filled with classic japanese instrumentation and each part of the land has it's own song. 
 The sound effects are just as amazing and well done and while the characters don't really speak 
 they are not less memorable or charming because of this. All in all the sound design is on par 
 with every other part of the game. 
  
  Okami is such an amazing experience from start to finish that you'll have a hard time forgetting 
 it. Just everything about it is amazing, from the gorgeous visual style, to the well made gameplay 
 and sound, in fact it's so good that it'll make you forget any minor flaws it has like the few 
 combat issues, and it's worth the more than 30 hours it takes to beat, and believe me you'll comeback 
 for more. 
  
  If for some reason you missed this game back in 2006, this is your new chance to play this masterpiece, 
 and it's definitely the best port on the Wii and one of the best on the system so far. So play 
 Okami and prove for yourself why this is one of the best games of our time. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Okami is a superb title that has been revitalized for the Nintendo Wii. I had always had an interest 
 in this title since rumblings of it on the PS2. With its release on the Nintendo Wii I was finally 
 able to waggle my arms with it. That seems to be every critics' tag-line for the Wii lately. Thankfully, 
 I haven't really done much waggling as they call it, but instead having quite a bit of fun. Okami's 
 brush mechanic provides a unique interface from which to integrate one's self into a beautiful 
 and majestic universe. While the game is a display of beauty and innovation it is also accompanied 
 by some dulling sexual innuendos. Quite frankly, these innuendos may prove amusing to some, but 
 not to me. It taints what is otherwise a true work of art. Indeed, I have for the most part found 
 Issun (who acts much in the same way as the fairy Navi did in Legend of Zelda: Ocarino of Time 
 to Link) annoying and at worse unhelpful. 
  
  This criticism is only minor though. Despite some consistency issues with getting the proper brush 
 techniques to work the game is overall a joy to play and worth every penny. A permanent addition 
 to anyone's Wii collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelda_adict
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  Okami is just a wonderful uplifting game, but the main problem is that it is over shadowed by other 
 games like call of duty, halo and other useless games like that. Don't get me wrong, I love COD 
 and halo, but once in a while, it's fun to experience some thing like okami
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  breath-taking. That is all I can say. The first time I saw screen grabs, I was 
 kind of turned off, but this game is a game in which you sometimes just stop playing to appreciate 
 the surroundings and the graphics, which are more art than graphics. The colours are vibrant and 
 bright, and this game shows you the wonders nature has given us.
  
  sound: 10/10
  the ambient sounds in this game add to the feeling. The voices though are similar to voices in 
 zelda or banjo, in which it is not words but weird sounds you here, but that does not bother me.
 
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  This game has a unique game play.
  
  First of all, you do not attack monsters with a sword or a gun, but rather a "mirror" ,which is 
 Ammy main weapon, and a paint brush.
  
  Second of all, there are no other games in which you go around your continent saving feeding animals 
 and returning trees to there state of bloom
  
  last off all, your a female wolf who likes other females.
  
  in the end, this is a must buy 
 for anyone, so if you missed the ps2 version, this your second chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Clover Studios died a premature death. The famed developer behind the critically-acclaimed Viewtiful 
 Joe series was a group of visionaries and masters of creating unique and action-packed worlds, 
 filled with unforgettable characters and clever gameplay design. For those who played Viewtiful 
 Joe, its sequel, or the Playstation 2 wonder Okami, you'll understand what I'm talking about. Sadly, 
 none of those games produced a tremendous income for the developer, leaving the company for disbandment. 
 Many thought that Okami would be lost and forgotten into obscurity and cult-following. On the contrary; 
 fans begged for the calligraphy-based, Zelda-esque adventure to be re-released on Wii, where the 
 painting aesthetic could grow and revitalize. Apparently, newly-found developing house Ready at 
 Dawn was listening, and took up the challenge of creating the famed Okami for Wii. Is the Wii version 
 of Okami the great rebirth of the wolf goddess Amaterasu?
  
  Okami takes place in the wondrous and beautiful world of Nippon, a region of Japan where the world 
 is bathed in color. The region follows a legend of a warrior named Nagi and a white wolf named 
 Shiranui, two heroes who defeated the great evil beast, Orochi, and prevented the world from being 
 covered in darkness. One hundred years later, the world is once again threatened by a creeping 
 darkness. Called down from the heavens by the wood sprite Sakuya, the motherly deity Amaterasu 
 (who takes the form of a white wolf, similar to Shiranui) is decidedly chosen to heal the world 
 and banish the darkness once more. Amaterasu must purify the world by seeking out the Guardian 
 Saplings, giant trees that protect the world's color. Along the way, Amaterasu is led along by 
 the tiny artist Issun, and meets a plethora of characters, some who have more significance to the 
 legend than expected. Although the story can feel a bit too by-the-book at times, it's excellent 
 that the game manages to add in such clever characters to such brilliant and inventive storytelling. 
 Watching the story unfold is beyond simple fairy tale, instead producing an epic narrative that 
 will keep players hooked.
  
  Presenting such a story is no easy task. Creating a world that could emulate the design of feudal 
 Japan is once thing, but the developers took the world of Okami one step further. While the now-disbanded 
 Clover Studios' former cel-shaded wonder Viewtiful Joe showed off a world that could mimic a comic 
 book's appearance, Okami is much different. Instead, Okami presents itself like an ancient Japanese 
 piece of art. The beautiful, seemingly hand-drawn aesthetic is so unique and is absolutely stunning. 
 Characters are whimsically designed, Japanese emotion effects and all, magnifying their charm and 
 creativity. There are many, many moments in Okami when the game manages to show off its graphics 
 and you'll no doubt be in awe at how great the game looks. To boot, the current developers Ready 
 at Dawn made the Wii version of Okami 480p and widescreen compatible, making the world of Okami 
 even better looking. Okami doesn't pride itself on technical achievements and instead parallels 
 the industry by producing an artistic and vibrant world. Graphically, there are few games that 
 surpass Okami when it comes to creating a wondrous world to explore.
  
  Amaterasu's method of searching out the Guardian Saplings and purifying the world lies in the Celestial 
 Brush, a mystical paintbrush that lets Amaterasu alter the environment. The abilities can range 
 from drawing a circle in the sky to make the sun rise, slash across an enemy as an attack, or even 
 draw a bomb to break through a wall. This adds a unique degree to solving puzzles. You need daytime? 
 Draw the sun. Want to cross a bridge? Draw one. The abilities are all performed by Amaterasu; no 
 need to equip these powers. To earn these abilities, Amaterasu must find constellations that let 
 her communicate with other deities. The deities command different powers and it can be really fun 
 drawing and performing these abilities.
  
  Combat follows an interesting set of rules. Upon encountering a Demon Scroll in different areas, 
 Amaterasu is thrown into battle against a slew of disturbing demons. Facing down some strange Japanese 
 folklore demons can be fun. Amaterasu can attack using either by simple tackles and bites, use 
 equipment to defend against specific attacks, or use the Celestial Brush to slash, bomb, or earn 
 treasure. At the end of each battle, you're graded by how fast you defeated the demons and how 
 much damage you took. The grade lets you earn more treasure and pick-ups. Although I didn't find 
 the combat to reach the caliber of Zelda, Okami performs battle well by introducing new techniques 
 frequently and without hassle. It's not flawless, but it is beautifully rendered and ingeniously 
 performed.
  
  But you'll need to stay sharp; Amaterasu must travel across Nippon, exploring dungeons, learning 
 new abilities, and perform many, many side-quests. There are a slew of things to do in Nippon, 
 but a major one is Praise. By performing good-hearted tasks like feeding animals or revitalizing 
 sakura blossoms, Amaterasu can earn Praise, which can be spent on increased Solar Energy health, 
 ink, or even the size of your currency purse. Earning praise is just one of the many side-quests 
 that can be accomplished. Searching for treasure, fishing, upgrading your skills and learning new 
 skills are just a few of the things available while exploring the world of Okami. If you loved 
 Zelda and its many side-quests, Okami at its 30+ hours of gameplay will have you hooked instantly. 
 It's that cool.
  
  Being that this is a port from the PS2 to the Wii, it is to be expected that the developers at 
 Ready at Dawn mix in some Wii controls to spice up the port. Attacking and tackling can be performed 
 by swinging the Wii Remote rhythmically, and holding the B-trigger brings up the Celestial Brush, 
 with drawing occurring by moving the Wii Remote. This seems like a no-brainer; using the Wii Remote 
 to gesture writing with a calligraphy brush seems like the perfect idea for Okami's concept. Is 
 it really? Well, yes and no. There are times when drawing with the Wii Remote works brilliantly. 
 One example is drawing circles, which surpasses the PS2 controls in every way. On the other hand, 
 there are also times when the drawing aspect can be very frustrating. This mostly occurs when drawing 
 straight lines; the Power Slash technique is Amaterasu's cutting attack. It only works with a straight, 
 quickly-ascribed line, something that takes practice to get under control (though is made slightly 
 easier thanks to the Z button, which can be held down to keep a line straighter) . Something as 
 simple as drawing a curved line can be difficult to grasp. Fortunately, the game offers plenty 
 of opportunities to practice and get a handle on the ink abilities. The Wii controls also work 
 well in some of the minigames (to be expected, considering all the Wii minigame collections these 
 days) . At the end of the day, the Wii controls get the job done and work well after significant 
 practice. They have their moments of frustration, but they do add a new dimension to Okami's famed 
 gameplay.
  
  Pros
  + Stunning graphics present a beautiful and flourished world
  + Zelda-esque gameplay is full of great puzzles and challenges
  + Story is engaging and well-presented
 
  + Wii controls make gameplay feel natural and unique
  + Plenty of side-quests to complete
  
  Cons
  - Wii controls can be tricky to master
  - No extra content
  
  Okami is a work 
 of art. Its presentation is beyond any other Wii game to date and doesn't ever hesitate in showing 
 off its stellar art design and lush, beautiful world. There's rarely a moment where Okami's phenomenal 
 cel-shaded, calligraphy-based world will not leave you in awe. Even better is that the gameplay 
 is remarkable as well. Its familiarity to Zelda is a gift, but the game manages to mix in the excellent 
 art design into the gameplay thanks to the Celestial Brush. The puzzles, combat, and side-quests 
 are all extremely clever uses of the Celestial Brush and its mechanics. The Wii controls are also 
 very well implemented; drawing with the Wii Remote has its frustrations, but those who played the 
 PS2 Okami will find it to be more fluid than before and newcomers (with practice) will be drawing 
 Celestial markings in no time. Despite the lack of extra content for the Wii, Okami remains to 
 be one of the most enjoyable adventure titles of recent memory. It's incredibly well-designed, 
 both in art and gameplay, and manages to take what the Wii offers and integrate it into an already 
 brilliantly-designed game. If you didn't play the first Okami, this is an absolute must-play, and 
 even if you did, there's still something interesting to check out in the Wii version.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocarina_jedi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 11:43 am PT
Review:  Okami may not be a new game (it was originally released on the PS2 two years ago) , but it is no 
 mere port. It is a retelling of a magically wonderful game that deserves a lot more credit and 
 attention that it will receive.
  It is the story of Okami Amaterasu, the Sun God reborn into the form of a wolf the people of Nippon 
 call Shiranui. Amaterasu's bitter foe, an eight-headed snake called Orochi, has awakened from his 
 century-long slumber and once more threatens the land. He has cursed Nippon, and drained all the 
 life and color from the once-beautiful countryside, and the people's faith in the gods has faded 
 as well. Amaterasu must travel across Nippon, reviving the land, renewing the people's faith, and 
 recovering her own lost powers so that she can defeat Orochi. Be forewarned, though, the plot is 
 very twisted, and you'll be surprised at how much is going on behind the scenes and how long it 
 will actually take you to truly save Nippon. Clocking in at over 40 hours for the average gamer, 
 Okami is pleasantly and surprisingly long.
  The graphics are divine. Okami is presented in a cel-shaded manner that truly resembles a Japanese 
 painting come to life. It is charming and lends the game its own unique personality. Plus, there 
 really is nothing prettier than watching the natural life and color return to a region where Amaterasu 
 works her magic. Watching trees and flowers burst into bright bloom has never been more special.
 
  Okami is blessed with an endearing soundtrack as well. Music that sounds like traditional Japanese 
 compositions fill the soundtrack, giving it an exotic, ancient flavor. You'll really be whisked 
 away by it. Your friends will want to know why you're playing a Japanese game, and you'll just 
 smile. One complaint about the sound is this, though: The characters lack proper voice-overs. Instead, 
 while their text is displayed on the screen, they will sound off with gibberish, in a voice unique 
 to that character. This will be cute or annoying, depending on your personal preference, but either 
 way, you'll get used to it.
  The crowning achievement for Okami is it's use of the Wiimote's motion-sensor. In the PS2 original, 
 whenever Amaterasu used her Celestial Brush, you controlled it with the dual analog sticks. Considering 
 how important the Brush is, being able to simply aim with the Wiimote and use it like a real paintbrush 
 is a lifesaver. Really, this mechanic cannot be appreciated on any console other than the Wii. 
 The Celestial Brush is Amaterasu's godly abilities in action. You'll use it to turn the world into 
 your own personal canvas, whether that be to draw a constellation in the night sky, draw vines 
 to help you traverse an area, or directly attack enemies, there is nearly no limit to what the 
 Brush can do. One complaint is that sometimes the Brush gets picky and won't accept your drawings. 
 This happens when your line isn't straight enough, circle isn't closed, etc. It only happens enough 
 to be a minor nuisance, unless you mess up often enough to run out of in-game ink for the Brush.
 
  A final complaint is the combat of Okami. Some will say that the fighting is too easy, and that 
 none of the your enemies are truly much of a challenge. That is debatable. Many boss battles are 
 time consuming, but based on recognizable patterns. Lesser enemies usually have an easily discovered 
 weakness. However, it is still fun to defeat them, and there is a sense of accomplishment with 
 it. Beyond Brush Techniques, you might find another bother. Amaterasu can use three different sorts 
 of weapons: Rosaries (think: Whips) , Glaives (think: Swords) and Reflectors (think: um... blunt 
 disc-like object that you bludgeon enemies with) . There are many different sorts in each category 
 to chose from, each with their own distinctive properties. However, the rosaries are much easier 
 to use than the reflectors and glaives. The rosaries are used simply by shaking the Wiimote quickly 
 back and forth. To use the reflectors and glaives, your swings must be more timed, and it is more 
 difficult to complete combos. But when all is said and done, you have enough variety of choices 
 that you can fight in the way that best suits you without much trouble.
  Okami is a fantastic game. It is an action/adventure game that perfectly mimics the Zelda franchise 
 in style and gameplay. Gathering praise will make you stronger, and learning new Brush Techniques 
 will gain you access to new locations. The more you look, the more you'll find. And along the way 
 you'll find plenty of memorable characters. In addition to the lengthy main story there are tons 
 of side quests to keep you busy even longer. It all adds up to a very special game that will make 
 you feel like a better gamer just for owning. You won't be able to turn it off, and once you're 
 done, you'll start all over again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: demontium
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Well well well, here is another awesome 3rd party title from Capcom on Wii. The first thing you 
 will notice about this game is that it makes you want to play more and more. The brush techniques, 
 the collecting, and the overall idea will compel you to at least finish the game, if not collect 
 everything. From a wide variety of weapons, to cool list of celestial brush techniques, this game 
 kicks @$$! The only thing holding it back from a 10.0 is that you'll constantly see similarities 
 between zelda and this, whether in the storyline or gameplay. Even though this is a factor, they 
 do a good job of taking those zelda ideals and giving an "Okami" feel to it. It makes me sad to 
 see that this game sold the way it did, SO BUY IT! IT MAKES ME SICK TO MY STOMACH TO SEE THIS AWESOME 
 GAME ONLY SELL BARELY 0.10 million! 
  
  thanks :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingwargod
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Okami for the Wii is a true masterpiece. Everything about this game is excellent. The visuals are 
 spectacular, the entire game is Japanese art and looks stunning. You play as Amaterasu, a sun god 
 in a wolf, which you control the entire game trying to stop the 8 headed devil Orochi. You use 
 many brush techniques which help you throughout the game. Aside from its spectacular visuals, this 
 game has an extremely long, and engaging gameplay lasting 35+ hours. One thing you may notice about 
 this is that it is very similar to LOZTP. Although this game is extraordinary, and can rival many 
 Zelda games it is highly under appreciated as it didn't even break the 100000 copy mark in NA. 
 
  
  The 2 minor problems are that there is A LOT of text, and I mean a lot (for example, the starting 
 story is 20 mins long...) . Although you can skip the long cutscenes/dialogue, there is chance that 
 you may skip something you actually need to know.
  
  A second problem is that the controls can be finniky at times. Since you control the celestial 
 paint brush, it may take many tries to perfectly draw what you have to do, which can be a drag 
 at first, but you'll get used to it.
  
  But both this can be ignored.
  
  So overall:
  
  Gameplay: 9.8/10
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  Controls:8.5/10
  
  Replay: 
 9.5/10
  
  This is definitely one of the best games on the Wii. This game is quite spectacular and for only 
 $30-$40, you will not regret getting it.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZzZEVOLUTIONZzZ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I never played Okami for the PS2 and had heard about it from x-play on G4 everyones favorite video 
 game show. After seeing the graphics which are not really all that great by todays standards and 
 finding out that it was for the wii and made good use of the wiimote i decided to pick it up and 
 play. Althought the graphics are not photo realistic or high end they are VERY artistic its like 
 playing LOZ wind waker only more artistc and less cartoony. I picked up this game at best buy when 
 it was on sale and 30+ hours in i can say that it was well worth my money. 
  Starting out the game you are given a little history lesson about the village and people that you 
 start out in. You come to find out that a wood sprite summons you back to fight the demon OROCHI. 
 Which had supposedly been defeated 100 years ago by you. Amaterasu the main character of the game 
 is the sun god which really doesnt mean anything in the game itself other then you can use brush 
 techniques etc... your mainly just a wolf hehe. 
  A lot of people have said that this game is like zelda... I would like to say that it is like LOZTP 
 but only you are always a wolf... There is a darkness covering the land much like LOZTP and you 
 must make your way across the land reviving trees and replenishing the ravaged land... you have 
 a companion with you and they basically do all of the talking much like LOZ but beeing like LOZ 
 isnt exactly a bad thing lol. 
  The controlls are excellent and make good use of the wii mote. during battle you can use the b 
 button to attack swing your remote and start a brush technique almost simultaneously making the 
 combat intuitive and easy. That is one thing that i wish would have been better is the actual monster 
 difficulty etc... it just seemed a bit to easy to defeat monsters. Visuals were great. sound effects 
 were awesome. For 30-40$ your getting 30+ hours out of this game the first time through. Upon beating 
 the game you also get the chance to restart the game again with new character skins and all your 
 old weapons and items. 
  If you are even thinking about purchasing or playing this game I say GO FOR IT! One of the best 
 wii games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josephhamilton
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely worth playing. However, the brush techniques will piss you off, there is 
 no doubt about that. You must be close to the sensor to make them work correctly. Be prepared to 
 have to redraw the same thing many times in certain situations. Also, the combat benefits absolutely 
 none from the wii-mote, all you are doing is shaking it back and forth. Intuitive? Maybe. Fun? 
 Not really.
  
  I really liked the visuals, the game was absolutely beautiful, although you don't see that until 
 you do some fixing first. The text and the translation are horrid and there is one part that is 
 absolutely crude that could have been left out. I didn't like the swimming too far kills you aspect 
 of the game. If forced you to draw lily pads every 10 feet. Anyway, good game, worth playing. I 
 would definitely recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redchina
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  
  
  33 hours, okami is finally finished for me. I liked it a lot overall, it had it's issues but overall 
 its an excellent title that Wii owners all need to take a look at.
  
  My favorite aspect of the game is the story and its characters, whom all are very memorable and 
 likable. This probably is the most epic game I've played simply due to the massive scope of the 
 world needed to be traveled, and by how lively the world is filled with so many great characters. 
 It easily beats Twilight Princess in the Overworld department.
  
  The art style of the game I have mixed feelings about. First off, I love the artwork in the game, 
 pure and simple. It's unique and unlike anything on the market today. That said though, I am not 
 sure it translated successfully into a 3D video game. It is just so vibrant and lively that it 
 almost gives me a headache playing in long sessions. No game has ever been so taxing on my eyes 
 than this one. The graphics are both a blessing and a curse in my opinion, though I am probably 
 in the minority of this category.
  
  The music was amazing, some of the best game music I've ever heard. It fits the tone and style 
 of the game perfectly. I want to download the soundtrack, its that good.
  
  The controls unfortunately were very flawed, not completely broken but certainly not perfect. First 
 off, swinging the Wii remote to attack felt a bit unresponsive at times, since there is a split-second 
 lag between your movements and the attack on-screen. I got used to it, but a button press would've 
 been better. The celestial brush also had some issues. It's great because it's very fast, much 
 more so than the PS2 version. Sadly, a lot of the times my brush strokes weren't registered correctly 
 or at all. Many times I needed to redo a brushstroke just because it doesn't recognize the strokes 
 that well. Again, I got used to it, but having to constantly redo brushstrokes got annoying.
  
  The game has some creative enemy designs and some spectacular boss battles. Overall the baddies 
 in the game are some of the most unique I've seen in any game.
  
  The difficulty I'd say is perfect. Yes the game is quite easy, I died only twice during my whole 
 playtime. But the sense of satisfaction was still there and I didn't want the game to be any harder 
 either. It just felt right.
  
  The game has some great exciting moments, an epic storyline, and some awesome music to back it 
 all up. Whatever issues the game has is easily overlooked. I recommend Okami to Wii owners in need 
 of some serious Action Adventuring, cause this is some of the best.
  
  8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimategamer92
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  All in all, this remake of Clover Studio's Okami for the Playstation 2 for the Wii was an ingenious 
 yet obvious product. With the Wii's intuitive controls and the original "paint" tool are a great 
 match making this game even better than before by far. The deep and intriguing story with awe-inspiring 
 art add to the mechanics even more, leaving numerous hours of gameplay in the story for the player. 
 Okami was given a unique finesse in her movements and style. By the end of the game, you feel that 
 connection with the characters that so many games, sadly lack.
  
  Though ending up as slightly repetitive after the first time through the game, it remains very 
 rewarding to go back to the beginning with all of your weapons and "swag" from the first time through, 
 unraveling new mysteries along the way. There are not many negative aspects to this game. The only 
 big issue for me in the game was the annoying "wuhwahwuhwawah", Charlie Brown-esque voices given 
 to the characters in background for the text haha. Overall, Okami is an innovative, immersive, 
 deep, and honestly fun game. All of these factors together still makes me give Okami a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SasukeUchihaCMF
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  this game puts you as the role of the japanese god of the sun: Amaterasu. with your celestial brush 
 powers, divine instrument, and your traveling companion issun you must restore the world to what 
 it once was. by using you brush you must fight enemies and restore the plant and wildlife by blooming 
 gaurdian sapling and ridding the land of evil spirits which have broken free by the awakening of 
 the dreaded Orochi. to become stronger you have to earn praise by completing different tasks such 
 as, feeding animals helping villagers, and doing various other oddjobs around the land will make 
 the people and wildlife believe in the gods once again and earn praise points which are used for 
 becoming stonger. you will soon become addicted to this game with it's amazing artwork, treasures, 
 side quests, a sense of comedy, music, cast of carachters ranging from poor and helpless kids to 
 strong warriors who will be remembered throughout history and to shapeshifting members of the Oina 
 tribe. the bruch powers range from attacking enemies with a slash of the sword to harnessing the 
 power of lightning to strike down your foes. after you have completed the game you will unlock 
 art galleries packed with art, music from all of your favorite places, and the ability to start 
 a new game+ simply by loading the beaten file you will begin again with prettty much everything 
 you had. you will not have the final and ultimate weapons, (the 5th one of each) and certain brush 
 techniques. this game is fully based on japanese mythology and i gurantee that after you start 
 this game you won't want it to end and possibly aven begin researching japanese mythology to become 
 more familar with the various legends told throughout the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeavenNathious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Okami is an incredible experience. It was an incredible experience on the PS2, and now it's on 
 the Wii. Yay! So, it's basically the same gameplay as last time, not that that's a bad thing. You're 
 the sun-god Amaterasu, in wolf form, and going on your adventure. First I'll say that the adventure 
 is fun and well thought out, not to mention expertly delivered. 
  
  The graphics are unique and completely original. I can't think of a game that uses Japanese style 
 calligrapghy, can you? I doubt it. And the biggest and probably most obvious part of the game is 
 that you can use the Wii-mote to paint with the Celestial Brush. It's as awesome as fun as ever. 
 If you don't know what it is, it basically lets you draw on the screen with ink at any time and 
 perform a special move in a certain area. Cutting enemies in half is high enjoyable. 
  
  Plotwise, the game excels there as well. It uses the Japanese culture and creates a game that is 
 truly beautiful. It's become a modern classic. It reminds me somewhat of Zelda, but don't get me 
 wrong, it is its own game in its own way. 
  
  Only one gripe I have, that the vast amount of text in the game, particularly the beginning. It's 
 like, I really want to understand the plot, but there's so much text that it makes me want to not 
 care and skip it, so that's basically what I did. That's the only problem I have. This game is 
 almost perfect.
  
  Final verdict: Get this game! You should at least know of it by now! And whether on the PS2 or 
 Wii (I prefer the Wii version, that's just me) this game truly delivers a masterpiece that should 
 not be missed. Whatever problems I have with the game (which is only about one) it is easily overlooked.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Okami is an adventure that's loosely based off ancient Japanese legends. It has a formula that's 
 similar to, but not exactly like the Zelda series. The game takes Wind Waker's cel-shaded style, 
 and blurrifies it into a watercolor paint texture. It's not a bad thing. In fact, the environments, 
 particularly when they're blooming, look amazing. The music also has a Japanese feel to it and 
 is played using traditional Japanese musical instruments. The adventure is also rather expansive, 
 taking up to 50 hours to complete if you do the side missions. The story is also exciting if you 
 know what they are talking about. A little research in Japanese mythology will clear up a lot of 
 stuff in this game that may be confusing to understand. The only thing that can be bothering are 
 the controls. Many professional reviewers have mentioned difficulty with the nunchuck, but I found 
 none (in fact I rarely even used the dodge in the first place) . Instead, the trouble comes from 
 some of the paint gestures themselves. Of particular notice are the bloom and wind gestures, in 
 which the game can sometimes respond incorrectly to, even if you draw them correctly. This also 
 plays a part in a few of the mandatory mini-games that may have you throwing your Wii Remote at 
 the TV in anger for not getting it right. A good amount of patience will be required throughout 
 this game, but I think it is worth giving a chance. After all, it is only $40 instead of the full 
 $50 that many charge for Wii games. The pros of this game definately outweigh the cons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Actual Score: 9.6
  
  The gaming world is not a fair place at all. While uninspired titles with shallow gameplay that 
 were initially developed to get some easy money from a few casual gamers bask on the spotlight 
 of success, some games that can be best described as epic masterpieces struggle to sell a few copies 
 due to bad timing and poor advertisement. Unfortunately, Okami belongs in the last category. 
 
  
  
  The game was produced for the Playstation 2 and won awards all over the media. Sadly a new generation 
 of games had already hit store shelves and most gamers seemed too caught up in excitement to pay 
 attention to a new game that featured a wolf as its starring character, had cell-shaded graphics 
 and had a storyline based on Japanese folklore. 
  
  
  Developers usually joke that "Games with a cartoonish look are produced to die" and that applies 
 to this game. As the title sold poorly the talented group of professionals responsible for this 
 modern masterpiece had to close their company  Clover Studio  and look for new projects. Meanwhile, 
 Okami seemed destined to fade and eventually disappear as time passed. However Capcom still believed 
 in the potential of the title and wanted to give it another chance to shine, and so Okami Wii was 
 born. 
  
  
  The game starts at a small village located in the outskirts of Nippon  a huge continent where 
 the game takes place. With a flash back you are transported 100 years to the past where history 
 is about to happen. Yearly an eight-headed serpent, called Orochi, that lurks in the Moon Cave 
 sends a silver arrow directly towards the village, the arrow is aimed at a maiden's house. The 
 maiden then needs to be sacrificed and offered to Orochi. 
  
  
  However, on that year 100 years in the past that silver arrow hit the house of a maiden that was 
 deeply loved by the village's warrior. In order to save his damsel from such a terrible fate the 
 warrior heads to the cave with a white wolf. Inside the beast's lair they fight an epic battle 
 and manage to seal the serpent with a sword. The legend of the warrior and the brave wolf is still 
 told over and over again in Kamiki Village. Unfortunately, the seal has broken and Orochi dangerously 
 waits for the time where he will once again fire his silver arrow. 
  
  
  The storyline is one of the main factors that contributes to the amazing experience you will have 
 with this game. As impossible as it seems, the plot is very well developed throughout the adventure 
 and your journey will gain urgency as you approach the end of this long adventure. 
  
  
  Characters contribute a lot to such a solid plot development. Okami is overflowing with charming 
 characters with different personalities, and during your adventure you will notice how they change 
 their behavior based on a few facts that may have happened on their lives. It is simply amazing 
 how the producers were careful with every single one of the people you encounter. 
  
  
  The highlight of the game goes to Issun which is a small mysterious being that will be your partner 
 throughout the game. He will tell you what to do, and will always talk with other characters in 
 the game since you will be controlling a wolf. He is responsible for some of the funniest moments 
 in gaming history as he hits on beautiful ladies by commenting on a few features of their bodies 
 in a naughty manner, or as he loses his mind and gets mad at a certain situation or a at some characters. 
 
  
  
  On the game you take control of a wolf that is actually the sun Goddess, Amaterasu. The game plays 
 on a similar way to The Legend of Zelda as you will be constantly exploring vast areas or trying 
 to figure out creative puzzles that are hidden inside dark dungeons filled with enemies. What really 
 makes those two games different is that Okami focus more on the exploration than in dungeon exploring. 
 What makes Okami such a special game is the fact that you can draw different things on the screen 
 as if it were a canvas. 
  
  
  During the gameplay when you press the B-button the action will stop and your Wiimote will become 
 a huge pencil. By using it you can draw lines, circles or other objects that will be interpreted 
 by the game's engine and translate into moves that are magically performed by the starring character. 
 On the adventure you will learn a vast array of techniques such as restoring missing objects, laying 
 bombs, cutting enemies as if you were using a sword or using elements like fire and water to your 
 advantage. With the Wii's motion controls those actions become very intuitive and quick, therefore 
 the game won't lose its flow simply because you had to slay an enemy or make a tree bloom. 
  
  
  The battles are one of the most unique aspects of the game. While on most adventure titles 
 you would find your enemies wandering around freely in this game they will appear on the field 
 as some cursed signs, if you would rather keep on going on your adventure you can simply avoid 
 them but if you feel like engaging in a frantic battle to earn some money you can walk directly 
 into those signs and you will be transported to a restricted battlefield as it would happen on 
 an RPG. 
  
  
  Inside a circle of fire you will battle a large group of enemies using your techniques of beating 
 them up by shaking the Wiimote. Unfortunately your movements will occasionally not be correctly 
 interpreted by the game and you may end up taking some damage or missing an attacking opportunity 
 because of that. But it doesn't affect the gameplay deeply because battles are not the main part 
 of the game. Once you beat all the enemies you will get an amount of money based on the time it 
 took you to finish them all and the damage you received. Afterwards the fire barriers circling 
 the place will disappear and you will move on with your adventure. 
  
  
  The boss battles are simply amazing and they will make a great use of all the techniques you learn. 
 There isn't an impressive amount of bosses since there aren't many dungeons in the game, but all 
 of them are very creative and unique. The game also has a bunch of lengthy side-quests that will 
 keep you entertained for a long while. The prize on most of those quests is called "praise" which 
 ca be compared to the exp points you will find on most RPGs. By using praise you can increase your 
 life bar, or your ink that will allow you to use more techniques within a certain period of time. 
 
  
  
  There are not many differences between the two versions of the game. Obviously the Wii version 
 makes good use of the motion capabilities that the system posses, but apart from that you can't 
 really tell one version from another. Graphically they are similar - although the Wii version is 
 slightly better. If you are worried about purchasing a two-year old game, fearful that it may look 
 outdated you should erase all those thoughts from your mind because Okami looks as colorful and 
 vivid as ever. 
  
  
  One of the biggest advantages cell-shaded titles have over games that attempt for a realistic look 
 is that the former group  when it is well executed  will never look old or unpolished. A good 
 example of this timeless effect is The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker, a game that was released 
 five years ago and it can still be considered one of the best looking titles available on the market. 
 If you were stunned by The Wind Waker's visuals you must be prepared for the things you are going 
 to find here in Okami. The continent of Nippon spreads through a vast area with very different 
 landscapes. Forests, rivers, valleys, mountains, temples and beaches are some of the outstanding 
 scenarios you will find in this game. 
  
  
  One of the biggest prowesses of the title is that the game flows naturally and you will actually 
 feel like you are in an old museum looking at an ancient Japanese painting when all of a sudden 
 the animals and trees on the background start moving and gain life. During your play through you 
 will naturally stop at certain locations simply to admire the way things were drawn and how attentive 
 with the details the art designers were. 
  
  
  During some moments on the game you will restore huge portions of the map that had been previously 
 cursed by the villains. As you make things bloom with your special powers you will watch a dark 
 and sinister landscape become a green field with singing birds and with a beautiful sun shinning 
 upon the land. While this may sound like a simple cutscene, I can tell you that there aren't many 
 games that fill you wit such a rewarding feeling as Okami does when you restore life to vast area, 
 feed animals or make a tree bloom with its full splendor. 
  
  
  Overall Okami is one of the best titles available on the Wii despite the fact that it is a two-year 
 old title. The game is still as strong and fresh as possible and it will please Zelda fans and 
 gamers that have been waiting for a new series to appear for a while. It is a beautiful game, both 
 visually and conceptually with a thrity to forty-hour adventure. Ultimately it is a story about 
 faith and belief, and one of the most rewarding games that has ever been created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisFire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Because it's the short list, I'll start with the bad.
  
  Digging mini-games - There's these digging mini-games you have to do a couple of times and it's 
 optional a couple of times. But they suck. They're not fun, and are occasionally frustrating. I 
 HATE THEM. 
  
  Issun - Your voice in this (your Navi, if you want a Zelda comparison) is one of the most irritating 
 characters to ever be in a video game. AND IT NEVER SHUTS UP. Whoever came up with its dialouge 
 should be shot.
  
  The Good:
  
  Graphics - Using cell shading to acheive the Japanese water colour theme works wonderfully. The 
 whole game just looks fresh and beautiful from start to finish. The character design is great, 
 and the little touches like grass growing wherever you walk, or leaves flying away from where you 
 jump are just amazing. 10/10 for both concept and implementation. 
  
  Sound - The music and sound effects are just great. They add to the whole theme and never become 
 annoying, repetative or grating. The mumbling non-speech of the characters can be a little bit 
 irritating sometimes, but it's not really a big deal. 
  
  Controls - Not flawless, but done well. It would've been nice if this was develloped as a Wii game 
 from the ground up, but as it's a port, the controls really don't feel tacked on. They work well, 
 but on occasion my brush would be all jittery and impossible to use, then it would just stop and 
 work fine. I though it was my set up at first (like my Wii remote wasn't communicating well with 
 the machine) , but I shuffled stuff around and nothing changed. Oh, and sometimes I wouldn't attack 
 when I shook the remote, and then all of a sudden it would work. Not often enough to become really 
 irritating, though. 
  
  Gameplay - Minus the digging mini-game, damn near perfect, if not a triffle easy. To put it into 
 perspective, my first playthrough lasted a little over 38 hours, and I don't know what the game 
 over screen looks like. But the combat is fun and inventive, they don't just spell out the weakenesses 
 of the enemies (though they tend to be obvious) , avoidable if you want, but never gets boring. 
 Plus, there's just a ton to do here. There's things to collect, praise to get so you can level 
 up, weapons to buy, demon fangs to get to get special attributes etc. etc. You really get your 
 money's worth here. Plus, the plot is good (not the most original, but still fun) , and keeps you 
 wanting to go forward and unlock more of the mystery. 
  
  Just fantastic game. 
  I really hope it spawns a new franchise. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono0
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Games like Okami make me think that there is still hope for original, outstanding games that make 
 you think that, even though there many games, not all of the ideas have been used, and there is 
 always hope for truly awesome games.
  
  I'll be honest with you. For me, using the wii remote can be quite complex. Some games require 
 pin-point precision. This is not the occasion with Okami. This game has one of the most forgiving 
 control schemes I have ever seen in my life as a gamer, and I'm not kidding when I'm saying this. 
 The controls are not only forgiving, but they also make great use of the wii remote as a brush. 
 While it may be hard at first, using the wii remote as a brush can be quite simple and smooth, 
 even though it has response problems from time to time.
  
  When I first started Okami, The world was a bit weird. You start inside of a tree, where you learn 
 how to move, smash objects, and of course, use your "Celestial Brush". After a few hours of playing, 
 you unlock more and more techniques for you to use with your celestial brush; for example, a straight 
 line will cut through an object like a sharp blade, and a circle in the sky will make the sun rise. 
 But it doesn't stop there, as you have 13 brush techniques to use in your arsenal, some related 
 to water, fire, wind and more. 
  
  Your brush is not your only weapon. You can wield 2 weapons, one as a main weapon, used for attacking, 
 and one as a sub-weapon, used for blocking or firing, depending on the weapon you use. Each weapon 
 has its own unique features, depending on how it's equipped. For example, beads used as a main 
 weapon can be used like a whip; they are long ranged and powerful. When used as a defensive weapon, 
 they can be used to fire at your enemies.
  
  The enemies you encounter in the game are, most of the time, very different from each other, each 
 with its own set of weaknesses. As you advance through the game, you will encounter more and more 
 enemies, each stronger then the other. However, sometimes there are enemies which are pretty much 
 like other enemies (same attack, weakness, etc) , only with more health. Still, the variety of enemies 
 will keep you on your tows as you try to find their moment of weakness and use it against them.
 
  One thing that is common with all enemies is that if you beat them in a specific manner (for example, 
 lower their health to zero using your main weapon, and as they fall down, slash them with your 
 brush) , they will drop an item called "Demon Fang", Which can be used to buy items.
  
  The "Demon Fangs" are not the main currency of the game. You can use Yen that you get from defeating 
 enemies, completing quests and breaking objects to purchase a variety of things, like new skills 
 (like double jump) , more weapon attacks (4/5/6 hit combo) , Items, weapons and more.
  
  Most of the items in the game are quite common actually, they are not out of the ordinary, but 
 they still keep the game fresh and exciting. This includes items that increase your attack power 
 temporarily, deflect enemy attacks, damage your enemies or even increase your weapons attack power 
 for good. However, there are some items that are unique, for example, fishing rods for you to give 
 to certain people.
  There are also several mini-games that you can play in the game. Actually, you NEED to play them 
 in order to advance the plot. These mini-games include fishing (Where you fish out fish in various 
 sizes, from fish small to anaconda big, and then sell them for Yen) and digging (Where you must 
 guide a person in a short period of time to the bottom of the ground as you dig, slash and bomb 
 your way through while avoiding painful spikes, the decrease time) .
  
  The music in this game is very good. The music changes as you go from one area to another, and 
 it really fits the scene well. For example, when you go to a bright, lush forest you will hear 
 a pretty happy background music; However, when you go to an killer disease infected city, you will 
 hear chilling, cold music that really makes you feel like you are in a bad, bad place. The sound 
 effects are okay, the explosions and slashes sound quite nice, but there are some sound effects 
 that you would wish that they would go away.
  
  There is some voice-acting, although it's not really voice acting, it's just some random babbling 
 that no one understands. Luckily, the dialog is written at the bottom of the screen (in English 
 of course) . The story really sucks you in and makes you want to progress further and further to 
 see what will happen in the end.
  
  The graphics in this game are not realistic at all, but that what makes this game so attractive. 
 The colorful landscapes, the lush lands and even the evil cursed zones look really neat and interesting. 
 However, if you don't like these type of graphics, then you might want to avoid this game, as you 
 wont see any realistic, "picture like" graphics here.
  
  The game runs flawlessly, with seldom, minor frame rate issues but these don't really happen in 
 an important time (like battle) . The controls, as I have already said, are excellent and the story 
 is interesting and it makes you want to know every bit of detail to understand what is happening 
 fully. The battles (especially boss ones) are fun and intense and will sometimes require you to 
 think before you act.
  
  If you don't have Okami yet, I really recommend you to get it as soon as possible. Don't miss this 
 truly amazing game, because I assure you, you will regret that.
  
  Final score: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigadoon
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 24, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  Oh Okami.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous and the Japanese watercolors perfect for this game There's times when 
 I paused just to admire the fanciful Japanese masks or the bursting bloom of water lillies and 
 flowers. The authors took texture maps, particle effects and 3D objects and made something that 
 can only be called art. With the outstanding quality of visuals, I felt bad just looking away when 
 I thought about how much work must have gone into making this game. Japanese folklore truly come 
 alive in Okami.
  
  The music forms an authentic canvas for the masterpiece that is Okami. It comes in perfectly timed 
 and sets just the right mood for each scene and event.
  
  Gameplay has its down moments (some of the non boss combat is a bit redundant) but overall the 
 whole gameplay experience is innovative. The environments have an interactive level you rarely 
 find in games any more. I'm not talking about "real world physics" , I'm talking about how the 
 environment is usable. Water, fire, wind, even animals are part of the story and gameplay experience.
 
  
  And Okami si gigantic. Just when you think you are finished, you are in fact barely scratching 
 the surface of this game.
  
  Speaking of animals, when is the last time you played a game where experience wasn't given out 
 for fighting, but for healing plants and feeding animals? It sounds somewhat silly until you try 
 it. It reinforces the "god" aspect of the game and is a nice change from XP grinding.
  
  There are only a few things I would have done differently such as only getting a transition scene 
 when you first feed the animals. Some of the dungeon design felt uninspired. And it's far too easy. 
 I didn't die once and I usually die often in games. So why with all of this going for it can't 
 I get above an 8.9? 
  
  For all of that is phenomenal about this game in its visual elements, it fails on dialogue. And 
 we're not talking about just the occasional uncomfortable "Who writes this stuff" moment (Super 
 Mario Galaxy for example) . It's War and Peace length dialogue and it's almost all painfully, embarrassingly 
 bad. You just hope your significant other doesn't walk in the room while you are playing this game 
 because she'll make fun of you for weeks.
  
  I think what's really happened is that this dialogue was crafted for a Japanese audience and that 
 things that would have been humorous to Japanese players just don't work well without some more 
 intensive rewrite. Where I think the Japanese audience would have felt something was "cute" I felt 
 it was "annoying" or "cheesy".
  
  I also think a lot was lost in translation. For instance the Japanese symbol title of this game 
 is a pun on God and Wolf. Things like this don't cross cultures well.
  
  Finally, the plot is acceptable for 2/3 of the game. But the last 1/3 really struck me as forced 
 and poorly conceived. Thoughout the game I was hoping it would keep going but during the last 1/3 
 I was bored and ready for it to end. 
  
  Should you play it? Definitely.
  
  Just make sure you do it alone in the dark and don't tell anyone about it afterwards.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dunestar
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  When Capcom brought Okami to the PS2, Clover planned on bringing their version of a Twilight Princess 
 to their system. Except whereas the Zelda franchise was based on a fantasy realm known as Hyrule, 
 Okami was inspired by Japanese folklore concerning the classic monster, Orochi.
  At first, when I heard about it, I rather skeptical. Using a Celestial Paintbrush for battling 
 against foes and restoring the land sounded a bit odd, but mysteriously Clover pulled it off. Considering 
 your hero is actually a wolf, but nothing compared with Link's bestial transformation, since your 
 partner is nothing like Medina.
  
  However, the game became an overnight classic, and the Wii version brings it to a whole new perspective. 
 
  
  And despite Clover's demise, Ready At Dawn (known for both Daxter and Ratchet and Clank: Size Matters 
 ) has taken the reigns for bringing Okami to the Wii with some new twists on an old classic.
  
  First off, for those who've never played Okami, or have only heard about it, I'll give you 
 a basic recap on the story itself.
  
  Orochi, the infamous 8-headed serpent (think the Japanese equivalent to the Hydra) , once terrorized 
 all of Ancient Japan. Where basically villages would sacrifice young maidens to it, in order to 
 keep him from incurring his wrath, and bringing darkness and despair to the land. Save for one 
 village, who after enduring so much pain and suffering, fought back. 
  
  The legendary hero, Nagi and his wolf comrade end up slaying the beast, but rather than destroying 
 it (you notice how nowadays Ancient beings are no longer just 'destroyed' anymore?) , they ended 
 up sealing the creature away. Yet, after a century, chaos ensues when Orochi mysteriously returns.
 
  Fortunately one village was spared by Sakuya, a wood spirit (known for her cherry blossoms) who 
 protected the inhabitants by storing them in a peach (don't ask.) . 
  
  But thanks to Orochi's darkness and corruption, her powers are waning. Thus, summoning the sun 
 god, Amateratsu, which appears as the incarnation of the noble wolf who helped Nagi defeat the 
 serpent, Sakuya requests the sun god help find the Celestial gods and cleanse the land of Orochi's 
 corruption.
  
  But Amateratsu (aka Okami) isn't alone on his quest. Issun, a flea-sized warrior, comes and helps 
 Okami along the way. Basically, Issun claims before Orochi's return, he had been on a quest for 
 finding the 13 Celestial Brush techniques for helping him restore the land. Regrettably, when Orochi 
 showed up, the Celestial Gods immediately were transformed into constellations, scattered across 
 the heavens. Thus, begins the Legend of Okami.
  
  First off, you'll notice Okami definitely possesses an Ancient Japan atmosphere. The characters 
 and settings appear as if the developers took authentic paintings and brought them to life, which 
 helps give the tale it's legendary feel. Of course, the characters apparently received their diction 
 from Animal Crossing, since they sound like indecipherable chattering when they speak. 
  
  However, the sound effects from the drum sound when encountering enemies, to the fife when receiving 
 items, checking your menu, or witnessing a cut scene, maintain the Ancient Japan theme.
  
  As with most Wii adventure games, you control Okami's movement with the Nunchuk (with the exception 
 of the Wii Remote's A Button for jumping) , while you attack by flicking the Wii Remote. But the 
 problem here is, on some occasions, unlike the PS2 button scheme controls, the movement's not as 
 consistent. 
  
  Meaning you can't do a double-flick if you want Okami to perform consecutive attacks, however, 
 this setback's compensated by performing jump-attacks via the A Button and Remote flick. Dodging's 
 a bit trickier, but since the demons aren't exactly on the high-end of the AI scale, you can usually 
 execute a well-placed Brush Technique for dispatching foes.
  
  Speaking of Brush Techniques, the Wii Remote works great for handling the Celestial Brush. Contrary 
 to popular belief, the brush is rather easy to use, and does take a bit of getting used to, considering 
 the Wii Version has a better rate and flowing movement than the PS2 version. But here's where Ready 
 At Dawn does counterbalances this dilemma: in the PS2 version, you had to use the analog stick 
 to precise paint the symbol, in order for it to activate it. But in Wii version, as long as you 
 paint it on the appropriate item itself, it'll activate without being so accurate.
  
  Case in point, when Okami learns the Celestial Bloom Technique, in the PS2 version you had to paint 
 the symbol round the branches of dead trees, or the edge of dead grass, for complete restoration. 
 But on the Wii version, as long as you draw the symbol on the tree or dead grass itself, the effect 
 instantly kicks in. Thanks to this allowance, it makes the game a bit more enjoyable. And with 
 practice you can burn through battles, restore the land and explore new regions more expediently. 
 
  
  Which is great, considering the brush concept is Okami's motus operandi, since for the most part 
 you're painting for better attacks against stronger demons, bombing concealed walls, creating pads 
 across impassable rivers (apparently Okami-like Mario-has a limited air supply) , solving puzzle 
 sequences, and interacting in some clever side quests.
  
  Controls aside, what makes Okami work for the Wii, is the fact, it shares some elements from Zelda. 
 First off, you have your main quest for freeing Nippon from Orochi's dark corruption, but then 
 you also have side quests and tasks Okami must perform as well. 
  
  Also your quest takes through far regions of Nippon, from barren wastelands to ice caves and forgotten 
 villages as well. Of course, just as Link deals with forbidden zones, so does Okami. Whenever you 
 enter a heavily corrupted zone, your ink levels start steadily dropping instead of restoring when 
 you implement brush techniques. Another interesting concept is earning praise rather than experience 
 points or collecting heart pieces.
  
  Whenever Okami helps restore the land, a villager in need, or even feed animals, you end up earning 
 Praise Points, which you can allot to your life, ink pots, and other attributes. This helps you 
 out later in the long run, especially when dealing with tougher enemies. Also you can locate special 
 items (or purchase them) for helping Okami out like having temporal unlimited ink, or scrolls which 
 can help you dole out major damage against foes.
  
  Overall, Okami is one of those rare classics which hasn't severely suffered from its remake as 
 it makes the transition from the PS2 to the Wii. Though there are a few control issues, Ready At 
 Dawn has sufficiently compensated where they're not a major issue, while maintaining the original 
 game schematics which made the game such a hit. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00KevinMZ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  (Warning! may contain spoilers!)
  -Before Okami came out for the Wii, I had not even heard of the PS2 version, and after playing 
 through on the WIi, I am a little confused as to why not. Simply put, this is an awesome adventure 
 that deserves to be played. Essentially I bought it because I saw 9.0 both hear and at IGN, but 
 the real reason was because of the comparisons to Zelda. After my first run through I almost completely 
 agree. Here's why:
  
  -What I liked:
  -Adventure/Plot: 100 years ago Shiranui, with the help of the chosen hero (Nagi) and some sake 
 slay the 8 headed dragon Orochi who had terrorized the tiny village of Kamiki for years. You play 
 as the sun god Amaterasu, the reincarnation of the legendary white wolf Shiranui. Essentially Susano, 
 the descendant of Nagi inadvertently revived Orochi and Orochi begins to spread evil across the 
 land of Nippon (The main world) again. However, defeating Orochi is really only the beginning of 
 this incredible adventure as Amaterasu (with the help of Issun, the wandering artist) sets out 
 to rid Nippon of evil. The storyline is told through story board drawings with text, along with 
 occasional cinematic cut scenes, and while voice acting would be nice, it does an adequate job 
 conveying the story. However, it really works because the story itself is very engaging and has 
 extremely satisfying twists and turns as it nears the end. The adventure itself paces itself very 
 much like a zelda game does. You enter a dungeon or temple of some sort (give or take) and earn 
 a new brush technique, use that brush technique to defeat the boss of that dungeon, do some stuff 
 in the overworld, then enter the new dungeon. That is essentially how the game paces itself the 
 entire adventure, and it works well for zelda, and the same is true here. It keeps the game moving, 
 but also allows for you to take your time and explore side quests (which there are many of) in 
 between dungeons for those who are less ambitious. All in all, if you haven't gotten the idea, 
 it's a great adventure.
  -The brush techniques: The brush techniques are what really make Okami a refreshing and unique 
 game. Shiranui had all 13 celestial brush techniques when he defeated Orochi, however as Amaterasu, 
 you only start off with one, and a large portion of the game is spent acquiring the remaining 12. 
 These techniques include restoration, power slash, wind gusts, bombs, controlling fire/ice/lighting/water, 
 and a couple more. These techniques involve a movement with the wii remote. This is where the wii 
 mote really shines. While none of the techniques are particularly unique from each other, they 
 are so quick easy and satisfying to use that these techniques add a lot of fun and uniqueness to 
 the game. It is truly unlike anything from any game I had ever played, and it was a refreshingly 
 awesome gameplay component.
  -The Graphics: Stylistically speaking, the graphics are breathtaking. Okami takes an almost Wind 
 Waker type approach, and it works brilliantly. There is nothing quite like watching a tree come 
 back to life and spreading life back into the area. The light water colors the game's artsy style 
 utilize simply put look awesome. The environments are varied and equally pleasing to look at no 
 matter where you happen to be in the game, and Amaterasu looks satisfyingly bad ass.
  -The Sound: The music no matter where you are fits the mood perfectly, including intense drum beats 
 as enemies approach and cinematic lord of the rings type music during dramatic moments. From what 
 I could gather it was fully orchestrated and everything sounds exactly how it should. Most importantly, 
 the themes are catchy and sound good, really good, I often found myself humming along with the 
 music, even when I was not playing. Simply put the music rocks.
  -Value: I finished in just a little less than 30 hours, but I ignored essentially all side quests. 
 Thirty hours is pretty good value without side-quests, but I could imagine spending an additional 
 20 entertained hours just exploring the massive overworld and completing sidequests and mini-games. 
 Once completed, the game creates a brand new game, but with a lot of the power ups and items from 
 the finished game, which I don't know why, but it gave me an incredible urge to re-beat the game 
 again (probably cause the game was so good) , but regardless, that just further demonstrates how 
 high in value Okami is.
  -Miscellaneous: Praise is the equivalent of experience points in Okami, and you can earn praise 
 by feeding various animals, restoring the land/trees, and performing various other acts. You can 
 use the praise to increase your health, ink, wallet, or your astral's pouch (it saves you if you 
 die, but you'll probably not have to worry about dying too much) . The praise system is a pretty 
 effective reward system. Also merchants are scattered throughout nippon, where you can buy and 
 sell various items (It's a lot like RE4) . This also works very well, as you'll have a lot of money 
 on hand, and prices are pretty reasonable. This allows you to buy lots of feedbags (for the animals) , 
 health, and other items in bulk, so you'll never have to worry about anything essentially.
  
  -Ok now for my minor grievances:
  -Load Times!: They are frequent, and sometimes up to ten 
 seconds long. A few load times are understandable, but sometimes they can be spaced inconveniently 
 close to each other, and it can slow down the pacing and interrupt the excitement, disengaging 
 you a little bit from the experience.
  -Graphics: While i've mentioned artistically speaking they are awesome, from a technical aspect, 
 Okami is no masterpiece. There are lots of blurry edges, and occasional frame rate drops here and 
 there.
  -Combat: Combat is not a main focus in Okami, it essentially serves to keep things from getting 
 too easy, however it can be a little repetitive. Enemies appear as floating scrolls and mini haunted 
 arches, and thankfully can usually be avoided, but sometimes the game springs an unexpected battle 
 (usually preceded by a frame rate drop) , and these are never welcome. You can equip two items at 
 once, one main weapon used by swinging the wii mote (which is not all that responsive) , and one 
 sub weapons used by pressing the z button. Unfortunately, since the motion sensing is not all that 
 responsive, there are some types of weapons, reflectors especially, that are just not well-suited 
 to be main weapons in the game because it is so hard to time it right. Thankfully the beads work 
 satisfyingly well, but it's pretty repetitive, you just kind of swing randomly (like twilight princess 
 a little) and it gets the job done. It's not that it isn't fun, it just gets a little repetitive. 
 Also there are some bosses you have to face more than once (yes the exact same boss) , and a little 
 variety would have been nice.
  -Text: Okami conveys speech through text with the addition of gibberish instead of voice acting. 
 I am fine with the text, but I have never been a fun of the made up language instead of real language, 
 and it gets in the way of the music in the background. Also there is a lot of reading that has 
 to be done in the game. While Amaterasu remains silent, Issun does plenty of talking for the both 
 of them, and occasionally the large amount of text can slow down the pacing considerably. The game 
 gives you the option to skip every cutscene, but I felt like if i skipped i would miss something 
 important, so there is a trade off for the very impatient.
  
  Conclusion: All in all, if you have ever played a Zelda game before and enjoyed it (as most people 
 have) , you are doing yourself a great disservice if you are ignoring Okami. As long as you're not 
 a real nitpicker, the negatives never interfere noticeable with the positives, and Okami is just 
 an awesome adventure that I had an absolute blast playing through. (If you need some comparisons, 
 I would say think a tiny bit worse than Windwaker, but it's considerably better than Majora's Mask) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dakidukno
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  
  You play as a sun god Ameratsu that takes the form of a white wolf, who had once been awakened 
 to stop the wrath of a dark demonic dragon. You are now reawakened, at first, to help the goddess 
 of nature and her annoying but hilarious flea, but soon you find out that the dark dragon has been 
 awakened as well. 
  You have the incredible ability to paint out your thoughts into reality. You start out weak, but 
 as you progress other gods assist you and soon you can create & control wind, water, and so much 
 more...
  You gain weapons... shields that protect, beads that strike at a distance, and swords of great power 
 and speed. In addition you can learn new fighting skills that match each type of weapon.
  You meet all kinds of people, humans and demons alike that become part of your quest. You encounter 
 difficult puzzles, challenges, and fights that wouldn't be possible without the antics and help 
 of the people. 
  
  And in the end... well that's for you to find out.
  
  The game is an instant classic, and an instant favorite of mine. The graphics, the gameplay, and 
 even the sound is unique and refreshing for adventure game lovers. All in all the game is fun, 
 tactical, addictive and time consuming. You'll get lost in the world of Okami. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantom5800
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Okami hit the PS2 in 2006 and ended up being a cult classic that few would play; but those who 
 did play it enjoyed it greatly and fought on message boards to raise awareness of the game. Almost 
 two years later, with Clover Studios dissolved it seemed hopeless for any of their work to see 
 the light of day again. However, Ready At Dawn has done the impossible and ported a seemingly lost 
 game to the Wii, and it has been done spectacularly.
  
  Okami is the home to a sprawling world of puzzles and adventure that can leave any player with 
 a soul speechless and, at times, in tears. After a long opening cinema, you take on the role of 
 a wolf Amaterasu and her new sprite friend Issun the wandering artist. Issun plays the role of 
 annoying character that pops in with hints every now and then, but over time you will begin to 
 wonder how you could ever go through the game without him. Amaterasu is a reincarnated wolf of 
 the legendary Shiranui whom one-hundred years before had defeated the snake beast Orochi with the 
 hero Nagi at his side. From here you begin to learn the different kinds of abilities you will encounter 
 throughout the game in the form of the Celestial Brush. There are thirteen different abilities 
 ranging from creating the sun in the sky to giant bombs that can destroy cracked walls as well 
 as most enemies. Luckily, the brush techniques are not the only ways to kill enemies, you will 
 also be given a variety of different weapons to use in the game, each weapon must be used differently 
 for different combos. Each weapon is controlled by waggling the Wiimote, so timing can become very 
 difficult at times, but it is nothing that cannot be perfected with practice.
  
  The way you use the brush makes the gameplay very fluid and easy to use in the heat of combat. 
 With a little work, you will be pulling off brush techniques and killing enemies like it is child's 
 play. However, killing enemies and giant bosses is a part of the game, it is not the main part. 
 Throughout the adventure your overall goal is to restore the land itself as well as the peoples 
 faith in the gods that has dwindled over the years. By restoring faith in the gods, or the environment, 
 Amaterasu gains "praise points" that can then be used to increase Health, Ink (for the paintbrush) , 
 Max money holding number, or a special "Astral Pouch" that restores you to life if you die in combat.
 
  
  The story is based primarily on Japanese Mythology, something that can turn off many gamers, but 
 at the same time bring in many fans. The story pulls its characters directly from legend (though 
 they might not do exactly the same things as in legend) . Amaterasu, Orochi, and many others will 
 all make appearances as easily recognizable creatures in game.
  
  Where the game originally received its criticism was in the graphics, and on the Wii version of 
 Okami are very bright and vibrant colors as opposed to a watercolor parchment effect from the PS2 
 game. The new color scheme does not take away from the game, in fact to many, it will add to the 
 experience and make the game overall a more detailed and cell-shaded effect in the vein of Wind 
 Waker.
  
  In the end, Okami is an epic adventure that should not be missed on the Wii. For any fans of adventure 
 games, Japanese Mythology, or a great rpg-style story, Okami is the game for you. Don't miss Okami 
 on the Wii if you can, the $40 price tag makes it one of the most attractively priced and greatest 
 Wii games there are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 10, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Capcom has had some crappy luck for Wii games that aren't Resident Evil. They make great games, 
 GREAT games but no one pays attention to them or buys them. First example Zack and Wiki. Did you 
 buy it? yes? good for you. No? Turn in your gaming license, you don't deserve to play video games. 
 Second example is Okami, a game when originally came out for the PS2 was so critically acclaimed 
 for everything in it, that reviewers practically asked everyone to buy it. Now it comes out for 
 the Wii the same happens, reviewers love it and so do a select few gamers, buuuuuut the masses 
 more or less ignore it. Shame on you
  
  First off lets talk about the main thing that comes to mind when you think about Okami, the graphics/art 
 style. This game is art. It is pure art. The classic Japanese painting style is a breath of fresh 
 air in a world of "BROWN IS REAL + lots of HDR lighting" graphic styled games. The colors and effects 
 just pop out like a moving painting. Difference from the original include, more vibrant colors 
 (which some do not like since it looks less like paper) widescreen support, and 480p support. The 
 only gripe I have with it is that on an HD tv, the visual sort of seem blurred. Its still a very 
 beautiful game and it looks perfect on a regular tv, but when they're talking so much about widescreen 
 and 480p, it sort of sucks that you can't get around it.
  
  Gameplay wise, Okami borrows a lot form The Legend of Zelda, minus fighting enemies. Much like 
 Zelda you will travel town to town talking to villagers, breaking open pots, opening chests, the 
 whole nine yards. Fighting enemies though is more like an action RPG. You'll go to a certain point 
 in an area and an enclosed circle will come up with enemies for you to fight. This is where a problem 
 comes up, the Wii motion controls. To attack you must swing the wii mote, but for some reason for 
 me at least it seems to only pick up big swings of the wii mote, smaller swings seem to do nothing. 
 This is both annoying and dangerous to those around you. 
  
  More control issues are found in the celestial brush, which allows you to stop time and paint various 
 shapes to create or attack something on the screen. The motion tracking isn't the problem, its 
 the fact that you must be extremely precise or your technique won't work. This is found early in 
 one of the most prominent techniques that allows you to slash an opponent by drawing a straight 
 horizontal line. It seems Ready at Dawn did not ease up on the requirements needed to do the celestial 
 brush techniques with the Wii.
  
  Negatives aside, Okami is a great game that everyone who likes action adventures must play. NOW 
 GO AND BUY IT. Support good games and not crappy movie tie ins.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shurien
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  When Okami debuted in 2006 for the PlayStation 2, I couldn't help but get caught up in its beauty. 
 This work of genius, from the Clover Studios, introduced an innovative new play technique that 
 let you interact with your surroundings via a celestial brush.
  
  The good news is the Wii version holds up just as admirably as the PS2 edition. It utilizes the 
 same free-flowing art style, with the lead character, a spiritual wolf named Amaterasu, breaking 
 out in fluid white and orange colors. Each of the levels contains a hand-drawn shading style that's 
 absolutely unique and awesome to watch. Ready At Dawn has done its homework, closely studying and 
 nailing down Clover Studios' eclectic style. The fact that the game supports progressive scan makes 
 it even more incredible, if you have the HDTV necessary to utilize it. The loading is pretty efficient 
 too, not taking any more than about 10 seconds to get started. You can also skip past the story 
 sequences if you prefer, but they're glorious to watch. Even standing still, the game looks superb.
 
  
  What's equally impressive is the audio. Okami has a fantastic mythical soundtrack that flows along 
 with the on-screen action, complete with pounding drums and soothing flute melodies. The sound 
 effects are solid, if somewhat sparse, and the dialogue is spoken in fascinating gibberish. You 
 haven't lived until you've heard your annoying little companion, Issun, chew you out in a language 
 you can't understand. (Fortunately, everything's translated on-screen, so you don't have to rely 
 on confusing verbal dialect.)
  
  As for the controls, Ready At Dawn has done a mostly efficient job translating them over to the 
 Nunchuk and the Wii remote. You move around Amaterasu with the analog stick on the Nunchuk, while 
 controlling the camera by pressing down on the D-pad and switching to a more aerial view with a 
 press of the 1 button. Attacking is simple  you merely swipe the Wii remote, whether you're on 
 the ground or in the air. It works moderately well, although sometimes swipes aren't so clearly 
 read during combat. As a result, you won't be able to chain combos together as smoothly as you 
 can on the PS2 version. No matter, as this provides a more concentrated style of play, so enemies 
 aren't so much of a pushover this time around.
  
  Now we come to the big addition in the game, the ability to maneuver the celestial brush directly 
 with the Wii remote. The brush serves two purposes. The first lets you interact with items so they 
 work to your advantage. For instance, you see a statue with a broken sword, unable to get assistance 
 from it. So what do you do? Draw it a new sword, of course. The second purpose comes with combat, 
 in which you draw swipe marks across enemies or objects to strike them down. This interface works 
 very well, for the most part. It does take some practice, however. The canvas is presented in a 
 diagonal setting and you're pointing your remote directly at the TV. As a result, you'll need to 
 mildly adjust, and put up with Issun's complaints at the same time. Overall, though, it works wonderfully.
 
  
  Sadly, you won't find any new content in this version of Okami. For the most part, this is a straight-up 
 port of the PS2 game, with all of its levels, hidden clovers and other goodies intact.
  
  Bottom line, you need to play Okami on the Wii. It is a breathtaking gaming experience, even to 
 those who have already beaten the PS2 edition. The visuals are imaginative and bold, the audio 
 is easy on the ears, the controls, for the most part, work and the quest is long and rewarding. 
 Okami is a work of art that you'll have no problem admiring.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 9, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw video of Okami I was like "Oh my God! I want to play this game!" Sadly I didn't 
 have a PS2 but almost bought one just for Okami. 
  
  Despite incredible critical success, Okami got overshadowed by bigger name titles that came out 
 around the same time (FFXII, Guitar Hero II, Bully) and Capcom closed developer Clover Studios. 
 I found myself wishing this would come out for the Wii.
  
  Well it appears at that moment, someone at Capcom heard my thoughts and lo, the announced that 
 this game was coming to the Wii. Given Capcom was one of the few third party developers that could 
 make decent Wii games (RE4, Zack and Wiki) , I was excited all over again.
  
  I was so worried that I would be disappointed, that I built myself up too high for this, but thankfully 
 Okami was everything I hoped for and more. 
  
  The story is steeped in Japanese folklore. You are the white wolf Sun Goddess, Okami Amaterasu. 
 100 years ago, Okami and the master swordsman Nagi faced off against the eight-headed demon Orochi. 
 Nagi defeated Orochi but Okami died in the struggle. Nagi used his sword to seal away the demon 
 and a statue was erected in Okami's memory. 100 years later, some idiot removed the sword releasing 
 Orochi once more to spread his darkness across the land. Okami is ressurected and asked once more 
 to defeat Orochi and restore light and color to the land. Even without voice acting, the story 
 is one of the best in any game I've played and is wonderfully engaging. It's full of quirky characters, 
 most notably your sidekick, Issun, a talking flea with a sharp tongue who has a thing for the ladies.
 
  
  The gameplay is taken from the Zelda series, but that's not a bad thing. You have a large overworld, 
 full of dungeons and caves to explore. There are sidequests to take and tons of special items and 
 extras to find. However with Twighlight Princess, I began to feel this sense of complacency with 
 the series. TP is still a great game, but I felt like it was the same drill. Whereas Okami felt 
 really different. What realy makes this game stand out is Okami's celestrial brush. Instead of 
 various weapons or spell, holding down the B button transforms the screen into a giant papyrus 
 canvas and you draw attacks with a brush. These moves include fire, water, wind and many more. 
 One small flaw, is that while this seems suited for the Wii, the game is a bit picky on how you 
 draw them, Luckily you can try as many times as you want, but for some this can get frustrating. 
 There's one sequence early in the game where you are stuck in a cutscene having to draw circles 
 to make this tree bloom during a dance and it took me forever to move on because it was so picky 
 on how I drew them. But these moments are far and few between, but it will require some patience.
 
  
  Besides the celestrial brush techniques, there's also more standard combat. When Okami encounters 
 a foe in the form of a wandering scroll on the field, she'll become enclosed in a small arena (unlike 
 in Zelda) and battle a few foes, then you get a score based on how fast you beat opponets and how 
 much damage you took. A quick flick of the remote unleashes Okami's melee attacks using weapons 
 you collect such as beads and swords. Timing your hits right will allow for combos. You can escape 
 from battle by striking lighted areas on the sides an jumping through the opening but you want 
 to fight as much as you can in order to get demon fangs and money to buy additional weapons and 
 upgrades. Did I mention you can also attack foes by peeing on them?
  
  The world of Okami is vast and beautiful. It takes the cell shaded art style to a new level by 
 infusing the game with the look of a Japanese rice paper print or woodcut and the game is a visual 
 feast and no one can complain about the crappy Wii graphics here. It actually looks more colorful 
 and vibrant compared to it's PS2 counterpart and supports widscreen and 480p. The music is wonderful. 
 Playing old world Japanese tunes and it fits the mood of the game perfectly. That's what's wonderful 
 about a game like this, it has an ageless look that will outlast even something as high tech as 
 Crysis.
  
  There's really not much bad, I can say about this title. The only major complaints are some issues 
 with the controls registering brush moves here and there. Also there's a nunchuck shaking dodge 
 move that doesn't work right at all but it's not vital to the gameplay. You don't even have to 
 buy it. If you did play the PS2 version, there's no need to pick it up again unless you really 
 want to try out the Wii controls. No additonal levels were added for this port. Finally I will 
 tell you that the game is a bit on the easy side, but even with that, there's still a good 20-30 
 hours worth of gameplay here especially if you take time to search around for hidden goodies like 
 stray beads, feeding all the animals and digging up items.
  
  Any Zelda fan, anyone who thinks games can be art, anyone who's tired of crappy 3rd party Wii games, 
 should get Okami. It's one of the best and most unique games I've played in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spleko
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this is one of the most well put together games I have ever played. 
 That is by no means an exageration. This review will be set up in a simple list format listing 
 the good and the bad points of the game.
  Good Points:
  -Amazing storyline. I will not give anything away but the basic jist of it is that you are the 
 reborn god/godess Amaterasu who must journey through the world of NIppon to defeat the reawakened 
 eight headed demon Orochi but the story does not stop there, infact the initial story line is only 
 about a fourth of the whole game.
  -Throughout the game you aquire Brush Techniques which can be used via the wiimote as a brush. 
 These techniques vary from everything from controling fire to creating a mist that slows time.
 
  -The graphics are AMAZING! Enough said. The old style of japanese art is amazing especialy if 
 you're ana anime fan like myself.
  -There are a variety of weapons to use alongside your celestial brush.
  
  Bad:
  -The only 
 thing I found was bad about this game was that it was slightly challenging. Challenging isn't really 
 a good word as it's not so much you die very often its more you dont always know what to do. Confuzing 
 describes it much better. However it is not so hard it will take you hours and hours to figure 
 out. Besides there are many wonderfull walkthroughs writen by the users of Gamespot and GameFAQs 
 which I found to be extreemly helpful.
  
  All in all Okami is an AMAZING game but might prove to be a little challenging for younger players 
 and those with very little patience.
  
  P. S. Sorry for any spelling errors but I kinda was in a rush when I wrote this so I did not have 
 time to use the spell check. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oliwam
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Very unique; Wonderful artistic graphics; Excellent soundtrack; Great character development 
 and personality, from the major characters to the minor; You'll definitely be getting more bang 
 for your buck; Keeps on getting better every minute you play
  
  The Bad: Motion controls aren't spot on; Way too much text; No credits in the end of the game; 
 The box art (I'm talking about the IGN mark) ; The game can freeze at times later on in the game, 
 and there might be occasional graphical glitches
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  A couple of years ago, it was a battle of the wolves. It was Okami Amaterasu vs Link from the 
 Zelda series. Okami was released on the PS2, while Twilight Princess was released on the Gamecube 
 and the Wii. Eventually, Okami gets ported onto the Wii. The first similarity between these two 
 games is that they became rare to find on their original console (yes, Twilight Princess was originally 
 being developed for the GC) . The second similarity is that they can both be found on the Wii now. 
 The third similarity is the Snowpeak Ruins of TP and the Moon Cave of Okami. This game is heavily 
 inspired by the Zelda series. As you playthrough Okami, you will certainly get a Zelda-esch feeling, 
 even though this game is very unique. Say hello to Okami, the Zelda-inspired, Japanese-everything-inspired 
 masterpiece.
  
  You play this game as a wolf named Okami Amaterasu, the Sun God. 100 years ago, you fought alongside 
 the warrior Nagi and defeated the dreaded 8-headed dragon Orochi. You ended up dying, but you were 
 remember as the villagers of Kamiki Village created a statue in your honor. However, now Orochi 
 is somehow released, and the country of Nippon plunges into darkness. Now it's time for you to 
 wake up from your 100 year slumber and defeat Orochi once again and save the world from darkness. 
 Joining you in your quest is the minuscule bouncing wandering artist Issun. Using your Celestial 
 Brush, you must draw your path to victory. You also must find the 13 brush gods and learn their 
 techniques to get through this journey. Get ready to embark on a long quest that will take you 
 to many places and meet many people. The storyline certainly is good and smoothly progresses. The 
 only problem is the text. Some of it is great (there is great Japanese humor thrown in) , but there 
 is just WAY TOO MUCH of it. What's especially annoying is the story-telling parts (like in the 
 beginning) . They are too long and have really bad pacing. It often cuts in after a big boss battle 
 and tells you everything that happens after the battle, while you'd much rather just see what happens 
 yourself. They just drag on and you'll be begging for it to end in order to continue playing.
 
  
  This game has many similarities to Zelda while remaining extremely unique. Okami features dungeons 
 that can easily be compared to some of Zelda's dungeons (Tutsa Ruins and Woodfall Temple [MM] ; 
 the Moon Cave and the Snowpeak Ruins [TP] ; the Ark of Yamoto and Ganon's Tower [WW] ) . You use keys 
 in this game. You have a small annoying guide. You run around in a large overworld. I can go on 
 and on about the similarities. Now for what makes Okami stand alone. The Celestial Brush is really 
 something. As you progress through the game, you will learn a bunch of techniques that will be 
 really helpful to you. One thing that Okami does better than any of the Zelda games is that it 
 makes you use all the techniques throughout the entire game. In Zelda, whenever you gain an item, 
 unless if it's a hookshot or arrows, you use the item only in the dungeon you get it in and maybe 
 a few times in other places (Twilight Princess was extremely guilty of this, and it had some great 
 new items) . In Okami, when you learn a new brush technique, remember it, cause you're going to 
 need to use it later on for sure. You'll have to be able to utilize every technique to get through 
 this game. Using the Wiimote to execute the techniques might be tough at first, but after a while, 
 you'll be doing power slashes with ease. This game features a bunch of puzzles that will put your 
 drawing skills to the test. While none of them are really tough, you do have to do a bit of thinking 
 to get through some of them.
  
  Now for the combat. In order to battle, you simply touch an enemy or go through these gates, and 
 you'll enter a "battlefield." You'll fight several foes, a lot of them being imps. During battle, 
 you attack by shacking the Wiimote. You can use three different kinds of weapons: Reflector (you 
 start off with this) , Beads, and Glaives. Now, the motion controls aren't spot on, and may cause 
 some frustration if you don't know what you're doing. You can get used to this, and I personally 
 use the beads since they're the easiest to use and can get some major combos. While I was able 
 to get over this, I know other people hated it. It's a matter of personal preference. Like one 
 user said, "It's not the Wiimote, it's the one who wields the Wiimote." The PS2 would definitely 
 be the safer bet in these regards. Though it is possible to get over this problem, and the controls 
 aren't really that huge of a problem. It's still manageable regardless, and you'll easily get used 
 to the combat after a while. You will also be using the brush techniques during battle. They'll 
 also be huge during the boss battles, which are very well done. You'll be facing bosses that range 
 anywhere from your size to colossal beasts. There are some epic battles in this game (especially 
 the final battle, which is the definition of epic) . If you can find a way to get used to these 
 motion controls, you'll surely love the combat in this game.
  
  The battles aren't the only thing that's epic. This whole game is one massive adventure. By the 
 time you're done with this game, you'll have travelled underwater, into a person's body, up mountains, 
 up excessively long towers, into a dragon's body, through forests, through large plains. The world 
 is huge, and you're going to be doing tons of exploring. Another thing that Okami does better than 
 a lot of Zelda games is that the overworld is extremely lively. You won't be bored running through 
 the large fields as it feels like no land is wasted. As you move along and begin realizing how 
 large Nippon is, you'll find it hard to turn the Wii off. This is another reason why every Zelda 
 fan should try this game out.
  
  Another thing that makes this game special is the characters. Every single character, no matter 
 how major or how minor, has his/her/it's own distinct personality. This is one of the few games 
 ever where characters with absolutely minuscule roles in the game can have such major emotional 
 impact. Some examples are Tobi, Bamboo Girl, and the archer at the City Checkpoint. These characters 
 are only seen once or twice through the entire game, and they such little roles. In fact, if they 
 didn't even exist in the game, or at least had no side backing story, it wouldn't have made any 
 difference in the game. Yet they each have such a wonderful personality, and you might even get 
 emotional over one of them. It's these little things that separate a good game from a great game. 
 This game easily has some the greatest characters ever. Those three characters I mentioned are 
 extremely minor. Then there are the major character, like Issun, Waka, and Susano. I won't even 
 get started on those guys (plus I might spoil some really important things) .
  
  This game is beautiful. It's amazing to see a game that doesn't go for graphical technicality, 
 but rather art. This game is a prime example of how videogames can be art. Really, I don't know 
 how to describe this game's graphics. You're just going to have to play the game and experience 
 the art yourself. The graphics aren't technically perfect, but they're an artistic marvel. The 
 music in this game is beautiful as well. That's all I can really say. Also, another similarity 
 between this game and the Zelda series is the grunts characters make when they talk.
  
  This game is certainly more than your money's worth. The main quest takes approximately 30 hours 
 to beat, and there are many sidequests. Okami costs a bit less than your average Wii game, and 
 it certainly is better than your average Wii game. Also, at the end of the game, you get evaluated. 
 I doubt you'll get everything on your first playthrough, so then you'll be wanting to play this 
 game all over again.
  
  If you are a fan of Action RPGs or a Zelda fan, you absolutely need to get this game. It takes 
 what makes Zelda such a great series, it improves on certain areas, it adds it's own uniqueness, 
 it's own humor, and the end result is a fantastic game. It's not flawless, and I know there are 
 people who can't stand the motion controls. I personally had no problems once I stopped using the 
 reflector as the main weapon. It's a matter of personal preference. As well, the game can freeze 
 at certain points, and there are occasionally some graphical glitches (such as Ammy's head disappearing) . 
 The text is also way too heavy. Fortunately, you can skip it by simply pressing the + button. Yet 
 some people like the pay attention to the storyline (and this game's storyline is well done) . Anyways, 
 if you overlook those flaws, you see an absolute masterpiece. This game is a long epic adventure 
 in a massive lively world filled with tons of characters with intense personalities. This game 
 truly shows how videogames can be a form of artistic expression (there is a message in this game 
 that you'll find near the end) . It's definitely worth your money. If own either a PS2 or a Wii, 
 you need to try this game out. If you own both, then I'll leave it up to you to decide which version 
 you want (the PS2 version is rare however) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sajoranidem
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Now the owners of a nintendo wii have the opportunity to check one of the most controversial games 
 in the industry! Okami offers a new type of use for the control and we can paint our future!
  Okami offers multiple interactive scenarios, a lot of brush techniques, a beautiful scenario and 
 a mysterious story for made us had a good time.
  But not all in Okami is as beautiful as their game play, because this game is between controversialism 
 and the corporate problems in capcom. But who cares if capcom is the creator or not of this great 
 game the important thing is that we can enjoy this jewel and made it a classic.
  It is up to you to decide if this game will be a classic of the industry or just another game, 
 but you can be sure this is an amazing game! Thank young and have a nice fun jeje. ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Okami is a game that will take your breath away, everything is sealmessly wrapped together to create 
 one of the best games ever made. The graphics mimic a japanese watercolor painting. The world is 
 full of vibrant color and creativity. Music follows the themes and tones of the game closely, doing 
 a perfect job of instilling happiness to see your first tree revived, or getting the heart racing 
 during an intense battle. 
  The original version of the game, was heralded as near perfect. The Wii version is also the same 
 degree of greatness. However, the one area that sets the game back is with the controls themself. 
 
  
  Gameplay 8- Pretty much the only thing that didnt get ported perfectly along with the rest of the 
 game is the controls. At first, using the remote pointer for the brush felt awkward, and it took 
 quite a few tries to get the game to register what was supposed to be a slash attack, or a circle 
 to bloom or make the sun come out. This was worked around eventually with enough practice, and 
 now the brush feels like a natural extension of the arm. The nunchuck motion controls, which you 
 have to purchase the dodge skill to make use of, are bad. It's responsive in the sense that a light 
 shake is all it takes to dodge, but good luck doging in the direction you intened.
  The game also has strange framerate problems in the in-game menu, Im not sure why this wasnt corrected.
 
  
  Graphics 10- Some of the best graphics for a game to date in terms of art style. Some people complained 
 about the loss of the parchment filter. It's still there, just much more subtle. It's hard to see 
 unless you are really looking for it. Personally I find this makes the graphics look more crisp, 
 colorful, and vibrant.
  
  Sound 10- Stunningly beautiful music and soundtracks. Some extra voices were added to a few of 
 the cutscenes.
  
  Replay Value 9- Having played the original, I find that since this is the same game, it has a bit 
 less replay value. But its still hard not to give Okami two or three playthroughs. As it requires 
 at least two to get everything.
  
  Fun Factor 10- Okami is one of the most engrossing games I have played to date. Everyone should 
 be able to enjoy this outstanding piece of art.
  
  My Final Score- 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xeuton_Mojukai
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  Okami is a game that you play and then beg every friend you know to try out.
  
  It's the kind of game that you wish they would make a sequel for, and check avidly for more information 
 on such a sequel.
  
  It's a game that brings the player a feeling of delight.
  
  It has a message of being unafraid of adventures, loving your friends, and enjoying life to the 
 fullest.
  
  Using the Wii Remote, you are able to paint various effects into the game world, and none of these 
 effects are decidedly uncool.
  
  From controlling multiple elements strewn about the game to slowing time itself, you begin to wish 
 you could use this power in every game you play.
  
  If you get the chance to play this game, please make sure to play it twice at the very least, and 
 also don't be afraid to play it with your children as long as they're at least 7 or 8. Though it's 
 rated T, this is mainly because of very good-humored Japanese cultural references, like sake, cute 
 girls, and other things that are not really as bad as the box makes them out to be.
  
  In short, please buy this game, and give yourself a once-in-a-lifetime experience that will stay 
 with you forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xendos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I completely missed this game when it was released for the PS2 a few years ago. I was interested 
 in getting it, but I was never truly convinced into buying the game despite its rave reviews (which 
 clearly others agreed with - the PS2 version of the game had dismal sales) . Once I heard about 
 it being ported to the Nintendo Wii, though, something about the game seemed more interesting. 
 The controls for the game were going to be drastically different, with the brush now mapped to 
 the Wii-mote, and the fact that the game had often been compared to the Zelda franchise made its 
 transition to the Wii seem ironically fitting.
  
  Let me just get this out of the way, since this is what most people are going to say; this game 
 is drop dead gorgeous. The artistic design of this game too beautiful to speak of, it simply must 
 be experienced. Amaterasu's (the wolf deity protagonist) design in and of itself is worth immense 
 praise, for even though the character never utters a word (and is a WOLF) , she is given an immense 
 amount of emotion and character. She is somehow both lovable and fearsome simultaneously, and the 
 way in which she interacts with the games other main character Issun (a sprite-like character who 
 is arguably the game's "Navi") is quite memorable. Character design is brilliant all around, for 
 very few characters you run into are boring. Each has their own personality, clothing style, and 
 speech pattern; there are no cardboard cutouts to be found here. The music and sound also fits 
 astoundingly well with the game, although I could do without the "MumbleMumble" that each character 
 is given instead of a voice over - it can get annoying if it goes on for too long.
  
  The game controls well...95% of the time. While it takes a little bit of getting used to, the Celestial 
 Brush (your main weapon in the game where you draw on the screen with a brush to cause different 
 events/effects) eventually becomes second nature, though still not perfect. Some of the brush strokes 
 simply do not register with the game at some points. Also, melee attacks are performed by swinging 
 the Wii-mote, which works well sometimes, but combos can sometimes stop mid-hit, especially with 
 the sword weapons obtained later in the game. Otherwise, the platforming elements of the game work 
 remarkably well and really put your Celestial Brush skills to the test.
  
  Overall, this is one of the best games on the Wii. Sure, its hard not to compare it to Zelda (especially 
 Twilight Princess, considering both have wolves with strange markings and rude companions) , but 
 I would say that comparison is a compliment. The story is memorable, sometimes funny, and sometimes 
 very, very sad, but always, ALWAYS thrilling. If you are at ALL a fan of the Zelda series, or any 
 other adventure series, this is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  In case you didn't know, Okami is a remake of the critically acclaimed PS2 game of the same name 
 released in 2006. In the game you play a god incarnate in a classic good versus evil struggle for 
 the land. A truly original gameplay element and one-of-a-kind graphical presentation set this game 
 apart from any other in the action adventure genre.
  
  A bit of a warning if you have played the PS2 version and are interested in the Wii remake. There 
 is no new content to speak of in the Wii version although the support of widescreen presentation 
 as well as the increased resolution and color palette of the Wii make this more than enough reason 
 to check out again.
  
  Your character, a white wolf, turns out to be the physical manifestation of the sun god, Amaterasu 
 returning to the land of Nippon to banish the evil spirit of the Orochi, freed after 100 years 
 in captivity. Your task, along with your minuscule sidekick Issun is to methodically build up your 
 powers until you can finally handle the evil Orochi on your own. To build up your power, you must 
 complete various task as well as explore the different locals of Nippon uncovering divine techniques 
 known as brush techniques. The divine brush is a large paint brush used to do multiple things such 
 as build bridges, make plants (and enemies) bloom and put out fire among other things. This is 
 used predictably to unlock more and more of the adventure. Throughout this adventure, you will 
 meet many many memorable people and animals and some of the most beautiful locals even displayed 
 through a videogame.
  
  The graphics are a cross between the art of cell shading and a watercolor painting. Liberal use 
 of pastels and deep earthy colors give the game a warm and inviting feel, compelling you to uncover 
 more and rescue the surrounding land from the blithe it fell under. The sound in Okami mixes classic 
 Japanese instruments with a beautiful string undercurrent and never once do you find yourself cringing 
 at the musical selection for a partiular area.
  
  Okami's controls work a bit better than its PS2 counter part but both will take some effort to 
 get use to. The brush techniques are very simple gestures and after a time, it becomes obvious 
 in a given situation what brush technique will get you through the current situation.
  
  One of the very few items that detract from this game is the difficulty level. The game is extremely 
 easy, it just takes time to finish it. Earing yen to buy items to heal yourself with is very easy 
 and on top of that, you can collect food throughout the game to fill up your astral pouch, think 
 energy tanks in Metroid. Also, almost all enemire drop health orbs and you can pause the game at 
 any point to administer first aid in the form of dog bones!
  
  Okami is an epic journey which never got enough love from the general public when first released 
 but I guarantee you will enjoy every minute of it if you give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footfoe2
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Okami is The brilliant gem from clover, Its a plat former/Action RPG hybrid Being ported from the 
 ps2 to the Wii
  
  SHORT STORY: This is quiet possibly the best game ever, and even if you are incapable to fully 
 appreciate the pure artistic brilliance of this game, This game long and undeniably fun well worth 
 the $40, I would pay 100 usd for this game. Just get it man.
  
  You take the reins of Amatursu The god of the sun in an epic quest to breathe life back into the 
 world. you can dash at blinding speeds though vast beautiful landscapes, battling various evil 
 minions. They story and dynamic characters is quiet impressive, and deeply involving, making you 
 forget about your own life.
  some say its to easy, it may be some what true you will never really die in a battle. You are a 
 god after all those demons are no match for you, rather than saying its easy i would say it has 
 a soothing difficulty. sounds strange to say but once you start playing you'll understand.
  
  Graphics: Brilliant, dazzling, awesome, unique, perfect need more?
  Sound: an intense sound 
 track add emotions to every moment of the game deepening the expirence.
  
  Upgrade??? yes it is an upgrade the Wii controls, thou take some time to get used to, are very 
 intuitive and involve you even more. The brush techniques are alot more fun with the Wii mote. 
 Plus the new cover is awesome. Sadly you won't see the Clover logo when you start the game.
  
  
  Pros: Perfect graphics, Perfect game play, Perfect story, Perfect pace, Perfect story, 
 perfect sound, Perfect controls, Brush techniques are innovative, You can run fast!! 
  Cons: um its easy? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Okami is a beautiful action game that was originally released on the Playstation 2 about two years 
 ago. Now Okami has been planted on the Wii, courtesy of Ready At Dawn studios (Well known for their 
 two PSP titles, Daxter and God of war: Chains of Olympus) . It is amazing at how well the game has 
 held up over time. Okami's transfer onto the Wii isn't without its stumbles, but if you missed 
 out on the PS2 version of this game; no need to worry, because you've been given another chance 
 to check it out.
  
  The main story of Okami is a basic good versus evil affair based on Japanese Mythology. You play 
 as the sun god Amaterasu, who has returned to the world in the form of a white wolf which had helped 
 to defeat evil 100 years earlier. 
  
  The story itself is enough to get the game rolling, but it is the world and its characters that 
 will really draw you into the story. The world itself is gorgeous to look at while exploring. The 
 characters all have their unique and funny personalities, from your pint-sized wise-cracking sidekick 
 Issun, to the bumbling and cowardly warrior Susano.
  
  The basic game play of Okami takes a lot of notes from other action-adventure games, most notably 
 the Zelda series. You explore the vast landscape purifying the land of an evil curse by rejuvenating 
 the land's flora, feeding animals, helping the townsfolk, defeating bands of demons, and more.
 
  
  The world of Okami is very large, but you're a fleet-footed wolf here; so traversing the land quickly 
 is not a problem at all. One of the great things about Okami is that unlike certain action-adventure 
 games, you never feel like there's a lack of things to do, even if you decide to veer off the main 
 quest slightly.
  
  It helps that Okami is a very long game, especially for an action-adventure game. Even if you just 
 rush through the main storyline, the game will easily take you around 30 hours to complete. This 
 amount is more than doubled if you try to find everything Okami has to offer.
  
  One of Okami's most satisfying gameplay elements is the celestial brush system. The celestial brush 
 system essentially allows you to paint various ink patterns on the land to create miracles. For 
 example, you can fill in the space between two broken halves of a bridge to rebuild it, or you 
 can slice enemies clear in half with a simple straight line through them.
  
  The Wii version of Okami makes the celestial brush system more interesting thanks to motion controls. 
 The system as a whole feels more natural than it would with an analog stick. However, the celestial 
 brush's motion controls can be quite unwieldy for new players early on. This can make simple techniques, 
 such as the power slash, more difficult to pull off than they should be.
  
  This wouldn't be that much of a problem if the game didn't start throwing these tricky scripted 
 sequences at you from early on in the game, which require you to do certain celestial brush techniques 
 up to five times in quick succession. These sequences are pretty frustrating early on, but they 
 become more enjoyable and easier along with the celestial brush system as a whole over time.
  
  Motion controls are also used during combat. Simple swings of the remote allow you to do basic 
 attacks and combos with your equipped weaponry. You may have trouble with Okami's combat if you 
 are used to the mindless swinging that justified the combat from The Legend of Zelda: Twilight 
 Princess. Okami's combat is much more precise and requires you to time your swings to be effective 
 in combat.
  
  Even though it is a precise system however, the combat in Okami is quite easy. This is more due 
 to the game's enemy design however, and not because of anything like lackluster enemy AI. The enemy 
 AI in Okami actually puts up an entertaining fight. 
  
  And what would an action-adventure game like Okami be without some huge boss battles? Okami has 
 many boss battles throughout its duration, though they also tend to be a bit easy to beat.
  
  If there is a major problem with the motion controls in Okami, it is the controls for dodging. 
 When you have learned the appropriate ability in the game, you can swing the nunchuck in any direction 
 to dodge in that direction. At least, in theory. 
  
  The game is aptly responsive to the swings of the nunchuck, but 90 percent of the time the game 
 has you dodge in a different direction than intended. Fortunately, dodging is not essential to 
 winning the game. But there is still absolutely no excuse for Ready At Dawn to have sent the game 
 out with something that needed as much work as the dodge mechanic here.
  
  Graphically, Okami is still a gorgeous game to look at. The whole game looks like a painting in 
 motion. Even after 2 years, there are few games that can even come close to matching Okami in artistic 
 prowess. Okami has also held up surprisingly well from a technical standpoint, as the particle 
 effects, character models, animation, and textures all look great.
  
  Okami fares well in the sound department as well. The music ranges from peaceful to ominous, and 
 generally fits the theme of each area perfectly. The mumbling sounds made by the characters you 
 chat with in the game are also entertaining. It goes to be noted that this mumbling is the only 
 voice characters get in Okami; as there is absolutely no voice acting to be found in the game.
 
  
  Ultimately, Okami's transfer to the Wii is far from flawless. The motion controls are a bit unwieldy 
 at first and the broken dodge move is inexcusable, but it all gets better with practice. 
  
  If you played the PS2 version of Okami, there is not much reason to recommend the Wii version, 
 since it offers no new content other than a new control scheme. If you missed out on the PS2 version 
 however, own a Wii, and are looking for a high-quality action-adventure game, you'll be doing yourself 
 a disservice by missing out on the gorgeous masterpiece that is Okami.
  
  Pros: Gorgeous graphics that hold up both artistically and technically. Huge world to explore. 
 Very long length will keep you occupied for weeks. Celestial Brush motion controls are very satisfying 
 in practice. The precise combat system feels great and is very entertaining.
  
  Cons: Celestial Brush motion controls can initially be unwieldy. Scripted sequences using the Celestial 
 Brush can be frusterating early in the game due to the previously mentioned issue. Broken controls 
 for the dodge mechanic. Soft enemy design makes the combat a bit too easy.
  
  Recommendable for: If you played the PS2 version, you probably don't need to buy the Wii version 
 as well. But if you missed out on that version, and want a great action game on the Wii, you can't 
 go wrong with Okami. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Okami for the Wii is really a port of an almost two year old PS2 game. But please don't turn your 
 back on this classic for that because really there probably no Wii game out there that deserves 
 your attention more. Okami is a fun, deep and unforgettable epic that any fan of the action adventure 
 genre can enjoy.
  
  Okami is very much like the the action adventure game of fam, the Legend of Zelda. You'll be exploring 
 a vast world going through dungeon, checking out towns and fighting bosses. Okami could easily 
 be compared to Zelda by pacing. Really, what sets Okami apart from Zelda gameplay wise is it's 
 use in the Wii remote. You'll be using it as a paint brush on your adventue, with the flexibilty 
 of most anything you'd find in Link's arsenal. You can use it to draw the sun to turn day to night, 
 you can use it to draw a line from a flighting flower to ammeteressu (your playable character) , 
 making a vine appear in place of the line and pull ammy up. Theres just so many applications to 
 the celestial paint bush, and you'll be aquiring them as you go long in your journey. To paint 
 you'll be pressing the B buttong, bringing you into a sort of canvas of the game, freezing everything, 
 then with the press of the A button you'll bring down the pain brush on screen to start your paining 
 and you'll move the Wii remote along to actually make the painting. It's a pretty practical way 
 of doing things, and really made the port worth it. Some times, you might have trouble with painting 
 stuff, but you'll get use to it. Some times the painting don't register correctly, but it's rare 
 and you'll get it right most of the time. 
  Combat wasn't ported perfectly unfortunatly. The attack command has been mapped to the Wii remote. 
 Just swing and you'll do an attack. Theres a bit of a learning curve though. You can't just swing 
 a whole bunch or wildly, theres a pace you have to do it in, but don't worry, you'll pick up on 
 it quickly. Still it's a bit frustrating to swing the Wii mote some times and Ammy not attack. 
 Dodging was handeled poorly though. Dodging is mapped to the Nun chuck. With a swing of the nun 
 chuck ammy will dodge, but according to which way you swing. Sometimes you just be adjusting the 
 position of your hand and you'll get an unwanted dodge. Combat requires a steady hand. And sometime 
 when you try to dodge, ammy wont dodge the way you were trying to go.
  All in all, the controls work well most of the time, and when it doesn't its nothing that makes 
 the game unenjoyable and it's not very frequent.
  The game also features some RPG elements. You can gain praise (Okami's nice nick name for experience 
 points) , by feeding aninmals, blooming dead plants and completing many other tasks in the game. 
 With the praise you can upgrade many of your attributes such as health, the amount of cash you 
 can carry and your in pouch.
  
  
  Okami is a beautiful game and is easily one of the very best looking Wii games (which is kinda ironic 
 since this is a ported PS2 game...) . The game is cell shaded and has a canvas filter that makes 
 the game look like one of those old japanese paintings. This game would be prettym uch impressing 
 on any of the current gen platform due to just how good this looks artistically. While the game 
 does look beautiful, there are a few shrt coming. The canvas filter wasn't ported perfectly. It 
 doesn't look as painted as the PS2 version in other words. This really doesn't make sense seeing 
 as the Wii is more powerful and really just says that Ready at Dawn sort of rushed this. Despite 
 this flaw, the game still looks great and the downgraded canvas is partially forgiven due to the 
 added wide screen support of the Wii version.
  
  Okami's music was very well composed and really fits the mood of ancient Japan. The sound effects 
 are also appropriatly placed althoug Im sure some will find the jibirish from the NPCs a little 
 annoying. 
  Okami's story is actually pretty good by game standards, and it's very interesting. Unfortunatly 
 though dailouge can drag at times, mostly due to characters repeating the same stuff over and over. 
 It doesn't kill anything, but it can be nerve racking. For thouse who are just in it for the game 
 though will be happy to know they can skip cut scenes.
  
  Okami is a REALLY long game. Just going straight through it will take over thirty hours. But with 
 the added side quests, such a collecting beads, finding new equipable weapons, buying new techniques 
 you can get around sixty hours in. Once you've beat the game you can start the game over with most 
 of your weapons and equipment intact as well as your upgraded health and ink pouch as well a few 
 other goodies. You'll asl o unlock the sound test, promo and concept art and old trailers for beating 
 the game.
  I also must mention that Okami for the Wii does not contain the credits nor the final scene after 
 the credits of the original which is really disapointing. It's nothing huge or anything, but some 
 will be disapointed by this.
  
  Okami's asking price is fourty bucks, ten dollars cheaper than your average Wii game. And your 
 really getting alot of bang for your buck here.
  
  If your a fan of long winded adventure game (and especially if your a fan of the Legend of Zelda 
 series) I highly reccomend Okami for the Wii. Despite is short comings it's really worth getting. 
 Although if you already have the PS2 version I would advise you to just keep that as the Wii version 
 doesn't offer enough to make it worth buying the same game twice. And for those who are wondering 
 which version to get I would suggest those with a wide screen television to get the Wii version 
 and those with a standard tv set go wit hthe PS2 version if they can find it and if they can't 
 the Wii version is still a great choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariamunchkin
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  It was maybe an hour into the game before I really realized that Okami, at times, felt a whole 
 lot like Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. I mean, the similarities are pretty obvious. You're 
 a wolf, with an annoying talking companion. Part of the world is in light, part of it is cursed 
 and in darkness. And when you come across bad guys, you enter small arenas surrounded by barriers 
 not unlike the Twilight creatures in Zelda. And you have the same sort of nonsensical dialogue, 
 where the words appear on the screen but the voices speak some sort of garbled gibberish squeaks.
 
  
  However, as prevalent as the similarities are, Okami stands out completely as it's own game. The 
 style alone sets it apart from most games. Having never played the original PS2 version, even for 
 the Wii the graphics feel fresh and full of color and movement. Very little seems to be lacking. 
 The colors are vibrant and the visuals are really quite breathtaking. When you restore the Guardian 
 Saplings to life and whole areas regain their colors and natural beauty, the cutscenes can be really 
 beautiful. The calligraphic style seems a natural fit for the Wii, especially when it comes to 
 using the brush.
  
  It took me a while to get the hang of using the brush. Sometimes it seems that the controls are 
 a little non-responsive, you have to draw the line exactly at the right place, and at the right 
 time, or the circle has to be just right, or the technique won't work. However, out of the battles 
 and situations I have come across so far, it hasn't been too much of a hassle except for when I 
 died twice trying to play baseball with possessed trees. The brush techniques for me make it hard 
 to envision the game for the PS2, it seems so natural to actually draw the strokes on the screen. 
 
  
  As far as story, the characters are interesting, and the story is very well laid out. You are Amaratsu, 
 or Ammy, a goddess awakened in the form of a white wolf, set with the task of ridding the Nippon 
 territory of an ancient evil. It's happened before, but the people have lost faith, so you have 
 to do some things to help them out so that you can awaken the other gods to add to your power, 
 and rid the territories of the curse that plagues them so that the Guardian Saplings can be restored 
 to bloom and protect the lands. Your counterpart is annoying little bug named Issun, who is like 
 Midna and Navi combined - really tiny, glowy, talks a lot and loves to insult you, but pretty much 
 knows everything and will stop to let you know what's going on if you don't.
  
  The game so far feels pretty easy. The combat isn't difficult once you get the hang of using the 
 brush. Your tasks are pretty much spelled out for you, either Issun or your map will show you exactly 
 what needs to be done or discovered before you can move on to the next area/task. And each time 
 you learn a new brush technique, new areas and secrets open up to you to gain items or complete 
 small tasks. 
  
  Overall, if you like Zelda, you'll love Okami. If you played it on PS2, you'll love it on the Wii. 
 If you like adventure games at all, you'll like it. It's worth playing for just about anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoorah12
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2009 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so pretty much Okami became my favorite game as soon as i purchased it for the ps2. I did not 
 even think that it could get any better, everything was perfect! However, to my amazement i was 
 wrong. The wii version makes the game even more beautiful and vivid. You feel as if you are actually 
 in control of the wolf. The game allows you to use the celestial brush, like the first, but the 
 wii remote allows it to be so much more effective. If you do not have a steady hand, like some, 
 the game developers added the ability to press Z while painting to make perfectly straight lines. 
 Paired with the amazing graphics, the game also has a great soundtrack to it. So as you watch the 
 cherry blossoms floating through the air, a soft melodious tune will be humming in the background. 
 This game also has a lot of combat to offer as well: the use of the celestial brush, and the different 
 weapons you acquire make for an enjoyable experience. It also has a great storyline which keeps 
 you hooked and having fun for hours. It is a very long and enjoyable rpg. So, overall this game 
 offers so much in the way of enjoyable gameplay, endless hours of exploration and amazingly vivid 
 worlds of painting brought to 3-D. The game is extremely long and even if you just rush through 
 the game it will take over 20 hours. However, you really do not want to do that, the world is so 
 immersive and beautiful that you will want to make it last as long as possible. Take time to explore 
 the world and enjoy the pure beauty of the world. This game is a must buy for not just those who 
 were fans of the last game, but anyone who enjoys a good game with an excellent storyline! Anyone 
 who is a fan of the zelda series, like myself, will enjoy this game just as much or more.
  
  There is no other way to put it...
  Okami is the greatest game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Templar45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  although i have not played Okamai on the wii yet i have completed the PS2 version. 
  
  Now, let me just say that this game is FANOMINAL!!! the greatest game i've yet to play involing 
 an adventure type gameply! the artwork used fo EVERY GOD DAMN MOVEMENT is just AWSOME!!!! the combat 
 IS a lil easy though, after you get the right glaive, mirror or beads it just to easy. 
  
  But the ability to weild godly powers and use then at YOUR WILL when and however YOU WANT is again 
 flat out amazing. in most games powers such as these listed in okamai are rarely or hardly ever 
 used, and in most cases it's only for a level or two! Despite how okamai also has a tendancy to 
 give you these amazing powers when you could've used them elsewhere. a perfect example are some 
 hidden treasures that can only be obtain after you get a new skill, such as catwalk, or thunderwave. 
 But at the same time the powers seem to be given to the player at the perfect time. after you get 
 one theres a entire episode completely devoted to you getting used to that new skill, however, 
 these levels seem to be based of those skills rather than the story and demean the overall purpose 
 of you being in that locaiton to begin with...
  
  in short i tell my friends that it's like a japanese version of Zelda but your a wolf... which 
 they think is BADASS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellowzelda
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks, it has great graphics. It works way better in the wii than in the PS2, for me 
 this is the best wii game after mario galaxy and the lengend of zelda. The graphics are just perfect, 
 if someone saids that the wii doesnt has good graphics, he is lying cause this game has beautiful 
 and perfect graphics. The gameplay is great, the wii remote works perfect with this game. The story 
 is really, really good, it Immerses you in the game. For me this is an masterpiece, cause it has 
 a great story, beatiful graphics, and great controls. The game is really long, but you wii enyoy 
 each second you played it. My score: a perfect 10!!!!!!! This game was really good on the PS2 but 
 it is way better in the wii, also I think the graphics look better in the wii than in the Ps2. 
 If you want to play a geme that you wii really enjoy this is the perfect game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlow0678
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  When I first read about Okami for the ps2 some years ago in a tiny christian-based review magazine 
 (which frowned upon the game for its Japanese mythology) , I thought to myself, "What a dumb game". 
 Fast forward a couple months, and I see this game in the back corner of the PS2 rental rack at 
 Hollywood Video. I thought "What the heck" and rented it. This was possibly the wisest choice I 
 have made in my gaming life. After playing the game to death during the rental period, I managed 
 to get my hands on a copy (and now a Wii copy) could keep. This game is easily one of the best 
 games (if no THE best) I have ever played. 
  
  The game puts you in the position of Okami Ameterasu, the sun goddess of Japan (Nippon, to be culturally 
 correct) , in the form of a wolf. You must travel the lands of Nippon and expel it of evil, using 
 your holy weapons and Celestial Brush powers. What is this brush? Well it is a power which lets 
 you brush anything from flaming fireballs to water streams into life. This single aspect of the 
 gameplay practically makes the game, because it adds interesting twists to fighting (the ability 
 to slash your enemies with a quick brushstroke) and opens the doors for puzzles and other gameplay 
 elements. Throughout the game you aquire new powers, which all in handy. There are also some secret 
 powers you can get. 
  
  The scope of the game is also breathaking. You travel from areas like a tiny village. to a demonic 
 forest, and a bustling city, just to name a few places. These areas are brought more alive by the 
 amazing Japanese Woodblock inspired graphics. The game looks like a living painting. 
  
  The music, is, well, suiting and very well done. It consists of traditional Japanese music, which 
 adds greatly to the atmosphere of the game. 
  
  This amazing action RPG should be in the Game Hall of Fame if you ask me. If you liked any of the 
 Zelda games or Kingdom Hearts, you'll LOVE Okami. I know I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shamshooma
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  ever since this game released for the ps2, i have been wishing for it to release on the wii. even 
 though i got it for ps2 and finished the game several time. the expericenced with the wii mote 
 made it more exciting and fun. this game is recommended to every zelda fan, as i see that this 
 game has simmilar exciting adventure with graphics smilliar to the windwaker.
  
  the story is interesting and deep, the graphics are amazing too, though not much improvements since 
 the ps2. and the motion controls are easy to pick up with.
  
  im so glad this game has released for the wii, specially for those who havnt yet expecienced it 
 on the ps2.
  
  the sound effects is creatively done, same with the fighting combats which pulls you more into 
 the game getting you more addicted to it.
  
  i would honestly give it a 10 ,but because it was originally made for the ps2, and the changes 
 were slight, i will give it a 9.0.
  
  
  i really hope there would be a part 2 of this game so everyone would enjoy more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianack96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Okami is a great game on the wii with very good graphics and a nice widescreen mode. It is better 
 than the PS2 version in many ways. For one, the game is a lot more fun and easy using the wii remote 
 to draw instead of the analog stick. Also this game is very creative. It is a good addition to 
 the wii library when it comes to adventure games. This game is kind of like Zelda Twightlight Princess. 
 But, for those of you who thought that there were to many dungeons in Twighlight and they were 
 all boring, this game is different. You wii ussually not have to find very hard locationed boss 
 keys and crap like that. However, this game does have a very hard control scheme. You have to use 
 the nunchuck to dodge? But do not worry this game is almost perfect in every other way. What I 
 really was hoping for was a co-op mode Okami. Well that did not come true. Keep dreaming and taking 
 turns with your friends because this game is great.
  
  The games difficulty is good and this game will leave you playing for about 50 hours. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
