-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: One Piece: Unlimited Adventure
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/onepieceunlimitedadventure/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Simple but enjoyable combat system.
 A long, charming adventure featuring eight favorite characters.
 Clips from the anime series are scattered throughout.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A ton of backtracking and repetition leads to monotony.
 Lots of level grinding.
 Unimpressive environmental visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.9, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 351 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games
Developer: Ganbarion
Genre: Action
Date: Jan 22, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Luffy's newest voyage isn't one for the ages, but it still offers up plenty of goodhearted fun. 
 

  One Piece: Unlimited Adventure tackles two challenges, and it does so reasonably well. First and 
 foremost, it offers a good amount of fan service by way of its flashback-oriented storytelling. 
 Second, it's a somewhat-entertaining action-oriented adventure in it own right, with a light but 
 amusing combat system and some fun boss battles. It's also quite long, though that's partially 
 due to a lot of dull backtracking. This is a good game, to be sure, but a bit of monotony moves 
 in early on, only to take up permanent residence as the adventure continues.  

           "Nose to nose" takes on a new meaning whenever Usopp is involved.      

  The story 
 doesn't tread new ground, although that ends up working to the game's benefit. Luffy and his pirate 
 pals find a mysterious crystal (amusingly, this generic mysteriousness is the source of several 
 humorous bits of dialogue from the ever-positive Luffy) just prior to crash-landing on an unfamiliar 
 island. As it turns out, that same crystal is the key to freedom, as well as some apparently precious 
 treasure. More importantly, the crystal causes the gang to relive memories, which are represented 
 by frequent clips from the television series. As a tip of the hat to rabid fans, this is a rather 
 effective narrative device, but if you're an American One Piece enthusiast, be warned: Many of 
 these clips are from episodes yet to air in the United States. In other words, expect spoilers 
 galore.  

  In the lengthy story mode, you can play as any one of eight Straw Hats at any given time, and switch 
 among them at will by pressing the minus button on the remote. Should a character fall in combat, 
 never fear: You can replace him or her with someone else, which means that all eight need to bite 
 the dust before it's game over. From a combat perspective, all of them bring something different 
 to the table, from Usopp's slingshot to Zoro's flurry of swords. As you play as a particular character, 
 you unlock new moves and level up existing ones. It's likely that you will settle on two or three 
 of them early on to do the bulk of your business, given that several characters feel underpowered 
 at first. However, you'd be wise not to neglect them, not just because leveling them up evens out 
 the playing field, but because losing your best characters during boss fights and getting stuck 
 with underdeveloped ones is an easy ticket to a reload.  

  Nevertheless, part of the game's uneasy dichotomy is the RPG-esque grinding that results from this 
 setup. The combat itself is pretty simple but good fun, and consists of a comfortable blend of 
 button mashing and remote waggling. There is also a contextual combo system in which you must duplicate 
 a series of moves listed on the right side of the screen to unleash a powerful attack. However, 
 you'll end up spending a lot of time slicing up endlessly respawning enemies in the same environments 
 over and over, just to keep all eight characters ready for the next boss battle -- of which there 
 are many.  

  The tedium that results from the grind itself is pretty mild because the combat is so enjoyable. 
 Unfortunately, it's compounded by the actual adventuring. To progress, you use your ever-mysterious 
 crystal to activate globes scattered across the island to gain access to new areas. Your crystal 
 is a hungry sucker, though, and requires you to feed it various objects before it'll introduce 
 you to the next horizon. In turn, you need to craft various tools to assist you. For example, if 
 the crystal is hungry for insects, you'll need to create a net to catch them -- and before you can 
 do that, you need to collect ingredients to make the net.  

  That's not an inherently bad mechanic, and there's a certain feeling of accomplishment when you 
 finally manage to gather everything you need to move on. However, you can craft items and save 
 your game only at camp, which results in an excessive amount of backtracking. You might end up 
 needing items from a completely different area than the one you're in, or you may have stored them 
 at camp to free up your limited inventory space. Either way, you'll spend a lot of time running 
 around areas you've already visited over and over again, and fighting off the same sailors, when 
 all you want to do is find a spiderweb.  

  Defeating bosses and other enemies also unlocks them for the other two modes the game offers. Although 
 survival mode -- in which you mow down enemies against the clock -- is barely worth noting, versus 
 mode is actually pretty interesting. In this mode, you and a buddy spend a limited number of points 
 on a group of fighters, which means that you can take in a whole bunch of underpowered marines 
 or a few powerful bosses, and then take one another on.  

           Nami isn't the most powerful character at first, but she's more helpful as she levels 
 up.      

  One Piece: Unlimited Adventure is visually unimpressive, though it manages to capture the freewheeling 
 spirit of the popular anime quite well. Character models are nicely done, and some of their attacks 
 result in a flurry of colorful particles and other effects. But as a rule, everything looks pixelated 
 and washed out, and environments are often unimaginative, with a few notable exceptions, such as 
 a beach with a hulking dinosaur skeleton. There are some obvious dips in the frame rate as well, 
 though the game is easy enough that it never affects gameplay to any great extent. Thankfully, 
 the show's cast does a terrific job in bringing the Straw Hats to audible life, and though none 
 of the music or sound effects stand out as particularly exceptional, none of these elements are 
 particularly bothersome either.  

  There's certainly a lot of game here. The adventure could take you 40 or more hours to complete, 
 so if you're a fan of Luffy and company, you'll get your fair share of time to spend with them. 
 Sure, there's a ton of repetition here, but the game's aesthetic is so charming and easygoing that 
 it's hard to fault the gameplay for following suit. Most likely, you'll be able to overlook the 
 game's faults and enjoy One Piece: Unlimited Adventure for what it is: a cute and fun way to join 
 your favorite pirates on their latest escapade.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KGBPACKFAN
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 11:54 am PT
Review:  One Piece: Unlimited Adventure is actually a game. No its not just another flashy character fights 
 character along the lines of say the previous One Piece Grand Battle Series its actually a decent 
 adventure game. That being said its not a great adventure either. Many critics praise the voice 
 acting which I will too considering One Piece was once dubbed by 4Kids before going over to Funimation 
 who are dubbing it now and dubbed the games english voices too and they did a pretty darn good 
 job. Sure, the story isn't really all that memorable considering the manga is all about good story 
 telling but I can except that. I mean its Luffy and his gang's first adventure game so I'll give 
 them some slack. Its not as if I bought it for the story I wanted to know what the adventure was 
 going to be. To be honest... its not that thrilling. The good thing about this game is you can use 
 multiple characters with multiple abilities and use them in battles to kick major butt. The drive 
 gauge is spectacular and you'll like the ways in which you can raise your characters status, health, 
 move strength, etc. In fact the character's are pretty well rounded and each have their own use. 
 The quest however, is monotonous though. For instance in order to fight a cool boss battle you 
 need to go on a fetch quest. This can be as simple as having enough orb power or having to get 
 3 sticks and a giant leaf. Its really boring. I strongly suggest you use no items ad keep everything!!! 
 For instance you need to cut 10 long vines to make a bridge... this is really frustrating because 
 not many places have long vines and the chances of you getting all ten within a short matter of 
 time are very slim. The good thing about this though is once you use it chances are you won't need 
 it again. Even in optional boss battles you have to fetch a certain item and then fight them. No 
 progression should be this tedious. You often find yourself backtracking for items, fighting the 
 same enemies all over again, and then come back to move on. The enemies are pretty generic as I 
 said... you often find yourself fighting the same navy platoon over and over just to get your experience 
 up. Now I know what you're thinking why such a good score if you hate the adventure so much? The 
 thing is I don't. Sure the story isn't great, but its not bad. The fetch questing may be monotonous 
 but once you do something you don't have to go fetch it again. To fight generic enemies may be 
 a pain at times but, the variety of moves and the number of boss fights more than make up for it. 
 The character status is immersive enough, and the small things are also fun. You can go fishing, 
 catch insects, break boulders with a giant pickaxe, etc. Each environment is visually appealing 
 from the snowy mountaintop to the sandy beach. For what its worth its a good adventure. Another 
 good thing is it also has a 2 player option. This was good because not only did I get a adventure 
 game I got a game I could play with my One Piece Grand Battle friends too. Sure its a simple multiplayer 
 experience in which you choose who you want to fight with and where for a simple match but it's 
 still a pretty good time. I might have been ther and done that with other games which is true. 
 But, One Piece makes for a generically fun time waster. If you like fetch quests mixed with fighting 
 One Piece is a good buy for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wyrw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably rated right, but definitely underated as Wii game. One piece fans will definitely 
 enjoy this and probably gamers who want something other than fun family games (also me being an 
 anime fan) .
  
  There are 7ish characters that you can swap at any time with a fair combos that can be unlocked 
 for each. These involve sing the Wii remote and various pressing buttons. The characters each have 
 different moves suited to different enemies and bosses.
  
  The normal/common enemies are usually at the correct level when fighting them at first, but obviously 
 after leveling up you can destroy them. The bosses are about the right level of difficulty, but 
 do need some amount of stratagy to be defeated.
  
  Other than the standard adventure stuff; there are other mini-games that are fun if you get bored 
 or just try something different. There is fishing at various spots and by improving your rod you 
 get better and bigger fish. The bug catching is very similiar, with better nets being able to contain 
 stronger (?) bugs. Items can also be collected and combined with fish or bugs to create items or 
 dishes. The dishes increase the stats of characters and items advance you further. All of this 
 is collect in a scrap book of sorts.
  
  Overall the game is quite good, but in my opinion is one of best Wii games. It has a feeling of 
 fan service, but backs it up with some pretty good gameplay. A must have for anime fans and hardcore/ 
 casual gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pikazilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  The game is about the strawhats landing on an island that appeared out of nowhere. The island has 
 weird time controlling powers to defend itself, but the only way to harm the strawhats is either 
 to summon a golem army, or summon the strawhat's former enemies like Crocodile, Eneru and Akoiji. 
 Even their allies (Shanks, Vivi, ect) are fighting them. Technically, these versions are the enemies 
 are fake, but are just as powerful as the real thing.
  
  This is more of an adventure game than a fighting game. Although there is a fighting mode, there 
 are not a lot of attacks. Some characters only have 3 attacks. However, you can make combos and 
 fighting does require some skill.
  
  You can find a lot of objects around the island. Eggs, bones, diamonds, fruits made out of gold 
 a lot of these things are in this game, and you will need a lot of these things to unlock certain 
 areas. This helps make the game longer than normal adventures.
  
  Bug catching is obviously the hardest thing to do because the bug can fly away if you scare it 
 or miss it. You really only have one chance to catch it with your butterfly net. It is also confusing 
 when you could have Chopper's tiny arms or Franky's huge arms, which will change how far the net 
 will land once you swing it.
  
  Fishing requires patience, timing and a powerful fishing rod. Otherwise, it's easy to fish.
  
 
  Should you buy this game? No. Wait until the sequel, One Piece Unlimited Cruise comes out. It has 
 more characters, including Brook, Kuma, Moria and Oz. It also has a longer gameplay if you buy 
 both episodes. Although this game is worth its low price, it is better to just wait until the sequel.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NopeImnotStef
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  A very exciting game for those a fan of One Piece! Though there aren't as many places to explore 
 than I thought, the bosses, activities, and moves you get to perform using the Wii-mote makes everything 
 come to life. Many people were worried that the voices would be those from 4kids. I don't blame 
 people for being turned off by this aspect. But the great thing is: they're not. The voice cast 
 is new and are close equivalents to those in the Japanese anime, as close as they could get them. 
 That's right, Sanji no longer has a thick Brooklyn accent, Nico Robin lost her southern accent, 
 and other characters (that I don't want to give away and spoil the game) have new and improved 
 voices. Also, the activities you get to do in this game are very creative and addictive. You get 
 to fish, catch bugs, collect items, etc., which are used to make food, medicine, and helpful equipment. 
 The bosses you encounter will shock you at times, in a good way. It's always fun to guess which 
 one you'll combat next! The optional bosses are also fun and unexpected. The controls/moves are 
 fairly straight-forward, though some commands may be difficult to master. All in all, it was worth 
 the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umd1998
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The recipe for "One Piece: Unlimited Adventure" is complex, but I'll gamble a guess.
  
  Start with "The Legend of Zelda" as a base, and simmer it for 40 hours. Add "leveling up" from 
 a role-playing game like "Oblivion." Adapt the button-mashing trick sequences of "Tony Hawk" to 
 combat. Toss in creature collection, a la "Pokemon." Then immerse everything in the comical world 
 of cartoon pirates.
  
  Finally, garnish with a fighting mode straight out of "Naruto," letting gamers play as bosses as 
 soon as they beat them in the main adventure.
  
  The result is the hodgepodge concoction "One Piece" - if the quirky game is guilty of anything, 
 it's of being overly ambitious.
  
  You can play as any of the Straw Hatter characters from the manga and anime cartoon, but only one 
 at a time. Each has its own special skills.
  
  "One Piece" is sure to delight fans with its numerous flashback movies - actual clips from the 
 cartoon series. But even non-fans can get into this long and engaging adventure, and it has just 
 the right amount of motion controls to add to the game's sense of immersion.
  
  Repetition is the game's biggest drawback, with tons of scavenging, backtracking and generic bad-guy 
 drones. It doesn't help that the frame rate slows when hordes of baddies are on the screen.
  
  Other issues are the frustrating difficulty of using healing items during boss battles and 
 the sole save point that always seems to be extremely far away.
  
  If gamers can overlook some minor annoyances in "One Piece," they'll get a deep action-adventure 
 game that's a zany clone of "The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess" - which is sort of a compliment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzuywuzzums
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  One Piece: Unlimited Adventure, overall is a wonderful game. There's much to do, and a lot to talk 
 about, but first would probably be the battles.
  
  9/10 Battles, as you travel through different dungeons, enemies will randomly spawn. To attack, 
 you can either press the A button, shake the wiimote, or do a Jump-Attack or a Dash-Attack. Your 
 main attacks will probably be the A button, depending on the One Piece character your playing as 
 this might be a double of triple attack. Each attack differs for each character, they change with 
 range, strength, and distance. As you use your attacks, they level up, which makes them more powerful, 
 and allows you to unlock new attacks.
  
  10/10 Movement, I probably should've started with this section, but who cares... You move with 
 the analog stick on the nunchuck, slightly pushing it in the direction you want to go will make 
 you walk, and pushing it all the way is running. To dash, you press the C button, twice, then hold 
 it (Note, this decreases your SP gauge, which is used for special attacks) . Jumping is used with 
 the B button, you can also roll by pressing A & B at the same time, while walking in a direction.
 
  
  8/10 Graphics, they could be better, the graphics for the characters are great, but the scenery's 
 could be a bit better, they are a bit repetitive.
  
  8/10 Sound, The voice acting is great, the voices really match. But the music could be a bit better, 
 it's forget able, but fits well with the locations.
  
  10/10 Vs. Mode, Once you defeat an enemy, or boss you unlock them in Vs. Mode. Vs. Mode is where 
 you can battle against a friend or CPU as the enemies you find in story mode, the straw hat crew, 
 or the bosses.
  
  9/10 Development, Development is a very fun aspect of the game, it increases the depth. Enemies 
 drop item, and you can find some more items in the different dungeons you go through. If you take 
 them back to the camp, you can make them into items that could be helpful to you in your travels.
 
  
  So, overall this is a great game, I recommend it to anyone who has patience, loves RPGs, and One 
 Piece fans it does the Manga justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentCH
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  In case you One Piece fans haven't already heard, FUNimation is now dubbing the anime instead of 
 those hacks at 4Kids Entertainment. And, as if to celebrate the license going to a dubbing company 
 that actually knows what it's doing, a new One Piece game has come out, and it's for the Wii.
 
  
  Instead of (roughly) going through the plot of the manga and anime series like the previous One 
 Piece games released in the US, Unlimited Adventure has its own original story. It begins when 
 captain Monkey D. Luffy and his crew find a mysterious orb while at sea. Soon after, an island 
 appears out of nowhere, and the crew soon discovers that there's something mysterious going on 
 here. It feels just like the kind of story that would be in the series proper.
  
  Oh yeah, speaking of the series, I should point out that this game takes place farther in the One 
 PIece storyline than any US media has gotten so far right now. So if you're up to date on either 
 the manga or anime, you'll be okay, but otherwise prepare for spoilers.
  
  The adventure mode is the bulk of the game. Here, you'll be able to switch between the eight members 
 of the Straw Hat crew as you explore the many environments of the island. Each character has their 
 own fighting style to take on the many enemy encounters. For example, Zoro has his quick sword 
 attacks, Sanji fights exclusively with close-range kicks, and Usopp fires projectiles with his 
 slingshot. There's a character to suit whatever fighting style you may like, but it's important 
 to give everyone some screen time. As the characters fight, their attacks level up and they unlock 
 new ones. While you might like to stick with one character, though, it's important to keep leveling 
 everyone's moves up, since if one character falls, you have to switch to another. You don't want 
 to have just one good fighter, then lose him and have to try and scrape by with underleveled characters, 
 especially during a boss fight. Also, the moves gain experience rather slowly as they get higher 
 in levels, so you'll have to do a lot of fighting to keep up with the enemies, but everyone's weird 
 moves are so neat and fun to use, it offsets the repetitiveness of the grinding.
  
  The adventuring, though, doesn't really have much to counter its repetitiveness. In order to progress 
 through the game, you have to open up passages by using that mysterious orb at certain spots to 
 clear away obstacles. You can't just use it right away, though  You have to power it up first 
 by converting the items you find into Orb Points. Furthermore, certain activation points require 
 you to have specific items in your inventory, and not all of them are easy to obtain. As you get 
 further in the game, you'll need more points and rarer items, so it's kind of annoying when your 
 adventuring comes to a screeching halt because you have to go back and find something.
  
  Some of these spots require you to make certain new items out of the stuff you find on the island, 
 and the only place you can do this in the camp in the island's hub area. Here, you can make all 
 kinds of things: Food, medicine, weapons, tools, and attack items. However, collecting the ingredients 
 needed to make this stuff gets tedious, particularly when the ingredients for one item have to 
 be collected from multiple areas. Also, this is the only spot in the game where you can save, so 
 that's more backtracking right there when you want to prepare for a boss.
  
  Said boss fights pit you against characters from the series, like Smoker and Crocodile, with the 
 explanation that the island is reacting to the Straw Hats' memories and creating guardians in the 
 form of these characters. These battles are intense, and even if you level up all your attacks 
 all the way, some of the later bosses will still be challenging enough to take out half your crew 
 before you beat them. Beating the bosses unlocks them for the game's versus mode, which has two 
 parts. The first is the Team Battle, where each player creates a team of characters to fight with. 
 Each character has a point value, and you have a limited number to work with, so you can have a 
 big team of minor enemies and other low-point characters, or a small team of high-point powerhouses 
 like Mihawk and Lucci. The second part is the Survival mode, a time trial where you mow down waves 
 of enemies as fast as you can with one character, but it doesn't quite have the same level of fun 
 and intensity as the Team Battle.
  
  In a step up from previous US One Piece games, the characters no longer have that super-deformed 
 look, and are now properly proportioned. They're also cel shaded in a way reminiscent of Wind Waker. 
 And the characters have their voices from the FUNimation dub, so you can actually listen to them 
 without wanting to mute the TV. No more always-yelling Luffy or  
 Sanji. FUNi's voices suit the characters much better than 4Kids', though there were one or two 
 times I felt the acting could've been better. The music is also pretty good, but the environments, 
 though pretty, have sort of a "stock" feel.
  
  The control handles well, outside of some issues with the motion controls. There's no problems 
 with motion control in combat, since the attacks that use it need only a mere flick of the remote, 
 but there are tools that require motion control  the pickaxe, butterfly net, and fishing rod  
 and they can be a hassle sometimes, particularly the pickaxe and net. It seems like they won't 
 respond unless you make a big swing with the remote. Even then, it sometimes confuses a vertical 
 swing with a horizontal and vice versa, and when you're trying to catch bugs, a wrong move like 
 this can result in your target getting scared off like in Animal Crossing. While the controls for 
 fishing work okay, it's still annoying when you're trying to find a certain rare fish. You'd think 
 casting out farther would increase your chances of hooking a big or rare fish, but no. You can 
 cast out as far as possible and still get a puny clam or shrimp.
  
  The game took me at least 60 hours to complete, though a significant amount of that time was spent 
 level-grinding and item-hunting. Your mileage may vary. Even after you beat the game, though, there's 
 some additional play time to be had from the optional bosses, unlocking new costumes (Usopp's hidden 
 costume = best unlockable ever) , or trying to find all the fish and bugs, and the Team Battle mode 
 is always fun to play.
  
  One Piece: Unlimited Adventure is really a game for the fans. They'll get the most appreciation 
 out of this game, from the short movies of scenes from the series recreated in 3D to the Straw 
 Hats just being themselves at the campsite (Luffy eating meat, Franky playing his guitar, Sanji 
 and Zoro fighting) . If the considerable backtracking had been taken care of, this could've been 
 up there with the best of the Wii's games, but it's still pretty enjoyable as it is, and one of 
 the best anime-based games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLuFFy123564
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  The bottom line is, anime games suck. But this game is different. As you may already know, this 
 game is not a fighting game. Because it is based off the popular series One Piece, you simple can't 
 water it down to a fighting game. 
  
  This game is quite similar to the Kingdom Hearts and Zelda series. Like them, it is an RPG. You 
 must complete an area that contains two bosses, one easy, and one hard. After defeating the second 
 boss, you move on to the next area. Along the way, you must find the rest of Monkey D. Luffy's 
 (AKA Strawhat) crew. Of course, since this game is an RPG, you must level up. Each character has 
 about five moves you need to level up to the MAX. Each time an enemy is hit by a move, that move 
 gains some more EXP. Also, every character has a special attack, called, well, a special. These 
 attacks cause lots of damage, so they take away some of their SP bar. You can increase this, along 
 with HP, by eating food. To make food, you must collect materials and use them to cook with.
  
  Another interesting feature in this game is the build feature. To build, you must collect certain 
 materials and use them to make something, like cooking. Many things can be made with this feature, 
 such as tools, weapons, and even different outfits for your characters.
  
  So overall, this is defenitely an anime game worth mentioning. It is a must-have for fans of the 
 series and anyone who likes good RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luffy513
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  In the past couple years, One Piece had taken quite the beating when 4Kids licensed it. From unforgivable 
 edits to awful voice acting, 4Kids literally butchered the name of One Piece in the US. But all 
 that has changed from this point on. 4Kids dropped One Piece, and FUNimation picked up the license. 
 After all the crap One PIece had been put through, FUNimation is dead set on making One Piece a 
 classic anime and renewing its reputation, and they are succeeding.
  
  One Piece: Unlimited Adventure is a huge step up from Grand Battle and Grand Adventure, both fighting 
 games released in the past couple years. Unlimited Adventure is, as the title suggests, an adventure-based 
 game. You're on an island and travel between different "zones" of the island, all with different 
 enemies and items to collect.
  
  The gameplay is really solid. The nunchuck is used to move your character, center the camera, dash, 
 and to lock-on to nearby enemies. The Wiimote is used to use items and attack. Thankfully, the 
 Wiimote's motion isn't overused in this game. You only use it to swing the net, fish, and for one 
 or two attacks. The controls are very responsive. The one aspect of the gameplay that falls short 
 is frame-rate. When the screen is littered with enemies, especially in the Spandam boss battle, 
 the framerate takes a steep drop. Luckily there aren't too many times this happens.
  
  The graphics are beautiful and rank just below Mario Galaxy. The characters are full of life and 
 have many different expressions they show. Something that confuses me a little is when you're looking 
 at enemies far away, there's an illusion that makes it look like double-vision, kinda like casting 
 a shadow of the enemy next to itself. It's confusing and questionable why this little effect happens, 
 but I digress.
  
  The music is pretty catchy, though it is slightly disappointing that there's no music from the 
 show, not even the theme song. All the voice acting is very solid, even for those character not 
 introduced in the series yet. It's apparent that the One Piece voice cast has gotten perfectly 
 into character.
  
  There is so much content in this game that it's unbelievable. First, there are so many character 
 to choose from in Vs. mode. FUNimation is doing an excellent fan-service to everyone in love with 
 the series by keeping ALL content from the japanese version of the game. That means all characters, 
 weapons, and items that haven't even appeared on television in the US have been kept in the game 
 (unlike Grand Battle) , so there's no need to import this game. Second, there's a lot of collectibles. 
 Throughout the game, you keep a log of bugs and fish, so collecting them is pretty fun. You can 
 also try to break your record of the biggest bugs or largest fish. Third, each Strawhat has 3 costumes. 
 After you beat all the bosses for the first time, you can start making other costumes for characters 
 and use them in single-player mode.
  
  Vs. mode is fun, though lack of wifi is disappointing but understandable. Vs. mode is actually 
 quite balanced and uses a point-system, very similar to Dragonball Z: Super Sonic Warrior 2's Vs. 
 mode. You can choose between a 8 point or 16 point match, and each character you choose takes up 
 a certain amount of points, 5 being the largest point value of a single character. You can play 
 as any enemy you've encountered in the entire game (except for a certain pirate enemy) , which is 
 nice because a lot of them are worth 1 or 2 points, which can help to fill in the games of your 
 Vs. mode team if you have a few points left.
  
  Overall, One Piece: Unlimited Adventure is well worth the wait. It was announced all the way back 
 at E3 2006, so it's great to see the first tru adventure game on the way since Legend of Zelda: 
 Twilight Princess. Whether you're a fan of One Piece or not, I'd recommend this game to any adventure 
 game fan. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
