-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Open Season
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/openseason/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Boog eventually gains a good variety of skills and weapons.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Game is nearly over by the time you have access to all of Boog's abilities.
 Too many inane fetch quests.
 Motion-sensing controls are sluggish and inaccurate.
 Graphics and audio lack flair and don't push the hardware at all.
 Wii version costs more than the GameCube version does, but doesn't look any better or include any additional content.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.9
Critic Score: 4.6, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 5.0, 62 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Nov 30, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Open Season was a mediocre adventure game on the GameCube, and it's even worse on the Wii thanks 
 to the cruddy controls and higher price tag. 

  Since the Wii system architecture is similar to the GameCube's, it makes sense that publishers 
 would try to capitalize on the Wii launch period by quickly porting some of their recent GameCube 
 games to the new console. That's what Ubisoft has done with Open Season. It has taken the GameCube 
 game, which was a flimsily produced 3D adventure based on the  Open Season  computer animated film, 
 and put it onto a Wii disc without making any significant improvements. The controls in the Wii 
 version do take advantage of the system's motion-sensitive controller, but that's hardly worth 
 paying an extra 20 dollars for, especially since these new motion controls feel exceedingly tacked-on 
 to a game that simply wasn't designed for such a scheme.  

          There are way too many fetch quests, and only a few levels let you use all of Boog's skills. 
     

  The main play mode is the single-player adventure mode, where you have to work through 25 third-person 
 levels, each involving one of the two main characters. Depending on how the level is designed, 
 you control either Boog or Elliot. Boog is the protagonist of the story, a tame grizzly bear who 
 has found himself stranded in the woods because of an unfortunate chain of events. Elliot, meanwhile, 
 is a blowhard young deer, Boog's newfound friend, and, unfortunately for Boog, the catalyst for 
 the pair's exile to the woods. To make their way back to town, Boog and Elliot must travel through 
 the different parts of the forest, enlist the other animals for help, and use Boog's wild abilities 
 to scare off all of the hunters who have come to participate in the newly opened hunting season. 
 In the majority of levels, you'll find yourself fetching items for the other animals while scaring 
 off hunters, which generally involves roaring at them or tossing rabbits and skunks in their direction. 
 Some levels also incorporate thrill-ride sequences involving makeshift cannons or sprints down 
 a mountain in contraptions such as a mine cart or a raft made from an outhouse.  

  While it sounds like there's a lot to do in the game, the harsh reality is that the abundant fetch 
 quests all feel the same, and the portions involving the hunters rarely welcome the use of the 
 many skills that take so much time to gain access to. Being sent to collect things, like grubs 
 for a mama skunk or a beaver's lunchbox, is fine when you're asked to do so on occasion, but the 
 game is loaded with similarly dull fetch quests. Successfully completing these errands lets Boog 
 pick up and toss animals at the hunters. Skunks can be lobbed at hunters and into houses to stink 
 up the joint, squirrels can be thrown into trees or atop hunters' heads to function as nut-throwing 
 turrets, and rabbits turn into kicking facehuggers when thrown in hunters' faces. The animals also 
 eventually teach Boog how to sniff for treats, swim, and steamroll over hunters. Once you have 
 access to all of Boog's skills and weapons, the game really gets going. Unfortunately, by that 
 point, the quest is nearly over. The first 20 levels tend to focus on isolated abilities or emphasize 
 the use of the sneak and roar abilities. It's only the last four or five levels that incorporate 
 everything.  

  Another negative mark, one that's specifically against the Wii version, is that the game forces 
 you to wave and tilt the controller, or point its infrared sensor at the screen, to perform a number 
 of actions. Walking and running are done with the analog thumbstick and the buttons on the Nunchuk 
 attachment. Everything else is handled by waving, tilting, or pointing the Wii Remote. To pick 
 up something or to do a quick throw, you have to wave the controller forward. To perform a more 
 precise throw, you tap the B button, aim the cursor by pointing the remote at the screen, and then 
 press A to toss the object. To cover up with twigs and hide, you tilt the Wii Remote and Nunchuk 
 in opposite directions. During the thrill-ride stages, you turn the Wii Remote sideways and tilt 
 it left or right to steer. All of these Wii-specific control enhancements seem novel at first, 
 but they wear thin after a while. On top of that, they often don't work like they should. The game 
 is slow to respond to tilt motions and button inputs, and the aiming cursor will frequently ignore 
 your attempts to move it, sometimes sending the camera into a brief spin. In the thrill-ride stages, 
 there's also the additional matter of the tilt sensitivity being jacked up. When you make the slightest 
 movement, Boog gets thrown to the side of the screen. That's a big problem, particularly in the 
 downhill snowball slalom where you absolutely need to make precise movements to stay on the narrow 
 path and avoid the trees and drop-offs that whiz by. Incredibly, the development team neglected 
 to provide any options for adjusting the tilt sensitivity or for reconfiguring the controls to 
 use a traditional pad-and-button layout. The dodgy controls make the already-tedious game even 
 less fun to play.  

  Wii owners can't even take solace in the graphics and audio, which were modest on the GameCube 
 to begin with and haven't been upgraded one bit on the Wii. The characters resemble their film 
 counterparts and look decent, but they're not what you'd call lively. Some of the taunts that Boog 
 and Elliot perform are amusing. Otherwise, they and the other characters go through their limited 
 range of animations matter-of-factly, without showing much personality. There's also not a whole 
 lot of detail evident in the environment. The levels are large, but you'll rarely see anything 
 that catches your eye apart from a random cabin or waterfall. At the same time, the polygon count 
 and textures are on the low end for what the hardware is capable of. So, while the individual blades 
 of grass on the ground are a sweet touch, all of the trees, boulders, and rock faces that make 
 up the major share of the surrounding environment look angular and plain.  

          The Wii version is identical to the GameCube version, except it costs more and the controls 
 are worse.     

  As for the accompanying audio, it gets the job done without much fanfare. Background atmosphere 
 comes mainly from the ambient forest noise. The only time music plays is when Boog is spotted or 
 when you're in the menus. Sound effects are suitably upbeat and include a decent selection of vocal 
 comments. Meanwhile, the voice performances turned in by the soundalike actors hired to mimic Martin 
 Lawrence, Ashton Kutcher, and the other film actors generally lack passion and make you want to 
 skip through the dialogue scenes that appear every so often.  

  Going through the adventure mode will take most people about four hours. Individual levels can 
 be played over and over again, but since the game is generally a snoozer, there's not much incentive 
 to do so. Bonus features include a library of animal facts, concept art, and movie stills, as well 
 as seven competitive minigames that can be played against the CPU or against as many as four friends 
 using multiple controllers. The tasks in the minigames involve things like rolling logs, chucking 
 rabbits into a goal, and picking flowers. They're good for a few minutes of play here and there, 
 but they're not engaging enough to make you feel as if you got your money's worth out of the game. 

  When it was released for the GameCube, Open Season was already walking that fine line between mediocrity 
 and being total junk. Now, Ubisoft has published the same game for the Wii, has saddled it with 
 inferior controls, and is asking 20 dollars more for it. That's a high premium to pay for a movie 
 cash-in that wasn't much good to begin with.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: WitIsWisdom
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 5, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  kittykatz nailed this review! Except for the fact that the multi player is a little more fun than 
 the actual game itself. Still one of the worse games i have ever played! Do something productive 
 with your time instead, you know something a bit more fun like watching the grass grow, or watching 
 paint peel off a fence! Just plain bad in every aspect! Save your money, and buy a game with a 
 little more hype that can actually live up to it. There is so much that can be said about this 
 game, I just can't think of anything good!!! Releasing this game to the Wii should have been stopped 
 dead in it's furry animal tracks!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 2.7
Date: May 5, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Welcome to the world of licensed games. A world where quality is scarce, and advertisement is high. 
 People make such licensed based games to follow the release of a possibly decent movie in hope 
 to make fans wanting more, handover their money for a pukeingly bad game.
  
  Where to begin, where to begin. I don't have to make this too detailed anyways, as detail is one 
 of the many things this game lacks...
  
  Gameplay: This game is functional, I'll give it that. You won't be glitching through walls at least... 
 that's where praise ends. You do countless collectathon quest in order to advance the story and 
 occasionally meet a boring enemy or 2. Options are small and the multiplayer had even my parents 
 who like any game running away to put in a better game. Graphics:
  Occasionally the world can look big, but for the most part, you're looking at poor animations, 
 poor textures, poor effects, and really cruddy level design.
  
  Sound:
  Oh how I do love repetitive phrases repeated over and over and over again, with as good as silent 
 menus.
  
  Value:
  I don't even need to mention much. There's unlockables but the chances of you playing to reach 
 them, considering how bad the minigames you unlock are, is slim to none.
  
  Overall:
  Don't buy, no matter how cheap it looks. Just get an ice cream cone with the money you might think 
 of spending on this game. It's a bad game poorly ported to wii with bad controls. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
