-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Opoona
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/rpg/opoona/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cute and colorful visual design.
 Interesting and effortless combat system .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Side missions are dull and monotonous.
 Bad in-game map and unclear objectives lead to a lot of aimless meandering.
 Sound effects are often nonexistent.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 29, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.7, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 75 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Koei
Developer: ArtePiazza
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Mar 25, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tedium and aimlessness cast a shadow on Opoona's glowing charm. 

  The titular character of Opoona is a feisty sort. He reads fortunes, goes fishing, and delivers 
 room-service orders, all at the behest of a bureaucratic planetary government that apparently doesn't 
 heed universal child-labor standards. Yet the portly, round-headed tot keeps a smile on his face 
 the entire time (well, except when he runs) . This cheerfulness trickles into every aspect of Opoona, 
 from its clean, vibrant visual design to some wacky, badly translated dialogue that proclaims things 
 such as "You've won acceptably." And that's a very good thing, because though Opoona himself may 
 approach the endlessly mundane tasks with gentle good humor, you won't be inclined to tackle the 
 constant red tape with the same enthusiasm. Without its colorful charm, this role-playing game's 
 aimless wandering, shallow story, and other minor annoyances would be hard to forgive. Yet like 
 that spoonful of sugar that helps the medicine go down, the game's adorable presentation makes 
 it easier to stomach the bitter shortcomings.  

           In Opoona, you spend more time wandering around than you do fighting monsters.      

 
  Opoona is from the planet of Tizia, where everyone resembles an old Fisher-Price action figure. 
 He and his family are en route to their vacation destination when a mysterious incident causes 
 them to crash-land on planet Landroll. Opoona is taken in by the kindly and efficient Landrollians, 
 who put him to work as a ranger as he searches for his brother Copoona and sister Poleena. There's 
 a little bit of intrigue and a little bit of emotion scattered throughout the journey, but for 
 the most part, the tale is a sweet, chewy morsel: superficial and insubstantial, but too well-meaning 
 to out-and-out dislike. Every character and every bit of dialogue is supercute, which makes the 
 game sound nauseating, but wacky characters and interesting locales make it just quirky enough 
 to keep it from getting annoying. Or, to lift a bit of dialogue from the game itself, it's more 
 like a heart cookie playing the ukulele in the evening than it is a mound of white chocolate that 
 is too big for just one person to eat.  

  Thus the stage is set for the most amusing and alarming trek through governmental red tape since 
 your last visit to the DMV. To progress, you must upgrade your ranger license and earn other licenses 
 by performing various tasks, from fighting evil flatscreen televisions to vacuuming in a cafe. 
 You'll spend a lot of time in Landroll's domed habitats, applying for licenses, searching for mission 
 targets, and wandering aimlessly while trying to figure out what to do next. The domes are expansive, 
 with wide-open areas and multiple towers that must be traversed through a web of elevators. It's 
 all unnecessarily spacious, which makes it easy to get lost, and the in-game map (called a GPS 
 here, which is as accurate as calling a fast-food burger patty a filet mignon) is no help at all. 
 There are no mission waypoints, and the job descriptions are so vague that you'll be stuck from 
 time to time, speaking with every non-player character and checking out every nook until you trigger 
 the next task. Opoona, with its simple story and sleek, colorful visual design, is obviously aimed 
 at younger players. Yet there's nothing friendly about navigating its various corridors and wide-open 
 spaces, and the frequent mistranslations (What do you mean, go to the elevator on the left? There 
 is no elevator to the left!) and vague instructions may cause many youngsters -- and adults, for 
 that matter -- to give up.  

  Fortunately, things pick up once you leave the domes behind and engage in actual combat. Battles 
 in Opoona are usually random, but they are simple and fun, and they highlight the game's unusual, 
 minimalist control scheme. There are a few options available, but the best (and default) control 
 setup is to use only the Nunchuk. All you need is a single analog stick and two buttons, and you 
 have it made. This can lead to some fussy, fumbling moments, such as when you want to rotate the 
 camera or switch targets in battle, but the one-handed controls work rather well. However, you 
 may find the classic controller more to your liking, given that the unnecessary Wii Remote might 
 get in your way if you go the Nunchuk route. Either way, you'll attack your enemies by pushing 
 the stick in any direction and releasing it, at which point the party member you control will fling 
 his or her bon-bon at the target. What, pray tell, is a bon-bon? It's a floating ball that each 
 sibling possesses (though in an ironic twist, sister Poleena has two of them) . Bon-bons can be 
 enhanced in a variety of ways, from the ability to cut through multiple enemies in one toss to 
 adding lightning damage to your standard attack.  

  You can hold the stick a little bit longer before you let go to give your bon-bon some extra oomph, 
 but you need to keep an eye on your energy meter. The longer you hold the stick, the more energy 
 you deplete -- and the longer it takes to replenish. This means that you need to weigh the pros and 
 cons of each toss, considering that a quick throw takes some time to reach a distant enemy, whereas 
 a stronger one will get the bon-bon there faster but will also take your meter longer to refill. 
 This is an important consideration because you can't perform any action until your energy gauge 
 is full. You can also make your bon-bon curve and twist in different directions, depending on which 
 direction you push the stick. This can be handy if, for example, you are targeting a rear enemy 
 and don't want your bon-bon to hit an enemy directly in front of it. This sounds slightly strategic, 
 but Opoona's battles are not difficult. Not only will you rarely need to worry about how you curve 
 your bon-bon, but the siblings' spells (here called Forces) will also make quick work of most enemies. 
 The most common challenge occurs when bombs are added to the battlefield; they explode and damage 
 your party if directly attacked.  

  There's a lot to do outside of combat if you are so inclined, though few of the side missions are 
 all that engaging. You can get licenses for fishing and vacuuming, make friends who will send you 
 on fetch quests, find your missing puppies, and more. The problem with most of these tasks is that 
 they are tedious and boring, and sometimes just plain stupid. For example, you will help out a 
 fast-food restaurant by serving up some vegetable juice, sushi, popcorn, and eel rice to its customers 
 (the residents of Landroll have the oddest diets) . It's cute the first two or three times; it's 
 mind-numbingly dumb by the time you reach your 10-customer quota. In the case of fortune-telling, 
 you have to figure out whether the image you see in your bon-bon, which does double duty as a crystal 
 ball, is positive or negative. Is a herd of cows flying in the rain a positive sign, or not? What 
 about an old guy doing a sexy dance? The images are funny, sure, but your success is left largely 
 to chance. Finishing the main quest while doing a minimal number of these tasks might take you 
 25 or 30 hours. You could double this length if you tackle fishing, mining, and other mundane tasks, 
 but all of those tasks add up to needless padding in an RPG that's wanting for depth -- not length. 

           The alien world of Landroll is home to some beautiful landscapes.      

  Opoona is brought to life with an appealing and colorful visual design. The character and monster 
 models are clean and simple, and have a nice cel-shaded look. Some of the environments, such as 
 a huge corporate lobby, look bland and are underpopulated. A few other vistas are gorgeous, such 
 as an art museum's towering sculpture and a cavernous concert hall. The sound design is similarly 
 minimal, and it partly succeeds thanks to a lovely, spacey New Age soundtrack. On the other hand, 
 sound effects are far too sparse and understated, which waters down any sense of drama that may 
 have accumulated. For instance, an important late-game scene capped by the casting of a powerful 
 spell wasn't accompanied by any sound effects at all.  

  Opoona emanates a liveliness that will keep even the most jaded role-player from hating it. However, 
 the candy coating goes only so far, and tedious side missions and other frustrating elements sprinkle 
 too much salt onto the sweetness. The first few bites of Opoona are scrumptious, but you'll be 
 full in no time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KGBPACKFAN
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2009 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Opoona is one of those games you see in the store and just dismiss and really why not? The box 
 art doesn't scream at you to buy it.. in fact the all too cutesy art may turn you away. However, 
 if you get passed the cutesy graphics this is a surprisingly decent RPG. So lets get into my review 
 based on a simple 5 part grading system: Controls, Story & Characters, The Battle System, Music 
 & Art Design, and finally the Job System. First, I'll get into the story & characters. The story 
 is pretty straight forward and its nothing special. Some errors in translation and the fact its 
 a bit too stretched are just some of my gripes but the fact its just bland and generic is really 
 a let down. Of course with a bland story comes bland characters that don't come off very strong 
 however, they still manage to maintain a quirky charm about them. For what it is Opoona is nothing 
 special but its sense of charm makes it has its moments. Story & Characters: 5/10. Next, is the 
 control system. Unlike many Wii games Opoona is controlled simply by the Nunchuk. Thats right the 
 control is simple, intuitive, and very responsive. I really can't knock the set up... I mean sure 
 it doesn't use the actual remote but it doesn't need to. Controls: 10/10. Now the battle system, 
 its actually quite good.. but in that sense its also not great. Everything takes place in real time. 
 This can really be disassociating especially to new players but, really it doesn't ever make it 
 out to be. In fact its very easy to use and to get into. The only problem is if you need to heal 
 its often frustrating as you need to constantly watch your HP. It can also cause problems when 
 you need to attack. Your weapon is something called a Bonbon... no not that kind. This is the weapon 
 your characters have in which you use to fling at your enemies. This means you can undershoot or 
 even miss the enemy. I strongly suggest to equip your Bonbon as soon as possible. To equip your 
 Bonbon you need to use your OMP. Its sort of your menu and it does everything... literally. You 
 can buy items, bank, check your status, etc. Enough about that, the worst thing about the battle 
 system is the time limit. Thats right you have a time limit in which you need to beat the enemy. 
 While this really isn't a problem... it can create a sense of rush in new players which is also 
 bad because there is no flee option. While it is a good battle system and easy to use its also 
 flawed. Battle System: 8/10. Now the music and art. I've already stated the art is cutesy but, 
 its beautiful as well. Every backround, every area, even the monsters are are artistically beautiful 
 or well done. The music is charming and even melancholy. From epic to quirky the music is beautifully 
 well orchestrated. Art & music: 10/10. Now finally the Job System. Its pretty well... not needed.. and 
 yet needed. For instance having whatever job can update your status such as your fame which can 
 help you make friends, which can help you in to the end. However, it also isn't needed. For instance 
 some jobs are completely mundane... Ukelele Trainee and Fortune Teller I'm looking at you. Also 
 your forced to do the jobs... and while they are easy its a bit bland and being forced to cater 
 to customers is incredibly boring. Job system: 4/10. Overall Opoona isn't a bad game... Its not 
 a great game and its certainly not going to make you think differently. Its just a round about 
 game for round about players who have nothing better to do. So if your a wii owner and you're really 
 starving for an RPG its pretty decnt fun and cheap too. I give Opoona a C- 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Overall, I enjoyed Opoona. I loved the art style, the battle system was super fun and the overall 
 game was charming. Opoona has a ton of problems, including the tendency to rely on backtracking 
 fetch quests, no voice work, terrible town designs, and poorly translated dialog. However, I think 
 the good ideas in this game, out weigh the bad. 
  
  I had little to no expectations for Opoona. It got beat up across the board by reviewers, and I 
 just didn't follow the game at all. I just knew the art style was straight out of Dragon Quest 
 VIII and the game looked kinda quirky. 
  
  One thing I remember is they hyped the living hell out of the "one hand controls", but I couldn't 
 adapt to only using the nunchuck. It proves how simple the game is, you CAN only use a Nunchuck 
 with this game, but why would you? I had a hard time with controlling the menu during battle with 
 just the nunchuck, I also hated the camera system with the nunchuck. If you use both the Controller 
 and Nunchuck, you can use the A+B buttons instead of the C+Z buttons, which are more familiar with 
 menus. You can also use two hotkeys for menus, maps and your transportation (- and + buttons) . 
 The best feature on the Wiimote that the Nunchuck suffers with is the camera control. While you 
 get more precision camera control with the Nunchuck, you have to completely stop to use it. If 
 you use both controls, you can change you camera view with the D-pad. With that said, both camera 
 options suck. 
  
  The actual battle system is not very hard at all. You might die a few times, but isn't much of 
 a penalty for it. There are option dungeons and option minibosses you can attempt that offer a 
 bit more challenge if you crave that. I won't dispute the difficulty in that part of the game. 
 The true difficulty can be wondering what to do next in the game. You can get fairly overwhelmed 
 rather quickly in this game. Luckily, you're never rushed to do anything, but there is usally a 
 long list of things to do. Towns are completely massive, so running around a town that's twice 
 the size of a Zelda dungeon, trying to find that one person, can get frustrating. 
  
  
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Opoona is a turn-based RPG. The battle system uses an 
 Active Battle Time system, similar to Final Fantasy or Chrono Trigger. A better comparison is Okage: 
 Shadow King, but no one has played that. 
  
  You can fight up to 8 enemies at a time. There is no break from the enemy onslaught, even if you 
 open your menu. This makes for a faster paced battle system, but also a more frantic one if you 
 are fighting a tough boss. To make matters worse, they give you a timer, all battles must be beaten 
 in 2 minutes. If you are fighting a boss, they will give you 3 or 4 minutes, depending on the fight. 
 If you don't finish the fight and your time runs out, the you are basically dead. 
  
  When you die, it's just a simple slap on the wrist. You lose a few coins, a day off your clock 
 and sent back to the nearest save spot. 
  
  The battle system is kinda unique, I can't think of a similar game to it actually. Most battles 
 are randomly generated (There are a few missions where you fight pre-determined / visible battled) . 
 When you get into a fight, you are thrown into a 3rd person view behind your characters, similar 
 to the early Phantasy Star games. When you are in control of a character, you can fling your Bonbon 
 at an enemy target. A Bonbon is your energy sphere that hovers over your characters head (or in 
 Copoona's case, below his body) . 
  
  To fling your Bonbon, all you need to do is hold back on your Analog stick, and let go. The longer 
 you hold your stick, the faster the Bonbon will travel to its target. Once you fling your Bonbon, 
 you have to wait for it to travel to the target, and then travel back. The thing I find mostly 
 unique about this battle system is how the enemies are placed on your screen. They are often randomly 
 placed, and can be placed at any perspective across the screen. Each Bonbon fling consumes energy, 
 you need atleast 100% energy to fling your Bonbon. So, after your Bonbon has used energy, you have 
 to wait for it to charge.
  
  While enemies are randomly placed on the screen, they are permanently placed in that single position 
 for that battle. This brings a bit of strategy into the game, because when you fling your Bonbon, 
 it will travel to that exact spot where your enemy is positioned. Some enemies just stand on that 
 stop the entire time, but other, melee type enemies, will charge after your characters. If that 
 enemy charges you, and you fling your Bonbon late, then you will miss him. 
  
  Another cool thing about this system is how the enemies are placed. Some enemies are directly behind 
 another enemy. Some even hide behind bombs. So if you want to hit that enemy, you have to fling 
 your Bonbon at an angle. When you charge your Bonbon with your Up button, then your bonbon will 
 fling towards the ground, if you fling it with the Down button, then it will curse upwards. If 
 you fling it right, then it will curse to the left, and fling it left, it will curve to the right. 
 It's a simple battle system, and very easy to learn. 
  
  The battle system is only a small part of this game actually. The biggest part is the adventuring 
 elements. A huge chunk of your time in Opoona is traversing through various towns and locations, 
 while doing odd jobs for employers, and helping your friends out along the way. 
  
  This element of the game reminds me a bit of a dumbed down Harvest Moon.. or Animal Crossing, or 
 possibly even Shenmue. At the start of the game, you are required to get a job. Once you applied 
 for a license, they give you a task to complete. There is one major job, which usually requires 
 you to go through a dungeon and fight a boss, in a traditional RPG fashion. However, most of the 
 side jobs require you to clean rooms, fish, or serve people. 
  
  While at first glance these side jobs might seem kinda useless or unimportant. You need most of 
 these jobs to advance the story, unlock new paths, and even to complete the game (I'm glad I did 
 them early on) . Making Friendships is also an important part of the game later on. 
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  You play as Opoona, of course. Opoona, and his family, 
 are flying through space while on vacation, until their ship is attacked. Opoona and his two siblings, 
 Copoona and Poleena, are sent into escape pods, and sent to the closest planet, Landroll. 
  
  Opoona lands safely on Landroll, and is quickly rescued by local rangers in the town of Tokione. 
 When Opoona wakes up, he learns that he was separated from his siblings and parents. His parents 
 are a deep coma, and he must get a job to help pay for their medical expenses (I'm serious) . 
 
  
  As soon as Opoona wakes up, who looks to be about 8 years old, he is forced to get a job. Not just 
 washing dishes or anything, but he's forced to be a ranger, which is a job that involves killing 
 evil Rogues on their planet.
  
  Ok, for one, I wasn't into the storyline to much. I did like the cast of colorful characters, while 
 most of them are bland and forgettable, some are pretty interesting. I loved making friendships 
 with the NPC of the world. This reminded me alot of Suikoden or Radiata Stories.
  
  The worst thing about Opoona is the poor translation. I looked it up, and only two people did the 
 localization for this game, and they're both Japanese. The dialog just doesn't make sense half 
 of the time. Sometimes a character will ask you a question, or even just spout a statement, and 
 they will give you the option of "Yes or No". It's pretty bad when you have to guess at a "yes 
 or no" question 90% of the time. 
  
  The worst is the rampant misspellings and typing errors. It goes so far that even character's names 
 are screwed up at times. 
  
  
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  I love the graphical style in this game. The characters and enemies have a cel-shade look to them. 
 Everything has a bold black line that surround them, which reminds me of the old Saturn game Shining 
 Wisdom. I love that look. Enemies look great and show off a TON of animation in battle. What I 
 love most about the enemy animations is they slowly deteriorate the more you punish them in battle. 
 There is usually just a couple phases of that, but it's still cool to look at, even though it's 
 kinda subtle. 
  
  I am not a fan of the town's layouts, I think they're just way to big and confusing. However, I'm 
 shocked how HUGE the areas in this game are. If this was on the PS2, the load times would be atrocious. 
 
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  I enjoyed the music quite a big. The town music was your standard spacey sci-fi, electronic type 
 music. Catchy and rememberable. I really loved the battle theme music though, which reminds me 
 of some weird Danny Elfman type song. 
  
  There are NO voice overs at all in this game. I think there might be a dog bark or a cat meow, 
 but outside of that, nothing. There aren't even sound effects in the battle system, besides your 
 Bonbon charging or when you get hit. Luckily, the battle system is fun and fast, so you hardly 
 notice.
  
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  The world is a series of connecting fields, dungeons and towns. Everything is proportionate in 
 size, like Dragon Quest VIII or Twilight Princess. There are five major towns in the game. Each 
 town has a "port", this is like an airport or warp station. The game flows in a linear path, but 
 once you get everything unlocked, you can go to any port, and choose any location that you previous 
 visited. 
  
  Once you reach a town, you can basically do whatever you want inside of it, as long as you have 
 the proper licenses or if you know the right people. Each town is sectioned off by mountains or 
 ocean, so you can't really walk through the entire world map. 
  
  
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ----------
  40-45 hours. 
  
  I was shocked how long this game 
 ended up being. I put a ton of time with the friendship quests, as I thought that was the most 
 exciting part of the game. Yeah, some of the missions were boring fetch quests, but it was still 
 exciting find a new friend and boosting their friendship levels. 
  
  Opoona doesn't record your overall time, but rather the days you spent on the planet. I spent around 
 87 days or so. Each time you go to sleep, die or warp you lose a day. I checked my Wii calender, 
 and I estimated that I spent around 40-45 hours with the game. 
  
  After you beat the game, you can save your file. When you restart, you are back on the planet, 
 where I assume you can finish up any missed sidequests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynwri8
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  It's cute, but cute isn't enough. I rented this game to test before I bought it (thank God) . I would 
 say I played it, but actually all I did was wonder around trying to figure out where the person 
 I was trying to follow went. I kept taking the wrong elevators and walking in the wrong doors. 
 When I finally got to where I was going, I wasn't really sure what the point of my being there 
 was. 
  
  When I finally got to the battle, I wondered what I was sitting there for. The game really didn't 
 need me. I could have left the game alone, went and made dinner and it all would have ended the 
 same. I guess there is something to be said for moral support. If only I had been supportive. 
 
  
  Well anyway, it's a family friendly game. If you let the kids play it before bed it's sure to lull 
 them to sleep better than any bedtime story. Or give it to them as the game they play if you really 
 want them outside. This will have them out the door in 20 mins. flat. So it does have some redeeming 
 qualities. Just not the ones you purchased it for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wahyudil
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 11, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Again, a great RPG game with poor review from hardcore reviewers. 
  
  Opoona is a lifestyle RPG, not a hardcore adventure RPG. Don't think about games like Final Fantasy, 
 Zelda, Tales series, or any other ordinary RPG, this game is different. Its make sense if the review 
 is very poor for this game, because lot of hardcore RPG-er expect lot of things that they found 
 in other RPG in this game. No, this is no Final Fantasy.
  
  Imagined Animal Crossing, then add some RPG elemen, with heart warmed story, and some adventuring, 
 that how you described Opoona. The game focused on how you try to survive in a new environment 
 as a stranger and do anything that you can to adapt in this new world. At this game, you are an 
 alien who lost your family and try to save them. To do that you must do lot of works to collect 
 money that can be used to heal your parents.
  
  Opoona is not a story-driven RPG like normal adventure RPG that you know (ie. Final Fantasy) . The 
 story-telling is light, and the main objective is not to go through the story, but about living. 
 You can say that Opoona is almost like a life simulation game with added RPG and story. You can 
 find lot of things to do in this game that make you forget about the story.
  
  Work! work! You will spent most of your time in this game to do a lot of works, from farmer, fisherman, 
 animal hunter, fast food attendant, hotel servant, manager, idol dancer, and more, or you can spent 
 time hunting monsters. Some of this work will require daily activity like animal crossing (don't 
 worry, in this game you just need to make your character sleep)
  
  For you who love animal crossing or the sims maybe will like a relaxing RPG like this one. But 
 still this game is addictive and will make you spent your sleeping hours to finish it. 20 to 40 
 hours game play will make this game worth it.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
