-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Order Up!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/orderup/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Simple, responsive controls.
 Great balance of cooking and pacing challenges.
 Fun visual style.
 Good variety of recipes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too few restaurants in which to ply your trade.
 No two-player cook-off.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 30, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.7, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 213 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Zoo Games
Developer: SuperVillain
Genre: Action
Date: Jul 22, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Order Up puts the "short" back in "short-order cook," but virtual cooking has never been more engaging. 
 

  Recently, a handful of full retail games have been devoted to emulating the challenges of food 
 preparation, and Order Up is the latest of these games to embrace the Wii's motion-sensitive controls. 
 As a short-order cook in Order Up, you to use the Wii Remote not only to slice, grate, and cook 
 food, but to prepare up to four dishes simultaneously and plate them all in a timely fashion. The 
 challenge of accurately prepping each ingredient while coordinating multiple dishes is highly engaging, 
 and you'll find yourself hungry for more after completing this delicious, but not quite filling, 
 game.  

           The meal ticket will show you how well you've prepared each ingredient. Seen here: Not 
 great..      

  You begin the game as many chefs begin their careers -- by jumping out of a plane, landing in a dumpster, 
 then strolling into the local fast food joint to take a job as a short-order cook. Yes, Order Up 
 is a bit goofy, but it works to great effect. The rotund, bean-shaped customers and cartoony locations 
 are amusing caricatures, and the food looks quite good, if not exactly mouthwatering. Starting 
 out at Burger Face under the tutelage of a pimply teenager who aspires to fast food management, 
 you learn how to prepare that most American of dishes: a burger and fries. Your preparation of 
 each ingredient will be judged as poor, OK, good, or perfect depending on how well you perform 
 the action required. Slicing tomatoes requires you to time your cuts precisely, while prepping 
 lettuce requires that you rip four leaves off as quickly as you can. Dicing, carving, grating, 
 and mashing each demands its own motions, and each (with the exception of tricky tortilla folding 
 and vexing lettuce grabbing) is easy to master and pleasingly responsive.  

  Cooking items is less a matter of mastering motion controls and more a challenge of timing. As 
 each ingredient cooks, you'll see a colorful cooking meter pop up that tells you the food's temperature 
 on a scale of frozen to flaming. The indicator arrow will slowly progress from one end to the other, 
 and snatching the food off the heat when the arrow is in the green zone will earn you a perfect 
 rating. Using the fryer is that simple, but the stove top and grill have another indicator icon 
 that moves faster than the arrow. To keep these vittles from burning, you'll have to stir, toss, 
 and flip accordingly. Fail to do so, and you'll have to bust out the extinguisher and put out grease 
 fires -- one of a handful of inoffensively frivolous minigames. The stove and grill can accommodate 
 two items each; so, along with the cutting board, fryer, oven, and food processor, you could conceivably 
 be preparing eight ingredients at once, though this will rarely happen. On top of that, you can 
 hire up to two sous chefs, who will prepare one ingredient at a time in their own space with varying 
 degrees of precision depending on their unique proficiencies.  

  All this would be for naught without customers to order the food, and you have a steady stream 
 of folks coming in as you progress through your day. A day generally consists of four to six tables 
 made up of one to four orders each. Handling one or two orders at a time is pretty easy, but when 
 you start preparing three or four meals at a time, the game becomes a frantic juggling act. You 
 won't ever really fail, barring total neglect, but it is tricky to deliver all your dishes in good 
 or perfect order within a tight time window. Dishes left too long will cool, and the customer won't 
 be happy. Your reward for a meal well cooked is bigger tips that you can use to upgrade your restaurant, 
 hire new help, buy new recipes, or purchase spices. Spices are used to make special dishes that 
 will earn you more coin, and are also handy for catering to your customers' preferences. For example, 
 you'll get a big tip for overcooking all the food for the gruff, Clint Eastwood look-alike, or 
 adding a particularly aromatic spice to a dish for the farmer who got his nose kicked in by a burro. 

           Things can get hectic when you've got multiple burners a-blazin'.      

  As you earn stars for your restaurant by earning money, buying recipes, and impressing the food 
 critic, you'll get the opportunity to purchase another restaurant. You'll work your way up from 
 diner grub to Mexican fare to Italian food to haute cuisine, earning new recipes, new spices, and 
 new assistants. Once you get accustomed to preparing perfect dishes every time, you'll find yourself 
 trashing good food in your quest for the satisfaction of perfection. That drive will take you to 
 the Fortified Chef Competition, an amusing, though not so challenging, parody of the  Iron Chef 
  series. Unfortunately, your journey is only about six hours long. Playing through the game again 
 on hard difficulty is a good way to satisfy your craving for more, since the cooking meters are 
 removed and you are forced to rely on more subtle visual cues, as well as your own sense of timing. 
 Still, a few more restaurants would have filled this game out nicely.  

  Order Up is most engaging when you get into the rhythm of striving to cook perfect dishes, earning 
 big money, spending it to improve your operation, and trying to cook more perfect dishes. It's 
 simple enough that it's accessible to all, and its charming visual style and sense of humor make 
 it an attractive package. Unfortunately, it feels a bit light on content, even at a less than full 
 retail price point, and it would have benefitted nicely from a two-player mode in the vein of the 
 final cook-off. Nonetheless, it's an entertaining, well-balanced game that provides a good deal 
 of fun while it lasts.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 34119
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Now wii makes a lot of games that are challenging and up beat thats one of the reasons i like it 
 so much. I bought the game with my birthday money and took it home at first it was hard because 
 my wiimote is old and fogged up on the inside but soon i got the hang of it and within four hours 
 i was done so i played it again on the hardest cooking level and it felt the same just the critics 
 our more picky not to bad for a cooking game just theres no head to head cooking because i have 
 four wiimothes and nunchucks but i don't have any four player games and i wish they had made it 
 an online game it would be more fun after you beat it two times 
  
  I write short general reviews but still get pretty deep into the concept and features like a critic 
 would i also wrote a review for the ps2 killzone and the force unleashed for the wii check em out 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aikimagicjedi
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Play it, don't buy it, game is cool and fun, but waaay too easy. 
  
  Good: 
  1. Cartoonish look is awesome.
  2. Characters & voices are charming with a good number of phrases 
 to heard through the game.
  3. Controls are simple and work well.
  4. Mini-games like the newspapers and the carrot cutting are fun
  5. There's a cute and funny 
 storyline that maybe needed a little bit more of work. 
  
  Bad:
  1. Too Short or too easy 
  a) You can beat the game in 3 hours, even without hiring help.
  
 b) You can impress the food critic without getting a perfect dish.
  c) Actually you may finish the game without one single perfect.
  d) Most of minigames are not 
 challenging at all.
  e) The upgrades, oven speed, knife, food processor speed, are all unnecessary.
  -- The 4th star 
 should ask you to reach a number of perfect dishes instead of a money amount 
  -- Market should be larger. Making you memorize where to get the right spices.
  -- Dishes that 
 are ready should cool down way faster; my girlfriend does them almost ticket by ticket and she 
 gets good tips anyway. 
  --At the final challenge I burned purposely 2 dishes and still won the game.
  --Tickets may lineup 
 one after the other making you speed up unless you want to lose customers
  2. No multiplayer or online 
  3. The blender is barely used through the game. 
  
  Better: 
 
  1. More management and difficulty
  a) Dishes should get cold faster for lower tips. 
  b) Game should be designed in a way you NEED the Assistants to help u through the day.
  c) Assistants 
 could get pay by the day, they should be able to quit.
  d) Spices may not be available all the time at the market.
  e) Specials recipes must be memorized 
 every time you cook for the food critic.
  f) Restaurants should get dirty again over time and you'd need to have it cleaned every once in 
 a while.
  
  2. Unlockables  
  a) Use of Mii's for customers and/or assistants.
  b) New assistants
  c) Recipes or rare spices.
  
  4) Order up Channel = Save your records, 
 recipes or questions and share them with the world.
  
  3) Button "2" is wasted on the control, it could be used to "windex" the counter; or be used as 
 insecticide spray to kill roaches. 
  
  5) More restaurants: The game is missing 3 of Top 5 cuisines in the world: Chinese, Peruvian and 
 Japanese.
  Others could be: Thai, Indian, Spanish. 
  
  If this'd get included on ORDER UP 2, I'll be getting that one too. 
  Thanks for reading.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion1197
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I have played many cooking games that are ho hum or just too boring. I have never been so engrossed 
 by a game such as this. I even felt the little hat they send along with the game was cool. If you 
 have ever worked in a fast food establishment or prepared short order breakfast's in a diner, You 
 can certainly appreciate what went into this intelligent, interactive cooking masterpiece. You 
 will start off just cooking burgers and fries, and a few other small goods such as Macaroni and 
 cheese, and western omelet's. and you will not be let down by what you have to to do to prepare 
 these delights.
  Every move will make your mouth water for more as you virtually cook and slice and give direction 
 to other cooks. all while trying to make great tasting meals impress on food critic's and keep 
 a fine establishment open too the food health inspector. 
  
  the character's are funny and they all seem to have there own sense of humor which you will grow 
 to appreciate with each meal. you will feel the rush as the lunch crowd gathers in your dining 
 room and wants fast and accurate service. but you will feel right at home on the range as soon 
 as you start playing this awesome little cooking gem from ZOO Software.
  
  My advice to you is if you have played or own Cooking Momma, or Cooking Momma 2 is put them down 
 and grab a copy of Order Up, Now you cannot play with a friend like in cooking Momma 2, But you 
 will be playing with virtual chefs. so it's like you have more than one person present and they 
 do work for you.
  
  Overall this game will stick to you like glue and you will feel the heat of the kitchen I think 
 this is a wonderful product and I want to see more of these kinds of games. very wholesome, and 
 enjoyable from the start.
  
  Graphics are nicely drawn comic style layout.
  
  Sound is superb, with just the right amount of background music, and Ambient surrounds.
  
  
 Interface excellent could not have been tweaked any tighter.
  
  Length excellent gaming value!
  
  lighting just right.
  
  You want fries with that? Order 
 Up (Ding Ding Ding)
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: punisher2515
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  Order Up! is a cooking game like no other. Incorporating managing a restaurant by buying spices, 
 ordering assistant chefs, and trying to keep all customers happy. The mechanics are very easy in 
 the game as you will be able to flip burgers and pancakes, stir pots of pasta, slice and dice tomatoes 
 and other vegetable. Although all of these tasks are relatively easy throughout the story mode, 
 trying to juggle 3 or 4 orders can be hectic, so you may need to pass off some of the chores to 
 your assistant chefs that you can purchase as you progress in the game. Each chef has their own 
 special ability, and you will have to choose them wisely.
  
  The mini games are relatively easy as well, but do tend to become boring after a while. You need 
 to wash dishes, sharpen your knife, or on occasion put out a stove fire. It is nice being able 
 to pick up some extra cash by helping out the clumsy paper boy.
  
  Beside the cooking aspect of th game, the characters are the best part of the game. In each of 
 the 4 restaurants you will get to own, a waiter/waitress comes with it. From an older woman in 
 the diner, to a condescending French waiter later on. The patrons add a lot of comedy to the game. 
 Listen carefully to them, as I laughed several times at what these funny looking customers said. 
 The one good twist in the game is that certain customers want their food cooked in an extra special 
 way by adding special spices to their food. One customer named Count Steakula, who is basically 
 a knockoff Dracula, wants all of his food served rare and make sure you don't give him anything 
 that has garlic in it. Other characters want barbecue sauce on them, and theres one customer who 
 is a vegetarian and you need to spice the food to cater to his needs.
  
  All in all, I loved this games. The difficulty is very easy, but I recommend beating it on hard 
 after you play on easy. On the hard difficulty the cold/hot sensor that was on easy is gone and 
 now you need to relay on your senses to know when the food is cooked.
  
  I hope in future games, they will include more restaurants such as a Japanese steakhouse or something 
 like that. Also co-op play would be nice as well as an iron chef like cook off so you could play 
 with a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: one_man_for_god
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  From the moment I got this game home, I had it in my Wii and was playing it whenever I could. I 
 played it for 2 hours when I first put it in. It's very entertaining to listen to the characters 
 as they come in, sit down, and eat; but the dialogue is somewhat repetitive.
  
  If you just do the bare minimum, and you don't buy anything not needed to get your 5 stars, then 
 the story will last you anywhere from 4-6 hours, depending on how good of a cook you are. But they 
 seem like a lot more than that, because every order is usually different. And within minutes of 
 playing, you'll figure out the best ways to use your assistants and to time things right. Once 
 you beat the story, which has an over-the-top easy ending, you can go back to any of you restaurants 
 and cook services in order to unlock more recipes and upgrades.
  
  As someone who bought it on a Saturday and beat it on a Sunday, Ii'd recommend this game to any 
 gamer. It could DEFINITELY beat Cooking Mama in a competition. My only complaint is that the story 
 isn't longer. That's why it gets a 8.5 instead on a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corelis
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Retiring my Hard-core gamer status to a more relaxed recreational gamer, I decided to pick-up Order 
 Up! after watching the Game-Play and Previews on GameSpot. com Within minutes of putting this game 
 into the console, I'm flipping burgers, hiring staff, strategically setting up orders to finish 
 as close together as possible. The thought involved in getting the tickets out and keeping customers 
 pleased is very entertaining and amusing. Be fore-warned, this game is highly addictive. I would 
 recommend this to anyone from Super Casual to hard-core gamer.
  
  I haven't played long enough to decide if there is longevity to the game, but I'm still on the 
 first restaurant and have not tired in the 2+ hours i put forth. Great Game, fun for the entire 
 family.
  
  I'm giving this game a 9 of 10 to try to get the word out. This game should not be overlooked by 
 anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clancys_End_War
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  10x better than cooking mama for the simple fact that you fell like you own the business. At the 
 beginning of your shift you will have only a couple people to serve this is the time to perfect 
 your food. Then as the day goes on you will have more and more costumers to serve you have to speed 
 cook which puts and a cool feeling in your stomach. I recommend this game to all ages and if you 
 have a Wii you simply must try this game. For more information on the best cooking game ever made 
 than check gamespots full  
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
