-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pinball Hall of Fame - The Williams Collection
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/puzzle/pinballhalloffamethewilliamscollection/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The 10 featured tables are all very different.
 Superb dynamic camera option.
 Believable ball physics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Occasionally lackluster visuals.
 Williams' superb Star Trek: The Next Generation table isn't featured.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 20, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.4, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 325 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Crave
Genre: Pinball
Date: Feb 26, 2008

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This collection of 10 pinball tables offers more than enough variety to justify the price that you 
 pay for infinite credits. 

  The glory days of pinball are back, at least according to the packaging for Pinball Hall of Fame: 
 The Williams Collection. That's not true, no matter how much we'd like it to be, but there's no 
 denying that this collection of 10 tables has plenty to offer for anyone with a penchant for pinball. 
 Not all of the featured tables can be considered classics, but if the lineup was chosen specifically 
 to offer plenty of variety, then it's most definitely a success. Older tables like 1970's Jive 
 Time bear little resemblance to the likes of Whirlwind and Funhouse that were released 20 years 
 later, and playing through this collection in chronological order is a fun way to see how Williams' 
 offerings evolved during that time.  

           Jive Time is the oldest table in the collection.      

  Pinball Hall of Fame's horribly 
 compressed intro movie makes a poor first impression, but once you step into the virtual arcade 
 that serves as the collection's menu system things instantly start looking up. You can choose to 
 practice on tables in a mode that awards you tokens based on your scores and the completion of 
 table-specific goals; you can play against up to three friends in tournaments that span multiple 
 tables; or you can take on the time-consuming Williams Challenge. The challenge mode tasks you 
 with achieving target scores on all 10 tables in a single play session. You get three attempts 
 at each table, and if you fail you have to go back to the first table again. The scores really 
 aren't tough to beat once you learn your way around the tables, which is just as well given that 
 your reward for completing the mode is disappointing to say the least. What do you get? You get 
 a score that you can tell your friends about, and a ranking based on how much you beat the target 
 scores by. Being told that you're a "Tommy wannabe" is a nice reference to The Who's dark, pinball-themed 
 rock opera, but it really isn't what you want to hear after taking the time to achieve high scores 
 on 10 tables.  

  Regardless of which table you're playing, you'll find that Pinball Hall of Fame's emphasis is on 
 giving you controls that make sense rather than on trying to do anything too clever with motion-sensing. 
 The trigger buttons on the Wii Remote and Nunchuk are used to activate the right and left flippers, 
 respectively, the analog stick launches the ball, and gently flicking either controller nudges 
 the table. The flippers on these tables never feel unresponsive or sticky, as their real-life counterparts 
 sometimes do, but realism is definitely the name of the game and the all-important ball physics 
 are nigh on perfect. Furthermore, the tables' various targets, bumpers, slingshots, switches, and 
 ramps are every bit as believable as the ball that you're trying to hit them with, which ultimately 
 makes Pinball Hall of Fame's gameplay difficult to fault.  

  Camera options can be problematic in pinball games, and Pinball Hall of Fame takes a "less is more" 
 approach by presenting you with only two options. The first is a static camera positioned roughly 
 where you'd expect your head to be when playing, which affords you a view of the entire table at 
 all times. The second is a dynamic camera that adopts a similar position but zooms in on certain 
 areas of the table when it's appropriate to do so. We really can't say enough about how intelligently 
 and smoothly this camera does its thing, though an option to play from a traditional top-down perspective 
 that really showcased the tables' artwork would still have been a welcome addition.  

           Are pinball tables art?      

  All of the tables in Pinball Hall of Fame look and 
 sound authentic, right down to the labels detailing how much it costs to play and how many balls 
 you get for a single credit, and the loud knocking sound when you earn an extra ball. It's not 
 always easy to see where some of the table features are because the artwork on raised areas blends 
 in with that on the playfield, but these rare occurrences of confusion can mostly be addressed 
 by turning off the "reflections" option that attempts to simulate the qualities of the glass covering 
 the table.  

  Pinball Hall of Fame: The Williams Collection doesn't really have any competition, so saying that 
 it's the best pinball game currently available for the Wii wouldn't really count for much. This 
 is one of the better pinball games to be released for any platform in recent memory, though, and 
 it's a lot more affordable than a pinball table to boot.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ultrashroom77
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  If you are one that makes regular visits to arcades then this game is for you! Pinball Hall of 
 Fame Williams Collection contains 10 tables of some of the most realistic pinball to date. The 
 balls and flippers move just how you would expect them to if you were playing real-life pinball 
 and with all the bells and jingles will make it seem that you are right in with the action. The 
 thrill is all there from when you earn an extra ball, to when Rudy gets pissed off on the Funhouse 
 table when the time approaches midnight, (had to throw that in!) and of course multi-ball which 
 is one of the goals for most of the tables. All the disappointment is there too... the drain and 
 outer lanes will have you cursing at the screen when the ball repeatedly goes down them. Williams 
 Collection is exactly what you would expect from a pinball game. There could be more tables, (perhaps 
 some unlockables) and this game would be better if that darn ball wasn't attracted to the drain, 
 but if pinball has been your thing then this is definitely the game to use those quarters on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgwii
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  i'm actually a little pissed off right now because I went to best buy to buy this game and it was 
 hidden in the store for 20 dollars. now I belive that when a company makes a good game that they 
 have earned the right to make money off of it so I encourge everyone to go out and buy this game 
 and I will asure you that you cannot find a better game for twenty bucks!
  now enough of that your probbably wondering why you should buy it. well it is deffinetly the best 
 pinball game ever created for any consol and deffinetly in the top ten games for wii. now its not 
 that this game is the best ever. infact it dosent even compare to gears of war or the halo series 
 but on a consle that is struggling like the wii its nice to see a good game out. I had my doubts 
 to because how good could a pinball game be. but it is just as much fun as being at the arcade 
 playing pinball. and just as reilistic because the controls are like a real pinball machine including 
 flinging the nunchuck or wii remote to nudge it. plus it has ten different tables and each is like 
 a totally new game because they all have somthing special about them and the art is more flattering 
 than the mona lisa. there is not much more to say about it cuz its a very simple game but its very 
 addictive so try giving it a chance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcervera
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Having grown up during the golden age of arcades in the 80's, I've actually played all of the machines 
 featured in this game, and this took me right back to those days. I had a friend growing up who 
 had a pinball machine in his house, and I've always wanted to have one myself, but could never 
 justify the expense, not to mention the maintenance. Now I own ten, and for only $20!
  
  As others have mentioned, this just blows away other pinball video games - the ball, the bumpers, 
 the flippers act just the way a real pinball machine would. But more importantly, they have recreated 
 these machines perfectly. All the sounds and action of their real life counterparts are here to 
 the tee.
  
  Please tell me these guys are in negotiations with Bally/Midway to bring some of their greats, 
 like Twilight Zone and Addams Family. Hire some good lawyers to hash out the licensing issues, 
 but get me these classics! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion1197
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok video pinball has never flown with real pinball fanatics, but I am speaking from the first person 
 here. I work as manager of Dr Scott's pinball Store. I repair and sell and play and restore pinball's 
 as my carreer.
  
  So with that in mind let me tell you what I think of this game.
  
  First it has a horrible trailer ( lead in movie segment)
  but then it get's better and better. 
 you will actually take a virtual walk through the arcade to play some these classic titles. when 
 you walk up to a game you can click on an information tag and learn all about the machine before 
 you play it and decide if you want to to go through the rules in which they sho you every hit and 
 every catch so you can learn each angle to play and most inportantantly why you are making the 
 shot in the first place.
  
  Ok now that you have chosen one of the ten classics it's time to deposit that quarter and set the 
 controls up. first thing to do is decide how many are going to play the game second are you going 
 to compete in a tournament or a Williams challenge.
  
  Get ready to plunge away, because here comes the fun part the wii controller and nunchuck act as 
 a virtual table you hold in your hands as though you are playing pinball as you shake the table 
 as in normal play or TILt as it has been coined you will actually see the table move on screen 
 and the ball shake a bit to the left or right depending on the angle you shake your controls very 
 cool indeed.
  
  Ball movement is everything if the ball phisics stink the game is no fun at all and basically a 
 waste of time and effort to play. But this game is right on the money all the physics are real 
 all the bumpers play clean and the kickers and flippers are true to life except for the cheesy 
 kicking sounds of the jet bumpers and flippers the games sounds are true to life including all 
 the speech from the current ROM sets.
  
  So how real is real? I have several real pinball tables in my house and I use to own three of the 
 pins on this game Black Knight, Firepower, Whirlwind. I love this game I don't have these games 
 any more but I have them again to play as much as I want to without the major upkeep that goes 
 with pinball ownership. I cannot say enough about this game but I will put out a cry to the producers 
 Please make another sequal 10 , 20 more great tables. I have seen almost every pinball made at 
 some point.
  I would love to play the older style classics that one can only dream of playing like High Speed, 
 Getaway, Roadshow, just to name a few.
  
  Pinball fans you Will Not be disappointed!!
  
  It's video pinball and it's CHEAP FUN FUN FUN!!!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaroldSun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  Make no mistake -- its the best, most realistic and well rounded library of pins on the market. With 
 specific goals and instructions thereby, the Williams Collection takes the cake and propels you 
 back in time to the pizzerias and arcades of yore when the pins were the gem in the room and held 
 the key to all bragging rights. It is a steal at 29 bucks and I highly recommend it. Of all the 
 Wii games I have, I find myself reaching for the Williams Collection most often, particularly when 
 I just have a few minutes and need a little Wii fix. Undoubtedly though, it is the gorgeous variety 
 of tables in the collection that really continues to pull me back. The gameplay is highly addictive 
 and can hold the interest of the casual gamer while definitely challenging the pros. Give it a 
 peek. Oh, and for all you ProPinball geeks out there, drop a couple quarters in Taxi by Williams 
 and I think you'll definitely see where their inspiration comes from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therealeu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  This review is coming from a serious pinball player. 
  
  First off, this is a great pinball game for people who casually enjoy pinball and it's a cool treat 
 in pinball history if you want to see the evolution of pinball in the 80s and early 90s. Some of 
 these old tables are hard to find, in fact, I've never played a Taxi machine in such great shape, 
 so that was fun.
  
  Now for the hardcore review. I have a couple little things that I do not like about the game, and 
 although they are nit picky, pinball is a game of miliseconds and milimeters, 90% skill 10% luck 
 (if you know what you're doing) , and about 80% flippers, 20% table. So for a pinball game to satisfy 
 a true pinball wizard, this game doesn't cut it, almost no pinball sim ever does. Here are my reasons:
 
  
  1. Ball physics - The ball physics in this game are good, better than most. But from what I can 
 tell there is no spin on the ball. Real pinballs are spinning a lot, really fast sometimes and 
 it has a great impact on play.
  
  2. Camera - I kind of like how the camera moves up when the ball is high on the table. You get 
 a good look at the cool graphics on all of these tables. BUT... then when you get multiball, the 
 camera becomes fixed because is has to. All of a sudden you're playing the table from a different 
 look and it throws you off. Pinball is also a game of rhythm and pacing, this camera throws it 
 all off. I would have no problem with this if you could change the camera, but you can't. Although 
 this is the best moving camera I've seen in a pinball game, cameras should not move in a pinball 
 game. 
  
  3. Nudging the table - The Wii Remote seems to be the perfect controller for nudging and I was 
 excited to try it. It just doesn't work the way it should. Sure, you move the Wii Remote or Nunchuck 
 and the table moves, but in a wierd way, almost random or too quickly, I can't put my finger on 
 it. All I can say is you can't push both controllers forward and expect the table to be nudged 
 forward, it does, but it's just off. In other words, what you would use nudging for (Saving the 
 ball from the outlanes or going straight down the middle) doesn't work.
  
  In the end, this game is fun and simple. You can play with 4 players and it actually has goals 
 to progress through before you can unlock everything in the game, which is cool. It explains each 
 tables rules for you very clearly, I actually learned some things I never knew from that. But if 
 you want a hardcore pinball simulator, this won't feed your hunger.
  
  And although these are cool real tables, a couple of them are really old, not too exciting and 
 may only have appeal to older people who played them in the arcades. When it comes down to it, 
 they really need to make a collection of late 90s machines (Attack From Mars, Addam's Family, Medieval 
 Madness, Theater of Magic, etc.) Those games are so great, so exciting and so fun and funny they 
 might actually create some new fans of pinball. Is there a reason people aren't recreating the 
 best pinball machines ever made?
  
  Nothing beats a real pinball machine, but if you really need to play a pinball simulator, the Pro 
 Pinball series is the best ever made.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Prisoner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Pinball games throughout their history on home consoles have been really tricky. While most of 
 these games have been fun (Video Pinball on the 2600 and Pinbot in the NES) , some (KISS Pinball, 
 Austin Powers Pinball and Patriotic Pinball for the PS1) are strictly bargain bin fillers. Pinball 
 Hall of Fame - The Williams Collection is nearly perfect because of the Wii controls. The flippers 
 are controlled with the B button on the Wiimote and the Z on the Nunchuck. The 1 and 2 buttons 
 control the cameras, which have ten different table shots and 5 plunger shots (the ten table shots 
 are split between "smart cams," which follow the ball and full table cams. The game uses a token 
 system which is a little hampering, but on each pinball machine there are goals to achieve giving 
 you tokens and when you reach the first five goals, you get a "free play" on any locked table. 
 There are also "Tournament Mode," where you play against other players and "Williams Challenge," 
 where you play all the tables and try to get a specific score.
  All 10 tables are great fun. The aforementioned Pinbot is there, along with 1970s games like Jive 
 Time and 1990s games like Whirlwind (a table I played in 1993 at Paramount's Great America when 
 I was 17 and broke the table record with 79,450,700) .
  One minor problem is that unlike the Gottlieb Collection and Pure Pinball on the X Box, this doesn't 
 have a online score posting board. But on minor drawback doesn't hurt the game that much. Pinball 
 Wizard! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ceckman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Farsight studios has put out the BEST pinball simulator I have seen on a console system to date. 
 If you like pinball you owe it yourself to buy this one. I'll hit the highlights below as I see 
 them.
  
  * Excellent physics engine. It's been reworked since the Gottlieb version. This is the heart of 
 the game and what makes it so darned addictive. As close to the real thing as you're likely to 
 get in video pinball. The Wii controls are a natural. Nunchuck joystick is used to plunge. The 
 Z trigger and the B trigger are used for the flippers and the motion control sensor in the nunchuck 
 and main controller is used to nudge the table. Very intuitive and immersive.
  
  * Table selection is fantastic. There are some of William's all-time greatest pinballs represented 
 here. Almost all solid state machines, the earlier ones like Gorgar and Firepower are quite fun 
 though they don't have the complex rule sets of the later games. Gorgar's adrenaline inducing soundtrack 
 and hilariously endearing 'Me Got You' catch phrase will have you coming back time after time. 
 Black Knight is novel for it's upper play field and flippers as well as the magnasave. Funhouse 
 is well...... FUN! Rudy is the centerpiece and he's just as creepy as you remember. Whirlwind has 
 those crazy spinning discs and while the fan won't be blowing on you, it can be seen in the lower 
 left screen spinning away. Taxi and Pinbot are just flat-out classic. Love the sights and sounds 
 of Space Shuttle & Sorcerer which I'd never played before. Jive Time stands out as the only Electro-Mechanical 
 table in the bunch. At the retail price you're only paying $3/pin - a true bargain. Sure there 
 are tables you'll wish were here that aren't (anyone else for Cyclone?) , but if you buy this game 
 and support the developers maybe the next version will have that pinball you've been hoping for 
 in it.
  
  * Nice camera work. Smart Cam is one of the best. Doesn't pan a lot or prevent you from placing 
 you're next shot. Simple and elegant - It only zooms in when ball is in upper playfield and you 
 can choose one of 5 angles. Fixed view option with various angles also exists for those who just 
 hate any movement of the camera.
  
  * Addition of 10 challenges for each table adds to replayabilty and fun. You start with 5 challenges 
 and when you complete them you earn the right to unlock a table for freeplay. The next five challenges 
 on the table are considered Wizard challenges. Unlock all of these to change table settings and 
 allow you to play mirrored tables.
  
  * Tournament mode allows up to 4 players to compete in a challenge over several tables. William's 
 challenge is for the single player and allows you to score based upon your high scores on each 
 of the 10 tables. Just how good are you?
  
  * Widescreen compatible. Very colorful and accurate graphics. Turn table reflections on/off. Looks 
 very nice on large screens with Wii component cables.
  
  * Nice sound. Options to adjust table sounds, game soundtrack and arcade background noise independently. 
 Turn the table sounds to 11and enjoy hitting the Taxi jackpot!
  
  * Great for parties, families or individual play. Kick back with a beer after work and relax while 
 you relive your arcade-visiting youth in the comfort of your home.
  
  * Overall 5/5 STARS ***** (if you're a pinhead) 
  * 4/5 STARS **** (if you're just looking for 
 a bargain, novel experience on your Wii, but be careful as you may end up a pinhead before long!) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Bear
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Pinball machines are a lost art. They have gone the way of the arcade largely in the US. we no 
 longer have any mainstream pinball manufacturers in the US . I used to be a huge pinball player, 
 I was in tournements, and won a few too. I even own two of them, one being one of the tables represented 
 here. The Black Knight. The first talking multi-ball machine that had some very unique features, 
 any one remember Magna Save? 
  
  Anyway on to the discussion of this game Pinball Hall Of Fame the Williams Collection on the Nintendo 
 Wii. This is by far the best collection of pinball games ever assembled on any system or even PC. 
 I have a bunch of other video pinball games, none comes as close to the real feeling as does this 
 game. I believe it is because the unique Wii Controls setup. You use both the Wiimote and Nun Chuck 
 for flippers, the triggers on each serve as a flipper. Each bump and shake on the table is felt 
 through the Wiimote. You can shake the whole table by either shaking the Wiimote or The Nun Chuck. 
 The controls are very precise and feel just like real pinball. 
  
  There are 10 of the best pinball games ever made here from the 70's 80's and 90's. 
  From the 
 70's we have: Jive Time, Sorcerer and Gorgar.
  From the 80's we get: Pinbot, Black Knight, Space Shuttle, Taxi, Firepower.
  From the 90's you 
 have: Funhouse, and Whirlwind.
  
  Truly a great collection of some of the most fun and classic pinball machines ever made. I highly 
 recommend this game game for any pinball lover, you won't be disappointed. I would say anyone should 
 try this if you have ever had any interest in pinball. 
  
  One gripe, as you cruise around the arcade, its too empty. They have various fake arcade machines 
 for filler. Why not add some of the great Williams arcade games as unlockables? Instead of fake 
 art. Maybe even add a pool table and darts plus a jukebox also as unlockables. Really minor gripe 
 as this is Pinball Hall Of Fame and not arcade games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
