-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/piratesofthecaribbean3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Does a decent job of matching the look and feel of the movies.
 Minigames are a nice bonus.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Basic combat is dreadfully boring.
 Mission objectives are uninteresting.
 All the playable characters play the same way.
 Graphics aren't much to look at.
 Swinging the remote like a sword is awful.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 25, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.6, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 288 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios
Developer: Eurocom Ent.
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date: May 22, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The dull, repetitive combat and uninspired mission structure prevent At World's End from being much 
 fun. 

  It's almost hard to believe in this day and age of movie and game tie-ins, but other than a couple 
 of handheld games, the last  Pirates of the Caribbean  movie didn't have a companion game on consoles. 
 Disney Interactive Studios is making up for lost time with Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's 
 End, which features plotlines from both the second and third  Pirates  movies. While the game does 
 a solid job of capturing the look and humor of the movies, it fails to emulate the films' action 
 sequences very well. The combat is extremely simple, and you'll grow tired of mashing on the attack 
 button well before you reach the end of the game.  

          Fighting is so easy you can do it with your eyes closed.     

  The first half of the 
 game follows the events of  Dead Man's Chest , specifically Captain Jack Sparrow's attempt to recover 
 the heart of Davy Jones to avoid becoming a member of his crew, and it culminates with Jack's encounter 
 with the Kraken. The second portion of the game sees Sparrow and his not-so-merry band of misfits 
 joining together to take on Lord Beckett and retrieve the heart of Davy Jones once and for all. 
 Even if you've seen the second film, the story is quite difficult to follow since it's told by 
 way of short, disjointed cutscenes. You'll recognize several scenarios and locations from the movies, 
 but there are many things you'll do that aren't in the movies.  

  Most of your time in At World's End is spent as Jack Sparrow, though you'll also get to play as 
 Elizabeth, Will, and a few other characters along the way. You'll sword fight your way from Tortuga 
 to Singapore, which may sound exciting, but it's really not. You have both light and heavy attacks, 
 as well as a close attack, and you can perform combos by stringing the attacks together. You have 
 the same attacks on the Wii, but they're performed by waving the Wii Remote up and down or left 
 and right. Note to developers: The Wii Remote doesn't make a good sword -- it's imprecise, tiring, 
 and, well, kind of dumb. Enemies literally appear out of thin air and put up little resistance 
 as you pound the attack buttons or wave your arms like a madman. You earn new combos as you progress, 
 but they don't look much (if any) different than the other combos; they're no more effective, and 
 because the game does a poor job of registering movement, they're nearly impossible to pull off 
 on the Wii. There's also a block button, but it's of little use because generally most of your 
 damage will come from enemies who attack you from behind when you're dealing with a foe in front 
 of you. If you turn and confront the person stabbing you in the back, you'll end up getting plunked 
 by the guy you were originally dealing with. There are a handful of weapons, such as guns, grenades, 
 and knives, which are scattered throughout for you to use. Unfortunately, they're not very useful. 
 The grenades work OK, but guns and knives are particularly difficult to aim. If you mix up your 
 attacks, you can raise your notoriety. The game makes a big deal about notoriety, but it's utterly 
 pointless.  

  A basic level is set up with a cutscene, and then you're given your objective. From there, you'll 
 run around, fighting seemingly endless hordes of enemies who appear from out of the ground or just 
 simply appear. You'll be trapped in an area by an invisible wall until you defeat the enemies. 
 Once you beat them, you'll travel a short distance and then start the whole process over again. 
 Sometimes there are brief scenarios where you must quickly press the button or direction that appears 
 onscreen. They're not much fun, and you're too focused on the corner of the screen waiting for 
 an icon to appear to actually watch the cool action sequence that's taking place, but at least 
 it's something different than swinging your sword. These are much harder on the PC because you'll 
 see a sword icon and have to remember not only what action it represents, but also what button 
 you've mapped that action to.  

  The levels are strictly linear, though it's easy to get lost because the game often does a poor 
 job of explaining your objectives. There are also occasions where the icon for context-sensitive 
 areas doesn't appear, even if you're standing where you should be. An arrow will sometimes appear 
 below your character to help point you in the right direction, but it almost seems random as to 
 when it appears. You have no control over the camera, which means you'll often get turned around -- it 
 cuts from one angle to the next with no warning (this makes the stealth sections extra frustrating) . 
 None of your objectives are particularly interesting, a fact made worse by the copious amount of 
 backtracking you'll be doing. You'll occasionally get to play some minigames such as Pirate Dice 
 and Poker. These are a strictly optional, but it's a nice way to break up some of the monotony 
 of combat. The PSP version even supports ad hoc play and game sharing, as well as boasting Hearts 
 as a third minigame. On the PlayStation 2, PC, and Wii, competitive multiplayer lets you take on 
 swarms of enemies in timed challenges, and you can even duel against a friend. Their inclusion 
 is a nice gesture, but the results are underwhelming.  

  Of the PC, PSP, PS2, and Wii versions, At World's End looks best on the PC, though that's not saying 
 a whole lot. The frame rate is generally steady on all versions, and there are some nice-looking 
 attack animations, but there's very little else to get excited about. None of the versions have 
 very good texture work, though the PSP's are about what you'd expect from the system and the PC's 
 are at a higher resolution. The story is told via cutscenes that use the in-game engine, and while 
 the characters do resemble their movie counterparts, they look quite poor -- especially on the PSP, 
 where their mouths don't move. The Wii version supports widescreen (as do all the other versions) 
 and progressive scan, but it fails to impress in any way and looks exactly the same as the PlayStation 
 2 version.  

          Character resemblances are there, but the models are junk.     

  The game's audio is solid, albeit unspectacular. You won't be hearing Johnny Depp, Keira Knightley, 
 or Orlando Bloom, but the soundalikes do an admirable job of filling their shoes. It's just too 
 bad there isn't more dialogue to flesh out the story. The game uses the movies' soundtracks to 
 punctuate the action, fading in and out depending on the situation. It's not the best score you've 
 ever heard, but it fits the game well. The sound effects are good, but there's not enough variety 
 to them. Granted, there's only so much that can be done with clanging swords, but there could have 
 been more variety to the catchphrases that your foes yell when they attack.  

  When it's all said and done, At World's End is a very by-the-book approach to a movie-based game. 
 It has, and lets you play as, all the characters you'd want to play; it doesn't deviate from the 
 movies' plots too much; and it takes you to many of the locations you see in the films. While those 
 are good things, the game really would have benefited by taking some risks. The biggest problem 
 is that you're playing as a cool character in an exotic location, but you're not doing anything 
 interesting, just running around picking up items and hitting the attack button endlessly. Even 
 if you're a huge fan of the  Pirates  trilogy, you'll probably want to pass on At World's End, 
 especially the Wii version due to its terrible control scheme.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  It's a bit odd that when this is supposed to be based off of the third movie in the Pirates of 
 the Caribbean series, there's also the second movie in here, too. Fans of the series will notice 
 this immediately after the game begins, where Jack Sparrow breaks out of the prison where he's 
 being held captive. People might ask, "Why would the developers add the second movie in when the 
 game is supposed to be based off of the third?" Obviously, the developers were too lazy to make 
 a video game based off of the second movie, so they decided to add it here. As for the story in 
 this game, it relates somewhat with the film, but it isn't all that great. Voice acting is decent, 
 though the real actors are nowhere to be found. The soundtrack does a good job of making you feel 
 like you're in the movie. The visuals aren't nearly as well done. Character models look absolutely 
 horrendous, along with the plain and bland looking environments. Where the game really starts to 
 fall apart is in gameplay. Mission design is repeated over and over again, making you go from point 
 A, to point B, to point C, and so on until you reach the end of the level. Combat is a real pain, 
 since you'll often be waving the Wii remote around mindlessly just to fend off your opponents. 
 There are some action sequences where you'll have to press a button or wave the Wii remote or Nunchuck 
 in a certain way, much like Spider-Man 3 or God of War. The punishment for death is quite minimal, 
 and you'll probably be blowing through this game in under ten hours. This game is easily not recommended 
 to anyone, even for those die-hard fans who can't get enough of the Pirates of the Caribbean. If 
 you absolutely, positively, must have this game, check the current console ones. There's nothing 
 fun about playing this game, and it is most definitely a waste of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noraanessej90
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  When we got this game I was excited. It was one of the first Wii games I played. However, when 
 i went to play it I was dissappointed to find that you have to move your arms a heck of a lot. 
 I was kind of depressed about that fact and I stopped playing it before beating it. I think one 
 of the cooler parts are the "Jackisms" where you move your Wii-motes and nunchucks to do cool tricks 
 with your characters. However, other than that, there isn't much about this game that is great 
 other than the story. However I may be biased because I prefer the consoles where you only move 
 your fingers. But, I would reccommend getting it for the 360 or PSP or PS3 or PS2. If you only 
 have a Wii I would reccommend Smash Bros Brawl or some gamecube games. Or if you're looking for 
 more plot substance, try Zelda: Twilight Princess on. But for this game, I would say, "Arrr! Don't 
 be wastin' yer time on this one mates." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-Crazy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  ... then you might find this to be a pretty awesome game!!
  
  Being a die-hard fan of the movies and the ride, I am always looking into grabbing some cool new 
 pirates merchandise. And after having gotten my Wii, I decided to snag a copy of ' [Wii] Pirates 
 of the Caribbean: At Worlds End' from my local Gamespot. I figured it was a steal, pre-owned, at 
 17.99.
  
  It actually did turn out to be a fairly enjoyable game, if you're into the movies like I am. The 
 game follows the story lines of both POTC 2 and 3, and the scenes and conversations are always 
 fun to follow because they do not follow the movie script word for word. Everything is completely 
 new and somewhat unpredictable, even if you have seen the movies and you probably already know 
 what they are getting at.
  
  To play the game, you use the Wii remote as your sword (more on this later) and the nunchuk to 
 move around. If you are going to play this game, mostly all you will be doing is sword fighting. 
 Actually, whole game is virtually just that. A good old fashioned swashbuckling beat-um-up game. 
 You mostly play as [Captain] Jack Sparrow, but sometimes you take over as Will Turner or Elizabeth. 
 But the characters don't have any special abilities or anything, so they're basically just avatars 
 rather than new characters to play with. You can unlock new weapons and characters, but you can't 
 even use them in your one player game, They are simply for the two-player duel mode. Which is kind 
 of cool, but still. 
  
  Anyway, there are a few other cool aspects, such as minor puzzles, in-game mini-games, such as 
 Liars Dice and Pirates Poker (also playable from the main menu) , and this cool thing they call 
 "Jackanism";
  
  Jackanism (I believe this is the term they use?) is sort of an interactive movie in which you 'perform' 
 some of the actions using either the Wiimote or the nunchuk. Randomly throughout the levels, you 
 will all of the sudden find yourself watching a clip of the game characters doing something, like 
 a small fight sequence, for instance. However, you can't just sit back and relax while watching 
 this mini-movie; you must stay on your toes, because you never know when you will need to take 
 action. When you see a small icon in the bottom left corner of the screen, you must quickly react 
 according to what it's telling you to do. For example, the movie might show Jack about to kick 
 over a barrel. Then, a little icon will appear that shows a nunchuk quickly moving forward. That's 
 your cue to thrust your nunchuk forward. It's actually a very engaging way to play and I think 
 it's an awesome idea to get some cool scenes in the game without boring you to death by making 
 you feel like you're watching T. V. The only problem is that they only give you like 1 second to 
 respond, and sometimes the game doesn't even register your movements even though you were doing 
 it correctly. If you mess up, it bumps you right out of the Jackanism and you continue with your 
 one-player game. Which is very frusterating, indeed, because they don't even give you a second 
 chance. And the worst part is, you can't replay the Jackanisms from the main menu, the only way 
 to retry is to play that whole level over again up to that point. Not cool. Not cool AT ALL. Anyway. 
 Moving on.
  
  The overall gameplay really seems like it's not half bad. The camera angle IS pretty lousy, considering 
 it shows you a view from like, the upper right hand corner of the room or something, so kind of 
 all you see is the tops of everyones heads. And you can't even adjust it yourself, resulting in 
 lousy views of what's going on and unrealistic eye of all the action. But it's not thaaat bad.
 
  
  The real problem is the Wii remote. Not really what I would expect from a Wii game. You would think 
 that the revolutionary Wiimote is the one thing that would make every game better. But I guess 
 any game that's designed poorly enough can make even the Wii remote look bad.
  
  When you hear of a title that's new to the Wii, you might automatically assume, "Hey cool, they 
 have it on Wii, I bet they've got some awesomely creative things to take advantage of the motion 
 sensor." That's what I generally say to myself. And it is a fairly clever idea. You use your Wii 
 remote as if it's your sword. Sounds pretty fun, right? You slash up British soldiers and evil 
 fish people by swinging around your remote like crazy. Eheh yeah. Not as fun as it sounds. 
  
  Within the first five minutes of playing, your arm will be killing you. And I mean KILLING 
 you. Your entire shoulder, as well as the corresponding side of your upper back, will just be THROBBING. 
 Sure, it may make you feel like you're actually that crazy pirate on the screen who's hackin' up 
 bad guys. And it may very well get you up and moving. But the game just has too much sword fighting 
 to keep it interesting. And swinging your remote around just gets too tiring WAY too fast. 
  
  You'll probably get very frustrated very quickly because even as you unlock new combos, they 
 really don't work all that great, and by the end of the game, you'll still find yourself swinging 
 around like some maniac when trying to kill people. The worst part is that some of the levels are 
 so hard and as you get tired and the bad guys come piling on, your performance begins to decrease. 
 And you don't have a whole lot of life, so if you die, you have to start over from that room. Sometimes 
 there are seriously, like 15 waves of bad guys throughout the same area. And you manage to get 
 through 14 of them, but you couldn't manage to get to that health boost when on the last wave. 
 So you die. Your arm is about to fall off. And now you have to start over from the BEGINNING OF 
 THE ROOM! That's right, after all your hard work, you now have to start at the beginning of the 
 15 waves. And by now, you're so dang fed up that you are not going to accept defeat from a stupid 
 CD. And even if you do turn the game off at this point, you'll have to redo the whole beginning 
 of the level that you already passed. So. Dang. FRUSTERATING!! AARRGGH!! AAAUUGGGGHHHHUUGGHH!! 
 Mhm. Ahem. aaaanyway. Moving on...
  
  Sooo after having said all that, I will say that this is a fairly fun game. For sure, do not make 
 this your first or only Wii game. Perhaps if you've already mastered Zelda TP, Okami, and Super 
 Mario Galaxy, and Petz Dogz 2 is not really your thing (tee hee) , then you may want to try this 
 game. Maybe just as a change of scenery. 
  
  However, I wouldn't suggest adding it to your library. I purchased mine used from Gamespot, and 
 after having played it for like 3-5 hours every flippin day until like 2.00 in the morning, I finally 
 beat it in like 6 days due to mere frustrated dedication and possibly slight obsession. Then, I 
 took it back to Gamespot and traded it for Raving Rabbids. (A much better investment.) If you're 
 into pirates, or you think it sounds cool, I'd definitely suggest that you rent it. Or at least, 
 buy it used at Gamespot like I did. They give you 7 days to play it. Should you decide you don't 
 like it within that period of time, you can trade it in for store credit, which can be used toward 
 another used game.
  
  But. Don't get me wrong. I did enjoy the game, if only a little. And I am planning on purchasing 
 another copy eventually, once I finish Zelda TP and after snagging Okami and Zack and Wiki for 
 myself. It is a unique game and it's fun to play with friends (when you can take turns, ouch!) . 
 But look on the bright side, it is a great arm workout!
  
  One thing I must say, however, DO NOT get this game if you do not have a wireless nunchuck (or 
 a wireless nunchuck adapter) . When you play, you use the nunchuk joystick to move around and the 
 swing the remote as a sword. Most often, you are doing both at the same time. IF YOU DO NOT HAVE 
 A WIRELESS NUNCHUK, YOU WILL FREQUENTLY GET SMACKED IN THE FACE WITH THE CABLE!! If those horrible 
 arm-pains aren't enough, you'll get like, major whiplash or something from that dang Nunchuk chord 
 smacking your arms and/or face. And trust me, you'll get smacked A LOT. If you want to try this 
 game, MAKE SURE YOU HAVE A WIRELESS NUNCHUK! Ahem. Sorry to shout. But I cannot stress this enough. 
 I use the Wii Nunchuk Cord Free Wireless Adaptor by Nyko, it works really great and you can use 
 it with your existing Nunchuk:
  
  http://www. amazon. com/Nunchuk-Cord-Free-Wireless-Adaptor/dp/B0013LWEJ0/ref=sr_1_2? ie=UTF8&s=videogames&qid=1215576434&sr=1-2
 
  
  
  All in all, it's a fun game. But very tiring. You may get frusterated trying to beat some of the 
 levels, and your arm will hate you for it. But if you love the movies, this game is worth a try. 
 As long as you rent it, or buy it used so you can take it back, I'd say it's worth playing!! Just 
 get that Icy-Hot patch ready xP Thanks for reading all. Ahem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warheart1188
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  I reviewed "At World's End" for Xbox 360 and it was a great game. I'm a huge Pirates of the Caribbean 
 fan and I couldn't wait to try the Wii version. My verdict? It's downright terrible! I only got 
 through the whole game because of my love for the series. It follows the events from "Dead Man's 
 Chest" and "At World's End" fairly loosely and doesn't stick the actual way the events happened. 
 The Wii version forces you to use the motion controls for sword play. Sounds fun, right? NOT! Within 
 a minute you'll feel that you're wrist has arthritis! It took me so long to complete the game because 
 my wrist kept giving me pains! To make it worse, the fighting system is broken. It's so very hard 
 for kids to play this game. My little sister kept getting upset because as hard as she waved her 
 hand to fight, too many enemies kept hitting her and thus killing her. The game is like this in 
 every level. The motion controls and everything is just broken to the point where you loose interest 
 within minutes. With the combination of the game being painful to play and the fact the game looks 
 as good as a PS1 game, this game is a total pass for anyone and everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadsrule626
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  PotC3 (Pirates of the Caribbean 3) is a RPG that is OK, but definitely could've been better. I 
 will cover the good and the bad.
  
  THE GOOD:
   GREAT GRAPHICS! The graphics are unexplainable, they are REALLY GOOD! They make the characters 
 seem ALIVE! Well... to avoid overexaggeration, I guess they don't really make them look literally 
 alive.
   AMAZING PRICE! New, the game can be bought at approximately $30; used, it can be bought at approximately 
 $18-$20. 
   GREAT STORYLINE! Follows the PotC3 movie storyline.
   OK MULTIPLAYER! The multiplayer is ok, this is what it involves:
  * Two players may compete 
 in fighting other computers in order to get a certain number of kills.
  * Two players may compete in getting a certain number of combo hits.
  * Two players may compete 
 in getting a certain amount of gold.
  * Two players may battle each other as done in the boss battles.
  
  THE BAD:
   BEAT IN TWO 
 DAYS! The game being ridiculously easy, I beat it in about five hours of playing time. Rent it 
 and you will be glad you did. 
   OVERUSE OF THE WII REMOTE CONTROLS! There should've been an option that allowed you to disable 
 the Wii Remote Controls; meaning, you have to swing your arm ALOT in order to defeat one enemy! 
 They should've made an option to disable the Wii Remote Controls and replace it with B or something.
 
   BORING! If you buy the game, new, and are unable to return it, you technically have three choices:
 
  (1) Let the game sit on the shelf.
  (2) Bore yourself to death with the free play mode or start the Story Mode over.
  (3) Turn it 
 in to GameStop for about $5.
  
  Overall, I give the game 5.5... meaning that I think you should rent the game and beat it in the 
 week you have to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidgiff
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  People you are to hard on the game it is a very solid game it was awsome I just don't get what 
 you dont like in this game.
  
  graphics 4/10
  O. k Ill agree its bad it just plain lacks textures. THe models you can tell who they are but there 
 just no good.
  
  gameplay 8/10
  The gameplay is awsome why dont you like it I play this gaem all the time and I got to say my favorite 
 thing is the poker and pirate dice there great. I mean it seams like tireing work hacking your 
 way through everything but it never stops giving me the feeling I am that person.
  
  story 10/10
  I am a pirates of the carribean fanatic to the max. I know the story like I know 
 myself and the story sticks well with the movies.
  
  Sound 8/10
  The voice acting is good andsounds great all the rest of the sounds are justwhat there supposed 
 to not great notbad just o. k.
  
  overall 9/10
  The game is definately a rent even if its a 6 buck rental I want the game really bad but I borrowed 
 it wonce SSBB comes out and its done and I get more money this is going to be in my wii collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polo136
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Pirates 3 for the Wii is too rushed, the controls are too repeatative, no free roam, it's too short 
 and it has no upgrades.
  If you like your games long and solid, do not even stop to consider Pirates 3 for the reasons above. 
 You start the game, you feel like, yeah, this seems pretty good, then you realise you have played 
 it for an hour and are close to the half-way mark.
  Before I bought Pirates 3 for the Wii, I had played it on XBOX 360, it is still short on the 360, 
 but it is much better, each character has their own finishing moves that can be quite entertaining.
 
  For the Wii it does have some replay value but not enough, but then, what did you expect from 
 a short game. The controls leave your wrist sore from constantly waving the Wii-mote.
  Still this game is pretty good while it lasts, and a few hours of fun can be had. I found the most 
 entertaining part of the game was Texas Hold 'em Poker and Pirate Dice which can be both be found 
 in the levels.
  Pirates 3 for Wii rhymes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NachoMontana86
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 31, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Before I start, I played the X360 Pirates before I played the Wii version. While the graphics were 
 top-notch, the gameplay felt awkward and clumsy. Now that I played the Wii version, I have to give 
 the nod to this one instead of the X360.
  
  Sure, the graphics are not as pretty as the X360/PS3 versions, but the gameplay is solid at best. 
 At World's End for the Wii is you typical hack n' slash type of game, so nothing is terribly new. 
 But using the Wii Remote as your sword actually feels good. While the combos are somewhat awkward 
 to perform, mostly I just wave the Wii Remote like a madman, especially when there is a crowd of 
 enemies.
  
  It kinda sucks that the actors from the movie don't portray their respective characters, but the 
 soundalikes who do the voice work did a nice job. Music was good, so the sound is OK.
  
  Pirates for the Wii is defiantly a solid game that isn't totally bad as most reviewers would say. 
 Give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkatanWarrior
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jul 29, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I should have listened to the reviews, I should have listened to the guy at the store, because 
 then I would have saved myself a lot of wasted time and money.
  
  Pirates of the Caribbean: at worlds end, is by far the worst game I've ever played, and I've played 
 a lot of horrible games... This is pretty much rise to honor with pirates, it's that bad. Let's 
 start with the most obvious problems (especially with the Wii version, which I have) first of all, 
 the graphics are absolutely appalling, they ALMOST match ps2's graphics, but only just.
  
  second off, the combat is ridiculously simplistic, and offers almost no reward, ooo I won a crab 
 medal for fighting 15 pirates, all of which are the same character model, all of which say the 
 exact same thing. pretty much every enemy encounter in the game consists of this - Walking into 
 an invisible wall, and hearing enemies insult you (most often with the same insult) , they surround 
 you, you attack one, the enemy behind you hits you, you attack another, the enemy behind you hits 
 you, repeat until those 3 go down, and 3 more attack you. if you're expecting good voice acting 
 in the game, think again, not a single character sounds like they should, and although jack sparrows 
 wit is there, it's pretty dry.
  
  Besides poker, all other mini games are pretty bad, the jackisms are especially lame, and more 
 often than not, even if you input the right command it fails you.
  
  The cutscenes last about 3 seconds, and do nothing to add to the story. Unless you've seen the 
 movies you won't understand a single thing that's happening.
  
  Do yourself a favour and avoid this game at all costs, even if you're a big enough fan of pirates 
 to get jack sparrow tattooed onto your face you'll be disappointed with this terrible excuse for 
 a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owl777
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This game seems like a typical movie based game, however it vastly exceeds the movie in value, 
 as the movie was terrible, the game redeems the pirate franchise with a compelling, immersive and 
 very deep depth of story and gameplay. This game features endless amounts of unlocks on top of 
 the story which provides endless replayability, as well a multiplayer dueling feature makes it 
 even more fun. Let's not forget side quests, yes that is right, which expand the game beyond a 
 linear adventure. There is also a full poker game engine included as well as other forms or gambling 
 in which you may wadger loot and goods to live like a true pirate. This game willhave you playing 
 it almost as long as twilight princess it is that good, the sword battle mechanics and realistic 
 real time physics make it every bit as fun to watch as to play. This game deserves far more respect 
 and has been overlooked because of it's movie game status. A MUST OWN FOR ALL Wii OWNERS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jul 14, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  well i played the 360 verson and it sucked realy bad and i played this not expecting anything great 
 but i got something far worse than decent k you got prety good sounalikes to capture the voices 
 and the rest of the sound goese streight to hell from there and god the graphics are so horrable 
 the faces look like a smashed pumpkins and early ps2 graphics its so horrable witch makes you feel 
 like they rushed through the game and they did the gameplay is lame moving your wii mote side to 
 side counts as an attack and stabing is stabing and you walk around and do this its tiring its 
 not fun its boring as well watching a realy bad childrens show it horrable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince360
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 11, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is really nice... the first level is kinda boring, but it is really good after 3-4 levels. 
 I love pirates of the caribbean, and this was actually my first pirates game. At first i thought 
 i would skip this game and move on... but i still thought that if the movie was awesome than the 
 game must be good. I was not let down, the game is great! With really fun gameplay that is even 
 more fun on the Wii... The graphics arent really much to look at, but there decent, what i really 
 likied was the voice acting... It was really good, and the characters, even if the graphics were 
 a bit bad, it still felt like u were captain Jack Sparrow and the others. and it was good that 
 they put both movies into the game, other wise it would have been too short. This game maybe a 
 bit exhausting because u r always swinging ur hands side to side or up and down, but you really 
 actually just need to give the wii-mote a wiggle. PLZ PPL!!! U really need to quite listening to 
 gamepot and just go what u think is right. Before i used to think that the ratings were the best, 
 and that i needed to listen to the scores or ratings of the game, ppl take my advice and listen 
 to what ppl say not what gamespot says, and this game is actually really good. If u loved the movies 
 and didnt get this game, well ur just an idiot. BUY THIS GAME!!!! It is really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SleepingAurora
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  This game has great graphics, great story line, and fun stuff to do. The biggest problem I had 
 was swordfighting. OH MY GOSH!! My right arm was killing me after playing one time. You feel like 
 you are doing something wrong because no matter how hard you swimg that remote it doesn't seem 
 to kill the mass amount of men as you need to. I played it two days and took it back. I had beaten 
 the prison and Port Royal. Then I was on Davy Jones Locker and died many many many many many times. 
 No matter what I did I couldn't kill all of them in time to do any damage. I really wish I had 
 been able to to get farther in the game. I was very disappointed because I was very excited to 
 get this game. I love the movies and love the concept of the Wii remote becoming Jack Sparrow's 
 sword, but after a while it just became too frustrating and not so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avsfan3721
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Another movie video game, but were you really expecting one to finally be good?
  
  PotC AWE is visually horrid, the voice acting is only rescued because Johnny Depp saves the day 
 again, and you are constantly bombarded with so many enemies, you become dead tired of flailing 
 your arms with the wiimote and nunchuck and wish for ones you had a button masher.
  
  All in all, if you desire to see this game in action either rent it, or go to a friends house who 
 has it.
  
  But now i can't submit this yet because it must be longer... the shadowing has a nice touch and 
 the sound effects are decent, i think this game might get better if you think like Jack Sparrow 
 and have some rum before playing. (i'm not condoning the use of liquor that was a joke. the internet 
 doesn't show true sarcasm really well does it?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron1111
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jun 23, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Take it from me this game is garbage. I hear that it has horrible Graphics and lacks Multipayer 
 and expandibility. The mission objeectives are boring and they dont inpress many ppl and you can 
 play with your eyes closed. This is a bad game to buy bc when you beat it you don't want to play 
 it again thats how boring it is. and you cant even hear the ppl talk when you beat it and if you 
 want to battle a friend you have to complete challenge mode. GaY Avoid this game at all costs if 
 you want to see pirates it's a good movie but the game is just not worth the money. Save up for 
 halo 3 or Tom clancys endwar or something like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thEsl1ck3st1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  I dont think this game is a 5.0 at all. But then again, its gamespot that is rating it. The graphics 
 are kind of PS2 like, but the gameplay is surprisingly fun. The story doesnt really follow the 
 third movie real well, but that can be overlooked. The controls are innovative, yet simple to use 
 for anyone. The levels are pretty easy, i guess this game is intended for children, but it is fun 
 nevertheless. I would definitely check this game out, if not to buy just rent. It is simple and 
 fun which is a great combination for an adventure action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto703
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 17, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  This is not a pirate's life for you. The first level may seem all cool and stuff but after that 
 everything is repetitive. The game will make your arm very sore so unless you have a robot playing 
 this game you will not ever want to play it again after your first try. Not to mention that the 
 jackanisims which put you a series of actions you do with the wii remote and nunchuck. They do 
 not work and are executed poorly. There are combos but I never have been able to make them. The 
 graphics and sound are poor. It is also a short adventure. This game just sucks. It was rushed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: missonrs
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game and all but the game has some problems they need to work out. Some things 
 you may encounter during the game is your arm grows tired from swing too much. The game some times 
 like during a jackanisam or whatever they call it is where you feel robed is because the controls 
 mess with you which make you angry but the game other then that part is way to easy i mean you 
 can get half way part of the game in two days and beat it by four to five days thats how many days 
 you get to rent it or thats how the store by my house works. Other than the bad there is Some good 
 stuff about this decent game. That sword fighting sensor is really fun and even challenge mode 
 is fun because you can chose from a great variety of characters. Over all the game is ok but don't 
 buy it rent to see if you are happy with it ..... or not Probably not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 14, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Pirates of the caribbean: at world's end Platfrom: Wii Pubilsher: Disney Interactive studios
  
  Review: The game is some what bad. the game start off at the begin of the second Pirates of 
 the caribbean and then you play though the thrid one. the game's controls are arm hurting and the 
 gameplay is too easy. There is one good thing that is the mutiplayer is fun like dueling your friend 
 or going though challnges. the game has bad plus on sea battles you can see were the map ends.
 
  
  good ponits:
  +mutiplayer is fun
  
  bad ponit:
  -gmaeplay is rubbish Mad_simon_000 say:
  the game is ok but too easy.
  
  score: 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matrix8909
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Even though the game is called At World's End, you are taken through the entire story of Dead Man's 
 Chest and At World's End. The chance to use the Wii-remote as Jack Sparrow's sword is a wonderful 
 idea, and the game has some replay value, especially if you wish to unlock ever character. Once 
 you've played the story, you can return to all the levels as other characters, and even as ones 
 already there, nothing says rescuing Jack while playing as Jack.
  
  Yes the graphics are horrid compared to the 360 version, but the Wii is not entirely about graphics, 
 it's about new game play. The game is fun, but is a workout, I do recommend not playing for more 
 then 90 minutes of swinging the remote around to attack enemies. Take a break and come back later, 
 or you will feel the pain later on while trying to play more and more.
  
  The game itself is fun and should not be looked down upon due to the graphics. At least they were 
 able to get the cast to give their own voices, which is a nice touch. Though some of the phrases 
 do get annoying over time.
  
  Final Word: Everyone says rent, but if you are a fan of this type of game, then go and buy, but 
 wait for the price to drop. $50 is a bit much for this game on the Wii. And make sure that you're 
 remote is strapped to you at all times, especially when you're fighting a lot of enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulfood4
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Seriously this game is broken, actually im being generous. This game is worse than broken... i just 
 dont know the word for it. Okay its FUBAR'd, the controls are broken, the AI is either too smart, 
 or too dumb. The difficulty level jumps way too much, it takes waaay too long to kill someone, 
 and they always know when your going to block. The controls are so horrible they NEVER work! Its 
 seriously broken. I never finished the game, and im sure no one will want to. The graphics are 
 decent in the first level, but after that your playing a PSP game... dont buy, rent, borrow, or 
 touch this game. Your Wii wont forgive you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizardmon5
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game and, after an hour or so of playing, returned it. It's worth a rent, but not 
 a buy.
  
  As far as I could tell, combat is basically waving the Wiimote back-and-forth as fast as you can. 
 At least, thats how I beat any enemy I faced.
  
  There is one neat feature to this game, a feature called Jackanisms. When you encounter a Jackanism, 
 you have to perform certain moves (hit the A button, move the Wiimote up and down, etc., when prompted) 
 in order for Jack Sparrow to accomplish some task, such as knocking over a pile of barrels to kill 
 some enemies. It felt a bit like the action sequences in Resident Evil 4, except more comical, 
 obviously.
  
  But I digress. If this game has any true appeal, it must be one of those it grows on you kind of 
 things, and I didn't really give it a huge chance. If a game can't catch my interest at all in 
 the first hour or so of playing, I write it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rugby1995
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  For once this game does actually stick to the film rather well, But still has a few wild cards 
 to keep it lively. Like You can actually play the random dice guessing game like in the film. Though 
 called Pirates of the Carribean: At Worlds End, It actually starts t the prison fortress where 
 jack starts in Dead mans chest. So you really get 2 games in 1. The Story mode of the game is relatively 
 easy and simple to pick up. You play through 12 levels each 1 based on a major part of the film 
 (tortuga, Port royal ect.) You play through the game as Captain Jack, Will, Elizebeth and Barbossa. 
 But once you have completed a level you can replay it as many times as you want with any charachter 
 or swords you may have unlocked in challenge mode. In challenge mode you can do a Combat, Combo 
 or Loot challenge that get harder the further on in the game you get. On each level there is 1 
 challenge of each type. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brucemanx
Rating: 3.2
Date: May 29, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Pirates for Wii is possibly one of the most frustrating games I have ever played. You end up seriously 
 pissed off and sore from throwing the remote at the wall in anger. The controls make it much more 
 dificult than it needs to be from start to end. If your trying to play a game where swinging the 
 remote randomly in different directions is the goal then this is the perfect game. It is a great 
 idea and I'm into the whole pirate thing but the game could have been made much better with more 
 combo and blocking moves. I had high hopes for a sword fighting game about pirates however found 
 myself very disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juneathan
Rating: 4
Date: May 29, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  oh another ps2 port but with added arm aching controls when will this end when will producers relize 
 that the wii isnt a ps2 .Look at man hunt 2 at least rockstar have improved the visuals for the 
 wii any way back to the game the graphics are awfull well compared 2 the next gen 1ns anyway buy 
 hey isnt the wii ment 2 b next gen? and the combat is awful its says use the wii remote like a 
 sword well using a sword must b a painful expirence and i dnt thnk the motion work very well on 
 this game anyway . so the good poits the duels are fun u cant interact with the enviroment in them 
 and their 1 on 1 so u dont have some prick stabbin u in the back every chance they get like the 
 rest of the game. Oh yer the jacknisms are cool and realy bring an element from the move tho u 
 only get 1 chance 2 do these they are kwl well the few you get 2 do well apart from those 2 thing 
 i thought this game was a sham come on nintendo bring us something with good graphics and good 
 gameplay in stead of 1 or the other thanks 4 reading my review dynastyblade 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codyjohnson117
Rating: 4.2
Date: May 28, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Pirates of Caribbean: at Worlds End
  
  Jack Sparrow, the most humor character in Pirates of Caribbean movies. I am reviewing the Pirates 
 of Caribbean: At Worlds End over Nintendo Wii. Id say that it was great game for kid or destinys 
 fan. First of all it took place part of the Dead Mans Chest &amp; At World End the graphics was 
 not too bad and I probably will rate it good average. The worst part of this game is the motion 
 or skills action, whatever you want to call it. The skill is just little too horrible because it 
 basically the same skills every time when you swing it. I believe there are only two best special 
 combos on each character, but most character skill is almost the same. Then it gets boring and 
 annoying to do same skills. There was a character resemblance as GameSpot Aaron Thomas said; I 
 agreed with him that it was just piece of junk. All you do just follow what button is showing on 
 bottom left of the TV screen and you had to press it pretty quick (pretty easy) . The story mode 
 is the great part to play than everything else. The multiplayer get boring after the first level 
 with friends because it basically same thing with more challenging number on each levels. On the 
 one vs one fighting is annoying because the other character keep it block and pretty hard to hit 
 him/her, and the only way is to wait the resemblance to show up and press it such as circle the 
 stick of nutchuck three time then it stab to damage his/her health. You had to do this over and 
 over several times, and the sad part is you cant use gun or dagger during one vs one, but only 
 health item can be use if available. Basically, thats about it, all through the story mode. You 
 can actually beat story mode less than 5-9 hours because I beat it in almost 5 hours and sold it 
 to someone. I only played it in 2 days. I hope this review is how you feel about it! Leave a comment 
 and rate my review! Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QueenOfGaming
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 24, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  I rented this game, it took me 2 days of 2 hours of playing to win it, so I would suggest you rent 
 this game as well instead of paying $50. The graphics are somewhat below what I've seen with some 
 PS2 games, some boards were better than others with the graphics. The gameplay is fun, you can't 
 really go anywhere that won't matter and you always know what you are supposed to do. The storyline 
 is good and even though there really isn't that much in the game of the movie that would spoiler 
 the movie for you, you still get the gist of it. I had fun playing this game and it's nice not 
 to have to worry about camera angles (the 360 version I rented as well suffered from horrible camera 
 angles) . I didn't like how long it took to kill someone, especially when you are surrounded by 
 enemies to kill, my arm was tired out after some parts and I wished for a normal just push the 
 buttons controller. Overall, I would say the storyline was good, gameplay was very straightforward, 
 the game was fun except for drawn out combat fights, and the graphics lacked but I don't know if 
 all these PS2 ports are the fault of Nintendo or the game developers not wanting to make a middle 
 version inbetween PS2 and 360/PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigfoot6072001
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 23, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  The concept of the game is pretty simple. It's a dungeon crawler with pirates. The problems with 
 the game are: 1.) The Graphics- The graphics are a mixed bag. The environments look surprisingly 
 good with lots of detail and even though it's not in HD, object appear crisp and have a good amount 
 of clarity. The character designs do their job adequately but are nothing special. While the in-game 
 graphics are decent the cut-scenes are atrocious, which is odd because usually it's the other way 
 around. Considering the fact that the cut-scenes are only about 10 seconds long, the graphical 
 dip is even more bizarre 2.) The Combat- like it said, it's a dungeon crawler, so expect to face 
 a lot of enemies. I love dungeon crawlers, the X-man legends series and Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 
 are incredibility fun games. But the big mistake that this game makes is that it's WAY to difficult 
 to kill enemies. In games like the x-man legends series, most enemies go down in 2 or 3 combos 
 but in Pirates the enemies go down in 7 or 8 combos. Plus they block unmercifully. Combine killing 
 30-50 enemies per level with the motion controls and you have a really sore arm. The combat is 
 really the worst part of the game, it's frustrating, repetitive and it ruins the game. 3.) The 
 Presentation- the game just feels cheap and rushed. The load times for the cut-scenes are as long 
 as the cut-scenes themselves. It lacks a well presented story. I know it doesn't want to give away 
 the plot before movie is released but the game gives you no reason for doing anything. The good 
 thing about the game: 1.) the game has a good representation of the jack sparrow character. The 
 game perfectly captures his weird and almost drunk way of walking and talking. 2.) The liked the 
 "combat input sequences", I think that is what their called. A control button will flash on screen 
 and you have press it in time. I've notice that those kinds of sequences are becoming more common 
 in games. I think they fit very well in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falconsfan60
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 28, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game the day it came out. When i first played it, it got really addicting. You 
 play as pretty much every character each mission and such, but the thing that stands out is the 
 multiplayer mode. You can grab a friend and have them help you beat this game together. Overall, 
 it stands out when you play this game. The graphics are great, and the camera view is questionable. 
 When you move around, the camera view is like a big circle so you can see everything in that certain 
 area. I was hoping that they wouldve had a 1st person shooter or 2nd person shooter so you can 
 play upclose, but i guess that wasnt the plan. Everything else pretty much makes this game a must 
 have for people who love fighting games with the wii. The gameplay is so fun by how you get a major 
 workout for excercise by swinging the wii remote around many times. The sound is great, especially 
 how they have the deep music and just the pirate music from the movies. It feels like your in that 
 scene and are fighting davy jones or whoever. Dont even believe what the hype says because they 
 are wrong. It is a great combat, sword flinging game, especially how you swing the wii remote like 
 a sword. So for all you people that dont want this game but saw the 2 previous movies, you should 
 definitely buy it; It follows the storyline very clearly, and puts yourself in that position to 
 be jack sparrow. Its a must have for pirates of the caribbean fans. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
